52 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Water usage At an aggregated group level our annual and women in our business is almost 3 In 2017, we abstracted 811 million m trend in injuries has increased.
The split varies by business but, of water for our use, 2% more than 2016. cases we have delivered a good level last year, the percentage of women This increase is attributed to the inclusion of safety performance this year with in the workforce was 48%.
of cooling water in the calculation as well reporting thresholds being lower in Gender Pay Gap reporting as production increases and higher water some of our more recent countries of The Equality Act 2010 Gender Pay Gap levels in some of the southern African operation.
Our businesses have targeted Information Regulations 2017 were sites, permitting more water to be used action plans to reduce injuries and we introduced in Great Britain in April 2017 for irrigating our crops.
continue to review performance regularly and we have collected data, as defined throughout the year to identify trends The majority of the water we use is to by those regulations, for all of our relevant which need specific attention.
irrigate our extensive sugar cane fields.
This provides a high level Over recent years and as part of its indication of men and womens relative Employee Reportable Injuries long-term water strategy, Illovo Sugar in earning power due to seniority.
It is not Africa has been investing in meters to the same as equal pay for work of equal 443 2013 improve its monitoring and measurement value.
For each of our UK legal entities 372 2014 of water used for irrigation.
Illovo accounts that is required to report, data will be 465 2015 for 95% of the groups total water usage published online and submitted to the 2016 454 this year.
Governments Gender Pay Reporting website in accordance with the 2017 594 Waste management legislation in due course.
We have We generated just under 1.2 million chosen to report data here that relates Health and safety fines tonnes of waste this year which is to our total employee population in During 2017, we received six fines a 16% increase on 2016.
71% of this Great Britain as at 5 April 2017 in order totalling 74,000 for breaches of safety was recycled and therefore diverted to demonstrate our commitment to the regulations.
This is an increase of four from landfill.
We have also increased gender diversity agenda.
It is important over last year which is unsatisfactory.
the amount of recycled waste by 6% to note that our group operates in The businesses involved are required and non-hazardous waste increased 50 countries with over 50% of our to report to the Group Safety and by 55% this year.
workforce employed outside Great Environment Manager on their remedial Environmental compliance Britain who are therefore not included actions and are now either compliant In 2017, we received 80 environmental within this analysis.
or are on track to remedy the issues.
complaints about our operations, The data is reported with reference to Promoting gender diversity 18 more than last year.
We also quartiles, with each quartile representing Gender diversity received ten environmental fines 25% of the total reported population We remain committed to attracting and totalling 187,000 : the same number when ranked in order of pay, from retaining the best talent and are proud of fines as last year.
The fines were highest to lowest.
of the fact that the proportion of men mainly related to the treatment of waste water and the complaints were largely due to noise and odour from Gender Pay Gap reporting our factories.
The sites continue to At the mean, womens At the median, At the mean, At the median, liaise and engage with relevant hourly womens hourly womens bonus womens bonus stakeholders to address the issues pay rate is pay rate is pay rate is pay rate is promptly and maintain good relations with their neighbours.
74.1% 36.4% 32.4% 49.2% higher lower lower lower Keeping our people safe than that of men than that of men than that of men than that of men Our health and safety performance During 2017, we recorded 768 Lost Time of men received of women received Injuries to employees which is a 20% 19.9% a bonus 6% a bonus increase over last year.
When increases in headcount are taken into account, Proportion of men and women in each pay quartile this equates to a Lost Time Injury rate of 0.76%.
The number of Reportable Upper pay quartile Upper middle Lower middle pay Lower pay quartile Injuries to employees also increased pay quartile quartile this year from 454 to 594 which equates to 0.59% of our employees sustaining a Reportable Injury.
We are pleased to report no work-related fatalities this year.
66.6% 49.3% 18.8% 26.0% Male Male Male Male 50.7% 81.2% Female 33.4% Female Female Female 74.0% Gender pay and bonus gaps are calculated by comparing the mean average and median central value in the data list measures for women to that of men and identifying the percentage difference between the two.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report 53 Gender metrics Associated British Foods plc board directors are not included in the table below.
We currently have two women and seven men on the Companys board.
Includes directorships of subsidiary undertakings.
Gender balance at the top of the group Human rights Our comprehensive groupwide Supplier changes slowly because we have a Being a responsible company means Code of Conduct sets out the values and stable senior team, who are mostly men, respecting the human rights of all standards we expect of our suppliers, with long tenure.
Our data includes a the people with whom we interact.
representatives and the other people large number of retail staff, on relatively Whether they are direct employees, with whom we deal.
It is based on the lower pay.
A higher proportion of these temporary workers or those in our ILO Fundamental Conventions and the retail staff are women.
We remain supply chain, we know we can play Ethical Trade Initiative ETI Base Code.
committed to gender diversity and our a role in enhancing their lives.
Our full We engaged with NGOs in the creation focus on numerous initiatives in this human rights principles are set out of this code and periodically update area has had a positive impact, on pages 94 and 95. it to ensure its relevance.
Last year, particularly amongst middle management.
we updated it to include a statement We recognise that the UN Guiding This is also reflected in our reporting for of our intolerance of forced or bonded Principles on Business and Human the Hampton Alexander report 2017, labour.
Our suppliers are expected Rights UNGPs require businesses to which saw a rise in the proportion of to sign and abide by this code.
address actual and potential adverse women in our global executive pipeline human rights impacts, prioritising We know that addressing modern to 23% from 21% in 2016.
It should those that are most severe or where slavery and our human rights impacts is be noted that Hampton Alexander a delayed response would make them a journey of continuous improvement.
specifically reports on the gender irremediable.
Forced and trafficked This year, we have focused our energy balance of the population that report labour is recognised as having a severe on training to empower our people with to the executive committee.
This impact on human rights and this has knowledge.
Many of our businesses population differs from that shown been reflected in the increase in, and have also invested in developing robust in the table above.
revision of, regulations that attempt risk assessment processes to ensure As more of our current senior leaders to address the issue, including: we are focusing on areas where we are male, more men than women receive the California Transparency in Supply are likely to have the greatest impact.
The presence of these senior Chains Act, EU regulations on reporting, Our businesses are also working men in the bonus pool has a distorting the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, and together to generate methods effect on the mean bonus gap.
the International Labour Organization of monitoring and evaluating the Encouragingly, the median bonus ILO Protocol on Forced Labour.
process and impact of our work.
demonstrates a gap in favour of women.
Our approach to human rights and We have recently participated in two This difference also reflects the varying the steps we take to try and ensure benchmarking initiatives: The Corporate composition of bonuses across our that modern slavery, in any of its forms, Human Rights Benchmark and Know different businesses.
is not present within our operations the Chain.
In these assessments, our We focus on attracting and retaining or our supply chains are set out in commitment and performance on human the best talent, both men and women, our full 2017 Modern Slavery and Human rights was ranked in the mid-range in to run and work in our businesses and Trafficking Statement at www.
co. uk relation to peer companies.
We respect the continued promotion of gender modern slavery statement 2017.
Many the work that these organisations are diversity, through a variety of initiatives of our businesses have compiled their doing and are pleased to be recognised see page 24 of our 2016 Corporate own statement.
All published statements for operating in a responsible way.
Responsibility Report for further can be found at www.
co. uk We will continue to drive forward the information, is an important element responsibility cr downloads.
agenda of respecting human rights in ensuring a strong pipeline of talent.
within our business and play our role in tackling modern slavery.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 54 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES EFFECTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT IS CENTRAL TOTHE BOARDS ROLE IN PROVIDING STRATEGIC OVERSIGHT Our approach to risk management and safety, financial performance, the Key areas of focus this year The delivery of our strategic objectives environment and community, regulation Effective risk management and the sustainable growth or long-term and reputation.
The collated risks from processes and internal controls shareholder value of our business, is each business are shared with the We aim to maintain a practical approach dependent on effective risk management.
respective divisional chief executives to effective risk management which We regularly face business uncertainties who present their divisional risks to allows our businesses the scope to and it is through a structured approach the group executive.
address their current and potential risks.
to risk management that we are able We continued to seek improvements The groups Director of Financial to mitigate and manage these risks, and in our risk management processes Control receives the risk assessments embrace opportunities when they arise.
to ensure the quality and integrity of on an annual basis and, with the Group information and the ability to respond The diversified nature of our operations, Finance Director, reviews and challenges swiftly to direct risks.
geographical reach, assets and them with the divisional chief executives.
currencies are important factors in These risks and their impact on business During the year, the board conducted mitigating the risk of a material threat performance are reported during the reviews on the effectiveness of the to the groups balance sheet and year and are considered as part of the groups risk management processes results.
Effective risk management is monthly management review process.
and internal controls in accordance with nevertheless central to the boards role the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Group functional heads including in providing strategic oversight and Our approach to risk management and Legal, Treasury, Tax, IT, Pensions, stewardship of the group.
The board systems of internal control is in line with HR and Insurance also provide input to is accountable for ensuring that risk is the recommendations in the Financial this process, sharing with the Director successfully managed and undertakes Reporting Councils FRC revised of Financial Control their view of key a robust annual assessment of the guidance Risk management, internal risks and what activities are in place or principal risks, including those that control and related financial and business planned to mitigate them.
A summary would threaten the business model, reporting the Risk Guidance.
The board of these risk assessments is then future performance, solvency or is satisfied that internal controls were shared and discussed with the Group liquidity, together with the internal properly reviewed and key risks are being Finance Director and Chief Executive control procedures and resources appropriately identified and managed.
Brexit The Director of Financial Control holds The board also monitors the groups Last year, we identified the UKs decision meetings with each of the non-executive exposure to risks as part of the to leave the European Union as having directors seeking their feedback on performance reviews conducted at had some immediate impact on our the reviews performed and discussing each board meeting.
Financial risks results as a consequence of the effect on the key risks and mitigating activities.
are specifically reviewed by the Audit currency markets.
As the UK government Once all non-executive directors have committee which also reviews the continues its negotiations, uncertainty been consulted, a board report is effectiveness of the groups risk remains as to the extent to which our prepared summarising the full process mitigation processes.
operations and financial performance will and providing an assessment of the be affected in the longer term.
At a group status of risk management across the Our decentralised business model and business level, we have continued group.
The key risks, mitigating controls empowers the management of our to prepare for changes in legislation, and relevant policies are summarised.
businesses to identify, evaluate and trade agreements and working practices manage the risks they face, on a timely This report also details when formal in order to take advantage of the changing basis, to ensure compliance with relevant updates relating to the key risks will commercial landscape and to mitigate legislation, our business principles and be provided to the board throughout risk.
We have contributed to governmentgroup policies.
The risk assessments the year.
led consultations on the potential changes consider materiality, risk controls and the and their likely impact on businesses and likely impact against a range of criteria markets to help inform the exit strategy.
such as business objectives, health Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report 55 Our principal risks and uncertainties The directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Outlined below are the groups principal risks and uncertainties and the key mitigating activities in place to address them.
These are the principal risks of the group as a whole and are not in any order of priority.
Associated British Foods is exposed to a variety of other risks but we report those we believe are likely to have the greatest current or near-term impact on our strategic and operational plans and reputation.
They are grouped into external risks, which may occur in the markets or environment in which we operate, and operational risks, which are related to internal activity linked to our own operations and internal controls.
The Changes since 2016 highlight the significant variations in the profile of our principal risks or describe our experience and activity over the last year.
EXTERNAL RISKS Risk trend Mitigation Changes since 2016 Businesses impacted by exchange rate Sterling has weakened against most of MOVEMENT IN EXCHANGE RATES volatility, specifically those manufacturing our major trading currencies this year.
AND INFLATION or purchasing in one currency and selling The net impact on adjusted operating profit in another, constantly review their for 2016 17 from the translation of overseas Context and potential impact currency-related exposures.
results into sterling was a gain of 85m.
Associated British Foods is a Board-approved policies require businesses multinational group with operations Although Primark covers its currency to hedge all transactional currency exposures and transactions in many currencies.
exposure on purchases of merchandise and long-term supply or purchase contracts denominated in foreign currencies when Changes in exchange rates give rise which give rise to currency exposures, orders are placed, this hedging activity to transactional exposures within using foreign exchange forward contracts.
typically covers a period of only six months.
the businesses and to translation Cash balances and borrowings are largely Sterling weakness against the US dollar, exposures when the assets, maintained in the functional currency of since its decline following the UK referendum liabilities and results of overseas the local operations.
in June 2016, had an adverse transactional entities are translated into sterling effect on Primarks largely dollar-denominated upon consolidation.
Cross-currency swaps are used to align purchases this year.
However, the euros borrowings with the underlying currencies strength in the second half had a beneficial of the groups net assets refer to note 24 to effect on British Sugars margin.
Risk trend the financial statements for more information.
Unchanged We constantly monitor the markets EU and world sugar prices were higher FLUCTUATIONS IN COMMODITY in which we operate and manage certain than last year which had a positive effect AND ENERGY PRICES of these exposures with exchange traded on Sugar profitability.
Lower ethanol prices and higher wheat Context and potential impact The commercial implications of commodity costs adversely affected margins at Changes in commodity and energy price movements are continuously assessed Vivergo Fuels.
prices can have a material impact and, where appropriate, are reflected in the onthegroups operating results, Higher agricultural commodity prices pricing of our products.
adversely affected margins in our China and UK compound feed businesses Risk trend although firmer grain pricing benefited Unchanged Frontier Agriculture.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 56 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES EXTERNAL RISKS CONTINUED Risk trend Mitigation Changes since 2016 Our approach to risk management In preparing for the abolition of EU sugar OPERATING IN GLOBAL MARKETS incorporates potential short-term market quotas from October 2017, AB Sugar volatility and evaluates longer-term continued to reduce its cost base Context and potential impact socio-economic and political scenarios.
with the benefit of its performance Operating in 50 countries with improvement programme.
a supply chain covering even more, The groups financial control framework we are exposed to: global market and board-adopted tax and treasury policies We acquired two small businesses in forces: fluctuations in national require all businesses to comply fully with the sports nutrition market this year but economies: societal and political relevant local laws.
neither is of sufficient scale to represent changes: a range of consumer a material risk to the groups profitability Provision is made for known issues based concerns: and evolving legislation.
Other acquisitions on managements interpretation of countrywere in market sectors or countries Failure to recognise and respond specific tax law, EU cases and investigations very familiar to the group.
In all cases to any of these factors could on tax rulings, and their likely outcome.
thorough due diligence was undertaken.
directly impact the profitability We engage with governments, local of our operations.
regulators and community organisations Entering new markets is a risk to contribute to, and anticipate important to any business.
We conduct rigorous due diligence when Risk trend entering, or commencing business activities Unchanged in, new markets.
Consumer preferences and market trends Our businesses continued to review their HEALTH AND NUTRITION are monitored continuously.
products and to partner with others to enable a swift and innovative response Context and potential impact Recipes are regularly reviewed and to changing consumer needs.
Failure to respond appropriately to reformulated to improve the nutritional health and nutrition concerns in the value of our grocery products, all of which Our Sugar and Grocery businesses have formulation of our products could are labelled with nutritional information.
supported healthy eating campaigns result in adverse consumer reaction.
during the year to help consumers make We develop partnerships with other informed choices about their food.
Failure to keep pace with changing organisations to help educate consumers consumer tastes, choices and about making healthy choices.
shopping behaviours could impact business performance.
We must also act responsibly across the spectrum of food poverty and malnutrition to obesity.
Risk trend Unchanged By their nature these events mean they We reviewed and upgraded contingency SOCIO-POLITICAL UNCERTAINTY are largely unpredictable.
Nonetheless plans across our businesses.
our businesses have prepared detailed Context and potential impact contingency plans which include Geopolitical uncertainty, the threat site-level emergency responses and of terrorism and social unrest could improved security for employees.
all have a direct impact on our operations, our suppliers and our people.
Such events may also impact consumer confidence.
Risk trend Increased Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report 57 OPERATIONAL RISKS Risk trend Mitigation Changes since 2016 Safety continues to be the number one During the year there has been a 15% WORKPLACE HEALTH AND SAFETY priority for our businesses with active increase in our employee lost time injury endorsement and accountability from rate to 0.76%.
Our businesses conduct Context and potential impact the chief executives of each business.
thorough root cause analysis to learn Many of our operations, by their from accidents and implement nature, have the potential for injuries Our Health and Safety policy and safety changes.
and fatal accidents to employees, practices are firmly embedded in each contractors and visitors.
business, supporting a strong ethos of workplace safety.
Independent audits are conducted to verify implementation and support continuous improvement.
Best practice safety and occupational health training and guidance are shared across the businesses, co-ordinated Risk trend from the corporate centre, to supplement Unchanged the delivery of their own programmes.
Across the group, product safety is No significant changes this year.
PRODUCT SAFETY AND QUALITY put before economic considerations.
Context and potential impact Our businesses employ quality control As a leading food manufacturer specialists and operate strict policies within and retailer, it is fundamental that an organisational culture of hygiene and we manage the safety and integrity product safety to ensure that consistently of our products throughout the high standards are maintained in our supply chain.
operations and in the sourcing and handling of raw materials and garments.
We monitor the regulatory environment and emerging scientific research while reviewing our food safety systems for efficacy and legal compliance.
A programme of independent food quality and safety audits is undertaken across all our manufacturing sites and a due diligence Risk trend programme is in place to ensure the safety Unchanged of our retail products.
We aim to go beyond environmental The environmental performance of the OUR USE OF NATURAL compliance.
group, with updates by division, is reported RESOURCES AND MANAGING in the 2017 Corporate Responsibility Update Our businesses employ environmental at www.
specialists who use the best available OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT technologies and techniques to reduce We annually report our approach to climate Context and potential impact our use of consumables, adapt operations change, water and deforestation risk via Our businesses rely on a stable supply to climate change and reduce our CDP at www.
of natural resources some of which are environmental footprint.
Some of our businesses have started to vulnerable to external factors such as We monitor developments and engage develop a structured approach to being a natural disasters and climate change.
with governmental bodies on climate good neighbour in order to evaluate their Our operations give rise to a range of change: we limit reliance on certain positive effect on the community and to emissions including dust, waste water resources such as fossil fuels and respond mitigate any potential adverse impact.
and waste which, if not controlled, to changes such as carbon pricing and could lead to a risk to the environment energy supply.
Many of our Our businesses are mindful of being sites are surrounded by other businesses good neighbours through local community or residential areas.
engagement and the monitoring and management of noise pollution Risk trend and odours.
Unchanged Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 58 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES OPERATIONAL RISKS CONTINUED Risk trend Mitigation Changes since 2016 Our Supplier Code of Conduct is designed Our businesses have continued to engage OUR SUPPLY CHAIN AND to ensure suppliers, representatives and all with key suppliers on a range of shared ETHICAL BUSINESS PRACTICES with whom we deal, adhere to our values issues such as maximising environmental and standards.
and cost efficiencies, maintaining safe Context and potential impact workplaces, supporting steady employment The full Code is available at: www.
co. uk Our suppliers are essential to the and increasing transparency across the supplier code of conduct.
successful operation of the group.
Adherence to the Code is verified We therefore work with them to All our businesses have undertaken risk through our supplier audit system with ensure reliability and to help them assessments to identify supply chains at our procurement and operational teams meet our standards of product high risk from modern slavery.
Over the establishing strong working relationships quality and safety, financial stability, year, we have focused on embedding with suppliers to help them meet ethics, technical competence and our work in this area through training and our standards.
sharing learning across the businesses.
All businesses are required to comply Potential supply chain and ethical Our Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking with the groups Business Principles business practice risks include: Statement 2017 and the steps we take to including its Anti-Bribery and try to ensure that any forms of modern reputational damage through Corruption Policy.
slavery are not present within our own supply chain weaknesses e. g. poor operations or our supply chain are reported conditions for workers: in detail in the 2017 Corporate Responsibility unacceptable and unethical behaviour, Update www.
including bribery, corruption and slavery risk: impact on reliability of supply and business continuity due to unforeseen incidents e. g. natural disasters: and long-term sustainability of key suppliers.
Risk trend Unchanged We seek to understand the changing We instigated regular security scanning BREACHES OF IT AND cyber risks faced by our businesses of all websites in 2016 and developed INFORMATION SECURITY and take appropriate action.
incident management plans for potential IT attacks: both approaches yielded We have established processes, group Context and potential impact positive outcomes in 2017.
IT security policies and technologies in Our delivery of efficient and effective place, all of which are subject to regular We enhanced the security assessments operations is enhanced by the use of internal audit.
and due diligence required for new relevant technologies and the sharing IT projects.
We are therefore subject Access to sensitive data is restricted to potential internal and external cyber and closely monitored.
threats such as computer viruses and Robust disaster recovery plans are in the loss or theft of data.
We are increasingly interacting with Technical security controls are in place customers, consumers and suppliers over key IT platforms with the Head of through technology and therefore IT Security tasked with identifying and greater emphasis is placed on secure responding to potential security risks.
and reliable IT systems, enabling careful management of information.
There is also the potential for disruption to operations from unforeseen IT and system malfunctions or external attack.
Risk trend Increased Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report VIABILITY STATEMENT 59 The directors have determined that Such is the diversity of the group, Even in a worst case scenario, with risks the most appropriate period over which with operations across 50 countries modelled to materialise simultaneously to assess the Companys viability, and sales in more than 100, that none and for a sustained period, the likelihood in accordance with the UK Corporate of the principal risks or uncertainties of the group having insufficient resources Governance Code, is three years.
This individually is considered likely to have to meet its financial obligations is remote.
is consistent with the groups business a material impact on the groups Based on this assessment, the directors model which devolves operational profitability or extensive cash resources.
confirm that they have a reasonable decision-making to the businesses, Furthermore, the groups business model expectation that the Company will be each of which sets a strategic planning means that no significant reliance is able to continue in operation and meet time horizon appropriate to its activities placed on any one group of customers its liabilities as they fall due over the which are typically of three years or suppliers and its diversity reduces three-year period to 12 September 2020. duration.
The directors also considered the risk that issues affecting a particular On behalf of the board the diverse nature of the groups sector will have a material impact on activities and the degree to which the the group as a whole.
businesses change and evolve in the Charles Sinclair At 16 September 2017, 1.2bn of relatively short term.
Chairman committed borrowing facilities available to the group were undrawn and the The directors considered the groups directors are of the opinion that substantial George Weston profitability, cash flows and key financial further funding could be secured at Chief Executive ratios over this period and the potential relatively short notice should the need impact that the Principal Risks and arise.
The revolving credit facility is not John Bason Uncertainties set out on pages 54 to 58 due for renewal until July 2021 and Finance Director could have on the solvency or liquidity over 300m of the private placement of the group.
Sensitivity analysis was funding matures beyond the period applied to these metrics and the projected under consideration.
cash flows were stress tested against a range of scenarios.
The group has a sound track record of The directors considered the level delivering strong cash flows, with well of performance that would cause the in excess of 1bn of operating cash group to breach its debt covenants, being generated in each of the last the financial implications of making any seven years.
This has been more than strategic acquisitions and a variety of sufficient to fund expansionary capital factors that have the potential to reduce investment and, specifically, has profit substantially.
These included enabled the development of Primark the rate and success of Primarks in continental Europe and the US.
expansion: actions which could damage The groups cash flows have supported the groups reputation for the long term: 7% compound annual growth in the and macro-economic influences such dividend over the last ten years.
as fluctuations in world currency and commodity markets and the implications of the UKs withdrawal from the EU.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 60 BOARD OF DIRECTORS EFFECTIVE LEADERSHIP AND STRONG GOVERNANCE N R Charles Sinclair George Weston John Bason Chairman age 69 Finance Director age 60 Chief Executive age 53 Charles was appointed a non-executive director John was appointed as Finance Director in May George was appointed to the board in 1999 in October 2008 and as Chairman in April 2009.
He has extensive international business and took up his current appointment as Chief With wide business experience of both the UK experience and an in-depth knowledge of the Executive in April 2005.
In his former roles at and overseas, his executive career was latterly industry.
He was previously the finance director Associated British Foods, he was Managing with Daily Mail and General Trust plc, where he of Bunzl plc and is a member of the Institute of Director of Westmill Foods, Allied Bakeries was chief executive from 1989 until he retired Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
and George Weston Foods Limited Australia.
from that role and the board in September 2008.
Other appointments: Other appointments: Other appointments: He is a non-executive director of Compass Group He is a non-executive director of Wittington He is Warden of Winchester College.
PLC and chairman of the charity FareShare.
Investments Limited and a trustee of the Garfield Weston Foundation.
N R N A R Timothy Clarke Emma Adamo Wolfhart Hauser Independent non-executive director age 60 Non-executive director age 54 Independent non-executive director age 67 Emma was appointed as a director in December Tim was appointed a director in November 2004 Wolfhart Hauser was appointed a director in 2011.
She was educated at Stanford University and has been Senior Independent Director since January 2015.
Starting his career with various and INSEAD in France.
Tim has extensive experience research activities, he went on to establish and of retailing.
Until 2009, he was chief executive of lead a broad range of successful international Other appointments: Mitchells & Butlers plc, following its demerger service industry businesses.
He was chief She is a director of Wittington Investments from Six Continents PLC where he also held executive of Intertek Group plc for ten years until Limited, and of the W. Garfield Weston the position of chief executive.
Previously he he retired from that role and the board in May Foundation in Canada.
had been a partner of Panmure Gordon & Co 2015.
He was previously chief executive officer before joining Bass PLC in 1990. and president of TV Sddeutschland AG for four years and chief executive officer of Other appointments: TV Product Services for ten years.
He is chairman of Birmingham Airport.
He is also a non-executive director of two pub and Other appointments: brewing companies, Hall & Woodhouse Limited, He is chairman of FirstGroup plc and senior and Timothy Taylor & Company Limited, and independent director of RELX Group plc and of Triple Point VCT 2011 PLC.
its listed parent companies RELX PLC and RELX NV.
A As ss so oc ci ia at te ed B d Br ri it ti is sh F h Fo oo od ds p s pl lc c Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance 61 Board committees key N Nomination committee A Audit committee R Remuneration committee N R N A R Javier Ferrn Ruth Cairnie Independent non-executive director age 61 Independent non-executive director age 63 Ruth was appointed a director in May 2014.
Javier was appointed a director in November She has extensive overseas experience 2006.
He spent the earlier part of his career including international marketing and supply with Bacardi Group, where latterly he served chain management.
Ruth was formerly as president and chief executive officer.
He has Executive Vice President Strategy & Planning in-depth knowledge of consumer brands on an at Royal Dutch Shell Plc.
This role followed international basis and of international financing.
a number of senior international roles within Other appointments: Shell, including Vice President of its Global He is a partner at Lion Capital LLP, a LondonCommercial Fuels business.
He is also chairman of Diageo plc and a non-executive director Other appointments: of Coca-Cola European Partners plc.
She is a non-executive director of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc.
A R A R Richard Reid Michael McLintock Independent non-executive director age 61 Independent non-executive director age 56 Richard was appointed a director in April Michael was appointed a director in November 2017.
He has in-depth knowledge of the financial 2016.
He was formerly a partner at KPMG sector and proven experience of growing LLP, having joined the firm in 1980.
Michael retired as chief executive 2008, Richard served as London Chairman of M&G in 2016 having joined the company at KPMG until he retired from that role and in 1992 and been appointed chief executive in KPMG in September 2015.
In 1999 he oversaw the sale of M&G to Richard was KPMGs UK chairman of the Prudential plc where he served as an executive High Growth Markets Group and chairman director from 2000 until 2016.
Previously he held of the firms Consumer and Industrial roles in investment management at Morgan Markets group.
Grenfell and in corporate finance at Barings.
Other appointments: Other appointments: He is chairman of National Heart and Lung He is a trustee of the Grosvenor Estate, a Institute Foundation and senior advisor non-executive director of Grosvenor Group Limited, to Bank of China UK.
a member of the MCCs Finance Committee, a special advisor to Neptune Investment Management and member of The Takeover Appeal Board.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 62 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 62 financial years commencing on or after DEAR FELLOW SHAREHOLDERS 17 June 2016 the 2016 Code.
The Company has already taken account of I am pleased to present the Associated British Foods corporate governance the small number of changes required report for 2017.
We have structured our report once again to reflect the themes and now reports formally in accordance of the Code.
In the following pages, we set out details of our approach to corporate with the 2016 Code in this annual report.
governance and the activities of the board and its committees during the year.
The board considers that the Company The role of the board is to lead the Company and to oversee its governance.
has, throughout the year ended The directors also recognise the boards pivotal role in shaping the groups culture 16 September 2017, applied the and values.
Associated British Foods is an organisation built upon solid ethical main principles and complied with foundations with a strong, constant culture, known internally as the essence the provisions set out in the Code, of Associated British Foods.
The members of the board, together with senior with the following exception: management, continue to work closely with the businesses to promote the ethical culture and standards across the group through a robust governance Code provision framework.
This is seen as an important factor in protecting and delivering D. 2.1 The Chairman should not sustainable long-term value for shareholders.
chair the Remuneration committee As Chairman, my focus has been on managing the board to ensure that Status it operates effectively, has the right balance of independence, experience, Charles Sinclair is both Chairman of diversity and skill and demonstrates a healthy culture of scrutiny and challenge.
the Company and chairman of the This year, succession planning has continued to be a priority for the board and Remuneration committee.
We are continuing to phase the refreshing of the Explanation board.
As discussed in my Chairmans statement on page 4, we are delighted to welcome Michael McLintock as an independent non-executive director with The board of Associated British Foods plc effect from 1 November 2017.
As I also mentioned, Tim Clarke will retire from continues to consider that Charles Sinclair, the board on 30 November 2017 and will be succeeded in the role of Senior due to his experience, is best suited Independent Director by Javier Ferrn.
We recognise that Javier has been to chair this committee.
No director has any involvement in the determination of a member of the board for longer than the nine years advocated by the UK his own remuneration.
The board believes Corporate Governance Code.
However, the continuity offered by Javier, combined that the Company has maintained with his extensive experience of consumer brands and international retailing, robust governance while at the same make his continuing contribution to the mix of skills and knowledge on the time benefiting from having Charles board highly valuable.
We are therefore delighted that Javier has agreed to Sinclair as the chairman of the serve a further term as a non-executive director and, on page 65, we explain Remuneration committee.
our reasoning in determining his continued independence.
Leadership Last year, the Remuneration committee undertook a complete review of the The board groups incentive arrangements.
We consulted extensively with our largest The board of directors is collectively shareholders and their representative bodies and this resulted in our revised responsible to the Companys remuneration policy receiving a 97% vote of approval at the AGM held in shareholders for the direction and December 2016.
Details of the new policy are set out in the Remuneration oversight of the Company to ensure committee report which starts on page 75. its long-term success.
The board met I am pleased that we have continued to make good progress with a number regularly throughout the year to approve of actions identified from previous board evaluation exercises.
During 2017, the groups strategic objectives, to with external support, we undertook our annual effectiveness evaluation of the lead the group within a framework of board, its principal committees and individual directors.
The results confirmed effective controls which enable risk to that Associated British Foods has a very effective board.
Information on our be assessed and managed and to ensure performance evaluation review this year is provided on pages 65 and 66. that sufficient resources are available to meet the objectives set.
As always, we welcome any feedback on this report through the website www.
co. uk or in person at the AGM in December.
There are a number of matters which are specifically reserved for the boards Charles Sinclair approval.
These are set out in a clearly Chairman defined schedule and include: matters relating to the groups strategic plan: approving the annual business strategy Compliance with the UK remuneration, accountability and and objectives: the nature and extent of Corporate Governance Code relations with shareholders.
The principal risks to be taken to achieve the As a premium listed company on the Code is published by the UK Financial strategic objectives: changes relating to London Stock Exchange, the Company Reporting Council FRC and a copy structure and capital: approval of trading is reporting in accordance with the UK of the Code is available from the FRC statements, interim results, final results Corporate Governance Code published website www.
and annual report and accounts: declaring in April 2016 the Code which sets out An updated version of the UK Corporate interim dividends and recommending standards of good practice in relation Governance Code was published in April final dividends: the groups policies and to board leadership and effectiveness, 2016 and first applies to companies with systems of internal control and risk Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance 63 63 management: approving capital projects, executive directors.
During the Senior executives below board level acquisitions and disposals valued at over year, led by the Senior Independent are invited, when appropriate, to 30m: provision of adequate succession Director, the non-executive directors attend board meetings and to make planning: approving major group policies have met without the presence of the presentations on the results and and matters relating to the compliance Chairman including to appraise the strategies of their business units.
with the terms of the Relationship Chairmans performance.
Papers for board and committee Agreement between the Company meetings are generally provided The non-executive directors and its controlling shareholders dated to directors a week in advance In addition to their responsibilities for 14 November 2014.
The schedule of of the meetings.
strategy and business results, the nonmatters reserved is available to view on executive directors play a key role in The attendance of the directors at the corporate governance section of the providing a solid foundation for good board and committee meetings during Companys website www.
corporate governance and ensure that no the year to 16 September 2017 is shown Certain specific responsibilities are individual or group dominates the boards in the table below.
Where a director delegated to the board committees, decision-making.
They each occupy, was unable to participate in a meeting notably the Audit, Remuneration and or have occupied, senior positions in either in person or remotely, the Nomination committees, which operate industry, bringing valuable external Chairman solicited their views on key within clearly defined terms of reference perspective to the boards deliberations items of business in advance of the and report regularly to the board.
For through their experience and insight from relevant meeting and shared these with further details, please see Board other sectors enabling them to contribute the meeting so that they were able committees section below.
to contribute to the debate.
The formal letters of appointment of Authority for the operational Board committees non-executive directors are available management of the groups business The board has established three for inspection at the Companys has been delegated to the Chief principal board committees, to registered office.
Executive for execution or further which it has delegated certain of delegation by him for the effective Election and re-election of directors its responsibilities.
These are the day-to-day running and management In accordance with the Codes Audit, Nomination and Remuneration of the group.
The chief executive of recommendations, all directors committees.
The membership, each business within the group has currently in office, with the exception responsibilities and activities of these authority for that business and reports of Tim Clarke who retires with effect committees are described later in this directly to the Chief Executive.
from 30 November 2017, will be corporate governance report and, in the proposed for election or re-election, case of the Remuneration committee, Chairman and Chief Executive as appropriate, at the 2017 AGM to in the Remuneration report which The roles of the Chairman and the Chief be held in December.
Membership of these Executive are separately held and the committees is reviewed annually.
Minutes division of their responsibilities is clearly Board meetings of committee meetings are made available established, set out in writing, and agreed The board held eight meetings during to all directors on a timely basis.
by the board to ensure that no one has the year.
Periodically, board meetings unfettered powers of decision.
The are held away from the corporate The chairmen of the Audit, Nomination Chairman, Charles Sinclair, is responsible centre in London.
During the year under and Remuneration committees were for the operation and leadership of the review, the November meeting was present at the 2016 AGM and intend board, ensuring its effectiveness and held at the Allied Bakeries premises in to be present at this years AGM to setting its agenda.
The Chief Executive, Walthamstow, where the board met local answer questions on the work of their George Weston, is responsible for leading management and were given a tour of respective committees.
and managing the groups business within the factory.
In May, the board meeting The written terms of reference for the a set of authorities delegated by the was held at Primarks regional office at Nomination, Audit and Remuneration board and for the implementation of Crteil, Paris and included a visit to the committees are available on the board strategy and policy.
The board also held Companys website www.
co. uk its July meeting away from the corporate Senior Independent Director and hard copies are available on request.
centre and made a visit to Primarks Tim Clarke is currently the Companys distribution centre at Islip.
Tim will be retiring from the board Audit Nomination Remuneration Board committee committee committee on 30 November 2017.
He will be succeeded in the role of Senior Charles Sinclair 8 8 3 3 4 4 1 Independent Director by Javier Ferrn.
George Weston 7 8 The purpose of this role is to act as John Bason 8 8 a sounding board for the Chairman and Emma Adamo 8 8 Ruth Cairnie 8 8 4 4 3 3 4 4 to serve as an intermediary for other Tim Clarke 8 8 3 3 4 4 directors where necessary.
He is also Javier Ferrn 8 8 3 3 4 4 available to shareholders should a need Wolfhart Hauser 8 8 4 4 3 3 4 4 arise to convey concerns to the board Richard Reid 8 8 4 4 4 4 which they have been unable to convey 1 through the Chairman or through the George Weston was unable to attend one board meeting as a result of being unwell on the day of the meeting.
However, he reviewed the relevant information and papers, and provided comments to the Chairman.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 64 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 64 Directors insurance Effectiveness The Company has in place appropriate directors and officers liability insurance Board composition cover in respect of legal action against its executive and non-executive directors, At the date of this report, the board amongst others.
comprises the following directors: The work of the board during the year Chairman During the financial year, key activities of the board included: Charles Sinclair Executive directors Strategy George Weston Chief Executive conducting regular strategy update sessions in board meetings: John Bason Finance Director holding an annual away-day focused on strategy: and Non-executive directors receiving a strategy update from the Chief Executive and Director of Business Emma Adamo Development.
Ruth Cairnie Acquisitions disposals Tim Clarke approving entry into an agreement to acquire Acetum S. p. A. : and Javier Ferrn Wolfhart Hauser receiving regular updates on acquisitions disposals.
Michael McLintock appointed Performance monitoring 1 November 2017 receiving regular reports to the board from the Chief Executive: Richard Reid receiving, on a rolling basis, senior management presentations from each of the Tim Clarke will retire as a director group business areas: on 30 November 2017. approving the group budget for the 2017 18 financial year: receiving regular feedback on directors meetings held with institutional investors: and Emma Adamo is not considered by receiving reports from the board committee chairmen.
the board to be independent in view of her relationship with Wittington Governance and risk Investments Limited, the Companys approving the Companys full year and interim results: majority shareholder.
She was appointed recommending the 2016 final dividend and approving the 2017 interim dividend: in December 2011 to represent this annual review of the material financial and non-financial risks facing the shareholding on the board of the groups businesses: Company.
The board considers that receiving the food safety update from the Director of Financial Control: the other non-executive directors are half yearly review of progress in implementing actions arising from the 2016 independent in character and judgement board evaluation: and that they are each free from any participating in the 2017 annual board performance evaluation and considering the business or other relationships which report received on the review: would materially interfere with the receiving regular updates on corporate governance and regulatory matters: and exercise of their independent judgement.
undertaking appropriate preparations for the holding of the annual general meeting Richard Reid was appointed as an including considering and approving an outlook statement and subsequently, independent non-executive director discussing issues arising from the annual general meeting.
The board considered Corporate responsibility Richards independence by reference approving the Corporate Responsibility Update 2017: to the relevant provisions of the Code receiving regular management reports and an annual presentation on health, and concluded that he is independent safety and environmental issues: and notwithstanding his past relationship receiving updates on Primark ethical sourcing.
with KPMG, which was formerly the groups auditor.
KPMG LLP ceased to People be the Companys auditor in November appointment of Michael McLintock as an independent non-executive director and 2015, following a competitive tender for to the Audit and Remuneration committees: the external audit.
Richard was formerly receiving updates on and considering senior succession planning and people activities a partner at KPMG, retiring from that with presentation from the Group HR Director: and role in September 2015.
He had no confirming directors independence.
personal engagement with any business within the Associated British Foods group during the four years prior to his appointment by the Company.
Previously, before the four-year period, Richard was client liaison partner on behalf of KPMG for Associated British Foods, but at no time did he have responsibility for signing an audit report on the Company.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
