30 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Corporate governance report The Board of the Company is committed to achieving the highest standards of corporate governance.
Henry Staunton Chairman In light of the provisions of the Code, the Board has considered INTRODUCTION FROM THE CHAIRMAN Drummonds role and has concluded that Drummond Hall The Board of the Company is committed to achieving the highest demonstrates independence and continues to give effective standards of corporate governance.
As Chairman, my role is to counsel.
Drummond Hall has stood for annual re-election since run the Board to ensure that the Company operates effectively 2011 and will be standing again at the AGM in January 2018. and ensure that the Board has the right balance of skills and Further information on the Board evaluation process can be experience to assess, manage and mitigate risks.
found on pages 31 and 32 of this report.
This report, which forms part of the Directors report, provides Attendance at Board meetings details of how the Company has applied the principles of, The Board met 10 times during the year.
It is expected that all and complied with, the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 directors attend Board meetings, Committee meetings and the Code.
A copy of the Code is available publicly from the Annual General Meeting AGM unless they are prevented www.
from doing so by prior commitments.
The minimum time The information that is required by Disclosure Guidance and commitment expected from the non-executive directors is Transparency Rules DTR 7.2 to be contained in the Companys one day per month attendance at meetings, together with Corporate governance statement is included in this Corporate attendance at the AGM, Board away days and site visits, plus governance report, in the Directors remuneration report on adequate preparation time.
Where directors are unable to attend pages 40 to 52 and in the Directors report on pages 53 to 55. meetings, they receive the papers for that meeting giving them the opportunity to raise any issues and give any comments to the BOARD OF DIRECTORS Chairman in advance of the meeting.
Following the meeting, the Chairman briefs any director not present on the discussions and As at the date of this report, the Board comprised the Chairman, any decisions taken at the meeting.
The following table shows two executive directors and three independent non-executive the number of Board meetings held during the year ended directors.
Short biographies of each of these directors, which 31 August 2017 and the attendance record of individual directors.
illustrate their range of experience, are set out on page 39.
There is a clear division of responsibility at the head of the Company: Henry Staunton Chairman being responsible for Number of meetings running the Board and Stephen Clarke Group Chief Executive Board membership attended being responsible for implementing strategy, leadership of the Henry Staunton 10 of 10 Company and managing it within the authorities delegated by the Board.
Drummond Hall is the Senior Independent Director.
Suzanne Baxter 10 of 10 The Board structure ensures that no individual or group Stephen Clarke 10 of 10 dominates the decision-making process.
Annemarie Durbin 10 of 10 All the directors, whose biographies are on page 39, served Drummond Hall 9 of 10 during the financial year ended 31 August 2017 and up to the Robert Moorhead 10 of 10 date of this report.
All of the non-executive directors who served during the year Drummond Hall was unable to attend one meeting of the Board and up to the date of this report are considered by the Board which was arranged whilst he was on holiday.
He received to be independent.
Drummond Hall was appointed as a nonthe papers for the meeting and gave comments in advance of executive director in September 2008.
He was appointed as the the meeting.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee in July 2009 and became The Board has met twice since 31 August 2017 and all the the Senior Independent Director in September 2013.
He began directors attended both meetings.
his tenth year as a director of the Company in September 2017.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 31 Matters reserved for the Board Further information on internal controls and risk management The Board manages the Company through a formal schedule can be found in the Audit Committee report on pages 33 to 36. of matters reserved for its decision, with its key focus being All directors have access to the advice and services of the on creating long-term sustainable shareholder value.
Company Secretary and may take independent professional The significant matters reserved for its decision include: the advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their overall management of the Company: approval of the business duties.
The Board receives appropriate and timely information, model and strategic plans including acquisitions and disposals: with Board and Committee papers normally being sent out approval of the Companys commercial strategy and operating a week before meetings take place.
New directors receive and capital expenditure budgets: approval of the Annual report induction training on joining the Board, which is tailored to meet and financial statements, material agreements and nontheir needs to learn about the business, its markets and risks recurring projects: treasury and dividend policy: control, audit and includes store visits and meetings with employees across and risk management: executive remuneration: and corporate the businesses and with external advisers.
The need for director social responsibility.
training is regularly assessed by the Board.
The Board has a forward timetable of business to ensure Board evaluation that it allocates sufficient time to key areas.
The timetable is The performance of the Board, its Committees and its individual flexible enough for items to be added to any particular agenda directors is a fundamental component of the Companys as necessary.
The Boards annual business includes Chief success.
The Board regularly reviews its own performance and Executives reports, including business reports, financial results, carried out a formal evaluation in June 2017.
The evaluation was strategy and strategy updates, including in-depth sessions conducted externally by Equity Communications Limited Equity on specific areas of the business and strategic initiatives, Communications, which provides board evaluation services risk management, dividend policy, investor relations, health and has no other connection with the Company.
The main areas and safety, Board evaluation, governance and compliance, considered during the evaluation were strategy, operations communications and the Annual report.
and risk: succession planning: Board composition: culture and Risk management Board Committees.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system The findings of Equity Communications were presented to of risk management and internal control including financial the Board in October 2017.
The results of the assessment controls, controls in respect of the financial reporting process were considered by the Board, and confirmed the strength and operational and compliance controls and has conducted a of the management of the Company, a sound governance detailed review of its effectiveness during the year, to ensure that framework and practices compliant with the Code.
Additionally, management has implemented its policies on risk and control.
the culture of the Board was found to be good, being very This review included receiving reports from management, open and frank, whilst also supportive and collaborative.
As a discussion, challenge, and assessment of the principal risks.
result of the review, the Board agreed an action plan that will No significant failings or weaknesses were identified from be implemented in the financial year ending 31 August 2018 this review.
In addition, the Board also received presentations and will include continuing to build relationships between from management on higher risk areas, for example, cyber members of the Board and key talent below Board level by, risk, risks arising from the process of exiting the European for example, the non-executive directors spending time with Union and growing international expansion.
The Board has key management, additional measures to ensure maximum established an organisational structure with clearly defined benefit is derived from the strategy session held each year and lines of responsibility which identify matters requiring approval continuing to build on the Companys succession plans for Board by the Board.
Steps continue to be taken to embed internal and key management.
In addition to the Board and Committee control and risk management further into the operations of the evaluation process, the Group Chief Executive reviews the business and to deal with areas that require improvement which performance of the Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating come to the attention of management and the Board.
Such a Officer CFO COO and other senior executives.
The Chairman system is, however, designed to manage rather than eliminate reviews the performance of the Group Chief Executive.
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing principal risks faced by the Group, including those risks relating to social, environmental and ethical matters.
The Board confirms that the processes have been in place for the year under review and up to the date of this report and that they accord with the FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting the Risk Management and Internal Control Guidance.
The processes are regularly reviewed by the Board.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group can be found in the Strategic report on pages 20 to 24.
32 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Corporate governance report continued The Chairman also undertook a rigorous review with each of The interests of the directors and their immediate families in the non-executive directors to assess their effectiveness and the share capital of the Company, along with details of directors commitment to the role.
The Board has also scrutinised the share awards, are contained in the Directors remuneration factors relevant to the determination of the independence of report on pages 40 to 52.
Drummond Hall given that he has been a director for nine At no time during the year did any of the directors have a years.
The Board considers his continued membership of material interest in any significant contract with the Company or the Board is in the best interests of the Company and, having any of its subsidiaries.
given careful consideration to the matter, the Board is satisfied that Drummond continues to demonstrate the qualities of Board Committees independence in carrying out his role as a non-executive director The Board delegates specific responsibilities to the Board and Senior Independent Director.
The Board considers that Committees, being the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration he continues to be independent in character and judgement Committees.
Details of the role and responsibilities of the Audit and that there are no relationships or circumstances which Committee can be found on pages 33 to 36, the Nominations are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, his judgement.
Committee on page 37 and the Remuneration Committee Drummond has stood for re-election annually and on each on pages 40 to 52.
The role and responsibilities of each occasion has been re-elected by shareholders.
The Board will Committee are set out in formal terms of reference which are continue to keep his independence under review.
During the available on the Companys website, www.
year, the Chairman had regular meetings with the non-executive In addition, following the implementation of the EU Market directors, without the executive directors present, to discuss Abuse Regulation MAR in July 2016, the Board established Board issues and how to maintain the best possible team.
a Disclosure Committee which is responsible for ensuring The Board is satisfied that each of the non-executive directors compliance with the Companys obligations under MAR.
commits sufficient time to the business of the Company and Succession planning and culture contributes to its governance and operations.
The Senior During the year ahead, the Board will continue to focus on Independent Director met the other non-executive directors succession planning to ensure the readiness of internal to assess the Chairmans performance taking into account candidates for all key roles across the business.
The Board the views of the executive directors and they concluded that is committed to good governance, culture and leadership, Henry Staunton continues to be an effective Chairman and recognising that these are key considerations for a strong demonstrates his commitment to the role.
sustainable business and that the tone comes from the top.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, directors are Our business model on pages 4 and 5 outlines the importance required to retire and submit themselves for re-election of having the right people and skills, and operating responsibly.
every three years and new directors appointed by the Board The Companys values, behaviours and culture will continue offer themselves for election at the next AGM following their to form an important part of the Boards discussions.
However, in accordance with the Code, the Board The Nominations Committee will continue to support the has agreed that all directors will stand for re-election at the AGM Board by ensuring that culture is built into recruitment and to be held on 24 January 2018.
At the last AGM on 25 January succession considerations.
2017, all the directors stood for re-election and were duly elected The Board recognises the importance of being visible and with a range of 93.68 per cent to 99.61 per cent of votes cast accessible to customers and employees.
Biographies of all the directors are set out on directors are encouraged to accompany management on site page 39 of this Annual report and are also available for viewing visits to the High Street and Travel stores.
The Board believes on the Companys website, www.
that site visits provide directors with valuable insights into the The Companys Articles of Association give a power to the business, helping to deepen their knowledge and understanding Board to appoint directors and, where notice is given and signed of the Company.
by all the other directors, to remove a director from office.
The Companys Articles of Association themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 33 Board Committees Audit Committee As Chair of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present my report on the activities of the Audit Committee for the financial year ended 31 August 2017.
Suzanne Baxter Chair of the Audit Committee AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT reviewing the effectiveness including focus on the Groups growing International business of the Groups financial reporting, internal control policies and procedures for the Dear Shareholder identification, assessment and reporting of risk, including As Chair of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present my cyber security and tax: report on the activities of the Audit Committee for the financial monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements year ended 31 August 2017.
Our principal objectives are to and trading statements: oversee and assist the Board in its responsibility to produce a set of Annual report and accounts which are fair, balanced and assessing and recommending to the Board that the Annual understandable and to provide effective financial governance report is fair, balanced and understandable: in respect of the Groups financial results, the performance of considering the Companys viability statement and papers both the internal audit function and the external Auditor, and from management, which considers the long-term viability of the management of the Groups systems of internal control, the Group: business risks and related compliance activities.
considering papers from management on the key financial The other members of the Committee are Annemarie Durbin reporting judgements, including the Companys approach to and Drummond Hall who are both independent non-executive recognising supplier incomes: directors.
The Board considers that I have recent and relevant reviewing the Interim report and the Annual report and financial experience, as required by the Code and that the accounts, including compliance with the Code and statutory Committee, as a whole, has competence relevant to the reporting requirements and recommending those documents sector, in which the Company operates.
At the invitation of for Board approval: the Committee, the Chairman of the Board, the Group Chief considering the Companys principal risks and uncertainties Executive, the CFO COO, the Director of Audit and Risk and and reviewing the mitigating actions that management has representatives of the Groups senior management team and taken to ensure that these risks are appropriately monitored of the external auditor attend meetings.
The Committee has and controlled: regular private meetings with the external and internal auditors during the year.
considering the Companys systems and framework of controls designed to detect and report fraud: The Committee met four times during the year.
All Committee members are expected to attend meetings.
The following table monitoring the role and effectiveness of Internal Audit: shows the number of meetings held during the year ended reviewing the Companys approach to cyber risk: 31 August 2017 and the attendance record of individual directors.
receiving reports and presentations on the Companys International businesses: Number of meetings receiving reports and presentations from the business Committee membership attended risk committees: Suzanne Baxter 4 of 4 receiving and reviewing reports from the Internal Audit and Annemarie Durbin 4 of 4 Risk teams: Drummond Hall 4 of 4 holding private meetings with the external and internal auditors: Henry Staunton, Stephen Clarke and Robert Moorhead were considering the potential impact of Brexit on the Company: invited to and attended all four meetings of the Audit Committee.
agreeing the scope of  LLPs The Audit Committee has met once since 31 August 2017 and all PwC annual audit plans, assessing the effectiveness of the Committee members attended the meeting.
the external audit process and considering the accounting, A summary of the activities undertaken by the Committee during financial control and audit issues reported by the auditors the year is as follows: that flowed from their work: 34 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Corporate governance report continued reviewing auditor independence and approving the The Committee also considered the disclosure included by amendedpolicy on the engagement of PwC to supply management in the Annual report and accounts.
non-audit services: Pensions negotiating and agreeing the audit fee: The Committee assessed the accounting treatment adopted by management and the application of IAS 19 revised in relation to undertaking a performance review of Internal Audit and the the WH Smith defined benefit pension scheme.
The Committee Companys Auditor: considered the current guidance and requirements in respect of considering the CSR report: and pensions accounting, reviewed the judgements made in respect reviewing the Committees terms of reference.
of the assumptions used in the valuation of the Companys obligations under the scheme and the recognition of future liabilities in respect of committed scheme contributions on the LONG-TERM VIABILITY STATEMENT AND balance sheet.
GOING CONCERN The Committee reviewed the process and assessment of the Impairment review of store assets Companys prospects made by management, including: The Committee considered the judgements made by management in respect of the Groups store assets given that the review period and alignment with the Companys sales and cost pressures may adversely impact the recoverable internal forecasts: value of assets used within the store portfolio.
The Committee the assessment of the capacity of the Company to remain noted that management had considered the trading results viable after consideration of future cash flows, borrowings of each store for the year and noted that where a store is loss and mitigating factors: and making and is not expected to return to profitability in the near the modelling of the financial impact of certain of the future, an impairment charge is recognised over the assets that Companys principal risks materialising using severe but cannot be recycled within the store portfolio.
was satisfied that the approach adopted by management was sufficiently robust to identify when an impairment charge of The Committee reviewed managements analysis supporting store assets needs to be recognised.
the going concern basis of preparation including reviewing the Companys financial performance, budgets for 2017 18 Property transactions and provisions and cash flow projections.
As a result of the assessment, the The Committee considered the nature of property transactions Committee reported to the Board that the going concern basis of undertaken by the Company in the year and reviewed the preparation remained appropriate.
The going concern statement Companys obligations and provisions for the cost of onerous is set out in the Directors report on page 55. property leases, including lease obligations, in respect of discontinued operations.
SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL REPORTING ISSUES Each of the above areas of judgement has been identified In preparing the accounts, there are a number of areas as an area of focus and therefore the Committee has also requiring the exercise by management of particular judgement.
reviewed detailed reporting from the external Auditor on the The Committees role is to assess whether the judgements relevant issues.
made by management are reasonable and appropriate.
In order FRC Corporate Reporting Review franchise and to assist in this evaluation, the CFO COO presents an accounting concession agreements paper to the Committee twice a year, setting out the key financial The FRC Corporate Reporting Review team wrote to the reporting judgements, and other papers as required.
The main Company on 31 May 2017 after reviewing the Annual report areas of judgement that have been considered by the Committee and accounts for the year ended 31 August 2016.
The Company in the preparation of the financial statements are as follows: was asked to provide further information in respect of the Accounting for inventory accounting treatment of franchise and concession agreements The Committee considered the judgements made by and related disclosures in the accounts.
The Committee, after management and a paper from the external Auditor regarding consideration, approved the Companys response to the FRC.
the valuation of inventory, with specific consideration given to Following the Companys response and provision of information, inventory provisioning, including provision for slow moving or the Review team confirmed on 24 July 2017 that the matter had obsolete stock.
The Committee is satisfied that the process been concluded satisfactorily and that no action was required.
adopted by management for the valuation of inventory is The FRC review is conducted by staff of the FRC who have an sufficiently robust to establish the value of inventory held understanding of the relevant legal and accounting framework and is satisfied as to the appropriateness of the Companys in which we operate and is based on the Annual report and provisioning policy.
The FRC staff do not have detailed knowledge of the Company or an understanding of the underlying transactions Recognition of supplier income entered into by it.
Accordingly, the FRCs role is not to verify the Supplier Income recognition remains a focus for the information provided but to consider compliance with reporting Committee.
The Committee considered, and reviewed in requirements.
The FRCs letters are written on the basis that detail, managements paper which set out the nature and it does not accept any liability for reliance on them by the value of these arrangements and the policy for recognition Company or any third party, including but not limited to investors in the financial statements.
The Committee is satisfied with and shareholders.
managements conclusion that the level of complexity and judgement is low in relation to establishing the accounting entries and estimates, and the timing of recognition.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 35 Fair, balanced and understandable assessment process in assessing the effectiveness of the internal controls At the request of the Board, the Committee has considered across the Group.
The results of this review are reported to whether, in its opinion, the 2017 Annual report and accounts, the Committee: taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and that the Committee confirmed to the Board that it has reviewed it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the effectiveness of the systems of internal control, including the Companys position and performance, business model and financial, operational, and compliance controls and risk strategy.
The Committee was assisted in its review by a number management for the period of this report, in accordance of processes, including the following: with the Code and the Risk Management and Internal Control Guidance: the Annual report and accounts is drafted by senior management with overall co-ordination by a member of the Board is responsible for approving the annual budget the Group Finance team to ensure consistency across the and the three-year plan, for approving major acquisitions relevant sections: and disposals and for determining the financial structure of the Company, including treasury and dividend policy.
an internal verification process is undertaken to ensure Monthly results, variances from plan and forecasts are factual accuracy: reported to the Board: an independent review is undertaken by the Director of the Committee assists the Board in the discharge of Audit and Risk to assess whether the Annual report and its duties regarding the Groups financial statements, accounts is fair, balanced and understandable using a set of accounting policies and the maintenance of proper internal pre-defined indicators such as consistency with internally business, operational and financial controls.
The Committee reported information and investor communications : invites input and attendance from members of the senior comprehensive reviews of drafts of the Annual report and management team of the Group at its meetings to discuss accounts are undertaken by the executive directors and other the design and operation of key business and internal senior management: controls and the assessment of risks that affect the Group.
an advanced draft is reviewed by the Board and the The Committee provides a link between the Board and the Companys Legal Director and, in relation to certain sections, external Auditor through regular meetings: by external legal advisers: and the Internal Audit team advises and assists management the final draft of the Annual report and accounts was in the establishment and maintenance of adequate internal reviewed by the Committee prior to consideration by controls and reports to the Committee on the effectiveness of the Board.
those controls: Following its review, the Committee advised the Board that the there is a comprehensive system for budgeting and planning Annual report and accounts taken as a whole was considered and for monitoring and reporting the performance of the to be fair, balanced and understandable and that it provided Companys business to the Board.
Monthly results are the information necessary for shareholders to assess the reported against budget and prior year, and forecasts for the Companys position and performance, business model current financial year are regularly revised in light of actual and strategy.
These results and forecasts cover profits, cash flows, capital expenditure and balance sheets: RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS routine reports are prepared to cover treasury activities and The Committee monitors and regularly reviews the effectiveness risks, for review by senior executives, and annual reports are of the Groups risk management processes and internal prepared for the Board and Committee covering tax, treasury financial and non-financial controls.
The key features of the risk policies, insurance and pensions: management process that were in place during the year are a corporate responsibility strategy was approved by as follows: the Board, including objectives and targets to address each business conducts risk assessments based on identified the impact that our activities have on the environment, business objectives, which are reviewed and agreed annually workplace, marketplace and community.
More detailed by the executive management of each business.
Risks are information is available in our full CR report, available at considered in respect of strategy, reputation, operations, www.
co. uk cr: and financial and compliance and are evaluated in respect of their the Board is committed to maintaining high standards potential impact and likelihood.
These risk assessments of health and safety in all its business activities.
are updated and reviewed quarterly and are reported to These standards are set out in the Companys Health and the Committee: Safety Policy, which is regularly reviewed by the Board.
A copy of our Health and Safety policy is available at a Group risk assessment is also undertaken by the Internal www.
The Risk Management team Audit team, which considers all areas of potential risk across works with the business to assess health and safety risks and all systems, functions and key business processes.
This risk introduce systems to mitigate them.
All reportable accidents assessment, together with the business risk assessments, are investigated and targets are set to reduce the level forms the basis for determining the Internal Audit Plan.
Audit reports in relation to areas reviewed are discussed and agreed with the Committee: The Director of Audit and Risk attends the meetings of the Committee to discuss the above matters.
the Internal Audit team meets annually with all senior executives, to undertake a formal review and certification 36 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Corporate governance report continued EXTERNAL AUDITOR During the year the external Auditor reported to the Committee on their independence from the Company.
The Committee and the Board are satisfied that PwC has adequate policies and safeguards in place to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence are maintained.
The Committee has recommended to the Board the re-appointment of the external Auditor for the 2018 financial year and the directors will be proposing the re-appointment of PwC at the 2018 AGM.
PwC were first appointed as auditor at the 2015 AGM, following a competitive tender process completed in 2014.
The Committee will continue to review the external Auditors appointment and the need to tender the audit in accordance with applicable law and regulation.
In line with our terms of reference, the Committee undertook a thorough assessment of the quality, effectiveness, value and independence of the 2016 year-end audit provided by PwC.
The Director of Audit and Risk prepared a questionnaire seeking the views and feedback of the Board, together with those of Group and divisional management and it formed the basis of further discussion with respondents.
The findings of the survey were considered by the Committee.
The Committee has a formal policy on the Companys relationship with its external Auditor in respect of non-audit work to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence are maintained.
The policy is reviewed annually by the Committee and was updated during the year following the introduction of the FRC Revised Ethical Standard 2016.
The majority of non-audit work undertaken by PwC in 2016 17 related to the interim review, non-audit and tax advice.
The Auditor may only provide such services if such advice does not conflict with their statutory responsibilities and ethical guidance.
As Chair of the Audit Committee, my approval is required before the Company uses non-audit services as specifically set out in the policy, or if the fees exceed 25,000 per matter.
The Committee is satisfied that the Company was compliant during the year with both the updated Code and the FRCs Ethical and Auditing Standards in respect of the scope and maximum level of permitted fees incurred for non-audit services provided by PwC.
For the financial year ended 31 August 2017 the non-audit fees paid to PwC were 105,655 and the audit fees payable to PwC were 297,291.
The Company has complied during the financial year under review, and up to the date of this report, with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
Suzanne Baxter Chair of the Audit Committee 12 October 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 37 Board Committees Nominations Committee As Chair of the Nominations Committee I am pleased to present my report on the activities of the Nominations Committee for the financial year ended 31 August 2017.
Henry Staunton Chair of the Nominations Committee NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT The Nominations Committee has met once since 31 August 2017 and all the Committee members attended the meeting.
The Committee keeps itself updated on key developments Dear Shareholder relevant to the Company, including on the subject of diversity.
As Chair of the Nominations Committee I am pleased to present Information on diversity, including gender, in respect of the my report on the activities of the Nominations Committee for Board and the Company is set out in the Employees and the financial year ended 31 August 2017.
The Committees Diversity section of the Strategic report on page 28.
The Board principal responsibility is to ensure that the Board comprises believes in creating throughout the Company a culture free individuals with the requisite skills, knowledge, independence from discrimination in any form and is proud of its long history and experience to ensure that it is effective in discharging its of being regarded as a responsible and respected employer.
responsibilities and ensure that appropriate procedures are in The Board is committed to strengthening the pipeline of place for the nomination, selection and succession of directors women in senior roles across the business and continues and senior executives.
to take steps to ensure there are no barriers to women The Committee comprises a majority of independent nonsucceeding at the highest level of the Company.
An action plan executive directors.
The other members of the Committee has been agreed to take further steps to improve workplace are Suzanne Baxter, Stephen Clarke, Annemarie Durbin and diversity.
Actions include the appointment of a Diversity and Drummond Hall.
In the event of any matters arising concerning Inclusion sponsor to champion diversity within the senior my membership of the Board, I would absent myself from the management team, and the provision of mentoring, as well as meeting as required by the Code and Drummond Hall, the focused initiatives to better understand the challenges faced Senior Independent Director, would take the Chair.
by under-represented groups employed within the Company.
Further information on Diversity is set out in the Employees and The Committee met twice during the year.
The principal matters Diversity section of this report on page 28. discussed at the meetings were succession planning for Board and senior executives, career planning and identifying talent The Committee will continue to focus on succession planning across the businesses, gender diversity and reviewing the work and talent management for key roles across the business, that has been undertaken in respect of the Companys gender to ensure the Company develops a pipeline of high quality pay gap reporting obligations.
The Committee also considered internal candidates for senior management roles.
Work is being the senior management changes made in the year including undertaken to ensure succession arrangements are in place for the appointment of a Managing Director for the Companys Board members and key management.
The Committee will focus on culture in the year ahead, All Committee members are expected to attend meetings.
recognising that good governance, leadership and culture are The following table shows the number of meetings held during key considerations for a strong sustainable business.
The recent the year ended 31 August 2017 and the attendance record of Board evaluation confirmed that the culture of the Board is individual directors.
excellent, being very open and collaborative.
Number of meetings I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any Committee membership attended questions about the work of the Committee.
Henry Staunton 3 of 3 Suzanne Baxter 3 of 3 Henry Staunton Stephen Clarke 3 of 3 Chair of the Nominations Committee Annemarie Durbin 3 of 3 12 October 2017 Drummond Hall 3 of 3 Robert Moorhead was also invited to and attended one meeting of the Nominations Committee.
38 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Corporate governance report continued REMUNERATION COMMITTEE ANTI-CORRUPTION Information on the composition and activities of the The Company has continued to enhance its policies and Remuneration Committee can be found in the Directors procedures in order to meet the requirements of the Bribery remuneration report on pages 40 to 52.
These policies and procedures include training for individuals to ensure awareness of acts that might be construed as contravening the Act.
The Groups Bribery Ethics Statement APPROVALS COMMITTEE is included on the Companys website, www.
co. uk The Approvals Committee facilitates the internal approvals corporate responsibility our policies.
process by approving matters as delegated by the Board.
The Approvals Committee comprises the Chief Executive and COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE theCFO COO.
Throughout the year ended 31 August 2017 and up to the date of this report the Company has been in compliance with the DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE provisions of the Code.
The Disclosure Committee is responsible for ensuring compliance with the Companys obligations under MAR and This report was approved by the Board on 12 October 2017. the maintenance of disclosure controls and procedures.
Signed on behalf of the Board The Disclosure Committee comprises all of the directors of the Company and the Company Secretary.
Henry Staunton RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Chairman The Boards primary role is to promote the success of the 12 October 2017 Company and the interests of shareholders.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities of the Group.
The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders to ensure that its strategy and performance are understood.
This is achieved principally through the Annual report and accounts and the AGM.
In addition, a range of corporate information, including all Company announcements and presentations, is available to investors on the Companys website, www.
Formal presentations are made to institutional shareholders following the announcement of the Companys full year and interim results.
The Board recognises that the AGM is the principal forum for dialogue with private shareholders.
All directors normally attend the AGM and are available to answer questions that shareholders may wish to raise.
The Board as a whole is kept fully informed of the views and concerns of major shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive and CFO COO update the Board following meetings with major shareholders and analysts briefings are circulated to the Board.
The Head of Investor Relations also carries out a regular programme of work and reports to the Board the views and information needs of institutional and major investors.
This is part of the regular contact that the Group maintains with its institutional shareholders.
When requested to do so, the Chairman and non-executive directors attend meetings with major shareholders.
