Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 64 Audit Committee Report This report sets out the principal responsibilities of the Audit Committee, its membership and meetings as well as the key activities under review during theyear.
Oliver Corbett, Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Audit Committee the agenda and receive full briefing on all relevant issues.
Chairmans overview Invitations to attend are extended to other members of It has again been a busy year for the Committee.
The majority management to brief the Committee on specific issues under of the Committees time has been spent on its principal roles review as necessary.
The external auditor also attends each and responsibilities which are to: meeting and I have regular contact with the lead audit partner assess the integrity of the groups external financial reporting: throughout the year.
The Committee met with both internal and review the effectiveness of the groups internal controls: and external audit privately at each meeting held during the year.
monitor and review the activities and performance of both internal and external audit.
Committee effectiveness As described in more detail on page 58, a formal and rigorous In particular this year the Committee has overseen the external evaluation of the Committees effectiveness was undertaken audit tender process and continued to monitor progress in during the year as part of the broader evaluation of the managements preparation for the revised impairment effectiveness of the board and its committees.
The Committee approach required by IFRS 9.
The sections below discuss the considers that it has access to sufficient resources to enable it activities in the year in more detail including a separate review to carry out its duties and has continued to perform effectively.
of the audit tender process.
Activity in the 2017 Financial Year Looking forward, the Committees agenda will continue to be Key accounting judgements focused on the key responsibilities listed above and in As part of its role in assessing the integrity of the groups particular oversight of the further development of the groups external reporting, the Committee has continued to pay IFRS9 approach and the transition to the new external auditor.
particular attention to the key areas of management judgement underpinning the financial statements.
Given the stable nature Membership and meetings of the groups business model the key areas of judgement The Committee comprises each of the independent nonwere again unchanged this year but the Committee specifically executive directors and met five times during the year with the considered the following: meetings scheduled to coincide with the financial reporting cycle of the group.
Attendance details of each of the Credit provisioning Committee members is shown in the table on page 56.
The The Committee considers that credit provisioning is the most qualifications of each of the members are outlined in the material area of accounting judgement in the groups financial biographies on pages 46 and 47.
The board considers that I statements.
As a result the Committee requested and received have the appropriate recent and relevant experience.
presentations from management explaining the provisioning methodology across the groups lending operations ahead of As well as the non-executive members of the Committee, the full year results.
The Committee challenged both standing invitations are extended to the chairman of the board management and the external auditor over the level of and the executive directors.
The heads of internal audit, risk provisioning and the consistency of the approach.
The and compliance as well as the group financial controller also Committee concluded that the provisioning approach and attend meetings by invitation.
I meet with this group along with judgements made were reasonable.
the group finance director in advance of each meeting to agree Governance Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 65 As noted earlier the Committee also received regular updates Internal Audit through the year on managements progress in preparation for The Committee reviewed and agreed the internal audit plan as the introduction of IFRS 9 which will require provisioning well as pre-approving any changes to the plan throughout the methodology to take into account future expected losses.
At each meeting the Committee receives a report from the Committee has noted the considerable progress made during head of internal audit summarising audits completed as well as the year while also recognising the extent of the work still monitoring progress on agreed actions from previous audits.
The required to deliver this significant accounting change.
As the report also details key themes, audits planned and in progress, as group enters the parallel run stage of the IFRS9 project during well as commentary on internal audit related business culture.
the 2018 financial year, the Committee will continue to monitor During the year 41 audits were completed including one thematic progress closely.
Further disclosure around the groups progress review requested by the groups regulators.
is outlined on pages 109 and 110 of the Annual Report.
The group carries out an annual effectiveness review of internal Revenue recognition audit.
The review this year was carried out internally and after The Committee reviewed a paper outlining the groups noting the strong feedback from the business and other key approach to revenue recognition, highlighting the key areas stakeholders the Committee considers that the internal audit where management judgement is required particularly around function continues to be effective.
The Committees policy is to interest, fee and commission income.
The Committee carry out an external review of internal audit at least every five challenged management on the consistency of approach and years.
The next such review will take place not later than the ultimately was satisfied that the approach taken continued to 2020 financial year.
The Committee continues to keep the level of resources of the Goodwill internal audit team under review.
The group operates a The external auditor has concluded that the risk of goodwill co-source arrangement to ensure the function has sufficient impairment is not significant this year and therefore that access to expertise to cover the internal audit across all of the goodwill is no longer an area of significant audit risk.
While the groups business areas.
The group carried out a tender for this Committee agreed with that conclusion, it continued to consider arrangement during the 2017 financial year and has appointed whether any indications of impairment had arisen during the year Ernst & Young LLP as its new co-source provider from and received an update on the assessment of the carrying value 1 August 2017. of goodwill.
This reflects the level of assumptions and management judgement underlying the calculations.
Following External Audit review and challenge of the key assumptions driving the groups The Committee assesses the independence and objectivity, value in use calculations the Committee agreed with qualifications and effectiveness of the external auditor on an managements conclusion that the carrying value of goodwill annual basis.
across the group was reasonably stated.
Our evaluation which was consistent with prior years focused Other financial reporting on the following key areas: Viability statement the quality of audit expertise, judgement and dialogue with In order to support the boards approval of the statement on the Committee and senior management: pages 52 and 53 as to the longer-term viability of the group, the independence and objectivity demonstrated by the audit the Committee reviewed papers from management supporting team: and the viability statement including the groups three year plan and the quality of service including consistency of approach and the results of stress testing.
Fair, balanced and understandable This process was facilitated by a group-wide survey of finance The Committee continues to consider on behalf of the board teams, a survey of the Deloitte LLP senior audit teams view on whether the groups reporting is fair, balanced and the group and a review of audit and non-audit fees.
This included discussing the disclosures as a whole with the executive directors and considering the views of Overall the Committee has concluded that Deloitte LLP remain the external auditor and ensuring that undue prominence was independent and that their audit is effective.
not given to non-GAAP measures in the Annual Report.
The Committee oversees the groups policy on the provision of Policy oversight and review non-audit services by the external auditor.
The policy was Whistle-blowing revised during the year to reflect revised ethical guidance on The Committee oversees the groups whistle-blowing policy auditor independence issued by the FRC.
The main impact of and I, as Audit Committee chair, act as the groups whistlethe new guidance for the group is that tax compliance services blowing champion.
The group places a high level of will no longer be provided by the external auditor and the group importance on all employees understanding of the process appointed new advisers during the year.
However, while the to enable them to speak out when appropriate and the key principle of our policy remains that permission to engage Committee has monitored reports during the year.
the external auditor will always be refused when a threat to independence and or objectivity is perceived, the Committee Other policies continues to see benefits for the group in engaging the external The Committee also completed annual reviews of the groups auditor where: recovery and resolution plan, tax position and policy, approach work is closely related to the audit: to hedging for share awards and the policy for the provision of a detailed understanding of the group is required: and non-audit services by the external auditor to reflect updated rules the external auditor is able to provide a higher quality and or and guidance.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 66 Audit Committee Report continued During the year non-audit fees amounted to 0.8 million and were 62% of the overall audit fee 2016: 59%.
Non-audit fees in The firms were contacted in advance of the process and the year were: asked to confirm their intention to tender as well as their ability to accept an appointment based on the FRCs million Revised Ethical Standard 2016.
Contingency plans were Assurance work on: put in place to relieve the firms from certain engagements should they be successful in their tender.
Systems and controls 0.6 Funding 0.2 The process The firms were invited to tender and given access to a The Committee concluded that all of these fees fell within its data room during March 2017 and were also invited to criteria for engaging Deloitte LLP and does not believe they our head office for a day to meet certain members of pose a threat to the auditors independence or objectivity.
senior management from across the group.
These sessions provided the firms with an opportunity to Finally I would like to place on record our thanks to Deloitte LLP understand our business in greater depth.
Following at the end of its tenure as group auditor for their contribution to these sessions the firms were invited back to meet the the success of the group.
finance director and me to seek any further points of clarification in advance of their proposal submissions.
Each firm returned in May 2017 to present their Audit Tender proposals to the selection panel and to answer the Introduction panels questions.
The panel assessed each proposal As indicated in last years Annual Report, the Committee against the Committees selection criteria as well as undertook an external audit tender in 2017 with a view to reviewing the firms AQR scores following which all replacing Deloitte LLP as our external audit firm from the panel members were unanimous in their choice of 2018 financial year.
The tender was carried out in order to  LLP PwC as their preferred conform with the new EU rules on mandatory firm firm to recommend for appointment to the Committee.
As such, Deloitte LLP was not invited to tender The Committee reviewed the panels recommendation, the appointment.
as well as its second choice, and subsequently approved the panels recommendation.
Governance The Committees objectives were to carry out a fair, Conclusion transparent and robust process to ensure all applicants Following the Committees recommendation, the board had an equal chance of success.
The process was also has resolved to recommend the appointment of PwC as designed to be proportionate recognising the auditor of the group and its subsidiaries to shareholders straightforward nature of the groups activities.
The Committee further designed selection criteria We are now working with Deloitte and PwC to ensure an covering the following areas: strength and experience of orderly transition of the audit while ensuring minimal the team and lead partner, technical expertise and disruption to the business.
industry knowledge, quality of audit plan, approach to tender process, quality of communication and cultural fit.
The Committee also specified that each participating firm should provide its FRC Audit Quality Review AQR Oliver Corbett scores for the last three years.
Chairman of the Audit Committee A selection panel was appointed to oversee the process 26 September 2017 and to make a recommendation to the Committee based on the Committees approved selection criteria.
I was the chair of the panel which also included the senior independent director, the group finance director and the group financial controller.
Participating firms Three firms were invited to participate in the tender process.
The firms were selected based on their experience of auditing firms of our size and in our sector.
The Committee was also committed to considering applications from any audit firm which requested to participate in the process.
No other applications were received.
