Governance Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 67 Nomination and Governance Committee Report Nomination and Governance Committee Membership and meetings Chairmans overview The Committee comprises Geoffrey Howe, the senior This is the first annual report of the activities of the Nomination independent director, and Oliver Corbett, Lesley Jones and and Governance Committee following my appointment as Bridget Macaskill who chair the Audit, Risk and Remuneration chairman of the Committee on 1 May 2017.
Ihave succeeded Committees, respectively, and me as chairman.
The Strone Macpherson as chairman of the Committee and would composition of the Committee satisfies the relevant like to thank Strone for his leadership of the Committee since requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Prior to 2008, during which time he oversaw a number of changes to his retirement as a director on 30 April 2017, Strone Macpherson the board and its committees.
served on the Committee as its chairman.
An important area of focus for the Committee in the year was In addition, the chief executive attends meetings by invitation, as the search for, and a recommendation of, a successor to does the group head of human resources when presenting a Strone as chairman of the board.
The process was overseen review of talent and executive management succession planning.
by the Committee and led by Geoffrey Howe, the senior independent director, and culminated in my appointment as a Five scheduled meetings of the Committee were held during the director on 14 March 2017 and my appointment as chairman year and details of members attendance are set out on page of the board on 1 May 2017.
In addition, one ad hoc meeting was held to consider my nomination as a director and chairman-designate.
The Committee has continued to play an active role in overseeing talent management and succession planning for Changes to the board the group, including through making sure that appropriate Stephen Hodges retired as a director on 17 November 2016 and activities and initiatives are undertaken to develop the groups Strone Macpherson retired as a director and chairman of the talent pipeline.
This will continue to be a key area for the board on 30 April 2017.
Committee in the next year.
Following a recommendation from the Committee, I was An overview of the Committees roles and responsibilities, and appointed by the board as an independent non-executive its key activities during the year, is set out in the report below.
director with effect from 14 March 2017, and as chairman of the board with effect from 1 May 2017.
Further details of the search Committee roles and responsibilities process that culminated in my appointment are set out below.
The Committees key roles and responsibilities are: regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Chairmans succession board, and making recommendations to the board with The Committee, led by the senior independent director, Geoffrey regard to any changes: Howe, oversaw the process that led to my appointment as a considering the leadership needs of the group and non-executive director of the company and then, following the considering succession planning for directors and senior retirement of Strone Macpherson, as chairman of the board.
The executives: Committee engaged external search consultancy firm, The considering the appointment or retirement of directors: Zygos Partnership Zygos, to find appropriate candidates for reviewing the continued independence of the non-executive the role.
Zygos is not connected to the company in any way.
directors: assessing the boards balance of skills, knowledge and The Committee spent time considering the key skills, experience: experience, time commitment and other attributes required of evaluating the skills, knowledge and experience required for the successful candidate, and approved the profile and criteria to a particular appointment, normally with the assistance of be used in the search.
A long list of candidates was prepared by external advisers used to facilitate the search for suitable Zygos for consideration by the senior independent director and candidates: and the non-executive directors.
A short list of candidates was assessing the contribution of the non-executive directors.
agreed, and the senior independent director and the other non-executive directors then held interviews with the candidates.
The Committees role and responsibilities are set out in Following the interviews and a reference process, I was identified writtenterms of reference and are available at as the preferred candidate.
Once regulatory approval for my www.
appointment had been received from the PRA, the Committee recommended to the board that I be appointed as an Key activities in the 2017 financial year independent non-executive director and as a member of the In addition to overseeing the process to appoint a new chairman Committee from 14 March 2017, as a member of the Audit, Risk of the board and other activities described below, during the and Remuneration Committees from 14 March until 1 May 2017, year the Committee focused on: and as chairman of the board and of the Committee with effect board composition and succession: from 1 May 2017. talent review and executive management succession planning: As I was appointed as a director during the year, I will submit the annual board evaluation: myself for election as a director of the company for the first time reviewing the non-executive directors letters of appointment: at the 2017 AGM.
The board considered me to be independent and on my appointment as a director and as chairman of the board.
assessing the non-executive directors skill sets, knowledge and experience to ensure that an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience has been maintained.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 68 Nomination and Governance Committee Report continued The outgoing chairman, Strone Macpherson, was not involved in Reappointment of directors the process for the selection and appointment of his successor.
Prior to the Companys AGM each year, the Committee considers, and makes recommendations to the board Non-executive directors skill sets concerning, the reappointment of directors having regard to their During the year, the Committee considered and reaffirmed the performance and ability to continue to contribute to the board.
skill sets and experience of the companys four independent Following this years review in advance of the 2017 AGM, the non-executive directors, including their extensive experience Committee has recommended to the board that all serving within financial services.
Geoffrey Howe is the senior directors be reappointed at the AGM.
independent director and has extensive experience within the industry, including as a chairman.
Oliver Corbett has strong Geoffrey Howe has served as a non-executive director of the financial skills and a track record of audit committee experience, company since January 2011.
As it is now more than six years including as a finance director.
Lesley Jones has familiarity with since his appointment as a director and as required by the UK FCA PRA and EU risk regulations, and experience as a Corporate Governance Code, the Committee has undertaken a committee chairman and non-executive director within the particularly rigorous review of Geoffreys performance and financial services sector.
Bridget Macaskill has significant independence.
It has concluded that he remains independent remuneration committee credentials and familiarity with FCA and continues to make a significant contribution to the board PRA and EU remuneration regulations.
Further information on and its committees.
The Committee and the board have also the background and experience of each of the non-executive noted the valuable contribution that Geoffrey makes as the directors can be found in their biographies on pages 46 and 47. companys senior independent director, as demonstrated by his leadership of the process to find a new chairman of the board.
Succession planning board and management The Committee and the board value the continuity that The Committee spent considerable time during the year Geoffreys continued appointment as a director would bring.
reviewing talent and considering the groups succession planning at board and senior management level.
This included Committee effectiveness a formal review by the Committee of senior management As described in more detail on page 58, a formal and rigorous succession planning, looking at the capability and potential evaluation of the Committees effectiveness was undertaken ofincumbents in key roles, and the succession pipeline, during the year, as part of the broader evaluation of the emergency cover arrangements and external market for effectiveness of the board and its committees.
considers that it has access to sufficient resources to enable it to carry out its duties and has continued to perform effectively.
Diversity Diversity continues to be a key focus of the Committee and the board.
The Committee considers that the board remains Michael N. Biggs diverse, drawing on the knowledge, skills and experience of Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee directors from a range of backgrounds.
Currently, three of the companys eight directors are women, meaning that the 26 September 2017 representation of women on the board exceeds the minimum percentage set out in the recommendations of the HamptonAlexander Review published in November 2016.
The group continuously endeavours to make Close Brothers appealing to a diverse population, and its commitment to equal, respectful and dignified treatment throughout recruitment processes and through all stages of the employee cycle is underpinned by the groups Equal Opportunity and Dignity at Work policy.
More detail on the groups approach to diversity can be found in the Sustainability Report on page 36.
