Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 62 Risk Committee Report The Risk Committees principal roles and responsibilities are to support the board in its oversight of risk management across the group.
The identification, management and mitigation of risk is fundamental to the success of the group.
The following sections set out the Committees membership, its key responsibilities and the principal areas of risk upon which we have focused during the year.
The Committee plays an important role in setting the tone and culture that promotes effective risk management across the group.
Lesley Jones, Chairman of the Risk Committee Risk Committee Membership and meetings Chairmans overview The Committee comprises each of the independent nonThe evolution of the macroeconomic environment and political executive directors, with me as chairman.
Six scheduled landscape and a demanding regulatory agenda aimed at meetings were held during the year.
bolstering the strength and conduct of the banking industry have again kept the Risk Committee fully occupied throughout Full details of attendance by the non-executive directors at the year.
these meetings during the year are set out on page 56.
I am pleased to report that enhancements to our risk In addition to the members of the Committee, standing management framework, and a consistent and prudent risk invitations are extended to the group chairman, the executive appetite, have each helped to reinforce the groups strong directors, the chief risk officer, the head of compliance and the credit performance again this year.
We continue to build out head of internal audit.
All attend our Committee meetings as a our risk capabilities and are satisfied that we have both retained matter of course and have supported and informed the andrecruited the skills and talent that we need to meet the Committees discussions.
challenges and opportunities that lie ahead.
Other executives, subject matter experts, risk team members As in previous years, the Committee apportions its time and external advisers are invited to attend the Committee from between the planned periodic review of key portfolio risks and time to time as required, to present and advise on reports the close scrutiny of new business risks as they develop.
approach allows us to ensure that emerging risks are identified and debated and that managements plans for risk mitigation I meet frequently with the chief risk officer and his risk team in a are well understood and appropriately resourced.
combination of formal and informal sessions, and with senior management across all divisions of the group to discuss the Committee roles and responsibilities business environment and to gather their views of emerging The Committees key roles and responsibilities are to: risks, business performance and the competitive environment.
oversee the maintenance and development of a supportive culture in relation to the management of risk: Committee effectiveness review and set risk appetite, which is the level of risk the As described in more detail on page 58, a formal and rigorous group is willing to take in pursuit of its strategic objectives: evaluation of the Committees effectiveness was undertaken monitor the groups risk profile against the prescribed during the year as part of the broader evaluation of the appetite: effectiveness of the board and its committees.
The Committee review the effectiveness of the risk framework to ensure that is satisfied that it has access to sufficient resources to enable it key risks are identified and appropriately managed: and to carry out its duties and continues to perform effectively.
provide input from a risk perspective into the alignment of remuneration with performance against risk appetite through the Remuneration Committee.
Governance Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 63 Activity in the 2017 financial year Our focus on cyber crime has heightened during 2017, as The risk function has continued to evolve in 2017.
The three repeated industry attacks reinforced the need for strong cyber lines of defence model is fully embedded, while the governance defences to protect our systems and customer data.
As a structure has been improved to facilitate more effective result our cyber detection and monitoring capabilities have oversight of risk, both at a Group and business level.
The risk continued to improve.
A new chief information security officer organisational design has also been further strengthened CISO has been appointed and the cyber security strategy is through the identification and use of additional specialist constantly under review by the Board and this Committee to resource, for example with cyber risk expertise.
These actions ensure that we are keeping pace with, and responding to, the have continued to improve the flow of management information latest industry developments.
to the Committee, increasing the effectiveness of its challenge and oversight and enhancing visibility on risk and compliance Ensuring that we remain fully compliant with the numerous and issues identified at all levels across the group.
ever-changing regulatory requirements for financial services firms remains challenging and we continue to engage actively The risk appetite framework has been supplemented by the use with regulators and industry bodies to ensure that our of additional quantitative analysis, supporting the groups risk compliance framework remains appropriate and relevant for all management capabilities particularly in response to market of our businesses.
The Compliance team works closely with events.
This has allowed us to adopt and refine risk appetite first and second line colleagues, providing regulatory advice in measures at a more granular level within portfolio management, support of divisional business strategies, as well as shaping individual credit-decisioning and risk reporting.
The specific policies, delivering training and conducting assurance reviews.
portfolio review approach has continued with particular attention given to the property and motor portfolios, which have both Remuneration benefited from deep dives by the Risk Committee.
The linkage between culture, risk and compensation is an important one and the Risk Committee and the chief risk Management of emerging risks has also been strengthened, officer have provided input to the Remuneration Committee improving organisational readiness for external volatility.
again this year to ensure that risk behaviours and the Emerging risk assessment remains a standing agenda item for management of operational risk incidents over the course of the Committees discussion and indeed, all risk committees the financial year were appropriately reflected in decisions within the group while stress testing capabilities have taken about performance and reward.
continued to evolve to support what if analysis for one-off events.
A new group-wide forum has been established to Looking ahead to 2018 manage the potential impacts of Brexit which, given the Key priorities for the coming year include: groups footprint, are likely to be secondary in nature but which Effective management of emerging risks, specifically key nevertheless merit regular review.
Outputs from this forum, impacts associated with the UKs exit from the EU, as well including the development of appropriate contingency plans, as any other material developing concerns.
have been subject to regular challenge by the Committee, and Continued review and assessment of the groups modelling we are satisfied that the group is currently well-positioned to capabilities, including the development of a wider models address any foreseeable outcome.
Advancement and embedding of the groups cyber The groups use of finance and risk models has evolved over security strategy.
the year as our IFRS 9 models have developed and advanced Launch and subsequent optimisation of the new asset and our overall model inventory.
In addition, we have seen the liability management system.
introduction of a new model risk framework and governance Preparations for continued regulatory change including structure, which has embedded well.
The board and the MiFID II, the extension of the Senior Manager and Certified Committee have assessed various options for advancing our Persons Regime and GDPR.
future modelling approach with the aim of enhancing our risk Continued focus on combating the threat of financial crime, management capabilities.
including in relation to tax evasion.
The Committee has also overseen the introduction of new asset and liability management methodologies, resulting Lesley Jones specifically in a refresh of our management of interest rate risk Chairman of the Risk Committee in the banking book.
The introduction of a new asset and liability management system is proceeding to plan and when 26 September 2017 fully operational later this year will support more sophisticated stress testing techniques.
Operational risk continues to develop in its complexity and we have responded by investing in further systems and process enhancements to support the early identification of negative trends.
Operational resilience has been augmented, leveraging off a continuous self-assessment of our capabilities and supported by the recruitment of a new head of business resilience.
