Go Gov vernanc ernance e Audit Committee Report I am pleased to apprise you of the work undertaken by the Audit The Committee is an Committee the Committee during important component the year ended 31 July 2017 in relation to financial reporting, internal control, of the governance risk and external audit.
The Committee framework of is an important component of the governance framework of the Group, theGroup.
with its principal activities focused on the integrity of financial reporting, the quality and effectiveness of Paul Hampden Smith internal controls, risk management C hairman of the Audit Committee and reviewing the performance of theexternal auditor.
Committee membership andmeetings The Committee comprises the five independent non-executive directors Membership shown in the table to the left.
I confirm that between them they have an Director Date appointed Number of meetings appropriate and relevant combination to Committee attended during the year of experience and knowledge.
Paul Hampden Smith 1 August 2013, appointed 3 3 The Code requires that the Committee Chairman Chairman on 1 February 2014 has at least one member with recent Mike Toms 1 February 2009 3 3 and relevant financial experience, and the Board has confirmed that they John Cuthbert 15 January 2010 3 3 believe that I, as Chair of the Committee, Denise Jagger 1 August 2013 3 3 satisfy these criteria.
The Board has Jill Caseberry 1 October 2017 N A also confirmed that they are confident that the collective experience of the Committee members enables them to Main focus in 2016 17 act effectively as an audit committee.
Further information on the experience and knowledge of the Committee Internal control and risk management.
members is included in the directors Audit effectiveness and re-appointment.
biographies on pages 36 and 37. Review of Independent Auditor Policy.
In line with the terms of reference, there Approval of changes to the Whistleblowing Procedure, Anti-Bribery and were three scheduled meetings of the Corruption Policy, Data Protection Compliance Policy and approval of the AntiCommittee during the year and there Slavery Policy and human trafficking statement.
were no absences from any meeting.
The Group Finance Director, Group General Counsel and Company Focus areas for 2017 18 Secretary, Group Finance Manager Financial reporting.
and Head of Risk attend meetings by invitation and were present Internal control and risk management.
at all meetings during the year.
The Committee is supported by the Approve annual tax strategy statement.
Deputy Group Company Secretary who acts as secretary tothe Committee.
Assist with the induction of the two new Committee members who join during 2017 18.
Two of the meetings during the year were also attended by representatives from the external auditor, KPMG LLP KPMG, who also met with the Committee independently of management.
No issues were raised during these discussions.
I also had further discussions, independently of each other, with the Group Finance Director, Head of Risk and KPMG, and reported relevant information to other members of the Committee.
46 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information In advance of Committee meetings, to review the Groups arrangements individuals during the duration of the detailed papers are prepared both for its employees to raise concerns, tender process.
by management and KPMG, thereby in confidence, about possible A comprehensive version of the allowing informed discussions and wrong-doing, financial reporting or Committees terms of reference is decisions to take place.
other matters through the Groups available on the Groups website Whistleblowing Procedure and to at www.
com ensure that arrangements are in Responsibilities and terms corporateGovernance.
place for the proportionate and ofreference independent investigation of such The main responsibilities of the Main activities during matters and for appropriate followCommittee are: up action.
theyear The main activities performed by to review annually the Groups Financial reporting the Committee during the year policies and procedures to ensure to monitor the integrity of the in each area of responsibility are compliance with the Bribery Act 2010. financial statements of the described below: Group and any other formal External audit announcements relating to the Financial reporting to oversee the process for Groups financial performance, reviewed the final draft of the Annual selecting the external auditor, reviewing and reporting to the Board Report and Accounts, together with including approval of their terms of on significant financial reporting a report produced by KPMG which engagement and negotiation and issues and judgements contained detailed their findings both on areas agreement of their remuneration.
in them, whilst having regard to of key financial reporting judgement matters communicated by the to consider the appointment reand other areas of audit focus.
appointment of the external auditor reviewed the final draft of the 2017 and to assess the independence to review and challenge, where Interim Announcement.
of the external auditor, ensuring necessary, the actions and that key partners are rotated at judgements of management, reviewed and approved the Groups appropriate intervals.
in relation to the Interim proposed new accounting policies Announcement and Annual Report for when IFRS 15 Revenue from to make appropriate recommendations and Accounts, before submission contracts with customers and IFRS through the Board to the shareholders tothe Board.
16 Leases are adopted in future for their approval at each annual accounting periods.
This included general meeting in relation to the where the Committee is not satisfied considering the effect on the appointment, re-appointment and with any aspect of the proposed financial statements of the changes removal of the external auditor.
financial reporting by management, it in the policies.
shall report its views to the Board.
to agree with the external auditor, the audit for the year ended 31 July before the audit commences, the where requested by the Board, 2016 was chosen by the Financial nature and scope of the audit and to the Committee should review the Reporting Council FRC for an Audit review the auditors quality control content of the Annual Report and Quality Review as part of their routine procedures and steps taken by the Accounts and advise the Board on processes.
As part of the process I auditor to respond to changes in whether, taken as a whole, it is fair, had discussions with the FRC and regulatory and other requirements.
balanced and understandable and provided feedback to other members provides the information necessary to review the external auditors of the Committee where relevant.
for shareholders to assess the management letter and KPMG produced a report, which Groups performance, business managements response.
was considered by the Committee, model and strategy.
highlighting the findings of this to consider managements review and how they would address response to any major external Internal control and risk them during the audit for the year audit recommendations.
to review the Groups internal ended 31 July 2017.
The Committee to authorise the provision of nonfinancial controls and, unless is not aware that any of the findings audit services by the external auditor expressly addressed by a separate have resulted in a significant change and to ensure that the provision of board risk committee composed to KPMGs audit approach.
non-audit services does not impair of independent directors or by the the Committee reviewed and the external auditors independence Board itself, the Groups internal concluded that the 2017 Annual or objectivity.
control, internal audit and risk Report and Accounts present a management systems.
to ensure that the audit services fair, balanced and understandable contract is put out to competitive to assess the scope and effectiveness assessment of the Groups position tender at regular intervals as required of the systems established by and prospects after considering by regulation or best practice: and in management to identify, assess, guidance from the external respect of such tender oversee the manage and monitor financial and auditor.
The Committee made this selection process and ensure that non-financial risks.
all tendering firms have such access as is necessary to information and 47 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Audit Committee Report continued in accordance with section C. 2.2.
During the year a detailed analysis Internal control and risk of the Code and the FRC guidance of the risk register was prepared by management on Risk Management, Internal management and was considered by The Committee is responsible Control and Related Financial and the Committee.
This analysis set out for reviewing and assessing the Business Reporting, the Committee both the existing controls and included Groups internal controls and risk considered the viability statement consideration of additional controls management systems and providing and going concern basis of that could be implemented to further guidance on these to the Board.
preparation, before recommending enhance the control environment.
The Board is responsible for reviewing to the Board that the disclosures in the effectiveness of the system of The principal risks facing the Group, the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts internal controls.
which are described in the Strategic are appropriate.
Report on pages 18 to 19, are regularly Throughout the year the risk register the Committee confirmed that they reviewed and cover all aspects of for the Group has been reviewed and believe the significant financial Bellways operations including land updated by management.
This review reporting judgements during the year acquisition, planning, construction, includes ensuring the completeness continued to be: health and safety, sales, HR, IT and legal of risks, assessing their likelihood, and regulatory compliance.
Profit recognition: and their impact and the effectiveness of the control environment to mitigate The continuing role of the Board is, The carrying value of the Groups the risks.
on a systematic and ongoing basis, land and work in progress.
to review the key risks inherent in the Risk is considered at each Board business, the operation of the systems The table below sets out the matters meeting, with a full review of the and controls necessary to manage considered and the action performed risk register taking place at least such risks and their effectiveness and to by the Committee during the year annually.
The internal control and risk satisfy itself that all reasonable steps are in relation to the significant financial management process only reduces being taken to mitigate these risks.
the risk of material misstatement or loss, and does not eliminate this risk completely.
Profit recognition The carrying value of the Groups land and work in progress Matters considered Gross profit of 661.6 million has been recognised on housing and other Land and work in progress including showhomes are the most significant revenue.
Gross profit for completed housing sales is recognised based on assets on the Groups balance sheet and at 31 July 2017 had a book value of the latest whole site phase margin, which is derived as part of the site phase 2,934.1 million.
All inventory is held at the lower of cost and net realisable value, valuation process.
These valuations are updated frequently throughout the which is determined by the whole site phase margin as set out in the profit life of the site phase and include both actual and forecast selling prices, land recognition section.
The risk is that for any site phase, currently trading or not, costs and construction costs.
The forecast costs and revenues are estimates the whole site phase margin may be negative resulting in a net realisable value and are inherently uncertain due to potential changes in market conditions.
Management have reviewed all sites phases to ensure those with a forecast negative whole site phase margin have an appropriate provision, and this has been re-assessed at regular intervals during the year.
Action performed by the Committee The Committee understands the Groups revenue and grossprofit recognition The Committee understands the Groups methodology in reviewing the policy and the related systems and controls.
Management outlined the existing carrying value of the Groups land and work in progress and the surrounding systems and controls surrounding revenue recognition, gross profit recognition controls.
Management provided a summary of the work undertaken which was and the valuation process.
The Committee discussed these controls, considered by the Committee.
The external auditor explained to the Committee the work they performed The external auditor explained to the Committee the work they have in relation to the carrying value of the Groups land and work in progress.
undertaken in relation to the systems and controls surrounding revenue This included the procedures identified in relation to profit recognition and a recognition, gross profit recognition and the valuation process and provided review of the latest site phase valuation for all sites phases active during the an explanation of the detailed substantive testing performed.
The Committee year and those that are yet to commence production.
also reviewed a summary prepared by KPMG explaining their findings Following enquiry with management and the external auditor, the Committee from their work testing the design and operational effectiveness of the concluded that there are appropriate systems and internal controls in place to Groups systems and controls pertaining to revenue recognition and the assess the carrying value of the Groups land and work in progress, and that the valuation process.
carrying value of these assets in the financial statements is appropriate.
Following enquiry with management and the external auditor, the Committee concluded that there are appropriate systems and internal controls in place to assess and quantify both actual and forecast selling prices and costs, and that the Groups profit recognition policy is appropriate and has been properly applied in these financial statements.
48 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information The key areas of control are as follows: a number of the Groups key External audit functions are dealt with centrally.
the Board has agreed a list of key Audit effectiveness and These include taxation, pensions, risks which affect the Group, that are re-appointment insurance, IT, legal, HR, regulatory reviewed throughout the year and The external auditor of the Group compliance and company secretarial has considered the extent to which is KPMG, and their performance is functions.
This centralisation ensures the measures taken by the Group monitored by the Committee.
a consistent approach and the mitigate those risks.
appropriate range of skills to manage During the year the Committee these specialised areas.
the acquisition of land and land reviewed the performance of KPMG interests is initiated by divisional using the guidance note titled Audit Where any control recommendations management and reviewed by the Quality produced by the FRC.
are made by the external auditors, appropriate Regional Chairman these are considered, and where This review consisted of: prior to submission to Head Office relevant are implemented to further for approval.
All land acquisitions strengthen the control environment.
considering the robustness and must achieve minimum financial appropriateness of KPMGs approach acquisition criteria and are subject to As mentioned in last years report, to auditing the significant risk areas approval by the executive directors a Head of Risk was appointed who facing the Group.
and in certain circumstances, has a direct reporting line into both considering whether KPMGs approval by the Board.
the Group Finance Director and myself.
Whilst performing internal materiality proposal for the 2015 16 a comprehensive monitoring and financial year, which was the most audit reviews, the Head of Risk has reporting system is in place including utilised specialists from within relevant up to date information held at the annual budgets, monthly forecasting date of the review, was set at an functions to assist in delivering the and management reporting, audit plan.
appropriate level for the component incorporating variance analysis parts of the Group.
This is produced Once an internal audit review is by divisional management and completed, a report is produced by discussions with management reviewed by the Regional Chairmen who were involved in the financial the Head of Risk which is shared with and function heads at Head Office.
the relevant members of the divisional reporting processes.
Summaries are also provided to the and Group management team.
an understanding of the findings executive directors.
These reports summarise any system of the Audit Quality Review AQR and control deficiencies identified, monthly divisional board meetings team of the FRC following their together with recommendations to inspection of audit firms including are held to review divisional enhance the control environment performance, which are attended KPMG.
This included understanding where appropriate.
A central log is whether any of the findings would by the Regional Chairmen.
retained along with progress against The executive directors attend have affected the Bellway audit.
any system and control improvements certain divisional board meetings to ensure they are implemented in a an understanding of the AQR on a regular basis during the year, timely and controlled basis.
and internal KPMG quality review and this is supplemented with main findings specifically in relation to the Board visits to divisions.
During the year the Committee: engagement partner, Nick Plumb.
site phase valuations are produced reviewed and approved the considering KPMGs periodically throughout the life of Internal Audit Charter and Risk independence, objectivity and a site phase, with a summary of Management Policy.
the actual and forecast costs and reviewed and approved the Internal revenues produced at a divisional reviewing the performance of Audit Plan for 2016 17. level prior to review by the divisional KPMG against their audit strategy management team and Head reviewed the findings of internal for the 2015 16 financial year, the Office team.
most recent fully completed audit audit and risk reviews undertaken in the year along with any control cycle, and their interaction with the regular visits to sites by in-house Committee during the process.
improvements arising from health and safety teams and external such reviews.
consultants to monitor health and considering where KPMG safety standards and performance.
have added value and demonstrated proactivity.
a central treasury function operates at Head Office ensuring the optimum Following this review, the Committee financing is obtained for the Group recommended to the Board, which as a whole.
is in turn recommending to the shareholders, that KPMG be re-appointed as the auditor of the Group.
KPMG has been the auditor of the Group since 1979 when Bellway was listed and it has not been tendered 49 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Audit Committee Report continued in the intervening period.
Nick Plumb internal audit outsourcing services.
During the year the Committee is the lead audit partner and has just approved changes to the management functions or completed his fourth year out of a Whistleblowing Policy to include human resources.
maximum of five years in this role.
references to slavery and human trafficking as per the Modern broker or dealer, investment adviser We are aware of the Order of the Slavery Act.
Competition and Markets in relation to FTSE 350 companies which will require legal services and expert services Bribery Act the Group to change its external unrelated to the audit.
The Groups Anti-Bribery and auditor prior to the audit for the year technical accounting advice.
Corruption Policy and procedures ending 31 July 2021. are circulated throughout the Group assistance on FTSE matters.
Auditor independence and and are included on the Groups any other service that is non-audit fees intranet.
This already robust policy and impermissible by regulation.
The Independent Auditor Policy, which procedure was further strengthened by management during the year, with seeks to preserve the independence of For an analysis of fees paid to KPMG the external auditor by defining those the amendments being approved by see note 4 to the accounts.
non-audit services which the external audit fees are for ad hoc assurance auditor may and may not provide, was work and an audit of the Groups final updated during the year to reflect both Modern Slavery Act salary pension scheme.
the EU Audit Regulation and Directive The Committee reviewed and The ratio of non-audit fees for the year and FRC Ethical Standards for Auditors.
approved the Anti-Slavery Policy and to the external audit fee was 5.2%.
The main changes to the policy were: the Slavery and Human Trafficking KPMG provide written confirmation Statement for the year ended 31 July removing the ability for the auditor on an annual basis that they 2016 which sets out the actions already to provide tax compliance and other remain independent.
taken by the Group in relation to this, tax services.
The Committee confirms there are no along with the actions to be taken amending the level of total nonindependence issues in relation to the during the year ended 31 July 2017. audit fees that may be charged by external auditor and that the policy has These are new requirements following the auditor to a maximum of 70% of been adhered to throughout the year.
the introduction of the Modern Slavery the average of audit fees paid by the Act 2015.
Group in the last three consecutive Audit Committee assessment financial years.
This is a change from Data protection compliance During the year the Committee the previous policy which required assessed both the performance During the year a thorough review Board approval for fees above 100% of the Committee as a whole and was undertaken and the Committee of the audit fee and a competitive that of its individual members, approved the Data Protection process for any fee in excess of utilising a questionnaire that was Compliance Policy.
This policy sets out 200,000. independently facilitated.
the Groups approach in relation to There are clearly defined levels of the data protection laws as the Group I reviewed the results and consider approval depending on the value of is committed to complying with such the Committee to be effective, with the work to be provided.
Where fees laws and respecting the privacy rights members having an appropriate exceed 100,000 Board approval of individuals.
and complementary set of skills and is required.
experience to challenge the reports The Groups external auditor is not and findings reviewed and discussed Paul Hampden Smith engaged for any of the following nonby the Committee.
Chairman of the Audit Committee audit related services: tax compliance and other 16 October 2017 Other legislative tax services.
requirements bookkeeping or other services Whistleblowing related to the accounting records or The Groups Whistleblowing Policy financial statements of the Group.
is well publicised at all locations, financial information system design and allows all employees to raise and implementation.
concerns in confidence to either the Deputy Group Company Secretary appraisal or valuation services, or, alternatively, an independent fairness opinions, or contributions in third party.
50 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017
