Board of Directors LEADERSHIP Our business is led by our Board of Directors.
Biographical details ofthe Directors as at 18 October 2017 are as follows: Tenure of Directors Director M J Hellawell 11 yrs 7 mths B Wallace 4 yrs 5 mths G L Charlton 2 yrs 7 mths L Ginsberg 2 yrs 1 mth V Murria 1 yr 11 mths BRIAN WALLACE MARTIN HELLAWELL P Ventress 2 yrs NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR CHIEF EXECUTIVE AND CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board 24 March 2006 Directors experience Board composition % 8 May 2013 and became Committee membership Chairman on1August 2014 D 3 33 Committee membership 3 Key strengths 17 N D 6 Over eleven years experience Key strengths at the Company, with a detailed 3 Executive board experience understanding of all operations with a number of FTSE 100 and 50 Significant experience within FTSE 250 companies 6 the IT industry Strong commercial skills Developing people and teams Experience of running to be successful Finance Chairman independent businesses in various different onappointment Strategy and development Marketing industries execution Operations Independent Wealth of financial and risk Current external commitments Non-Executive Directors Management knowledge None.
Executive Directors Technology Current external commitments Previous roles Chairman of Travelodge.
Martin spent 13 years at Previous roles Computacenter plc, where he In his executive career, Brian wasresponsible for the marketing wasgroup finance director at function, ran Computacenters Key Ladbrokes plc.
Prior to this hewas French subsidiary and led A Audit Committee group finance director and deputy acquisitions in the United Kingdom, chiefexecutive of Hilton Group plc.
He was N Nomination Committee A Chartered Accountant, he began part of Computacenters initial R Remuneration Committee his career at Price Waterhouse and public offering team in 1998, went on to perform senior finance ranoperations, chaired D Disclosure Committee roles at Schlumberger, APV and Computacenters international Chairman Geest.
He also previously served joint venture, ICG, and was chief as a non-executive director at operating officer of the dot-com FirstGroup plc, Scottish and spin-off Biomni Limited.
Martin Newcastle plc, Hays plc, Camelot hasalso worked for Specialist Entertainments plc and the Computer Centres PLC and MillerGroup.
com Limited as an independent consultant.
Martin started his career at Miles 33, asoftware solutions provider forthe publishing industry.
32 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance GRAHAM CHARLTON LEE GINSBERG VIN MURRIA PETER VENTRESS CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER SENIOR INDEPENDENT INDEPENDENT INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NONEXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board 19 March 2015 3 November 2015 1 October 2015 16 September 2015 Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership D A N R A N R A N R Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Strong financial and A seasoned and successful Broad international chief Extensive board experience commercialskills entrepreneur with extensive executive experience Substantial financial and board experience Extensive experience Experienced B2B leader general management inbothfinancial and A strong background in experience working Strong leadership skills generalmanagement technology-based businesses inlistedcompanies developed across different coupled with a strong network Significant experience of cultures and industries Wealth of financial financing andcapital raising Well-developed strategic and andriskknowledge Well-developed strategic and commercial skills Current external commitments commercial skills Current external commitments Current external commitments None.
Non-executive director at Current external commitments Non-executive director at ZPG Plc Mothercare plc and Trinity Mirror plc, Previous roles Chairman of Galliford Try plc and Sophos Group plc and a senior independent directorat andnon-executive director Graham previously spent four partner atElderstreet Investments.
OnThe Beach Group plc, deputy ofBBAAviation plc and years as finance director at chairman and senior independent Previous roles StaplesSolutions B. V. comparethemarket.
Prior to director at Patisserie Valerie Holdings that, Graham spent one year as Prior to joining Softcat, Vin spent Previous roles plc and non-executive chairman finance director at See Tickets seven years asthe founder and atOriole Restaurants Limited.
Peter spent five years aschief thetrading name of See Group chief executive at Advanced executive of Berendsen plc.
Limited and over five years in Previous roles Computer Software plc prior to its Priorto this he held several various roles, including group acquisition by Vista Equity Partners Lee spent ten years as chief seniorexecutive roles including financial accountant, finance in 2015, and five years as chief financial officer of Dominos Pizza international president at Staples manager and finance executive ofComputer Software Group plc and held the post of Inc. chief executive atCorporate director, decision analytics, Group plc prior to its acquisition by group finance director atHealth Express NV prior toits acquisition atExperian Ltd. Graham is a HG Capital and then Hellman & Club Holdings Limited, formerly by Staples Inc. and held anumber Chartered Accountant and Friedman in2007.
Previously, Vin Holmes Place plc, where he also ofother general management beganhis career with Andersen.
was alsoanon-executive director served for 18months as deputy positions across a number of  plc chief executive.
Lee qualified as different businesses in a variety andGreenko plc and chief operating aChartered Accountant ofindustries.
officer at Kewill Systems plc.
Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 33
