Nomination Committee report EFFECTIVENESS The Committee continued its work of ensuring the Board composition is right.
Brian Wallace, Chairman of the Nomination Committee Members of the Nomination Committee Key objectives To make sure the Board and executive leadership comprises B Wallace Chairman individuals with the necessary skills, knowledge and experience L Ginsberg to ensure that it is effective in discharging its responsibilities.
V Murria Responsibilities P Ventress The Board has approved terms of reference for the Committee which are available at softcat.
These provided the Attendance of the Nomination Committee framework for the Committees work in the year and can be summarised as follows: Name Committee attendance 2017 assessing the composition of the Board and making 1 B Wallace recommendations on appointments to the Board and L Ginsberg seniorexecutive succession planning: and V Murria overseeing the performance evaluation of the Board, P Ventress itsCommittees and individual Directors.
Total meetings held Membership and how the Committee operates Attended Did not attend There were no changes to the membership of the Committee during the year, all of whom are Non-Executive Directors of 1.
Brian Wallace was unable to attend one Committee meeting during theCompany.
theyeardue to him undergoing medical treatment.
Lee Ginsberg chairedthismeeting in his absence.
The Committee met five times during the year.
Meetings of the Committee generally take place on the same day as the Board meeting to maximise the efficiency of interaction with the Board and I report to the Board, as a separate agenda item, on the activity of the Committee and matters of particular relevance tothe Board in the conduct of itswork.
The Chief Executive is invited to each meeting together with the Company Secretary.
42 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance Chief Executive succession In light of Martin Hellawells decision to step down as Chief Executive a track record of driving strategic growth: and and take on the role of Non-Executive Chairman, the Committee an understanding and appreciation of the Companys culture considered the skills and experience desired in his successor and values.
The Committee appointed an independent search and selection agency, Odgers Berndtson The search is ongoing with potential candidates being presented Odgers, to assist in the search for suitable candidates.
Odgers to the Committee for their consideration.
A further announcement had no prior connection with the Company.
on this appointment will be made in due course.
The criteria for the selection of the new Chief Executive included: leadership of a business of scale: CHAIRMAN SUCCESSION: STATEMENT FROM LEE GINSBERG As the Senior Independent Director I led the process of appointing a new Non-Executive Chairman.
The criteria set by the Board for the role of Chairman included: a strong commitment to shareholder value creation: the ability to command the respect of the Board, shareholders, employees and other key stakeholders, including an ability towork effectively with the new Chief Executive: and a deep knowledge of the IT and reseller sector.
It was clear to the Board that Martin Hellawell is the outstanding candidate for the role.
Martin, who is very highly regarded inour sector, will continue to give the Company the benefit of his experience and expertise during this period of change.
The Board is confident that the transition of roles by both Martin and the new Chief Executive, once appointed, will be effective and that the Chief Executive Chairman relationship will thrive under the new arrangements.
Under Martins tenure Softcat has consistently delivered strong results and he has built a business which is in robust shape with great people and a highly motivated corporate culture that celebrates success and drives our growth.
The Board recognises that the UK Corporate Governance Code states that, ordinarily, the chief executive should not go on to be the chairman, but that if it does decide to appoint the chief executive as chairman, then the Board should consult shareholders.
The decision to appoint Martin as Non-Executive Chairman has been discussed with a number of the Companys largest shareholders and reflects the Boards strong view that, in addition to the leadership role Martin has played in driving the business forward, healso enjoys an outstanding reputation in the sector and has well-developed relationships built over many years and it is in the interest of the Company and its shareholders to continue to benefit from these attributes going forward.
In light of the above, no use was made by the Committee of an external search agency or open advertising for the appointment of the Chairman.
Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 43 Nomination Committee report continued EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED Assessment of the independence of the NonExecutive Directors Diversity The Committee and the Board are satisfied that the external The Company acknowledges the importance of diversity and commitments of its Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors inclusion to the effective functioning of the Board.
This includes set out on pages 32 and 33 do not conflict with their duties and diversity of skills and experience, age, gender, disability, sexual commitments as Directors of the Company.
Our Directors must: orientation, cultural background and belief.
Currently, 17% of our Board roles are held by women.
The Board aims to have 33% report any changes to their commitments to the Board: ofBoard positions held by women by the end of 2020.
We also notify the Company of actual or potential conflicts or a change endeavour to only use the services of executive search firms in circumstances relating to an existing authorisation: and which have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct on GenderDiversity.
complete an annual conflicts questionnaire.
Diversity extends beyond the boardroom.
The Board supports Any conflicts identified are considered and, as appropriate, management in its efforts to build a diverse organisation.
All Directors will retire from the Board and submit themselves for election or re-election at the AGM.
The Committee reviewed the independence of all the Brian Wallace Non-Executive Directors.
All Non-Executive Directors are considered Chairman of the Nomination Committee independent and their contributions continue to beeffective.
18 October 2017 They have all submitted themselves for re-election at the 2017 AGM.
The Executive Directors service contracts and Non-Executive Directors appointment letters are available for inspection at our registered office and at our AGM.
Board evaluation The Committee oversaw the internal evaluation of the Board and Committees.
A description of the evaluation is set out on page 36.
Succession planning The Committee received presentations on succession planning for senior management throughout the year from the Chief Executive.
The Committee will keep succession planning under review and monitor the progress and success of the development plans which have been established for relevant employees with a particular focus on ensuring over time all senior management positions have at least one internal successor.
The Committee also monitors a schedule on the length of tenure of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors and the mix and skills of the Directors.
44 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
