Audit Committee report ACCOUNTABILITY The Committee continued to oversee the Companys financial reporting, internal control and risk management and compliance processes during the year.
Lee Ginsberg, Chairman of the Audit Committee Members Key objectives The provision of effective governance over the appropriateness L Ginsberg Chairman ofthe Companys financial reporting, the performance of both P Ventress the internal auditfunction and the external auditor and oversight V Murria over the Companys system of internal control.
Responsibilities Attendance of the Audit Committee The Board has approved terms of reference for the Committee which are available at softcat.
These provided Name Committee attendance 2017 theframework for the Committees work in the year and can L Ginsberg besummarised as providing oversight of the: P Ventress appropriateness of the Companys external financial reporting: V Murria relationship with, and performance of, the external auditor: Total meetings held Companys system of internal control, including risk management framework and the work of the internal Attended Did not attend auditfunction: and Companys system of compliance activities.
Membership The membership of the Committee has been selected with the aim of providing the range of financial and commercial expertise necessary to meet its responsibilities.
Given my experience, Icontinue to be designated as the financial expert on the Committee for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In order to ensure that the Committee continues to have experience and knowledge relevant to the sector in which Softcat operates, all of the Non-Executive Directors receive regular updates on business, regulatory, financial reporting and accounting matters.
An independent evaluation ofthe Committees performance will also be carried out every three years, with the first evaluation in2018.
There were no changes to the membership of the Committee during the year, all of whom are Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 38 Corporate governance How the Committee operates an assessment of whether the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides The Committee met three times during the year and each meeting theinformation necessary for shareholders to assess the had full attendance.
Meetings of the Committee generally take Companys position and performance, business model and place on the same day as the Board meeting to maximise the strategy.
This assessment forms the basis of the advice given efficiency of interaction with the Board and I report to the Board, tothe Board to assist them in making the statement required as a separate agenda item, on the activity of the Committee bythe 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code.
andmatters of particular relevance to the Board in the conduct ofits work.
Accounting policies and practices The external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP EY, is invited to each The Committee received reports from management in relation meeting together with the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the tothe identification of critical accounting judgements and key ChiefFinancial Officer and the Company Secretary.
sources of estimation uncertainty, significant accounting policies The Committee also meets separately with each of EY and and proposed disclosure of these in the 2017 Annual Report.
theChief Financial Officer without others being present.
The disclosures also addressed IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 16 Leases, both of which may have an Financial reporting effect onthe Companys accounting when adopted.
The Committees primary responsibility in relation to the Companys Following discussions with management and the external financial reporting is to review with both management and the auditor, the Committee approved these critical accounting external auditor the appropriateness of the half-year and annual judgements, significant accounting policies and disclosures financial statements concentrating on, amongst other matters: which are set out in note 1 Basis of preparation to the financialstatements.
the quality and acceptability of accounting policies andpractices: Regulators and our financial reporting material areas in which significant judgements have been The FRCs Audit Quality Review team AQR carried out a review applied or where significant issues have been discussed oftheaudit of our financial reporting for 2016 financial year.
The withthe external auditor: AQR engaged with the Committee during the review process.
the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial There were no significant findings resulting from the review.
reporting standards and relevant financial and governance The Committee is committed to improving the effectiveness and reporting requirements, including the 2016 UK Corporate clarity of the Companys corporate reporting and has continued Governance Code: to encourage management to consider, and adopt where any correspondence from regulators in relation to our appropriate, initiatives by regulatory bodies which would financial reporting: and enhance our reporting.
Significant judgements and issues The significant areas of focus considered and actions taken bythe Committee in relation to the 2017 Annual Report are outlined below.
We discussed these with the external auditor during the year and, where appropriate, these have been addressed as areas ofaudit focus as outlined in the Independent Auditors Report on pages 66 to 71.
Matter considered Action Inappropriate revenue recognition: misstatement of revenue The Committee has reviewed the Companys revenue recognition recognised at or near year end policy and discussed in detail with management and members of the finance team the processes applied to accurately record revenue at period ends.
The Committee also receives detailed monthly reporting on business performance to include revenue recognition data and trends.
The Committee discusses the performance and data trends regularly with the Chief Financial Officer.
The Committee has concluded that the timing of recognition is in line with current IFRS requirements.
Misstatement of rebate income The Committee has taken steps to understand the nature and quantum of supplier rebates received by the Company.
The Committee receives management information on rebates accrued as part of monthly performance reporting and monitors trends against prior period results.
Rebates, and the process to accrue rebates, have been the subject of internal audit review during the year.
The Committee is satisfied withthe Companys ability to accurately record rebates earned within the financial period.
Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 39 Audit Committee report continued ACCOUNTABILITY CONTINUED Other matters External audit The Committee also undertook a range of further activities The Committee has primary responsibility for overseeing inrelation to the Companys accounting and external reporting therelationship with, and performance of, the external auditor.
inthe year: This includes making the recommendation on the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditor, assessing Recent accounting developments their independence on an ongoing basis and for negotiating The Committee received regular reporting from management onthe theaudit fee.
Companys implementation of the following accountingstandards: Auditor appointment The new revenue recognition standard IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers which would be effective EY was appointed as the Companys external auditor in July 2013 forFY19.
The Company will be required to put theexternal audit contract out to tender by 2023.
In addition, The new lease accounting standard IFRS 16 Leases EYwill be required to rotate the audit partner responsible for whichwould be effective for FY20 and requires lessees the Company audit every five years and, as a result, the current torecognise assets and liabilities for most leases.
lead audit partner will be required to change in 2018.
Dave Hales Fair, balanced and understandable replaces Karl Havers as the lead audit partner for the financial year commencing 1 August 2017.
The processes and controls that underpin the Committees assessment of whether the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is The Committee continues to review the auditor appointment and fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information the need to tender the audit, ensuring the Companys compliance necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and with reforms of the audit market by the UK Competition and performance, business model and strategy include ensuring that: Markets Authority.
Accordingly, the Company confirms that it complied with the provisions of the Competition and Markets all contributors are fully briefed on the fair, balanced Authoritys Order for the financial year under review.
For the andunderstandable requirement: financial year ending 31July 2018, the Committee has recommended an experienced core team is responsible for the co-ordination to the Board that EY be reappointed under the current external of content submissions, verification, detailedreview and challenge: audit contract and the Directors will be proposing the reappointment of EY at the Annual General Meeting in December 2017. senior management confirms that the content in respect oftheir areas of responsibility is considered to be fair, Audit risk balanced and understandable: and At the start of the audit cycle we received from EY a detailed the Committee receives an early draft of the Annual Report audit plan identifying their audit scope, planning materiality toenable timely review and comment.
andtheir assessment of key risks.
These processes allowed us to provide positive assurance The audit risk identification process is considered a key factor tothe Board to assist them in making the statement required inthe overall effectiveness of the external audit process, and bythe 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code.
the key risks for the 2017 financial year were as follows: Going concern and viability statement inappropriate revenue recognition: and The Committee received a report on the Companys viability misstatement of rebate income.
This report enabled the Committee to evaluate a These risks are regularly reviewed by the Committee to ensure stress test of the Companys three-year profit and loss, balance the external auditors areas of audit focus remain appropriate.
sheet and cash flow plan against the impact of key risks selected from the risk register.
The strength of the Companys balance sheet Working with the auditor was comfortably able to absorb the impact of the stress test.
Accordingly, the Committee has considered and recommended We hold private meetings with the external auditor to provide to the Board the viability statement which seeks to examine additional opportunity for open dialogue and feedback from the theCompanys longer-term solvency and viability, and which is Committee and the auditor without management being present.
It was agreed that three years continued Matters typically discussed include the external auditors assessment tobe an appropriate timeframe on which to base the long-term of business risks, the transparency and openness of interactions viability statement as it is in line with the strategic planning with management, confirmation that there has been no restriction process undertaken by the Company and reflects the pace in scope placed on them by management, the independence of ofchange in the technology sector.
their audit and how they have exercised professional scepticism.
I also met with the external lead audit partner outside the formal Committee process.
40 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance Effectiveness of the external audit process The Company has in place an internal control environment to protect the business from the material risks which have been The Committee reviewed the quality of the external audit throughout identified.
Management is responsible for establishing and the year and considered the performance of EY, taking into maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting account the Committees own assessment, the conclusions of and we have responsibility for ensuring the effectiveness the FRCs AQR team mentioned on page 39 and the firm-wide ofthese controls.
audit quality inspection report issued by the FRC in June 2017.
The Committee has completed its review of the effectiveness Based on this review, the Committee concluded that there had ofthe Companys system of internal control, including risk been appropriate focus and challenge on the primary areas of management, during the year and up to the date of this Annual audit focus from EY.
Report, in accordance with the requirements of the Guidance onRisk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial Independence and objectivity andBusiness Reporting published by the FRC.
The Committee has a policy governing the engagement of the external auditor to provide non-audit services.
This precludes We confirm that no significant failings or weaknesses were EY from providing certain services.
The policy can be found at identified in the review for the 2017 financial year and allowed softcat.
us to provide positive assurance to the Board to assist them inmaking the statements required by the 2016 UK Corporate For certain specific permitted services, the Committee has Governance Code.
Where areas for improvement were identified, preapproved that EY can be engaged by management, subject processes are in place to ensure that the necessary action is tothe policies set out above, and subject to a total 10% of the taken and that progress is monitored.
current external audit fee on an annual basis.
For all other services or those permitted services that exceed Internal audit these specified fee limits, I, as Chairman, or in my absence another Monitoring and review of the scope, extent and effectiveness of Committee member, can preapprove permitted services.
the activity of Grant Thornton LLP Grant Thornton, the Companys internal auditor, is regularly considered by the Committee.
We The Committee also received confirmation from EY that there approve the annual audit plan prior to the start ofeach financial are no relationships between the Company and EY that may year and receive updates from Grant Thornton on audit activities, have a bearing on their independence.
progress against the approved audit plan, the results of any For the 2017 financial year, the Committee considered the ongoing unsatisfactory audits and the action plans to address these areas.
fee proposal and, following the receipt of formal assurance that their fees were appropriate for the scope of the work required, agreed a charge from EY and related member firms of 190,000 for statutory audit services.
Lee Ginsberg In addition to the statutory audit fee, EY and related member firms charged the Company 20,000 for audit-related services Chairman of the Audit Committee primarily in connection with the review of the Companys IFRS 15 18 October 2017 assessment and related disclosures.
Further details of the fees paid, for audit and non-audit services, toEYfor the 2017 and 2016 financial years can be found innote3to the financial statements.
Internal control and risk management The Committee has the primary responsibility for the oversight of the Companys system of internal control, including the risk management framework and the work of the internal audit function.
Assessment of the Companys system of internal control, includingthe risk management framework The Companys risk assessment process and the way in which significant business risks are managed is a key area of focus forthe Committee.
Our activity here was driven primarily by the Companys assessment of its principal risks and uncertainties, asset out on pages 24 to 25.
Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 41
