Governance report LEADERSHIP CONTINUED OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK OUR BOARD ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARDS DECISION The Board is collectively responsible for the oversight and Softcat strategy, business objectives and annual budgets.
There is a clear division of responsibilities Annual and half-year results.
between the Chairman who leads the Board and the Chief Executive who leads the business.
The Board: Material acquisitions, disposals and contracts.
sets strategy to deliver value to shareholders and stakeholders: Major changes to internal controls, risk management orfinancial reporting policies and procedures.
monitors management activity and performance againsttargets: Determining risk appetite.
provides constructive challenge to management: Changes to capital, corporate or management structure.
sets parameters for promoting and deepening the Succession planning for the Board and senior management.
interest of shareholders: and monitors succession planning.
Matters reserved can be found at softcat.
AUDIT COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Provision of effective governance over: Evaluates Board composition Sets, reviews and recommends andensures Board diversity thepolicyon remuneration of the the appropriateness ofthe andabalance of skills.
Chairman, Executives and senior Companys financial reporting: management team.
Reviews Executive succession the performance of both the internal plans tomaintain continuity Monitors the implementation of the audit function and the external ofskilled resource.
auditor: and Oversees the performance evaluation the Companys system of internal of the Board, its Committees and control includingrisk management individual Directors.
See page 38 for more information See page 42 for moreinformation See page 45 for moreinformation EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE Focuses on strategy implementation, financial and competitive Oversees the accuracy and timeliness of Softcat performance, commercial developments, below Board-level disclosures including disclosures made in Softcats succession planning and organisational development.
Board and Committee meeting attendance The Board met nine times during the year at a number of the Companys different offices across the country including a strategy meeting in February 2017.
In line with the Companys philosophy to be open and transparent and to engage fully with its employees, the Board has also held question and answer sessions with and received presentations from the leadership team at each office location visited.
The Company held three meetings of the Audit Committee, seven meetings of the Remuneration Committee and five meetings of the Nomination Committee.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Name Board Committee Committee Committee 1 B Wallace M J Hellawell G L Charlton L Ginsberg P Ventress V Murria Attended Did not attend 1.
Brian Wallace was unable to attend two Board meetings and a Nomination Committee meeting during the year due to him undergoing medical treatment.
Lee Ginsberg chaired these meetings in his absence.
34 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance EFFECTIVENESS WHAT THE BOARD DID THIS YEAR STRATEGY PERFORMANCE MONITORING The development and implementation of Softcats strategy Reviewed monthly reports on performance against has been a key focusfor the Board during the year.
has been covered ina number of ways including: Reviewed reports on the financial position of the general updates from the CEO: Company including treasury management.
specific strategy review discussions with the Board Reviewed regular reports from the Chairmen of the Audit, inFebruary 2017: and Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
presentations from members of the management team Approved the year-end and half-year results.
onstrategy implementation in their business line.
See page 6 for more information PEOPLE, VISION AND VALUES SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Received regular updates on people and HR matters.
Discussed feedback from investors and analysts meetings following the release of our annual and Considered the results of the annual employee survey half-year announcements and meetings with existing and the quarterly management surveys.
Met management teams and employees in our London Received regular updates from stockbrokers and andBristol offices.
PRadvisers on the market perception of Softcat.
Met all new members of the senior management team.
The Boards intention to appoint MartinHellawell as Non-Executive Chairman was discussed with a number ofthe Companys largest shareholders and shareholder feedback provided to the Board.
Reviewed the proxy voting figures and met with investors at the 2016 AGM.
See page 37 for more information See pages 28 and 29 for more information GOVERNANCE AND RISK OTHER Reviewed reports on governance and legal issues, Approved the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
including developments inEU audit legislation, inside Approved the 2017 Notice of AGM.
information and disclosure obligations under the EUMarket Abuse Regulations, Modern Slavery Act Received and reviewed monthly shareholders disclosure requirements, succession planning and analysisreports.
Regularly reviewed the Companys principal risks.
Received regular accounting andregulatory updates fromEY, Softcats external auditor.
Received annual Director share dealing training.
Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 35 Governance report continued EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED BOARD EVALUATION 2017 The Board recognises that it continually needs to monitor and improve its performance.
This is achieved through annual performance evaluation, full induction of new Board members and ongoing Board development activities.
This year, the Board carried out an internal evaluation of its performance, its Committees and individual Directors.
Anexternal evaluation of the Boards performance will be conducted in 2018.
STAGE 1 STAGE 2 STAGE 3 1 2 3 COMPREHENSIVE EVALUATION REPORTING AND DISCUSSION QUESTIONNAIRE WITH THE CHAIRMAN AND The Chairman reviewed the THE BOARD Each Director completed a confidential Directors contributions and the online questionnaire, designed by Senior Independent Director led A report was prepared based the Company Secretary.
Each Board thereview of the performance onthecompleted questionnaires.
The Chairman led the discussion self-assessment questionnaire.
ofthe report with the Nomination Theprocess was overseen by the Committee and the Board at its Nomination Committee, assisted meeting in July 2017. bythe Company Secretary.
Conclusions from the 2017 review The conclusions of this years review have been positive Board changes and succession: The Board would continue andhave confirmed that the Board and its Committees operate to support the further development of talent and succession effectively and that each Director contributes to the overall planning.
Directors would also continue to take the opportunity effectiveness and success of the Company.
to regularly meet with the broader management team.
The main points arising from this years review included: Shareholder views: The Board would continue to develop its approach to its interaction with the Companys shareholders.
Strategy: The Companys strategy was rated highly.
Continued support would be given to the CEO andsenior The Board will address these matters during the 2018 management team to seamlessly execute ourstrategy financial year and will report on progress in our 2018 particularly in view of the upcoming changes to the Board.
Risk: Whilst the Board noted the progress which had beenmade in developing the Companys risk management process, itwas agreed that this process would continue tobedeveloped, overseen by the Audit Committee.
Board development The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all Non-Executive The Company Secretary also: Directors receive ongoing training and development.
Our Non-Executive Directors are conscious of the need to keep assists the Chairman by organising induction and themselves properly briefed and informed about current issues.
trainingprogrammes and ensuring that all Directors havefull and timely access to all relevant information: Topics covered at sessions attended by our Directors during theyear included cyber security, bribery and ethics update, ensures that the correct Board procedures are modern slavery and share dealing rules.
Specific and tailored followed:and updates, delivered by the Companys external auditor, were also advises the Board on corporate governance matters.
provided to the members of our Audit Committee during the year covering key themes surrounding financial and narrative The removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the reporting, and accounting and auditing standards.
Regular updates on regulatory and legislative developments areprovided to the Board by the Company Secretary.
There is a procedure to enable Directors to take independent legal and or financial advice at the Companys expense, managed by the Company Secretary.
No such independent advice was sought in 2017.
36 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS LISTENING TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS We are committed to proactive and constructive engagement Independent Director are available to address them.
Both with shareholders and recognise the important and valuable makethemselves available, when requested, for meetings role that shareholders play in safeguarding the Companys withshareholders on issues relating to the Companys governance.
The Board received regular updates during governance and strategy.
theyear on the views of our shareholders through briefings The Boards intention to appoint Martin Hellawell as and reports from our interaction with shareholders and Non-Executive Chairman was discussed with a number fromour brokers.
ofthe Companys largest shareholders and shareholder In the event that shareholders have any concerns, which the feedback provided tothe Board.
TheBoard and Committees normal channels of communication to the Chief Executive alsoreceive correspondence from shareholders, institutional orthe Chief Financial Officer have failed to resolve orfor investors and proxy voting agencies, typicallyinthe lead up which contact is inappropriate, our Chairman or Senior totheAGM.
ANALYST AND INVESTOR OTHER SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING MEETINGS AND PRESENTATIONS We hold analyst and investor Throughout the year, numerous The 2017 Annual General Meeting meetings and presentations meetings and conference calls will be held on 8December at following the release of our annual were held with existing and Softcat plc, Fieldhouse Lane, and half-year announcements.
Details of the Weaim to ensure that all questions meetings were attended by either meeting and the resolutions to are comprehensively dealt with at the Chief Executive or the Chief beproposed are set out in the these meetings.
We also ensure Financial Officer orsometimes both.
Notice of AGM which is available that the presentations are available The meetings focus primarily on to download on our website www.
trading operations and the softcat.
The Annual implementation of our business General Meeting gives shareholders, strategy.
Any significant views in particular our private shareholders, expressed are recorded and an opportunity to hear about the reported to the Board to keep general development of the themup to date with shareholder business andto ask questions and investor sentiment.
Board development continued As there have been no new appointments to the Board during Code.
The independence of our Non-Executive Directors is the year, we have not had to deliver an induction programme.
reviewed annually by the Nomination Committee described in the Our approach to induction, led by the Chairman with support Nomination Committees report on page 44.
Their independence from the Company Secretary, remains to ensure that we provide could be impinged where a Director has a conflict of interest, a comprehensive introduction to Softcat as a whole, focusing and the Board therefore operates procedures to identify and onthe practical delivery of information rather than just supplying manage situations where such a conflict could arise.
An element reading materials and providing new Directors with the opportunity of the procedure operates to restrict a Director from voting to meet with the Companys key stakeholders.
onany matter in which they have a material personal interest unless the Board unanimously decides otherwise, and where A full and tailored induction is being developed for the new necessary, Directors are required to absent themselves from a Chief Executive.
Full details of this induction will be disclosed meeting of the Board while such matters are being discussed.
During the year, all Directors confirmed as they are required to Independence and conflicts do annually that they have been able to allocate sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Directors are also The Board, excluding me as Chairman, is currently comprised required to notify me and the Board of any alterations to their ofthree Independent Non-Executive Directors andtwo external commitments that arise during the year with an Executive Directors and we therefore comply with the indication of the time commitment involved.
independence requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 37
