Governance Nomination Committee Report Responsibilities and terms 2016 17 has been largely ofreference about succession.
The The main areas of the Nomination Committees the Committee steps taken and the plans responsibilities are: put in place should ensure to review the structure, size and composition of the Board and the continuity needed recommend to the Board any to maintain momentum changes it considers appropriate.
This encompasses membership within the business.
of the Board committees and the re-appointment, if appropriate, of John Cuthbert non-executive directors at the end of C hairman of the NominationCommittee their term of office.
to consider succession planning not only within the Board but also immediately below Board level and ensure appropriate plans are Membership in place.
Director Date appointed to Number of meetings to identify candidates to fill Board Committee attended during the year vacancies and nominate these to the John Cuthbert 1 November 2009, appointed 3 3 Board for approval.
Appointments to Chairman Chairman on 1 February 2013 the Board are made on merit using a formal, rigorous and transparent Mike Toms 1 February 2009 3 3 process against objective criteria John Watson 1 February 2013 3 3 recommended by the Committee.
These criteria take into account the Paul Hampden Smith 1 August 2013 3 3 skills, knowledge and experience Denise Jagger 1 August 2013 3 3 of existing members of the Board and the importance of diversity, Jill Caseberry 1 October 2017 N A in all its aspects, within the Board.
The appointment of a non-executive Main focus in 2016 17 director is for a specified term and reappointment is not automatic, rather Board succession focusing on changes in the composition of the Board over it is made on the recommendation of the next two years, including a successor to the Chairman when he retires the Committee.
in 2019. to carry out an annual performance Initiate the recruitment process for two new non-executive directors who will evaluation of the Committee and join the Board in 2017 18. review the results of the Board Approval of the Nomination Committee report for inclusion in the 2015 16 performance evaluation in relation Annual Report.
tothe composition of the Board.
Performance evaluation of the Committee.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and operates under its own terms of reference.
These have been Focus areas for 2017 18 agreed by the Board and are available To finalise a recommendation on the succession plan for the Chairman.
To work with management to provide a comprehensive induction for our two new non-executive colleagues.
The members of the Committee are To consider and submit for approval by the Board the Boards Diversity Policy.
shown in the table to the left.
To continue to develop, with support from the executive directors and Group Human Resources, the succession plan for those immediately below Board level.
44 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information The Committee recommended Activities in 2016 17 to the Board that Jill Caseberry The main focus for the Committee in and Ian McHoul be appointed 2016 17 has been succession planning and their appointments were within the Board.
There will be a subsequently approved.
number of changes in the composition of the Board over the next eighteen Executive directors months as existing Board members The Committee has also had to step down.
This includes the Chairman respond to the unfortunate need for whose term of appointment ends in Ted Ayres to take a leave of absence early 2019. from the business for a medical condition.
Two specific actions were Non-executive directors taken to ensure momentum within As part of the planning for these Board the business was maintained during changes the Committee initiated a Teds absence.
The Chairman, who recruitment process to identify two new has a very detailed understanding of non-executive directors to replace Mike the business from his previous role as Toms and I as we will both reach the Chief Executive, was asked to take on end of our third terms of appointment the role of Executive Chairman and the during 2018. appointment of Jason Honeyman to We began the recruitment process by the Board as Chief Operating Officer refreshing and reviewing the Board was brought forward.
Following that review the The Chairman Committee concluded that candidates The term of office of the Chairman, should ideally possess one or more of John Watson, ends on 31 January 2019 the following attributes: have relevant and the Committee started the process sector experience, be a current of considering options for succession executive or have been in a recent during 2016 17. executive post, be based in the south to reflect the Groups exposure to the We took the opportunity to consult London market and enhance diversity a number of major shareholders on within the Board.
the options for succession during the year and will take into account The Committee interviewed a number comments from that consultation in our of recruitment consultants and deliberations.
I am also consulting with appointed The Zygos Partnership the executive directors.
Zygos to provide support in identifying suitable candidates.
In reaching a decision the Committee This is the third assignment Zygos will need to be mindful of the extent have undertaken on behalf of the of change within the Board over Committee over an eight year period.
the next eighteen months and of The members of the team at Zygos the importance of continuity within have developed a good understanding the Board.
of both the business and the way the Board operates.
John Cuthbert Following detailed scrutiny of an Chairman of the Nomination Committee initial long-list of candidates, a very strong short-list was identified and 16 October 2017 a series of interviews with the shortlisted candidates concluded in September 2017.
45 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017
