Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 54 Corporate Governance Report In my first year as Chairman and on behalf of the board, I am pleased to introduce the Corporate Governance section of this Annual Report.
The pages that follow provide detail on the groups governance structure and activities undertaken during the year to ensure effective board decisionmaking and oversight of the group.
Mike Biggs, Chairman Chairmans Introduction years.
During the year, the Nomination and Governance An important part of my role as Chairman is to oversee the Committee oversaw the process which resulted in my governance of the group.
I firmly believe that high standards of appointment as a director and then chairman of the company.
governance and effective board oversight are important to the Further details on that process are set out in the report of the groups performance, the successful delivery of its strategy and Nomination and Governance Committee.
the creation of long-term value for the companys stakeholders.
Also in this section of the Annual Report you will find the The board is committed to the principles set out in the UK Directors Remuneration Report, setting out various Corporate Governance Code and I am pleased to report that, disclosures required by statute, regulation or corporate once again, the company has complied with the principles governance best practice.
Following a review by the and provisions of the Code.
Further details are set out in Remuneration Committee during the year and after wide the Corporate Governance Report that follows this consultation with our larger shareholders and institutional introduction.
investor bodies, we also set out the new Remuneration Policy, for which we will be seeking shareholder approval at this years The board oversees the strategy and business model of the Annual General Meeting.
group, and directors have the opportunity to challenge group and divisional executives on performance and the During the year, the board carried out an internal evaluation of implementation of strategy at each board meeting.
The board its effectiveness and performance.
The results found that the also spends considerable time throughout the year assessing board and its four committees continue to function effectively and discussing external challenges facing the group, including and make a strong contribution to the leadership and regulatory, economic and political developments.
Further details of this evaluation can be found on page 58.
There were seven regular meetings of the board during the year.
Strategic matters were discussed as part of these meetings and, The companys 2017 Annual General Meeting will take place on in addition, the board once again attended separate strategy 16 November 2017.
The board regards this as an important sessions with executive management focused on considering opportunity for shareholders to raise questions.
This will be my and reviewing the groups long-term strategy.
first AGM as Chairman and I look forward to discussing the group and the work of the board with shareholders at that meeting.
The boards four committees have continued to play an important role in the governance and oversight of the group.
Reports from each of the committees, describing their activities during the year, Michael N. Biggs are set out later in this section of the Annual Report.
Chairman The board saw a number of changes to its composition in the 26 September 2017 year with the retirements of Stephen Hodges in November 2016 and Strone Macpherson in April 2017.
Once again, I would like to thank Stephen and Strone for their significant contributions to the development of the group over many Governance Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 55 UK Corporate Governance Code whether they are independent in character and judgement: In April 2016, the Financial Reporting Council FRC published how they conduct themselves in board and committee a revised version of the UK Corporate Governance Code the meetings: Code which applies to accounting periods beginning on or whether they have any interests which may give rise to an after 17 June 2016.
The financial year ending 31 July 2017 is actual or perceived conflict of interest: and therefore the first year for which the new version of the Code whether they act in the best interests of the company and of has applied to the company.
all its shareholders at all times.
The Code sets out guidance on best practice in the form of The company has therefore complied with the Code provision principles and provisions on how companies should be that at least half the board, excluding the chairman, should directed and controlled to follow good governance practice.
Each nonThe Financial Conduct Authority FCA requires companies executive director is required to confirm at least annually with a premium listing in the UK to disclose, in relation to the whether any circumstances exist which could impair Code, how they have applied its principles and whether they theirindependence.
have complied with its provisions throughout the financial year.
Where the provisions have not been complied with, companies Matters Reserved to the Board must provide an explanation.
A number of key matters are reserved for consideration and decision by the board.
The matters and decisions reserved for It is the boards view that throughout the financial year the the board are set out in a formal schedule, which enables the company has complied with the principles and provisions set board and executive management to operate within a clear out in the Code.
Further detail as to how the company has governance framework.
The schedule of matters reserved to complied with the Code is set out in the remainder of this the board is reviewed annually and is published on the Corporate Governance Report.
The matters and decisions specifically reserved for the board include: A copy of the Code can be found on the FRCs website: responsibility for the overall direction of the group and www.
oversight of the groups management: approval of the groups strategic aims and objectives: The Board oversight of risk management, regulatory compliance and Leadership of the board internal control: The boards primary role is to provide leadership, and ensure approving the groups Recovery and Resolution Plans, and that the company is appropriately managed and delivers the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process long-term shareholder value.
It sets the groups strategic ICAAP : objectives, monitors managements performance against those changes to the groups dividend policy and significant objectives and provides direction for the group as a whole.
The changes in accounting policies: board supervises the groups operations, with the aim of approving acquisitions, disposals, other transactions and ensuring that it maintains a framework of prudent and effective expenditure over certain thresholds: controls which enables risks to be properly assessed and changes to the capital structure of the group: appropriately managed.
approval of communications to shareholders: changes to the structure, size and composition of the board, Board size and composition following recommendations from the Nomination and The board has eight members: the chairman, three executive Governance Committee: and directors and four independent non-executive directors.
approval of corporate governance matters, including theevaluation of the performance of the board and The structure of the board ensures that no individual or group itscommittees.
of individuals is able to dominate the decision-making process and no undue reliance is placed on any individual.
The board Board and committee meeting attendance 2016 2017 comprises five male and three female members.
This means During the year the board held seven scheduled meetings.
that more than a third of the directors are women.
The company is committed to ensuring that any vacancies that The annual schedule of board meetings is decided a may arise are filled by the most qualified candidates and substantial time in advance in order to ensure, so far as recognises the value of diversity in the composition of the possible, the availability of each of the directors.
When board positions become available as a result of that directors are unable to attend meetings, they receive retirement, resignation or otherwise, it is focused on ensuring papers in the normal manner and have the opportunity to relay that a diverse pool of candidates is considered.
their comments and questions in advance of the meeting, as well as follow up with the chairman if necessary.
The same Details of the individual directors and their biographies are set process applies in respect of the various board committees.
Non-executive directors independence The board has assessed the independence of each of the non-executive directors and is of the opinion that each acts in an independent and objective manner and therefore, under the Code, is independent and free from any relationship that could affect their judgement.
The boards opinion was determined by considering for each non-executive director, among other things: Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 56 Corporate Governance Report continued The attendance of directors at scheduled board and committee meetings of which they were members during the financial year is shown in the table below.
Some directors also attended committee meetings as invitees during the year which is not reflected in the table.
Remuneration Nomination and Board Audit Committee Committee Risk Committee Governance Committee Attended Total Attended Total Attended Total Attended Total Attended Total Executive director Preben Prebensen 7 7 Jonathan Howell 7 7 Elizabeth Lee 7 7 Stephen Hodges1 1 1 Non-executive director Mike Biggs2 3 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 Oliver Corbett 7 7 5 5 7 7 6 6 5 5 Geoffrey Howe3 7 7 5 5 7 7 5 6 5 5 Lesley Jones3 6 7 5 5 7 7 6 6 5 5 Bridget Macaskill3 5 7 3 5 7 7 4 6 5 5 4 Strone Macpherson 5 5 4 4 1 Stephen Hodges retired as a director on 17 November 2016.
2 Mike Biggs was appointed as a director and member of the Audit, Remuneration, Risk and Nomination and Governance Committees on 14 March 2017.
He became chairman of the board and the Nomination and Governance Committee on 1 May 2017, when he ceased to be a member of the other board committees.
3 During the year directors were unable to attend certain meetings due to illness, other unforeseen circumstances or long-standing prior commitments.
4 Strone Macpherson retired as a director on 30 April 2017.
The board held two additional ad hoc meetings to receive recommendations on matters specifically reserved to the board.
The Nomination and Governance Committee held one additional ad hoc meeting during the year to consider the nomination of MikeBiggs as a director and chairman-designate.
These additional meetings are not reflected in the table above.
Governance Framework Board governance structure The board has established a number of committees, to which responsibility for certain matters has been delegated.
The board committee structure is shown in the diagram below.
Each committee has written terms of reference setting out the committees role and responsibilities, and the extent of the authority delegated by the board.
The terms of reference, which are reviewed annually, are available at www.
The chairman of each committee reports regularly to the board on matters discussed at committee meetings.
Reports for each of the boards committees are set out later in this Report and set out further detail on their role and responsibilities, and the activities they have undertaken during the year.
The Board Audit Remuneration Risk Nomination and Committee Committee Committee Governance Committee Meetings of the board At each scheduled meeting the board receives reports from the chief executive and group finance director on the performance and results of the group.
In addition, the Banking division Managing Director, the Asset Management Chief Executive and the Winterflood Chief Executive attend each meeting to update the board on performance, strategic developments and initiatives in their respective areas, and the head of legal and regulatory affairs provides updates on legal and regulatory matters.
In addition, the board receives regular updates from the group human resources and corporate development functions, and risk, compliance and internal audit.
There is an annual schedule of rolling agenda items to ensure that all matters are given due consideration and are reviewed at the appropriate point in the financial and regulatory cycle.
Meetings are structured to ensure that there is sufficient time for consideration and debate of all matters.
In addition to scheduled or routine items, the board also considers key issues that impact the group, as they arise.
Governance Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 57 The directors receive detailed papers in advance of each board Independent non-executive directors meeting.
The board agenda is carefully structured by the The companys independent non-executive directors are chairman in consultation with the chief executive and the Geoffrey Howe, Oliver Corbett, Lesley Jones and Bridget company secretary.
Each director may review the agenda and Macaskill.
Within the boards overall risk and governance structure, propose items for discussion with the chairmans agreement.
the independent non-executive directors are responsible for Additional information is also circulated to directors between contributing sound judgement and objectivity to the boards meetings, including relevant updates on business and deliberations and the decision-making process.
They also provide regulatory announcements.
constructive challenge and oversight, and monitor the executive directors delivery of the companys strategy.
Each board meeting includes time for discussion between the chairman and non-executive directors without the executive Senior independent director directors.
The senior independent director is Geoffrey Howe.
In addition to the existing channels for shareholder communications, Key board activities during the year shareholders may discuss any issues or concerns they may During the year, the board has spent time particularly on: have with the senior independent director.
The senior considering the strategic aims of businesses across the independent director leads the annual performance evaluation Banking division and the Asset Management division and of the chairmans performance.
During the last year, Geoffrey Winterflood: led the Nomination and Governance Committees process to IT strategy and associated transformation projects: identify a replacement for Strone Macpherson as chairman of capital planning and the implications of regulatory changes the board.
Further details on that process are included in the during the year: Nomination and Governance Committees report on page 67. consideration and approval of the companys issue of callable dated subordinated notes tier 2 capital : Powers of directors reviewing the competitive landscape: The directors are responsible for the management of the engagement with regulators: company.
They may exercise all powers of the company, consideration of employee survey results: subject to any directions given by special resolution and the the review of the groups Recovery and Resolution Plans: articles of association.
The directors have been authorised to the annual review of group risk appetite statements: allot and issue ordinary shares and to make market purchases approval of the ICAAP: and of the companys ordinary shares by virtue of resolutions the annual board and committee effectiveness evaluation.
passed at the companys 2016 AGM.
Further detail regarding these authorisations is set out on page 50.
Chairman and chief executive The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate and Appointment and removal of directors there is a clear division of responsibilities between the two The appointment of directors is governed by the companys roles.
The chairman is Mike Biggs.
His other significant articles of association, the Companies Act 2006 and other commitments are set out in his biography on page 46.
The applicable regulations and policies.
Directors may be elected board is satisfied that his other commitments do not restrict by shareholders in general meeting or appointed by the board him from carrying out his duties effectively.
of directors in accordance with the provisions of the articles of association.
As chairman, Mike Biggs is primarily responsible for leading the board and ensuring the effective engagement and contribution In accordance with the Code, all directors retire and submit of all the directors.
His other responsibilities include setting the themselves for reappointment at each AGM.
The board will agenda for board meetings, providing the directors with only recommend to shareholders that executive and noninformation in an accurate, clear and timely manner and the executive directors be proposed for reappointment at an AGM promotion of effective decision-making.
The chairman is also after evaluating the performance of the individual directors.
charged with ensuring that the directors continually update their skills and knowledge and that the performance of the Letters of appointment for individual directors are available for board, its committees and the individual directors is evaluated inspection by shareholders at each AGM and during normal on an annual basis.
business hours at the companys registered office.
The chief executive is Preben Prebensen, who is primarily The articles of association provide that in addition to any power responsible for the day-to-day management of the groups to remove directors conferred by the Companies Act 2006, the business.
His other responsibilities include proposing and companys shareholders can pass a special resolution to developing strategic objectives for the group, managing the remove a director from office.
groups risk exposures in line with board policies, implementing the decisions of the board and facilitating appropriate and Reappointment of directors at the 2017 AGM effective communication with shareholders and regulatory bodies.
Following performance evaluations undertaken during the year, the board has confirmed that each director continues to be Preben Prebensen chairs the Executive Committee, the forum effective and demonstrate commitment to their role.
On the that exercises management oversight of the group, including recommendation of the Nomination and Governance through the monitoring and implementation of strategy and Committee, the board will therefore be recommending that budgetary objectives, as determined by the board.
The allserving directors be reappointed by shareholders at the members of the Executive Committee are shown on pages 48 2017 AGM.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 58 Corporate Governance Report continued Induction and professional development and in making such a decision the directors must act in a way On appointment, all new directors receive a comprehensive they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the and personalised induction programme to familiarise them success of the company.
The board believes this procedure withthe group and to meet their specific requirements.
The operated effectively throughout the year.
company also provides bespoke inductions for directors when they are appointed as a committee chairman.
Induction Board and Committee Effectiveness programmes are tailored to a directors particular requirements, Annual board and committee evaluation but would typically include site visits, one-to-one meetings In April 2017, the Nomination and Governance Committee withexecutive directors, the company secretary, senior recommended that the evaluation for the 2016 17 financial management for the business areas and support functions and yearbe undertaken internally, as permitted by the Code.
a confidential meeting with the external auditor.
Directors also Theevaluation took the form of online, self-assessment receive guidance on directors liabilities and responsibilities.
questionnaires completed by directors other than the chairman, assessing the performance and effectiveness of the Mike Biggs has undertaken a tailored induction following his board and each of its committees in a broad range of areas.
appointment as a director and then chairman of the board in order to provide a comprehensive insight into the group and The questions in the assessment were set to develop the the regulatory framework within which it operates.
This has themes explored in previous years evaluations and to assess included meetings and briefings with members of the the progress of the board and its committees compared with Executive Committee and other management on a range of previous years.
The assessment consisted of two main parts.
topics, including the groups businesses, the risk management The first assessed the operation, performance and framework, regulatory and compliance issues and the groups effectiveness of the board.
It included a range of questions in internal audit function.
three broad areas: i process and structure: ii profiles and competencies: and iii culture and behaviours.
This part of the There is a central training programme in place for the directors, assessment was completed by all directors other than the which is reviewed and considered by the board.
The second part of the assessment considered the chairman discusses and agrees any specific requirements as operation, performance and effectiveness of the boards four part of each non-executive directors regular reviews.
It included a mixture of general questions and the year, training and development activities took a number of specific questions on each committee.
This part of the forms, including informal meetings with senior management assessment was completed by the four independent nonwithin the businesses and control functions, lunches with executive directors only.
In each part of the assessment, emerging leaders and with members of the groups graduate directors were invited to give general comments and and Aspire programmes, in-depth business reviews, observations in addition to responding to specific questions.
attendance at external seminars and briefings from management and external advisers covering topics such as The feedback from the assessments was collated by the corporate governance updates, regulatory developments, company secretary, reviewed with the chairman and presented changes in remuneration regulation and practice, accounting to the board for discussion in June 2017. changes and risk modelling.
The results of the evaluation were broadly similar to the Training and development records are maintained by the assessment undertaken in the previous year, with positive company secretary and reviewed annually by the chairman scores recorded across the different areas covered in the and each individual director.
Among other things, there was agreement that the board possesses an appropriate mix of competencies, that Company secretary time at board and committee meetings is used effectively and The company secretary is responsible for ensuring that board that the committees improve the overall effectiveness of the procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed.
The observations made by directors in their responses He is responsible for advising the board, through the chairman, and the verbal feedback provided at the board meeting were on all governance matters.
All directors have direct access to the insightful.
In their discussion of the results, the directors services and advice of the company secretary, who also acts as considered, among other things, the positive impact of secretary to each of the board committees.
Directors are able to changes made during the year to the way in which the board take independent external professional advice to assist with the discusses strategy, suggestions for areas where additional performance of their duties at the companys expense.
periodic technical updates could be provided to directors, and developments in the papers provided to directors for meetings.
Conflicts of Interest The articles of association include provisions giving the directors The overall conclusion of the evaluation was that the board and authority to approve conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of its committees continue to operate effectively.
interest as permitted under the Companies Act 2006.
The last externally facilitated review of the board and its A procedure has been established, whereby actual and potential committees took place in 2015.
In accordance with the Code, conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed and appropriate in the 2017 18 financial year, the board intends to carry out an authorisation sought, prior to the appointment of any new externally facilitated review of its effectiveness and that of its director or if a new conflict arises.
The decision to authorise a committees.
Details of the review will be provided in next years conflict of interest can only be made by non-conflicted directors Annual Report.
Governance Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 59 Directors performance The groups risk and control framework is designed to allow During the financial year, the chairman holds regular meetings the capture of business opportunities while maintaining an with individual directors at which, among other things, their appropriate balance of risk and reward within the groups individual performance is discussed.
These discussions form agreed risk appetite.
It further ensures that the risks to which part of the basis for recommending the reappointment of the group is, or may become, exposed are appropriately directors at the companys AGM.
These discussions include identified, and that those which the group chooses to take are consideration of the directors performance and contribution to managed, controlled and, where necessary, mitigated, so that the board and its committees, their time commitment and the the group is not subject to material unexpected loss.
The group reviews and adjusts its risk appetite annually as part Chairmans performance of the strategy setting process.
This aligns risk-taking with the It is the boards practice for the senior independent director to achievement of strategic objectives.
Adherence to appetite is lead an annual performance assessment in respect of the monitored by the groups risk committees.
chairman, which involves a review with the other non-executive directors, without the chairman being present, and separate Throughout the year the Risk Committee undertakes a robust consultation with the chief executive.
The senior independent assessment of the principal risks facing the group, and reviews director subsequently provides feedback to the chairman.
reports from the risk function on the processes that support Given the recent appointment of Mike Biggs as chairman, a the management and mitigation of those risks.
A summary of review of his performance has not yet been undertaken and the groups principal risks and uncertainties is provided on this will be done prior to 31 July 2018. page 16.
Directors fitness and propriety On an ongoing basis the Risk Committee, along with the Audit In line with its regulatory obligations, the group undertakes Committee, also reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of the annual reviews of the fitness and propriety of all those in Senior groups risk management and internal control arrangements in Manager Functions, including all of the companys directors relation to the groups strategy and risk profile for the financial and a number of other senior executives.
This covers all material controls, including financial, comprises assessments of individuals honesty, integrity and operational and compliance controls.
On the basis of its own reputation: financial soundness: competence and capability: review, the board considers that it has in place adequate systems and continuing professional development.
This years reviews and controls with regard to the groups profile and strategy.
have confirmed the fitness and propriety of all of the companys directors and other senior executives who perform Senior The risk management framework is based on the concept of Manager Functions.
three lines of defence, as set out in the table on page 60, and the key principles underlying risk management in the group are: Risk and Control Framework business management own all the risks assumed throughout The board has overall responsibility for maintaining a system of the group and are responsible for their management on a internal control to ensure that an effective risk management day-to-day basis to ensure that risk and return are balanced: and oversight process operates across the group.
The risk the board and business management promote a culture in management framework and associated governance which risks are identified, assessed and reported in an open, arrangements are designed to ensure that there is a clear transparent and objective manner: organisational structure with well defined, transparent and the overriding priority is to protect the groups long-term consistent lines of responsibility and effective processes to viability and produce sustainable medium to long-term identify, manage, monitor and report the risks to which the revenue streams: group is, or might become, exposed.
The board has a well risk functions are independent of the businesses and provide defined risk appetite with risk appetite measures which are oversight of and advice on the management of risk across integrated into decision-making, monitoring and reporting the group: processes, with early warning trigger levels set to drive the risk management activities across the group are required corrective action before overall tolerance levels are proportionate to the scale and complexity of the groups reached.
The risk framework, through key committees, individual businesses: including the Risk Committee and Audit Committee, is the risk mitigation and control activities are commensurate with mechanism that ensures the board receives comprehensive the degree of risk: and risk information in a timely manner.
risk management and control supports decision-making.
Identification, measurement and management of risk are fundamental to the success of the group.
Over the past 12months the group has continued to strengthen its risk management framework and further develop the organisations risk committees, at both a group and business level, and these continue to work efficiently and effectively.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 60 Corporate Governance Report continued Risk Management Framework First line of defence Second line of defence Third line of defence The Businesses Risk and Compliance Internal Audit Group Risk and Compliance Committee Risk Committee Audit Committee Reports to the Risk Committee Reports to the board Reports to the board Chief executive delegates to divisional Risk Committee delegates to the group Audit Committee mandates the head of and operating business heads day-tochief risk officer day-to-day responsibility group internal audit with day-to-day day responsibility for risk management, for oversight and challenge on risk responsibility for independent assurance.
regulatory compliance, internal control related issues.
and conduct in running their divisions Internal audit provides independent or businesses.
Risk functions including compliance assurance on: provide support and independent the first and second lines of defence: Business management has day-to-day challenge on: appropriateness effectiveness of ownership, responsibility and the design and operation of the risk internal controls: and accountability for risks: framework: effectiveness of policy implementation.
identifying and assessing risks: risk assessment: managing and controlling risks: risk appetite and strategy: Key Features measuring risk key risk indicators early performance management: Draws on deep knowledge of the group warning indicators : risk reporting: and its businesses: mitigating risks: adequacy of mitigation plans: Independent assurance on the activities reporting risks: and group risk profile: and of the firm, including the risk committee structure and reporting.
management framework: Assesses the appropriateness and Key Features Key Features effectiveness of internal controls: and Promotes a strong risk culture and Overarching risk oversight unit takes Incorporates review of culture and focus on sustainable risk-adjusted an integrated view of risk qualitative conduct.
returns: and quantitative : Implements the risk framework: Supports through developing and Promotes a culture of adhering to limits advising on risk strategies: and managing risk exposures: Facilitates constructive check and Promotes a culture of customer focus challenge critical friend trusted and appropriate behaviours: adviser: and Ongoing monitoring of positions and Oversight of business conduct.
management and control of risks: Portfolio optimisation: and Self-assessment.
Governance Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 61 Substantial Shareholdings 16 September 2017 31 July 2017 Voting Voting rights rights % % Standard Life Investments1 12.31 Aberdeen Asset Managers1 4.95 Standard Life Aberdeen1 17.29 M&G Investment Management 5.77 5.77 Blackrock, Inc. 5.04 5.04 Royal London Asset Management 4.96 4.96 Norges Bank 3.00 3.11 1 Following the merger of Standard Life plc and Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, the company was notified on 16 August 2017 of the aggregated interest of the combined Standard Life Aberdeen plc group in the companys ordinary shares.
This notification, which remained in place at 16 September 2017, is reflected in the table above at 16 September 2017 and effectively replaced the separate notifications made previously by Standard Life Investments and Aberdeen Asset Managers.
The table above sets out details of the interests in voting rights The board is regularly updated on the IR programme.
An IR notified to the company under the provisions of the FCAs report, summarising share price performance, share register Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
Information composition and feedback from any investor meetings, is provided by the company pursuant to the Disclosure Guidance produced for each board meeting.
and Transparency Rules is publicly available via the regulatory information services and on the companys website.
From time to time, the group runs seminars covering different parts of its business to provide additional detail to investors Substantial shareholders do not have different voting rights from andanalysts.
Relevant presentations, together with all those of other shareholders.
resultsannouncements, annual reports, regulatory news announcements and other relevant documents, are Engagement with Shareholders availableonthe IR section of the companys website Investor relations www.
The group has a comprehensive investor relations IR programme to ensure that current and potential shareholders, Annual General Meeting aswell as financial analysts, are kept informed of the groups The board regards the companys AGM as an important performance and have appropriate access to management to opportunity for private shareholders to discuss the group directly understand the companys business and strategy.
All shareholders have the opportunity to raise questions with the board at the AGM, either in person or by The board believes it is important to maintain open and submitting written questions in advance.
The chairman of each constructive relationships with all shareholders.
The groups IR of the board committees attends the AGM and all other directors team, reporting to the group finance director, are responsible for are expected to attend the meeting.
All directors attended the managing a structured programme of meetings, calls and companys AGM in 2016. presentations around the financial reporting calendar, as well as throughout the year.
The team regularly seeks investor feedback, By order of the board directly and via the groups corporate brokers, which is communicated to the board and management.
The chief executive and group finance director meet with the groups Alex Dunn major institutional shareholders on a regular basis.
In addition, Company Secretary the chairman arranges to meet with major institutional shareholders to discuss matters such as strategy, corporate 26 September 2017 governance and succession planning.
Separately, the senior independent director is available, should shareholders wish to discuss any concerns they may have.
As discussed further in theDirectors Remuneration Report, the chairman of the Remuneration Committee takes part in consultations with majorinstitutional shareholders on remuneration issues from time to time.
