The Board and Group General Counsel and Company Secretary at the strategy day in July 2017.
Mike Toms BOARD OF DIRECTORS AUDIT NOMINATION BOARD COMMITTEE BOARD COMMITTEE COMMITTEE ON EXECUTIVE ON NON-EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE DIRECTORS' DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION REMUNERATION Pages Pages Pages Page 46 50 44 45 51 70 43 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS GROUP GENERAL HEAD OFFICE REGIONAL COUNSEL AND MANAGEMENT TEAM CHAIRMEN COMPANY SECRETARY DIVISIONAL BOARDS 40 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information The Board has put in place the in the day-to-day running of the Statement about applying following structure which allows it to Groups business.
the Principles of good provide entrepreneurial leadership of ensuring the effective governance the Group and to delegate authority implementation of Board decisions.
The Board acknowledges the for operational matters through a importance of, and is committed to the framework of prudent and effective reviewing the Groups organisational principle of, achieving and maintaining controls, which enable risk to be structure and recommending a high standard of corporate assessed and managed.
governance and in promoting a together with the Chairman, positive culture within the Group.
Chairman providing coherent leadership of the We have applied the Principles of promoting the highest standards Company, including representing of integrity, probity and corporate good governance, including both the the Group to customers, suppliers, Main Principles and the Supporting governance throughout the Group government, shareholders, and particularly at Board level Principles, by complying with the Code.
financial institutions, employees, Further explanations of how the Main including ensuring that the correct the media, the community and the cultural tone is set from the top.
Principles and Supporting Principles general public.
have been applied are set out below ensuring that the Company complies keeping the Chairman informed of all and in the Report of the Board on with the requirements of the UK important matters.
Corporate Governance Code and approving the purchase of all adheres to the highest standards strategic land.
At the date of this report the Board overseeing the health and leading the Board and ensuring consists of nine directors whose names, safety, sales and marketing and its effectiveness.
responsibilities and other details appear technical departments.
Currently four of During the Chief Executives absence the directors are executive and five ensuring the directors on medical leave his responsibilities are non-executive.
The Chairman receive accurate, timely and have been shared between the was, until 14 August 2017, a nonclear information.
Executive Chairman, executive executive Chairman but is temporarily directors and the Group General acting as Executive Chairman while ensuring effective communication Counsel and Company Secretary.
the Chief Executive is absent on with shareholders.
ensuring the effective conduct of Group Finance Director There have been and will be over the Board meetings and facilitating the devising and implementing the coming months a number of further effective contribution of all directors financial strategy and policies of the changes to the membership of the and the Group General Counsel and Group including treasury and tax.
I am pleased to welcome Company Secretary.
three new directors to the Board.
developing budgets and leading the evaluation of the Jason Honeyman was appointed on financial plans.
performance of the Board, its 1 September 2017 as Chief Operating committees and individual directors.
responsible for the Groups investor Officer.
To prepare for the retirement relations activities.
of Mike Toms and John Cuthbert overseeing the induction of any new we have appointed two new nondirectors and the development of overseeing the CR, finance, IT and executive directors.
joined the Board on 1 October 2017 ensuring that the views of and Ian McHoul will join the Board on Chief Operating Officer shareholders are communicated to 1 February 2018.
Mike Toms will step the Board as a whole.
supervising the activities of down from the Board at the conclusion the Regional Chairmen and of the AGM on 13 December 2017, encouraging constructive divisional senior management, and John Cuthbert will step down relations between the executive overseeing their development and during 2018. and non-executive directors and succession planning.
the Group General Counsel and The Board sets the strategic aims, Company Secretary.
ensures that the necessary resources including finances, people and approves land purchases over overseeing the activities of materials are in place for the Company specified limits.
to meet these objectives and also approving land purchases within reviews management performance.
It defines the Companys values implementing the strategy agreed by and standards and ensures that its overseeing divisional the Board.
obligations to its shareholders are expansion plans.
leading the executive directors and the senior management team 41 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued land acquisition, contracts and The non-executive directors met twice Senior independent agreements, communication, Board during the year, including once without non-executive director membership and other appointments, the Chairman present.
acting as a sounding board for the remuneration, delegation of authority, Chairman, executive directors and Paul Hampden Smith was unable to corporate governance matters, Group the Group General Counsel and attend one Board meeting during policies and other miscellaneous items.
the year and there were no other In addition, it has a series of matters absences from any other Board or being available to shareholders.
that are dealt with at regular Board committee meetings.
leading the annual appraisal of meetings including both an operational and a strategic review, a financial the Chairman.
Board activity during review, major land acquisitions, major theyear holding meetings with the nonprojects, risk, health and safety, HR, executive directors without the The Board visited our divisions in reporting requirements, corporate Chairman present.
Durham, East Midlands, South Midlands governance and internal control and West Midlands to engage directly including any whistleblowing issues.
Non-executive directors with the divisional teams.
They also visited our Nine Elms, Highgate and constructively challenging Board effectiveness Greenwich sites in London as well as management.
All directors have access to the advice meeting with senior management from contributing to the development and services of the Group General our North London, South London and Counsel and Company Secretary and of strategy.
All of the directors may scrutinising the performance We have a schedule of matters which take independent professional advice of management.
are considered at each Board meeting at the Groups expense where they and also receive presentations and judge it necessary to discharge their ensuring integrity of financial reports from Head Office, regional and responsibilities as directors.
information and financial controls divisional management and external and ensuring systems of risk In accordance with the Code, all of advisers throughout the year.
the directors will retire from the Board In-between Board meetings the and offer themselves for re-election or determining appropriate levels directors receive updates from the election at the forthcoming AGM, apart of executive director and Group Chairman or the Group General from Mike Toms who is stepping down General Counsel and Company Counsel and Company Secretary to at the conclusion of the AGM and will Secretary remuneration.
advise them of any significant matters therefore not be seeking re-election.
appointing and removing executive affecting the Group or its performance.
None of the executive directors hold directors and succession planning.
During the year the work carried out by serving on Board committees.
the Board included: The Board, its committees and the individual directors are subject to strategy.
Group General Counsel and annual performance evaluation and considering regular reports on KPIs Company Secretary all directors are subject to annual refrom the Chief Executive.
The Board supporting the Chairman and Chief regularly reviews the directors other Executive in fulfilling their duties.
interests and appointments to ensure keeping the Board regularly updated consideration of recommendations that there are no conflicts of interest.
The Chairman is responsible for leading responsible for legal compliance the Board and ensuring it operates scrutiny of reports from the Chief throughout the Group including Executive, Group Finance Director, effectively.
The directors possess ensuring policies and procedures an appropriate balance of skills and Group General Counsel and are maintained and updated on a Company Secretary and senior experience to meet the requirements regular basis.
management at each Board meeting.
providing support to the Board During the year there were seven considering regular reports on and committees.
health and safety matters from the Board meetings, three Audit Committee meetings, four meetings of the Board Chief Executive.
overseeing the legal, company Committee on Executive Directors secretarial, HR and Head Office land approval of major land purchases.
Remuneration, one meeting of the and planning departments.
Board Committee on Non-Executive Board evaluation.
The Board has adopted a schedule of Directors Remuneration and three approval of bank facility agreements.
matters which are specifically reserved Nomination Committee meetings.
for its decision, which includes strategy The Board normally holds a separate receiving presentations from each of and management, structure and meeting at least once a year dedicated the three Regional Chairmen on the capital, financial reporting and controls, almost entirely to strategy.
performance of the divisions under internal controls covering both financial their responsibility.
and operational areas of the business, 42 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information receiving presentations from The Chairman is not regarded as The evaluation concluded that, Health and Safety, HR, IT, Sales and independent as he was formerly overall, the Board and its committees Marketing and Technical Head Chief Executive of the Company.
The Company considers all of its other Statement on Corporate Governance non-executive directors, excluding above provides further information on approval of new or updated Group the Chairman, to be independent, this years Board evaluation process policies and procedures including as defined in the Code.
Each of the and progress made against the areas Anti-Bribery and Corruption independent non-executive directors for improvement which were identified Policy, Anti-Slavery Policy, Data has, at all times, acted independently of in last years evaluation process.
Protection Compliance Policy and management and has no relationship Whistleblowing Procedure.
which would materially affect the The Board committees exercise of his or her independent approval of revised terms of The Board has formally constituted judgement and decision-making.
Audit, Remuneration and Nomination The senior independent non-executive Committees.
The terms of reference for approval of major IT expenditure.
director is John Cuthbert, with whom these committees are available either approval of the Groups shareholders may raise any queries or on request from the Group General insurance programme.
Counsel and Company Secretary, at the AGM or on our website: approval of the Groups Slavery and Whenever any director considers that www.
Human Trafficking Statement for he or she is interested in any contract 2015 16. or arrangement to which the Group is Other committees of the Board are or may be a party, due notice is given formed to perform certain specific approval of the Annual Report and to the Board.
No such instances have functions as and when required.
Accounts for 2015 16. arisen during the year.
The work carried out by each of the approval of preliminary Board committees during the year announcement, interim results and Board evaluation is described in the reports of the trading updates.
This years evaluation of the committee chairmen which follow.
recommending the final dividend performance and effectiveness of for 2015 16 to be approved by the Board and its committees was Board Committee on shareholders and approval of the externally facilitated by Lintstock Non-Executive Directors interim dividend for 2016 17.
Limited who has no other connection Remuneration with the Company.
Training and development The Board Committee on NonEach director and the Group General Executive Directors Remuneration The Board receives appropriate Counsel and Company Secretary comprises the executive directors and training and updates on various completed a questionnaire in relation is chaired by the Chief Executive.
matters relevant to its role and to the performance of the Board and responsibilities, as and when required.
any committees of which they were This committee meets at least once a Training needs are reviewed as part of a member.
This was followed by the year to review and recommend the the performance evaluation process Chairman meeting individually with terms, conditions and remuneration of and on an ongoing basis.
each director and the Group General the non-executive directors excluding Counsel and Company Secretary to the Chairman.
Last year it met on one Following this years evaluation no discuss the points raised.
occasion to review the fees and terms specific training needs were identified, of appointment of the non-executive however, the Board does receive The Chairmans performance was directors and receives advice from the annual training on health and safety assessed by the senior independent Group General Counsel and Company legislation and this year also received non-executive director, who Secretary and external remuneration formal site induction health and safety considered the views of the other consultants when required.
training at our Nine Elms site.
directors and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary as Non-executive directors attend external part of that process.
training sessions designed specifically for non-executives and members The Chairman evaluated the of Board committees as and when performance and effectiveness of required, which this year included each of the directors.
chairman reviewed the responses to the committee questionnaires before Board balance and reaching their conclusions on how the committees had performed during the independence year.
The Board, led by the Chairman, The roles of Chairman and Chief evaluated its own performance.
Executive are separate, with a clear division of responsibilities ensuring a balance of responsibility and authority at the head of the Group.
43 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017
