Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 C O R P O R AT E G O V ER N A N C E S TAT E MEN T C HA IR MA NS IN T R O D U C T I O N SIR GEORGE BUCKLEY CHAIRMAN late Dame Helen Alexander and from Sir John Parker in the During 2017 the Smiths leadership team have continued areas of women in leadership positions and ethnic diversity on the path of building our new future.
respectively, and are committed to staffing diverse Board and senior leadership teams.
We firmly believe that diversity Elsewhere in this Annual Report you will read about our story improves our performance as it produces better ideas.
how we are creating a more vibrant, faster growing and innovative company and how this will benefit our investors, employees and Board succession and composition continues to be a priority for other stakeholders alike.
In this Corporate Governance Review you the Board and I was delighted that Noel Tata was appointed to the will read about the part your Smiths Board of Directors has played Board as an additional non-executive director in January 2017. during the year and our plans for the future.
Noel brings a very valuable and distinct contribution to Smiths with his current experience and connections in those economies The building blocks of any great company include ensuring there is where we are focusing on higher levels of growth.
In May 2017 a strong framework of company governance.
This should never be Chris OShea stepped down as Chief Financial Officer to pursue his done with a tick box mindset: it needs to be engaged, thoughtful career outside the Group.
I was delighted that Bill Seeger agreed and effective.
Boards need to take the lead to set a positive culture to take on the role of Interim Chief Financial Officer whilst we and to make sure that good governance forms a firm foundation for carried out a search for a replacement.
I was also delighted that decision making throughout the company.
The Smiths Way was Mark Seligman agreed to take on a key non-executive role as Audit launched in 2017 and this framework provides our shared set of Committee Chair.
I am personally grateful to Bill and to Mark, and values, a common approach to strategy, and a commitment to to Anne Quinn as Chair of the Remuneration Committee, for all the excellence across all our businesses.
support they have shown to me and to Andy over recent months.
As further detailed in its report, the Nomination Committee continues Our ambition for Smiths is one with innovation and growth in its to keep Board composition and succession plans under regular DNA, but also where colleagues act with integrity and respect review, but with an eye to maintaining a good measure of stability towards each other and keep each other safe.
It is often said that the and continuity during a time of significant change for the Group.
true test of integrity is that you do the right thing even when no one is watching, and I can assure you that the Board gives a great deal of As Chairman I am responsible for leading an effective Board focus to corporate governance in its widest and deepest sense.
The and I am pleased to report that your Board has been effective Audit Committee reviewed the Groups ethics and compliance during the year.
Details of the annual appraisal process and programme during the year, which has led to a number of significant the actions and improvements that we agreed to drive through improvements.
We also strengthened our anti-slavery compliance 2017 are set out on pages 89 and 90 of this Report.
I want to programme and published an updated Smiths Modern Slavery take this opportunity to record my thanks to all members of Statement which affirms our commitment not to tolerate this in any the Board for their hard work and support throughout the part of our business or supply chain.
I hope you find this report interesting and enlightening as it details the work the Board and its Committees have Another fundamental and vital building block is people.
The carried out on your behalf during the year.
I strongly urge you Nomination Committee of the Board sponsored the new Groupto attend this years shareholders Annual General Meeting wide process for talent and succession planning across Smiths and take the opportunity to engage with us in person.
and we continue to work to achieve an appropriate balance of experience, skills, domain knowledge and background in both SIR GEORGE BUCKLEY the Boardroom and at senior leadership levels of the Group.
CHAIRMAN We are mindful of the reports from Sir Philip Hampton and the 82 GO VERNANCE Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules As the Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange we This corporate governance statement is incorporated into comply with the Code.
A copy of the Code published in 2016, the Directors Report by reference and is compliant with and applying to financial years beginning on or after 17 June the corporate governance statement requirements of the 2016, can be found at www.
For the year ended FCAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
31 July 2017, and at the date of this report, we applied the main principles and complied with the provisions of the Code.
B O A R D S TAT E M E N T S Requirement Board Statement Where to find further information Compliance with the UK Corporate For the year ended 31 July 2017, and at the date of this Page 83 Governance Code report, the Company has been in full compliance with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Going concern basis of accounting The directors continue to adopt the going concern basis Page 124 of accounting in preparing the annual accounts of the Company and the Group.
Viability statement The directors have assessed the longer-term prospects Page 57 of the Group and they have a reasonable expectation the Group will remain viable for the period being assessed, and will continue to operate and meet its liabilities as they fall due.
Robust assessment of the principal risks The Board carried out a robust assessment of the Page 93 facing the Group principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
Annual review of systems of risk The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, monitored, Page 93 management and internal control reviewed and assessed the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Board considers the 2017 Annual Report to present a Page 97 fair, balanced and understandable overview of the Groups position and performance.
83 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 C O R P O R AT E G O V E R N A N C E S TAT E M E N T C O N T I N U E D B OA R D AC T I V I T IE S DURIN G F Y 2 017 Principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code Activity in FY2017 Leadership Held a Board strategy week to set Smiths vision for five years Oversight of M&A, including acquisition of Morpho Detection and its integration with Smiths Detection Board members attended Smiths Global Leadership Conference at UCLA Sponsored the launch of the Smiths Way, culture and values for the Group Nomination Committee sponsored a new Group-wide process for talent, succession and strategic workforce planning Effectiveness Actioned the Board evaluation improvements Appointed a new non-executive director Noel Tata Reviewed the Board skills matrix and discussed succession planning for the Board Search for a new Chief Financial Officer Accountability Held a risk-focused Audit Committee meeting Agreed the Audit Tender timetable Added cyber security to the Audit Committee terms of reference Reviewed the financial statements to ensure they are fair, balanced and understandable Monitored the work programme for managing modern slavery risks in the Groups business and supply chain, and approved the updated Smiths Modern Slavery Statement Remuneration Considered and approved annual incentive plan payouts and set targets for the new financial year Approved the salary proposal for the Chief Executive, members of the Executive Committee and reviewed fees for the Chairman Determined Chris OSheas arrangements on stepping down from the Board, and agreed Bill Seegers package for assuming the role of Interim Chief Financial Officer Relations with shareholders Held the 2016 AGM Met with shareholders and brokers regarding director changes Sponsored and reviewed the 2017 investor survey Held a number of investor roadshows and conferences 84 GO VERNANCE Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 L E A D E R S HI P The Board of directors is collectively responsible for ensuring There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Board the long-term success of Smiths.
This includes reviewing and and the Executive Committee and senior management, who are approving strategy in order to create sustainable value for the responsible for the day-to-day management of the business, shareholders, as well as setting the Companys culture and values.
including the execution of strategy set by the Board.
This is underpinned by a strong framework of good governance, including the Boards responsibility for setting risk appetite.
The role of the Board The directors are responsible for the long-term success of the Group, Governance structure and in order to retain control over decision-making there is a formal In order to fulfil their collective responsibility effectively, the schedule of matters which have been reserved for the decision of Board of directors has established the Audit, Nomination and the Board, as opposed to those matters that are delegated to Remuneration Committees.
Each Committee has authority management.
These matters include approval of the following: delegated to it by the Board, and their responsibilities, activities and membership are described in this corporate Group strategy, business plans and budgets governance statement.
The full terms of reference half-yearly financial reports and the Annual Report and Accounts for each Board Committee have been approved by the acquisition or divestment of significant companies or businesses Board and are available online at www.
remuneration policy for directors and other senior executives changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board the issuance of Smiths Group plc shares GOVERNANCE MODEL Board and Board Committees BOARD Responsible for ensuring the Groups long-term success by creating sustainable shareholder value.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE Reviews and makes recommendations to Makes recommendations to the Board on Monitors the integrity of financial the Board on the structure, size and the remuneration framework, including statements, risk management and composition of the Board and Board the remuneration of the Chairman, internal control systems, and internal and Committees, and succession planning for executive directors and senior external audit.
See page 94 for more information See page 91 for more information See page 103 for more information Executive Management structure EXECUTIVE INVESTMENT DISCLOSURE ACQUISITIONS AND COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE DIVESTMENTS COMMITTEE Approves mergers, Develops and recommends Assesses high-value and Advises the Chief Executive acquisitions, disposals and strategy to the Board, high-risk proposals, capital and the Board in accordance joint ventures within the recommends budgets and expenditure, asset disposal with the Disclosure Policy.
parameters delegated by plans to the Board, executes and special revenue Makes recommendations Board.
strategy, and drives expenditure projects that will concerning the identification performance to budget require Board or Chief of inside information and the and plans.
timing and method of disclosure.
3 In addition to the above there are a number of functional committees which include the Environmental Health and Safety Steering Committee, i Smiths innovation forum, and the Business Ethics Council.
85 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 L E A D E R S HIP C O N T I N U E D Only the Board has the authority to approve any changes to the formal matters reserved for its decision-making.
The full list was Chairman reviewed in July 2017 and can be found online at www.
Responsibilities include: To ensure that they continue to operate effectively the directors have at least six formal Board meetings a year.
Board meeting leading the Board, including ensuring constructive agendas have been reshaped during the year to include more time relations between executive and non-executive directors to focus on the long term, and less on backward-looking financial the Boards continued effectiveness and integrity information and performance.
Board agendas include a review of promoting high standards of corporate governance elements of the Group strategy and its execution at each meeting, ensuring effective communication with shareholders in addition to the meetings focused on strategy which take place in May each year.
Regular matters for review by the Board, including Chief Executive the Groups financial performance, divisional business plans and Responsibilities include: progress against them, budgets, mergers and acquisitions, material investments, large projects, the people plan and possible developing and recommending strategy to the Board threats to the business, are all considered by the Board under the setting and embedding an appropriate culture for the framework of the agreed strategy.
The Board also assesses the Group and communicating the tone from the top, with a implementation of strategy within a framework of prudent and focus on ethical behaviour and health and safety effective controls: a key part of ongoing risk management is leading the Executive Committee ensuring that the strategy in place remains fit for purpose.
ensuring strategic and financial objectives and business KPIs are met The Board is responsible for steering our culture and our shared effectively managing stakeholders, including shareholders, values of integrity, ownership, respect, customer focus and customers and employees passion.
The Board sets the tone from the top and oversees key programmes, including ethics and compliance, health and safety Senior Independent Director and our people plan.
In 2017 the Board supported the launch of the Responsibilities include: Smiths Way, a shared way of working that includes our values, operating model and strategy.
As part of this we celebrate the acting as a sounding board for the Chairman best examples of excellence in Smiths with our annual Excellence being available to shareholders where their concerns Awards, and members of the Board attended the gala dinner cannot be resolved by the Chairman or executive for winners in April 2017. management if necessary, acting as an intermediary for directors Division of responsibilities While the Board is collectively responsible for the success of Non-executive directors the Group, there is a clear division of responsibilities between Responsibilities include: running the Board and the executive responsibility for running the business.
The Board recognises the importance of ensuring that no helping to formulate strategy one individual should have unfettered powers of decision-making, providing constructive challenge in Board discussions and has clearly defined roles for the Chairman and the Chief assessing whether the systems of internal control and Executive which have been agreed by the Board.
A summary of the risk management are sufficiently robust responsibilities of the Board are identified in the adjacent table.
as members of the Board Committees, fulfilling the responsibilities of those Committees set out in their In order to fulfil his role effectively the Chief Executive is supported terms of reference by the Executive Committee.
The Committee normally meets once a month, and includes the five divisional Presidents, the Asia Company Secretary President and the functional heads.
The Committees Responsibilities include: responsibilities include ensuring the Groups continued financial performance, day-to-day management of the Companys business maintaining the Groups governance framework and and the implementation and delivery of the strategy set by advising on matters of governance and legislative and the Board.
regulatory developments ensuring that the directors are provided with all relevant information in a timely manner facilitating new director inductions and ongoing director training 86 GO VERNANCE Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 EF F E C T I V EN E S S Board composition Time commitment The Board composition as at 22 September 2017 is detailed in Each of the directors must be able to allocate sufficient time to the attendance table on page 88, and the relevant skills and the work of the Board in order to discharge their responsibilities experience each director brings to the Board are described in effectively.
The current directorships in listed companies and other their biographies on pages 78 to 81. significant commitments of the Chairman and the non-executive directors are shown on pages 78 to 81.
Ahead of his appointment In order to operate effectively the Board and its Committees must as non-executive director in January 2017, the Board assessed be comprised of a suitable balance of tenure, skills, experience, Noel Tatas other commitments and agreed that, as many of his knowledge and independence.
The Board and the Nomination other appointments are as part of his employment in the Tata Committee keep this under regular review, and in 2017 concluded Group, he is able to commit sufficient time to the work of the that the range of experience and diversity of skills has allowed the Smiths Board.
Board to effectively discharge its duties and responsibilities.
The Board considers the external appointments of each of Diversity the directors twice yearly, and for 2017 it is confirmed that the The directors believe that a mix of experience, interests and Chairman and the non-executive directors have sufficient time to personalities ensures the effective functioning of a Board in which fulfil their commitments to Smiths, and that no executive director the dialogue is both challenging and constructive.
The Board holds more than one non-executive directorship of another FTSE currently has no quota in place to achieve diversity.
The diagrams below illustrate the independence of the Board Independence and also its composition and balance as at 22 September 2017.
As identified in the table on page 88, over the financial year at In particular, the tenure of longer standing Board members least half of the Board members excluding the Chairman were and more recent appointments, ensuring both continuity and independent non-executive directors.
Sir George Buckley was fresh perspectives, and the diversity in gender and nationality considered to be independent on appointment as Chairman.
Board keeps the independence of its members under continued review and in July 2017 the Nomination Committee assessed the independence of each of the non-executive directors and concluded that all of them were independent.
More information on the work of EXECUTIVE BALANCE the Board regarding succession planning and director tenure can be found in the Report of the Nomination Committee on page 92.
Chairman 1 11% Specific points for Board consideration over the past financial year Executive directors 2 22% Non-executive directors 6 67% are set out below: Bill Seeger This includes Bill Seeger, Chief Financial Officer Following his appointment as Interim Chief Financial Officer, Bill Seeger is no longer considered an independent non-executive director.
A search for a new Chief Financial Officer is underway and the Board expects Bill Seegers appointment to be for a short period.
GENDER BALANCE When a new Chief Financial Officer is appointed, Bill Seeger will resume his role as a non-executive director, and the Board will Female 2 22% Male 7 78% review his independence in light of the guidance in the UK Corporate Governance Code and criteria for independence determined by the Board.
Sir Kevin Tebbit As Sir Kevin Tebbit has served on the Board for 11 years a rigorous review of his performance was undertaken.
The Board concluded NATIONALITY BALANCE that Sir Kevin continues to demonstrate the qualities of objectivity and independence, and to contribute to constructive challenge and UK 4 45% debate at meetings, and therefore should continue as Senior New Zealand 1 11% Independent Director.
Through a year of significant change on the France 1 11% India 1 11% Board Sir Kevin fulfilled an important role, supporting the Chairman US 2 22% and making himself available to investors and the other directors.
Conflicts of interest Directors must avoid situations where they have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or may possibly conflict with the Companys TENURE OF THE BOARD interests.
The Companys Articles of Association allow the Board 1-2 years 3 33% to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts where appropriate, 3-5 years 2 22% and there are procedures in place for directors to report any Over 5 years 4 45% potential or actual conflicts to the other members of the Board for their authorisation.
87 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 EF F E C T I V EN E S S C O N T I N U E D A Register of Conflicts and Potential Conflicts is maintained by the Company Secretary and the directors are advised of the requirement to seek Board approval for any new situations which may present a conflict as they arise.
In September and March the Board formally reviews the Conflicts Register, considering the conflicts disclosed and authorisations given, including any conditions determined by the Board.
In the past financial year there was a temporary cross-directorship when Tanya Fratto joined the Mondi Group Board on 1 January 2017, as Anne Quinn was a serving non-executive director.
The Smiths Board did not consider this cross-directorship a conflict of interest, or an independence issue, as neither director held an executive position on the Mondi Board.
Anne Quinn retired from the Mondi Board on 11 May 2017.
Board meetings and visits The table below shows the directors attendance at Board meetings held during the financial year ended 31 July 2017.
In order to discharge their responsibilities effectively all directors should be able to allocate sufficient time to Smiths, and the table discloses the number of meetings that each director attended out of those that each was eligible to attend.
Board meeting attendance Eligible Role Independent Attended to attend Current directors Sir George Buckley Chairman 7 7 Andy Reynolds Smith Chief Executive 7 7 Bill Seeger Interim Chief Financial Officer 7 7 Bruno Angelici Non-executive director 7 7 Tanya Fratto Non-executive director 7 7 Anne Quinn Non-executive director 7 7 Mark Seligman Non-executive director 7 7 1 Noel Tata Non-executive director 3 4 Sir Kevin Tebbit Senior Independent Director and non-executive director 7 7 Former director 2 Chris OShea Former Chief Financial Officer 5 6 1 Noel Tata was unable to attend one meeting due to a prior commitment arranged before he joined the Board 2 Chris OShea did not attend a meeting at which his retirement from the Board as Chief Financial Officer was on the agenda The directors attend additional meetings outside the formal meeting schedule, as well as making site visits to the various global divisions.
To ensure that the Board is kept up to date with senior management priorities and challenges, and in order to gauge the culture embedded within the business, invitations to Board meetings are regularly extended to divisional presidents, business managers, heads of functions and external advisers.
During the year the Board had a number of opportunities to meet and hear from Smiths employees, including at Board dinners and during Board and individual director visits to sites.
To ensure the continued effectiveness of the Board, and to allow different members to fulfil their separate responsibilities, after each Board meeting the Chairman meets the non-executive directors without the executive directors present.
He also has separate meetings with the Senior Independent Director and the Chairs of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director meets the other non-executive directors without the Chairman present at least annually.
BOARD VISIT TO SMITHS DETECTION SITE, NEWARK, USA In 2017 the directors travelled to Palo Alto, USA.
Their itinerary included visiting the Smiths Detection Site formerly Morpho Detection in Newark, San Francisco, where they spent time with the senior management team and met other employees informally.
In addition they toured the sites operations and were given presentations on a number of matters including the integration of the legacy Morpho Detection business with the Smiths Detection business, the Morpho business and its products, customers and financial performance.
88 GO VERNANCE Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 Appointments to the Board Advice and insurance The Nomination Committee has a formal, rigorous and transparent All directors have access to the advice and services of the process in place for the appointment of new directors to the Board.
Company Secretary, and a procedure is in place for them to take Appointments are made based on the merit of the individual, independent professional advice at the Groups expense, should having due regard for the benefits of diversity in its broadest this be required.
The directors and officers of the Smiths Group sense, including gender, ethnicity, nationality, age and experience.
and its subsidiaries have the benefit of a directors and officers Matters considered by the Board prior to all appointments include liability insurance policy.
the following: Re-election agreed Group strategy: It is Company practice for all directors to stand for shareholder the Board skills matrix: election at the first Annual General Meeting AGM following satisfaction that the director is able to allocate sufficient time their appointment.
In addition, the Board has resolved that all to their responsibilities to Smiths: and directors who are willing to continue in office will stand for annual existing succession plans.
re-election by the shareholders at each AGM.
Non-executive directors are appointed for a specified term of three years, Following their appointment to the Board directors undergo an subject to annual re-election at the AGM, and re-appointment induction programme to ensure that they have the necessary for a second three-year term is not automatic.
At the 2017 knowledge and understanding of the Group to contribute AGM the shareholders will be asked to approve a change to to Board discussion and decision-making.
Each directors the Companys Articles of Association to reflect the annual individual experience and background is taken into account, re-election of directors.
Any term for a non-executive director and a programme is developed which is tailored to their own beyond six years is subject to a particularly rigorous review.
This will include meeting senior individuals in the business, receiving copies of previous Board papers, and The Chairman has confirmed that, following the performance visits to operational sites.
The appointment of Noel Tata was reviews undertaken in 2017, the performance of each of the approved in 2016, and he joined the Board on 1 January 2017. directors standing for re-election at this years AGM continues More information about his appointment process can be found to be effective and that they each continue to demonstrate in the Report of the Nomination Committee on page 92. commitment to their respective roles, and dedicate the time necessary to perform their duties.
Information and training provided to the Board In addition to the induction programme for new directors, the Board performance evaluation Board recognises the importance of ongoing training, and The Board undertakes an annual evaluation of its own directors are given the opportunity to continue to update their performance as well as that of its committees and directors.
skills and knowledge on a regular basis throughout their time The appraisal process provides an opportunity for Board members on the Board.
Ongoing training includes receiving twice-yearly to take a step back from the day-to-day board business and governance briefings and technical updates on regulatory consider the Boards effectiveness and to identify areas for further developments.
The Board is regularly presented with updates from development and find any ways of working more efficiently.
each of the divisions to ensure the directors remain aware of their priorities and challenges, and the Board committees are provided In accordance with the Code, an external evaluation is carried with relevant material by external advisers.
The suitability of out every three years.
Sheena Crane carried out an external external courses is kept under review by the Company Secretary, review of the Board for FY2015.
Sheena Crane is independent who ensures that these are sent to Board members regularly.
to the Company and to the directors.
For FY2016 the Board conducted a review with the support of Lintstock Limited Following feedback from the Board evaluation in FY2016 a number Lintstock also provides the software which Smiths uses to of improvements were made to the quality and timeliness of manage its insider lists, however Lintstock is determined to be information received by the directors.
Together with the Chairman and the Company procedures have been put in place to ensure that information Secretary, Lintstock designed a structured set of questionnaires.
received is presented in an appropriate format and contains the The questionnaires focused on areas of specific relevance to level of detail required for directors to fulfil their responsibilities Smiths and also checked on progress against matters identified effectively.
The Company Secretary and her team assist the in the previous evaluation.
Topics addressed included the Chairman and Chief Executive in ensuring that the Board is composition of the Board and its committees, Board dynamics, provided with all relevant information in a timely manner.
time management, Board support and efficiency, the Boards oversight of strategy, risk management and internal controls, succession planning, people issues and priorities for change.
Using online questionnaires, Lintstock produced an anonymised report which was presented to the Board for discussion at its meeting in November 2016.
Overall, the results were positive and a number of actions were agreed.
Progress made against these actions was reviewed by the Board at its meetings in March and September 2017.
89 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 EF F E C T I V EN E S S C O N T I N U E D The Board evaluation for 2017 is underway and is being supported by Lintstock again in order to build on the previous evaluation.
Questionnaires have been provided to the directors and the Company Secretary covering the previous years topics and providing a deeper dive into some key areas.
In addition, a number of priorities were identified during the previous evaluation in terms of improving performance of the Board in FY2017 and these have also been addressed in the survey.
Some of the key areas identified and actions taken or underway are set out below.
2017 Board evaluation actions Evaluation topic Actions Board composition Refreshed Board skills matrix to reflect the updated Smiths strategy Held a Board discussion on succession for key non-executive director roles Board support and efficiency Improvements made to length, focus and clarity of Board papers Strategic oversight and priorities for change Redesigned Board and Board committee agendas to focus more meeting time on key areas of: strategy and execution, M&A and portfolio changes and innovation and technology Culture, people and succession planning Increased Board oversight of people, talent and succession planning, and strengthened link between strategy and people planning processes Increased opportunities for Board members to meet with senior managers and wider population of Smiths employees Risk Introduced more regular deep dives into ethics and compliance Director evaluation During the year the Chairman provided feedback on the performance of individual Board members in one-to-one meetings.
In addition the Senior Independent Director led an evaluation of the Chairmans performance on behalf of the non-executive directors.
Details on executive director performance and remuneration are set out on page 113.
Following this it is confirmed that each Director continues to make an effective and valuable contribution to the Board and to demonstrate the required commitment to their role.
90 GO VERNANCE Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 N O MIN AT I O N C O MMI T T E E SIR GEORGE BUCKLEY CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Committee membership and meeting attendance At the start of the financial year the Nomination Membership and meeting attendance during the year is set out in Committee refreshed its assessment of Board capability the table below: against the five-year skills analysis that the Committee Attendance Eligible to had discussed in 2016.
Director Attended attend Sir George Buckley Chairman 3 3 We considered the future profile of the Group from the perspective Bruno Angelici 3 3 of end markets, geographic focus and strategic priorities.
It was Tanya Fratto 3 3 clear that the Board would benefit from an additional nonAnne Quinn 3 3 executive director who had a current executive role working in 1 Bill Seeger 2 2 higher growth economies where Smiths is accelerating its growth Mark Seligman 3 3 agenda.
I was delighted that we were able to bring Noel Tata on to Noel Tata appointed 1 January 2017 2 2 our Board from the start of the 2017 calendar year.
As Managing Sir Kevin Tebbit 3 3 Director of Tata International Limited and a board member of various Tata Group companies he has brought a wealth of market 1 Bill Seeger was not a member of the Committee from the date he stepped into the knowledge and makes a distinct contribution to the Board.
Interim Chief Financial Officer role 19 May 2017.
In May we announced that Chris OShea was stepping down from The Committee holds one scheduled meeting each year when it the Board to pursue his career outside the Group.
The Nomination conducts its annual review of senior management talent and Committee was pleased to have Bill Seeger on the Board with his succession plans with a view to ensuring a strong and robust plan recent experience as a Chief Financial Officer of a FTSE 100 exists in all parts of the Group.
Otherwise during the year it meets company, who agreed to step in as Interim Chief Financial Officer as and when required.
whilst we conducted a search for Chris OSheas successor.
The Chief Executive is normally invited to attend the Nomination In view of his interim assignment Bill was no longer able to chair Committee and has attended each of this years meetings.
The the Audit Committee, and the Nomination Committee was pleased HR Director and the Director of Talent have also attended some that Mark Seligman agreed to take on this key non-executive role.
meetings in order to advise the Committee.
Mark is well placed to do this with his finance background and previous experience of chairing audit committees.
Role and responsibilities The Nomination Committees terms of reference are available on This report sets out further details of the work done by the the website, www.
The Committee leads the process Nomination Committee during the year.
for identifying candidates for appointment as directors of the Company and as its Company Secretary.
It also leads the process for their removal or retirement giving full consideration to succession planning and leadership needs.
It makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Nomination Committee and the composition and chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
It reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board, including the balance of skills, 91 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 N O MIN AT I O N C O MMI T T E E C O N T I N U E D knowledge and experience and the independence of the nonThe Nomination Committee considered the succession plan and executive directors, and makes recommendations to the Board with recommended that an external search process was undertaken regard to any changes.
The Committee also holds an annual review and that during this process the Board appoint Bill Seeger as of the succession plans and talent pipeline for senior management Interim Chief Financial Officer.
In making the recommendation, roles.
In doing this the Committee takes account of the current and the Committee considered his skills, knowledge and experience.
future needs, challenges and opportunities relating to the Group The Committee considered he had excellent credentials to step with knowledge of the strategic and commercial issues affecting into this interim role, having joined Smiths in May 2014 as a Smiths and the markets in which we operate.
The Committee has non-executive director and having chaired the Companys Audit access to information and advice both from within Smiths and Committee for almost three years.
In addition, he was previously externally, at the cost of the Group.
This may include the Chief Financial Officer of GKN plc.
The Committee approved the role description for the recruitment The Committee conducts annual reviews of its terms of of the permanent position of Chief Financial Officer, ensuring that reference and effectiveness and recommends any changes the criteria were objective and would enable candidates from a to the Board.
The annual review of the Committees terms wide range of backgrounds, having due regard for the benefits of of reference was conducted in July and certain changes diversity in its broadest sense.
The Nomination Committee has were approved with effect from 1 August 2017.
This included commenced a search for the replacement Chief Financial Officer ensuring the Committees commitment to considering diverse using Buchanan Harvey & Co. candidates for appointments, including a clear reference to ethnic origin in addition to diversity of gender and experience.
In July 2017 the Committee considered the appointment and The Committee conducted a review of its performance to ensure re-appointment of certain members of the Audit, Remuneration compliance with appropriate corporate governance guidelines and Nomination Committees and the appointment of the Chairs and obligations, and the performance of the Committee was of those committees.
It recommended the appointment and considered as part of the wider Board evaluation process.
It was re-appointment of members and Chairs as set out in more detail in confirmed that the Committee continues to operate effectively.
the relevant sections of this report.
In particular, the Committee considered and recommended to the Board that Mark Seligman The Board continues to support Lord Davies aspiration for replace Bill Seeger as Chair of the Audit Committee.
The female board representation, but this presents a particular Committee considered Mark Seligman as having excellent challenge for a small board.
The Nomination Committee credentials to step into this key non-executive role with his finance and the Board remain committed to ensuring diversity is background and experience of chairing audit committees and included within the remit for appointments to the Board.
having been a member of the Board and Audit Committee for This commitment extends to appointments at all levels over 12 months.
in Smiths, as evidenced by the appointment of a senior leader with responsibility for culture and diversity.
Further In July 2017 the Committee met with the Group HR Director and information on diversity is provided in the Strategic report.
the Director of Talent to carry out its annual review of the Smiths Group talent pipeline and succession planning process.
During Committee activities during 2017 2017 it has sponsored the creation and implementation of a The Board commenced the search for a new non-executive Group-wide process for talent, succession and strategic workforce director in 2016, and following an evaluation of the skills, planning, which is now being embedded.
The aim is to have a knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board, the Nomination formal, rigorous and transparent approach to identifying and Committee identified a role profile.
External recruitment developing a talent pipeline with the knowledge, skills and consultants were engaged to assist with the search for a candidate potential to fill key business leadership positions in the Company.
with current experience of working in higher-growth regions.
Noel Succession planning increases the availability and development Tata was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company on opportunities for our talent pipeline, which is prepared to assume 1 January 2017 using external search firm Buchanan Harvey & Co. these roles as they become available.
whose only connection to Smiths is to provide recruitment services and following interviews with the Chairman, the Senior During the year the Committee received advice from the Company Independent Director, the Remuneration Committee Chair and Secretary concerning the corporate governance trends in respect meetings with the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer.
of board evaluation and board succession planning.
The Buchanan Harvey & Co. is a member of the Voluntary Code of Committee reviewed the size and composition of the Board and its Conduct for executive search firms.
The Committee also succession plan in the light of the outcomes of the Board strategy considered Noel Tatas experience and commitments elsewhere reviews in May 2017 and the future profile of the Group from the and was satisfied that he would have time available to discharge perspective of end markets, geographic focus and strategic his responsibilities effectively.
The terms of his appointment are priorities.
Succession planning is seen as a constant requirement.
set out in a formal Letter of Appointment.
Over the next two years two non-executive Directors, Anne Quinn and Bruno Angelici, will have completed nine years on the Board Chris OShea stepped down from his role as Chief Financial Officer and, in recognition of the Codes guidance in respect of and as a director of the Company on 19 May 2017 and commenced independence, we are looking to establish a pipeline of potential a period of garden leave.
His exit was overseen by the Nomination candidates who could succeed them.
As set out on page 87, the Committee.
Chris OSheas employment is expected to end on independence of Sir Kevin Tebbit is kept under frequent review.
18 November 2017 but may end at an earlier date on payment in The Committee also reviewed the composition and balance of lieu of notice.
Full details are set out in the Directors skills of the Board and has drawn up a succession plan that takes remuneration report on page 103. into account the desirability of maintaining a good balance of director tenure and the need to ensure there is a succession for key non-executive director roles as well as executive positions.
92 GO VERNANCE Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 A CCO U N T A B I L I T Y Corporate reporting The internal control system is based on an assessment of risk, and The Board is responsible for promoting the long-term success a framework of control procedures to manage risks and monitor of the Company and is accountable to the Groups various compliance with procedures.
The Groups internal control systems stakeholders for doing so.
When reporting externally the Board are designed to meet Smiths particular needs and the risks to aims to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment which it is exposed, however they can provide only reasonable, not of the Companys position and prospects, and the Board is satisfied absolute, assurance against material loss to the Group or material that, when taken as a whole, the 2017 Annual Report is fair, misstatement in the financial statements.
The Executive balanced and understandable and provides the information Committee is responsible for designing the Enterprise Risk necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position Management ERM system and ensuring it is effectively deployed and performance, business model and strategy.
throughout the Group, more detail can be found on page 61.
During the year the Group has had internal control and risk Over the year ended 31 July 2017 the Audit Committee, on behalf of management arrangements in place to support the financial the Board and with the assistance of the Internal Audit function, reporting process: monitored, reviewed and assessed the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems in the context of the requiring the divisions to certify that their reported information Groups strategy and business model.
The review covered material gives a true and fair view of the results for the period: financial, operational and compliance controls.
In 2016 the Audit supporting record keeping to accurately and fairly reflect Committee annual calendar was updated to include an additional transactions and the disposal of assets: and meeting in order to facilitate its increased focus on risk providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded management.
This meeting was maintained in the 2017 calendar to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance with the May 2017 Audit Committee meeting.
Each divisional with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
president attended and presented their respective risk register to the Audit Committee which included a risk dashboard, the process For the year ended 31 July 2017: each division uses to identify and evaluate risk, and their internal controls and procedures to mitigate any identified risk.
In addition, the Audit Committee considered, on behalf of the Board, the the Executive Committee selected three principal risks for deep John Crane Inc. asbestos litigation disclosure.
In order to assist dive reviews at the Audit Committee meeting a significant ethical with disclosure in the financial statements the Committee breach, cyber security and product quality at Smiths Medical and received advice from Bates White LLC, Economic Consultants, the owner of each risk attended to discuss the risk with the Board.
regarding the appropriate provisioning for the risk of litigation.
More information, including disclosure regarding the FRC The Investment Committee assists the Board with practical risk Corporate Reporting Review, can be found in the Audit management, meeting approximately 10 times a year to consider Committee report on page 98 high-risk and high-value proposals that are either beyond the Smiths strengthened its anti-modern slavery compliance authority delegated to divisional presidents, or prior to Board programme.
A new Anti-Modern Slavery Policy was introduced, approval.
This can include capital and special revenue expenditure and the Board approved the Smiths Anti-Modern Slavery or asset disposals.
By reviewing the details in advance the Statement.
The Ethics and Compliance team conducted a risk Investment Committee assesses the risks, and reviews investment assessment to identify the three greatest modern slavery risk papers ahead of their presentation to the Board for approval, areas in the Smiths business, and has since introduced thereby helping to manage the associated risk.
programmes to reduce risk in these areas.
Further detail in relation to our anti-modern slavery activities is included in Principal risks Smiths Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement, During the year the Board carried out a robust assessment which is available on the Group website, www.
com of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency Internal control and risk management and liquidity.
In 2017 the Internal Audit function ran a global The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of programme of risk workshops at divisional sites in order to ensure the principal risks it is willing to take to achieve its objectives, and that risk is being identified from the bottom up.
At the workshops for ensuring that there are sound risk management and internal local business controls and the likelihood and potential impact control systems in place to safeguard shareholders investments of risks were reviewed.
Following this exercise the Executive and the Groups assets.
Committee were presented with a refreshed list of principal risks for the Group, and agreed a top 10 to be presented to the Board.
The Boards explanation of the basis on which the Group generates On consideration of the principal risks and uncertainties facing and preserves value over the longer term, and its strategy for the Group, and the actions taken by management to manage those delivering the Companys objectives, can be found in the Strategic risks, the directors then determined the Groups risk appetite, report on page 24. and the nature and extent of the risks the Board is willing to take.
The Executive Committee ensures the Boards risk appetite is The Board Statements table on page 83 of this corporate understood by risk owners and decision-makers in the business.
governance statement signpost where various director A description of the principal risks facing the Company can be confirmations, statements and assessments can be found.
The Board takes these into account when considering the Companys viability, as set out on page 57.
93 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 A U D IT C O MMIT TE E MARK SELIGMAN CHAIR OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE I am pleased to be able to report that the FRCs review of the The 2017 financial year was a busy year for the Audit Groups 2015 Annual Report has been closed and the Board has Committee and I am pleased to share with you an insight agreed to make further disclosures in respect of the asbestos into some of the matters the Committee considered.
litigation provisioning as described on page 98.
As a member and then Chair of the Committee, I would firstly like The Committee has also agreed a timetable for an audit tender to extend my thanks to Bill Seeger.
Bill led the Committee through with a view to appointing a new auditor for the 2020 audit.
The the majority of the year under review and has helped me settle into process will begin in earnest in early 2018.
The Committee has the role of Committee Chair whilst maintaining a high degree of been fully briefed on its responsibilities and expects to approve professionalism throughout.
I remain confident in the Finance the tender document setting out the Groups requirements, having function and that Bill will lead the team in an effective manner consulted with shareholders and other stakeholders as until a permanent Chief Financial Officer is appointed.
This will form a key focus point for the Committee over the next 12 to 18 months.
Having conducted a thorough In addition to reviewing the financial statements and related fiscal evaluation of PwCs audit in respect of the previous financial year matters, the Committee has focused on the risks and internal and the current half year, the Committee remains satisfied that controls exercised throughout the Group.
As the Chairman PwC are both effective and retain a degree of professional mentions in his report on page 82, the Committee paid particular scepticism in conducting their audit.
A recommendation to appoint attention to the Groups ethics and compliance programme, PwC as auditor for the FY2018 audit will be presented to reviewing the existing processes and enhancing areas where the shareholders at the AGM to be held in November.
Committee felt more could be done to emphasise our core value of integrity.
The Committee also reviewed the Groups position on As the FY2018 financial year progresses, the Committee expects Anti-Modern Slavery, and more information on this can be found to review the Groups position in respect of its tax risks and on the Smiths website www.
opportunities and specifically in respect of the strategy as global uncertainty on tax rates continues.
In addition, uncertainty The analysis of risk forms a growing part of the Committees around Brexit remains and the Board as a whole will keep agenda, both in the context of examining future threats and this area under review.
opportunities to the Group and also in identifying and assessing the controls in place to mitigate those identified risks.
The Committee held a dedicated meeting in May to discuss and review those risks identified by management.
The process for determining those risks is set out in the Risk management section on page 60 which formed the basis for the Viability Statement on page 57.
Whilst discussing the deep dive on cyber security, the Committee agreed to amend its forward agenda to add a review of the Groups cyber security measures biannually and to specifically add this review to the Committees Terms of Reference.
This is a growing area of threat to the Group and the Committee will continue to monitor the Groups response and preventative measures.
94 GO VERNANCE Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 Committee membership and meeting attendance Further details of the qualifications and experience of the Membership and meeting attendance during the year is set out in members of the Committee are contained in the biographies of the the table below: directors on pages 78 to 81.
There have been no changes to the Attendance membership of the Committee since the financial year end.
Eligible to Director Attended attend In order to maintain effective communications between all relevant 1 Bill Seeger Chair until 18 May 2017 3 3 parties, the following were frequent attendees at the meetings: Mark Seligman Chair from 19 May 2017 4 4 Bruno Angelici 4 4 the Chairman of the Board Tanya Fratto 4 4 the Chief Executive Anne Quinn 4 4 the Chief Financial Officer 2 Noel Tata appointed 1 January 2017 2 3 the Group Financial Controller Sir Kevin Tebbit 4 4 the Company Secretary the Director of Internal Audit 1 Bill Seeger was not a member of the Committee from the date he stepped into the the Group Director of Tax and Treasury and Interim Chief Financial Officer role 19 May 2017. the Group audit partners of the external auditor, PwC.
2 Noel Tata was unable to attend one meeting due to a prior commitment arranged before he joined the Board.
In addition, annual presentations on risk management were given The Committee met four times during the 2017 financial year, with to the Committee by the divisional general manager of each of three meetings timed to align with the financial reporting and audit the Groups five divisions and the head of Business Information cycles of the Group, namely: the approval of the Annual Report in Services BIS, the Groups IT function.
The General Counsel September: the approval of the half-year report in March: and the and the Senior Vice-President & General Counsel Ethics & presentation of the pre-year-end early warnings report from the Compliance reported to the Committee on the implementation of external auditor, PwC, in July.
A meeting was also held in May 2017 the Business Ethics programme: the work of the Companys Code at which the Committee reviewed the risk management reports of Compliance Council: and the investigations into allegations of the Groups five divisions.
All the members of the Committee at the non-compliance with the Ethics Code, including issues raised time attended the AGM in November 2016. through the Groups whistleblowing procedures.
All members of the Committee who served during the year are, At the conclusion of the meetings, the representatives of the in the view of the Board, independent non-executive directors external auditor and the Director of Internal Audit were each given and have recent and relevant financial, accounting and sector the opportunity to discuss matters with the Committee and without experience gained from their respective international business executive management being present.
The Director of Internal activities.
In particular, Bill Seeger was Chief Financial Officer of Audit, the Senior Vice-President & General Counsel Ethics & GKN plc, a post he had held for over six years before his retirement Compliance and the external auditor have direct access to the in 2014: and Mark Seligman has a long history in corporate finance, Committee Chair and the members of the Committee should they as well as being a qualified accountant.
Tanya Fratto, Anne Quinn wish to raise any concerns outside formal Committee meetings.
and Bruno Angelici have extensive senior management experience in international oil and gas, engineering and medical devices The members of the Committee also had the opportunity to meet industries, respectively: Sir Kevin Tebbit has substantial separately at each meeting to discuss any relevant matters in the knowledge of international governmental relationships: and absence of all the invitees.
Noel Tata has had a successful career in global business, with extensive experience in high-growth economies.
The Committee receives briefing notes from the Group and PwC on all relevant developments in company law, governance As part of his induction programme as a director of the Company standards, and international and domestic financial accounting which included a detailed overview of the Groups business model, practices and regulations.
strategy and risk profile, Noel Tata was provided with relevant material on the responsibility and working of the Committee Outside of the formal meetings schedule, the Chairs of the and copies of recent papers and presentations.
Upon becoming Audit Committee met separately with senior management Chair of the Audit Committee Mark Seligman was provided representatives of PwC to discuss the Groups financial with a short structured induction programme, which included reporting, internal control and governance.
meetings with senior members of the Finance team, the external auditor PwC, the Internal Audit team and other senior executives in the business.
95 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 A U D IT C O M M IT TE E C O N T I N U E D Role and responsibilities Financial and narrative reporting The primary role of the Audit Committee is to ensure the integrity During the financial year, the Committee has: of the financial reporting and audit processes and the maintenance of sound internal control and risk management systems.
This considered information presented by management on key includes responsibility for monitoring and reviewing: matters of accounting judgements and policies, adopted in respect of the 2016 Annual Report and 2017 half-year report, the integrity of the Groups financial statements: the significant and relevant changes to accounting standards and agreed their reporting issues and judgements contained therein: and the appropriateness: reports of the external and internal auditors: discussed with PwC the firms audit reports and noted the key the bases for the Boards statement on the adoption of the going accounting matters and significant judgements highlighted by concern basis of accounting: its assessment of the long-term PwC in respect of each set of financial statements: viability of the Company: and its description of the information reviewed documentation prepared to support the statement on contained in the Annual Report as enabling a fair, balanced and internal control in the 2016 Annual Report and was satisfied that understandable assessment of the Group: the Company was operating an effective system of internal the consistency of the Annual Report and the annual financial controls to manage risk: statements: reviewed documentation prepared to support the going concern financial announcements released by the Company and any judgement in the 2016 Annual Report and concluded that the reports or returns made by the Group to financial regulators: accounts had been properly prepared on a going concern basis: the appropriateness of the Groups relationship with the external assessed the processes and activities undertaken by the Group auditor, including auditor independence and objectivity: auditor in order to ensure that the 2016 Annual Report, taken as a whole, compliance with relevant ethical and professional standards and would be fair, balanced and understandable and concluded that guidance: audit fees: and provision of non-audit services: the quality and range of information provided in the Annual the terms of engagement of the external auditor: Report was sufficient to enable shareholders to assess properly the scope of the annual external audit plan and the quality and the Groups position, performance, business model and strategy: experience of the external audit team assigned to its execution: examined key points of disclosure and presentation to ensure the reports of the external auditor, including any major issues the adequacy, clarity and completeness of the 2016 Annual or reservations and significant accounting and audit judgements Report and 2017 half-year report and the preliminary highlighted therein: announcement of the annual results: the effectiveness of the external audit process, making reported to the Board its views on significant financial reporting recommendations to the Board on the appointment or issues and judgements applied to the 2016 Annual Report, the re-appointment or the removal of the external auditor: 2017 half-year report and the associated information releases the remit and effectiveness of the Internal Audit function and the including matters communicated to the Committee by the appropriateness of the resources available thereto: external auditor : the effectiveness of the Groups policies on internal control and evaluated the bases for and the content of the Strategic report, risk management systems in the evaluation and management the operational review and the corporate governance statement of significant business risk: contained in the 2016 Annual Report: statements on the assessment and management of risks and satisfied itself that the 2016 Annual Report was consistent within on internal controls: itself and that the front half and the back half of the the Groups implementation of its Code of Business Ethics and publication were thoughtfully cohesive: Business Ethics programme, including the Groups reviewed documentation prepared to support the going concern arrangements for its employees to raise any issues of concern judgement in the 2017 half-year report, including the review of whistleblowing and the process for the investigation and the principal risks for the second half of the financial year, and resolution of any such issues: concluded that the accounts had been properly prepared on a the Groups procedures for detecting fraud and systems and going concern basis: controls for preventing bribery: and in addition to the press releases for the preliminary annual the Groups risks associated with the internal and external threats results for 2016 and the 2017 half-year results, reviewed the to, and the resilience of, the Smiths IT enterprise, information, Companys press releases and announcements containing operations and products relating to cyber security.
price-sensitive material and reports made to financial regulators during the year: and The Chair of the Audit Committee reports formally to the full Board analysed the methodology and processes presented by the on the activities of the Committee after each Committee meeting.
management for the assessment in the 2017 Annual Report of the prospects of the Company over the longer term long-term viability assessment and agreed that a three-year period is appropriate for this purpose, taking into consideration the Companys various business cycles and forecasting models.
The Committee considered scenario-based stress testing models, prepared by the Company, to assess the impact on Group cash and finances if one or more of the Groups principal risks occurred.
The Committee concurred with the conclusion that the Groups balance sheet and ability to raise cash were more than sufficient to withstand such occurrences comfortably for at least the three-year period under review.
96 GO VERNANCE Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 Subsequent to the end of FY2017, the Committee has also reviewed Impairment and reported to the Board on the reports and information supplied The Committee considered the Groups intangible assets and the by management and by PwC on the judgements and policies assumptions used to justify the carrying values of these assets, adopted for the 2017 Annual Report and the content of that including fair value less costs to sell.
The Committee considered that the quality and range of given to Morpho Detection which was tested on a fair value less the material included within the 2017 Annual Report was sufficient cost to sell basis.
A sensitivity is included in note 11 of the financial to provide shareholders with the necessary information for them statements.
The Committee reviewed the carrying value of Medical to assess properly the Groups position, performance, business capitalised development and was satisfied that the treatment was model and strategy and that the report was presented in such reasonable due to the new product launches planned for FY2018 a way as could be considered fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committee agreed that the projected future The Committee reviewed the statement on risk management and cash-flows from these assets supported the carrying value.
The internal controls: the going concern statement: the assessment Committee reviewed the disclosures contained in the financial of the long-term viability of the Group: and the content of the statements and agreed that they appropriately reflect the announcement of the financial results for 2017. sensitivity of the judgements made.
Details of impairment testing and sensitivities are included in note 11 of the financial statements.
In assessing the fairness, balance and understandability of the 2017 Annual Report, the Committee considered: Acquisitions and divestments The Committee reviewed the judgement and accounting treatment the accuracy and integrity of the messages conveyed in the of the acquisition of Morpho Detection.
Particular attention was report: the appropriateness of the level of detail in the narrative paid to the opening balance sheet judgements concerning the reporting: the correlation between the judgements and issues valuation of acquired assets and the resulting calculation of and the disclosures and estimation uncertainties: goodwill.
The Committee also considered the treatment of costs the consistency between the narrative reporting in the front half between headline and non-headline.
The Committee agreed that and the financial reporting in the back half of the report: the the judgements made and the accounting treatment were explanations of the differences between statutory and headline appropriate.
The Committee also reviewed the judgements and reported results: and accounting treatment relating to the divestments of Smiths the overall design and layout of the information and data: the Interconnect Power, John Crane Artificial Lift, Smiths Interconnect clarity of the messages and the reporting: and the holistic Telecoms and the Smiths Medical Wallace and Morpho Trace nature of the report.
businesses, and the gains losses on disposal.
The Committee was satisfied that these disposals have been appropriately Following its review of the 2017 Annual Report, the Committee was reflected in the Annual Report and Accounts 2017, and the of the opinion that it is representative of the year and presents a treatment of Morpho Trace as a discontinued operation in the fair, balanced and understandable overview, providing the income statement.
necessary information for shareholders to assess the Groups position, performance, business model and strategy.
Working capital The Committee considered the key judgements within working Significant judgements and issues capital and, in particular, the level of provisions and overdue An important responsibility of the Audit Committee is to review and receivables in emerging markets.
The Committee determined that agree the most significant management judgements and issues.
To the judgements made were appropriate to justify the working satisfy this responsibility, the Committee requests a written formal capital provision levels at 31 July 2017. update from the Chief Financial Officer three times a year: the Group Director of Tax and Treasury twice a year: and reports from Provisions for liabilities and charges the external auditor at each Committee meeting.
The Committee The Committee continued to monitor carefully the expert carefully considers the content of these reports and the most assessments of the financial exposure of the Group to the John significant issues and areas of judgement raised.
The key areas Crane, Inc. asbestos litigation and to the Titeflex Corp. CSST of judgement in the year were as follows: claims.
In particular, the Committee considered the treatment of potential liabilities and the changes to the assumptions made in Revenue recognition calculating the provisions, including the re-assessment of the time The Committee reviewed the key judgements on revenue period for the Titeflex Corp. CSST provision and the continued recognition.
Attention was given to large, multi-faceted and appropriateness of the ten-year time period for John Crane, Inc. non-standard contracts in Smiths Detection and to contracts asbestos litigation.
In the case of the John Crane, Inc. asbestos where percentage of completion accounting was used in Smiths litigation, the Committee also agreed the judgement that litigation Detection and Smiths Interconnect.
The Committee reviewed the is extremely rare such that a sufficiently reliable estimate cannot accounting treatment of three programmes in Smiths Detection be made to cover the full period over which it is expected that costs where management assessed the portion of revenue to be will be incurred.
In both these cases, it was determined that the attributed and the anticipated profit margin and concluded that the assumptions fairly reflect the position at 31 July 2017.
Further revenue judgements made were appropriate.
The Committee also details of the assumptions used are included in note 22 of the reviewed bill and hold transactions in Smiths Detection and were financial statements.
satisfied with the adopted accounting treatment.
97 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 A U D IT C O M M IT TE E C O N T I N U E D Taxation reviewed the changes in the Financial Reporting Councils 2016 The Committee assessed the appropriateness of the Groups Guidance to Audit Committees and Ethical Standards for assumptions and judgements in relation to the estimates of the Auditors, reflecting the implementation in the UK of the EU Audit assets and liabilities to be recognised in income and deferred tax, Directive and Regulation.
as well as the treatment of losses in the UK.
Particular focus was given to the recognition of UK deferred tax assets which we now The CMA Order first applied to the Companys 2016 financial year judge to be recoverable see note 6 : deferred tax assets relating and the Group has complied with it during the 2017 financial year.
to the John Crane, Inc. asbestos provision: and the Titeflex Corp.
Under the transitional provisions of the order, the competitive audit CSST provision.
In reviewing projected profit streams the tendering regulations require the Company to put the external Committee was satisfied that, where appropriate, the relevant auditor role out to tender by 2023.
The Committee decided not to entities will generate sufficient future taxable profits to utilise the recommend a competitive tender this year given the change to assets recognised.
Further details on movements in tax balances Chief Financial Officer.
The Committees proposal for a competitive are set out in note 6 of the financial statements.
audit tender and auditor rotation is described in the External Auditor effectiveness and reappointment section below.
Post-retirement benefits The Committee reviewed and agreed the methods, assumptions External audit and benchmarks used by the actuaries to calculate the position of In relation to the activities of the external auditor, during the the UK and US schemes at 31 July 2017, which have now moved to financial year, the Committee: a net surplus position.
The Committee agreed the treatment and considered PwCs audit report on the 2016 Annual Report: the corresponding disclosures on these matters.
More detail on its review of the 2017 half-year results: and its Early Warning post-retirement benefits is contained in note 8 of the financial report on the 2017 audit: statements.
monitored PwCs execution of the audit plans for 2016 and 2017: discussed all major issues identified by PwC during the course FRC Corporate Reporting Review of the audits, including the key accounting and audit judgements In August 2017 the FRC Conduct Committee closed its enquiry into taken by management and managements responses to the audit the Companys 2015 Annual Report.
During 2017 the Committee findings: continued to monitor the dialogue between the Company and the agreed materiality and fide minimis levels with PwC: FRC and discuss the matters raised with the external auditor.
considered the draft letter of representation from the Company As a result of the enquiry, the Annual Report 2017 includes to PwC in connection with the audit of the 2016 financial enhanced disclosures for the John Crane, Inc. litigation provision.
statements: Disclosures have been amended to explain why the Company reviewed the non-audit fees paid to PwC and found them to have judged that the circumstances of this provision are extremely been incurred in accordance with the policy on the provision of rare, to provide more context on the judgement to use a ten-year non-audit services: time horizon to calculate the provision, and to include additional conducted the annual review of the independence and objectivity sensitivities around an extended time horizon.
To support the of PwC and was satisfied that PwCs behaviour had been provision time period and recommended judgement the professional in both respects: Committee received advice from Bates White LLC, Economic conducted an internal survey on the effectiveness of PwC as Consultants.
The enhanced disclosures can be found in note 22 on external auditor: and determined that PwC remained effective pages 180 to 183.
Expanded disclosures in respect of provisions, in its role as external auditor: and revenue, tax, inventory provisioning and post-retirement benefits recommended to the Board that PwC be proposed for arising from the enquiry were included in the Annual Report 2016. reappointment as external auditor at the 2016 AGM for a further year.
The Committee, after receiving the reports on the significant issues and areas of judgement, was content that the judgements Subsequent to the financial year end, the Committee has made were appropriate and are correctly reflected in the Annual considered and approved the same items in respect of the 2017 Report 2017. audit and the preparation of the 2017 Annual Report.
Subsequently, the Committee has also recommended that PwC be proposed for Corporate governance reappointment as external auditor at the 2017 AGM.
During the year, the Audit Committee has reviewed the Companys compliance with its governance obligations.
In particular, the The Committee considered that each of the directors had taken all Committee has: necessary steps to ensure that he or she was aware of all pertinent audit information and that such information had been properly monitored the changes introduced by the Company to ensure communicated to PwC in a timely manner.
full compliance with the requirements of the 2016 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and The Large & External audit plan Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports PwC presented its Group Audit Plan for the financial year ending Amendment Regulations: 31 July 2017.
The Committee discussed with PwC: considered the amendments to and developments in the its risk matrix and the factors affecting the various audit risk International Financial Reporting Standards that affected the assessments: the proposed audit scope, taking into 2017 and 2018 financial years, including the adoption of IFRS 9, consideration statutory audit requirements, financially 15 and 16: significant components and significant risk components and taken account of the Competition & Markets Authoritys central programme testing: Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market materiality levels: Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 the CMA Order : and 98 GO VERNANCE Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 the accounting for the acquisition of Morpho Detection Inc and External auditor independence the sale of the Morpho Trace Detection business: The Committee is responsible for the development, implementation the movement in working capital relating to aged inventory and and monitoring of the Groups policies on external audit, which are receivables: and designed to maintain the objectivity and independence of the the impact of senior management changes within the business.
These policies also regulate the appointment by the Group of former employees of PwC and set out the approach to be The Committee noted the focus on the audit risks associated with taken when using the external auditor for non-audit work.
revenue recognition: certain litigation risks: impairment of goodwill: and management override of controls.
PwCs proposal The external auditor is not permitted to provide services which to increase the overall materiality level to 20m approximately could result in: 3.5% of headline operating profit 2016: 17m and a fide-minimis reporting threshold of 1m 2016: 0.5m was accepted as prudent the external auditor auditing its own firms work: and appropriate.
The Committee considered the resources the external auditor making management decisions for the Group: proposed by PwC, including the qualities, seniorities and a mutuality of interests being created: or experience of the audit team members, to be consistent with the the external auditor being put in the role of advocate for scope of the audit.
It was noted that the Audit Plan had been the Group.
discussed and co-ordinated with Internal Audit.
Through a combination of full-scope audits, specified audit procedures and The Committees review of the independence of the external local GAAP statutory audits, business units producing 78% 2016: auditor included: 79% of the Groups forecast headline operating profit for 2017 would be audited by PwC under the 2017 Audit Plan.
examining written confirmation from PwC that they remained independent and objective within the context of applicable The fee structure and terms of the audit engagement letter, which professional standards: had been agreed with management, and PwCs assessment of its considering the tenure of the audit engagement partner, who is independence were considered appropriate for the work proposed required to rotate every five years in line with ethical standards: and were approved.
monitoring the ratio between the fees for audit work and non-audit services: and Non-audit services checking that management confirmed compliance with the In order to safeguard auditor independence, the Committee has Groups policies on the employment of former employees of PwC monitored compliance with the Group policy on the engagement and the use of PwC for non-audit work.
of external audit firms for non-audit work.
Non-audit services were divided into three categories in relation to the incumbent As a result of this review, the Committee concluded that PwC external auditor: remained appropriately independent in the role of external auditor.
Pre-approved but subject to the Chief Financial Officers Details of the fees paid to PwC for the year ended 31 July 2017 can approval for projects likely to exceed 10,000 where the threat be found in note 2 on page 152.
Non-audit fees incurred during this to auditor objectivity and independence is considered low, such period amounted to 0.3m, which related principally to work on as regulatory compliance work: limited tax advisory work: and cyber security and audit-related assurance services in connection low-level acquisition work: with the interim report.
Non-audit fees as a percentage of audit Permitted but subject to the approval of the Audit Committee fees totalled 7%.
All such activities remained within the policy for projects over 10,000 and competitive tendering for projects approved by the Board.
over 100,000 such as larger acquisitions: corporate reorganisation: and IT risk and security: and External auditor effectiveness and reappointment Not permitted such as book keeping: financial system design: The Committees review of the performance of PwC and the actuarial services: management functions: and internal audit.
effectiveness of the external audit process included conducting a survey to take into consideration the views of the executive The Committee recognises that non-audit services falling in the directors, senior management and the divisional finance teams, Pre-approved category can be purchased more cost-effectively views and opinions of PwCs effectiveness in a number of from and completed more efficiently by the incumbent auditor due areas.
The survey included questions on PwCs independence to the audit firms existing knowledge of the Group and its systems.
and objectivity, audit strategy and planning, conduct and The Committee is satisfied that the non-audit work performed by communication, audit findings and feedback, and expertise and PwC during the financial year had been properly assessed and resourcing.
The results were positive and confirmed that both authorised in accordance with the Group policy.
PwC and its audit process were appropriate and effective: and On 17 June 2016, the EU Audit Directive and Regulation came into that the relationships between the audit teams and the Companys force and the FRC published a revised Ethical Standard for businesses continued to provide effective and objective challenge.
Auditors in respect of audits of financial years beginning on or after The Committee recognised the challenges in ensuring consistency that date.
As a consequence of the new regulation and standard, in the audit process across the whole Group and the need to the Committee reviewed and approved changes to the Group policy continue to improve communication at local and divisional levels.
on the engagement of audit firms for non-audit work in order to take account of the prohibited list of non-audit services that an Independence Letters, sent by PwC in September 2016 in respect incumbent auditor is not permitted to provide in the EU under the of its 2016 audit and September 2017 in respect of the 2017 audit, regulation and the cap on the level of permitted non-audit services were also considered and the Committee concurred with PwCs that can be billed.
opinion that it had complied with all relevant regulatory and professional requirements and that the firms objectivity had not been compromised.
99 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 A U D IT C O M M IT TE E C O N T I N U E D The Committee noted the findings in the FRCs June 2017 Audit The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the identification Quality Inspection report on PwC.
It evaluated a summary of PwCs and management of risk at the Group level.
Each division also internal quality control procedures and noted that the lead presents an analysis of its own business strategic risks to the engagement partner, Andy Kemp, is accountable directly to the Committee on an annual basis.
Committee for the execution of the audit.
The Committee satisfied itself that the quality of the work exhibited by the firm and its Further information on the Groups systems of internal control and commitment to improvements were of a high standard.
risk management is given on page 60.
PwC has been the Companys external auditor since its formation Internal Audit in 1998, although a predecessor organisation of PwC held office as Internal Audit is independent of the business, and as such has no sole auditor in 1997.
There has been no external audit tender since responsibility for operational business management.
In determining whether to recommend PwC the integrity and objectivity of its annual Audit Plan work, which is for re-appointment as auditor in 2017, the Audit Committee took approved by the Committee.
The authority of the Internal Audit into consideration the following factors: function is derived from the Committee.
The Director of Internal Audit is accountable to the Board of Directors through the the length of PwCs appointment and the guidance on the audit Chairman of the Committee.
Administratively, the Director of firm rotation regulations and proposals: Internal Audit reports to the Chief Financial Officer.
In order to the results of the effectiveness review detailed above: carry out the responsibilities, as set out in a charter approved the qualities and experience of the audit partner, and by the Committee, the Internal Audit function has: the changes in the executive management team during 2017, in particular the appointment of Bill Seeger as Interim Chief full and unrestricted access to all Smiths records, property Financial Officer, who took up his post on 19 May 2017. and personnel: independent access to the Chairman and members of the Taking these elements into account and acknowledging that it Committee: would take some time to stage a competitive audit tender from the right to request meetings with the Committee: and initial planning to final selection, the Committee concluded that it the authority and obligation to report significant findings would not be practical to put the auditor appointment for 2018 out or other concerns to the Committee.
to competitive tender, and that it was appropriate to recommend to the Board that the re-appointment of PwC as the Companys The Committee oversees the performance of the Internal Audit auditor for a further year be proposed to shareholders at the function through the Director of Internal Audits attendance at 2017 AGM.
Committee meetings and a review of agreed KPIs which are reported to the Committee three times per year.
In addition, Recognising the various requirements in the Code, the CMA Order during 2018 an independent third party review of the functions and the Statutory Auditors and Third Country Auditors Regulations effectiveness will be undertaken.
The review will be overseen 2016 implementing the EUs June 2014 Audit Directive and by the Committee.
Regulation, the Committee reviewed its decision and concluded that it would remain in the best interests of the Company to plan During the financial year the Committee: for a competitive audit tender for the rotation of the external auditor for the 2020 audit.
This would coincide with the end of the received progress reports on the execution of the 2017 Internal current PwC audit partners five-year term.
The Committee has Audit Plan: reviewed and agreed a timetable for placing a competitive audit discussed the recommendations made by the internal auditors: tender and will be starting the process during 2018.
PwC will not noted the progress being made by management in reducing the be invited to participate in the tender.
However, the Committee will numbers of aged outstanding recommendations: keep the performance of the incumbent audit firm under annual reviewed the effectiveness of Internal Audit as a part of the review.
The Board has considered and adopted the Committees Companys risk management process: recommendations to propose the re-appointment of PwC as considered the remit of Internal Audit, its budget and resources auditor in 2017 and to plan for a competitive audit tender and and the nature and extent of the outsourcing to KPMG: and auditor rotation for the 2020 audit.
There are no contractual approved the 2018 Internal Audit Plan, including the proposed obligations restricting the Groups choice of external auditor.
audit scope, approach, coverage and allocation of resources.
Internal control and risk management Treasury and tax In fulfilling its responsibilities, the Committee: During the financial year, the Committee reviewed the report of the Treasury department of the Group on financial risk reported to the Board on its evaluation of the Groups risk and treasury management, noting the Groups borrowing assurance framework and embedded risk management position and debt capacity.
The Committee also received processes, based on consideration of the reports by PwC on the status reports on tax risk from the Groups Tax department, Groups control environment and ERP systems and on fraud risk: noting the assessments of compliance, tax audit risk, the audits undertaken by Internal Audit: and the risk tax provisions and international tax rates.
The Groups management reports presented by and discussed with each of assessment of its appetite for tax risk was also reviewed.
the divisions and BIS: and reviewed managements plans to mitigate and remedy the failings and weaknesses in the Companys internal financial and risk controls that were identified by PwC and Internal Audit and has monitored their effectiveness.
The Committee did not view any of the issues that had been identified and addressed as significant.
100 GO VERNANCE Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 Ethics During the financial year, the Committee reviewed the annual report of the Groups Business Ethics Council on the Group-wide Ethics programme.
The report included details of the investigations into allegations of non-compliance with the Code of Business Ethics and whistleblowing events, including bribery and corruption, and the Councils work programme to support the initiatives of the businesses and monitor compliance with both the Groups Code of Business Ethics and the various applicable national regulations.
The Committee received a report on the first phase of an external review of compliance with Group and divisional ethical policies and procedures.
The Committee considered that the Companys processes and arrangements for staff to report concerns about any improprieties were both appropriate and effective.
The Committee also considered that the Companys investigation of such reports and consequential actions where required were timely and effective.
No issues were raised that required the Committees action.
Constitution The Committee conducts an annual review of its terms of reference and effectiveness and recommends any changes to the Board.
During 2017 the Board approved changes to the Committees terms of reference to include cyber security and the revised terms of reference are available on our website at www.
Performance evaluation An annual evaluation of the performance of the Committee is conducted as part of the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board.
Following the conclusion of the evaluation it was determined that the Committee continues to operate effectively.
Discharge of responsibilities During the year, the Committee has monitored its discharge of responsibilities.
In addition to the actions reported in the sections above, the Committee has: observed the induction and on-boarding of the new Committee Chairman and Interim Chief Financial Officer: and welcomed Noel Tata as a new member.
The Committee has enjoyed a positive relationship with the Board throughout the year and has no contentious or unresolved issues to report.
In light of its work, the Audit Committee was content with the effectiveness of the Groups processes governing financial and regulatory reporting and controls, its culture, ethical standards and its relationships with stakeholders.
The Committee was also satisfied with the appropriateness and adequacy of the Groups risk management arrangements, as well as supporting risk management systems including the risk monitoring processes, internal controls framework and three lines of defence model.
Advice The Committee has independent access to the services of Internal Audit and to the external auditor and may obtain outside professional advice, at the expense of the Group, as it sees fit, in the performance of its duties.
MARK SELIGMAN CHAIR OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE 101 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 R EL AT I O N S W I T H S TA K EH O L D ER S Relations with shareholders and other capital providers Dialogue with other capital providers The Company values the contribution of its committed lending banks and bond holders to the achievement of its strategic During financial year 2017, senior management and the investor aims.
The Chief Financial Officer and the Group Director, relations team had contact with over 200 investors and analysts.
Tax and Treasury meet with and communicate proactively with this investor base and the rating agencies, Standard & Contact with investors analysts Poors and Moodys, on a regular basis.
There is also a formal, United Kingdom 50% annual meeting with the rating agencies.
Communication US and Canada 30% with debt markets is generally via investor roadshows at the Rest of Europe 15% time of financing activity.
Committed banks are invited to Rest of World 5% the biannual presentations of the Groups trading results to enable them to keep informed of business strategy and meet both senior corporate and divisional management.
Members of the Board are kept informed of the current credit views of debt investors and the rating agencies through regular Dialogue with shareholders commentary and financial metric reporting to meetings.
During 2017 the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and the Investor Relations Director communicated with Investor relations activities timeline institutional investors through analysts briefings and extensive investor roadshows in the UK, US and Europe.
The executive Roadshows conferences Presentations directors regularly met with shareholders to maintain a twoway communication on business performance and long-term September 2017 Annual results strategy, and the Chairman and non-executive directors were July 2017 Sweden and Denmark equity available to meet with investors to discuss issues as and June 2017 European Capital Goods CEO when they arose, for example to hear views around strategy conference and management change.
The investor relations programme for the past year is detailed in the activities timeline, and a April 2017 US equity programme for the FY2018 financial year is being developed.
March 2017 UK equity Interim results Members of the Board, and in particular non-executive December 2016 Canada equity directors, are kept informed of investors views, mainly through December 2016 UK private client brokers distribution of analysts and brokers briefings and the Chief Executives written updates.
At least twice a year a detailed November 2016 UK private client brokers AGM written report is provided to the Board on the number and types Best of British conference of meetings between Smiths and institutional shareholders.
Best Ideas conference The Board is confident that this process enables the nonOctober 2016 UK, US, Europe equity executive directors to maintain a balanced understanding of the views and concerns of major shareholders.
September 2016 Annual results In 2017 an investor perception study was carried out by Makinson Annual General Meeting AGM Cowell, the results of which were presented to the Board at their All directors normally attend the AGM and shareholders are invited September 2017 meeting.
Some key messages in the report to ask questions during the meeting and to meet directors before include that investors believe that the Group comprises some and after the formal proceedings.
The Board values the AGM as an high-quality, high-margin and high-returns businesses, with a opportunity to meet with those shareholders who are able to strong senior management team.
Smiths is generally rated as a attend and to take their questions.
strong communicator with investors, who believe that they have sufficient access to senior management and that there is a clear At the 2016 AGM all directors in post, including the Senior articulation of the near-term strategy.
The report also identifies Independent Director and the Chairs of the Audit, Nomination some development points, including that a deeper understanding and Remuneration Committees, were available to answer of the business could be facilitated by greater access to divisional shareholders questions.
The directors were also available after management and a Capital Markets Day.
A Capital Markets the meeting for informal discussion with shareholders.
The notice Day for FY2018 is being held in London in December 2017. of the AGM and related papers were sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The 2017 AGM will be held on 14 November 2017 and is an opportunity for shareholders to vote on certain aspects of Group business in person.
It is intended that there will be a poll vote on each resolution at the 2017 AGM.
The audited, final results of the poll votes will be released to the market and published on the Companys website, www.
com, as soon as is practicable after the conclusion of the AGM.
