fdfdfds CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of compliance E. 1.1 Dialogue with shareholders The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The board believes that The Code indicates that the chairman should discuss the Company has been compliant with the Code governance and strategy with major shareholders.
The throughout the 53 weeks ended 30 July 2017, chairman has had many discussions with shareholders except as described below.
since the companys flotation in 1992, although corporate governance has rarely been raised.
1.1 Non-executive director independence majority of discussions with major shareholders now takes place among the CEO, finance director and Elizabeth McMeikan has served more than 10 years on shareholders.
The chairman is available for discussion the board and so may not be considered independent with major shareholders, when requested.
The board considers that her performance as a non-executive director continues to A full version of the Code is available on the official be effective.
She contributes significantly as a director website of the Financial Reporting Council: through her individual skills, considerable knowledge frc.
uk and experience of the Company.
She also continues to demonstrate strong independence in the manner in Directors conflicts of interest which she discharges her responsibilities as a director.
The board expects the directors to declare any Consequently, the board has concluded that, conflicts of interest and does not believe that any despite her length of tenure, there is no association material conflicts of interest exist.
with management which could compromise her independence.
The board of directors The board comprises the following members: B.
4.2 Development Tim Martin, chairman John Hutson, chief executive officer The chairman does not formally sit down with individual Ben Whitley, finance director directors and identify specific training and development Su Cacioppo, personnel and legal director needs for them.
The chairman and executive directors Elizabeth McMeikan, non-executive director hold a series of weekly meetings, with head-office and Debra van Gene, non-executive director pub managers, to try to identify areas of improvement Sir Richard Beckett, non-executive director for the business.
Minutes are taken of these meetings Harry Morley, non-executive director and action points identified for a range of participants.
In the opinion of the board, this process is effective The board considers each of Elizabeth McMeikan, in identifying problems and solutions and assists in Debra van Gene, Sir Richard Beckett and Harry Morley training and developing directors on an informal, to be independent.
Biographies of all non-executive and executive B.
6.2 External board evaluation directors are provided on page 50 and can be viewed on the Companys website: jdwetherspoon.
com A requirement of corporate governance is a recommendation for a third party to evaluate the The chairman regularly meets the non-executive functioning of the board.
Delegation of a key task of the directors and evaluates the performance of the board, chairman and of the directors of the board itself to a its committees and its individual directors.
third party, often with little or no connection with the Companys business and with a very limited knowledge It is not advantageous, in a company like Wetherspoon, of the directors, may be a dangerous step for a board for there to be high barriers or exaggerated distinctions to take.
It is the function of the board itself to evaluate between the role of chairman and that of chief its own performance and the performance is most executive officer.
However, some general distinctions evident from the results of the underlying business.
this reason, it is believed to be best for the Company to continue with its current system of self-evaluation.
J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairmans responsibility Chief executive officers responsibility The chairman is responsible for the smooth running of The chief executive officer is responsible for the the board and ensuring that all directors are fully smooth daily running of the business informed of matters relevant to their roles Delegated responsibility of authority from the Company Developing and maintaining effective management to exchange contracts for new pubs and to sign all controls, planning and performance measurements contracts with suppliers Providing support, advice and feedback to the Maintaining and developing an effective chief executive officer organisational structure Supporting the Companys strategy and encouraging the External and internal communications, in conjunction chief executive officer with development of that strategy with the chairman, on any issues facing the Company Chairing general meetings, board meetings, Implementing and monitoring compliance operational meetings and agreeing on board agendas and with board policies ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion of agenda items Management of the chief executive officers contract, Timely and accurate reporting of the above to the board appraisal and remuneration, by way of making recommendations to the remuneration committee Providing support to executive directors and Recruiting and managing senior managers in the business senior managers of the Company Helping to provide the ethos and vision of the Company, Developing and maintaining effective risk-management after discussions and debates with employees of all levels, and regulatory controls customers, shareholders and including organisations such as CAMRA Helping to provide information on customers and Maintaining primary relationships with shareholders employees views by calling on pubs and investors Helping to make directors aware of shareholders concerns Chairing the management board responsible for implementing the Companys strategy Helping to ensure that a culture of openness and debate exists in the Company Ensuring compliance with the London Stock Exchange and legal and regulatory requirements, in consultation with the board and the Companys external advisers The board has several established committees as set out below.
The board met eight times during the year ending 30 July 2017: attendance of the directors and non-executives, where appropriate, is shown below.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of meetings held in the year 8 4 3 1 N A N A N A Tim Martin 7 N A N A N A John Hutson 7 1 Su Cacioppo 8 4 N A Ben Whitley 8 4 N A 1 8 4 3 1 Elizabeth McMeikan Debra van Gene 8 4 3 1 Sir Richard Beckett 8 4 3 1 Harry Morley 7 3 2 1 8 4 N A Nigel Connor N A 64 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Matters reserved for the board The committees primary role is to assist the board in the provision of effective governance over the The following matters are reserved for the board: Companys financial reporting, risk management and internal control and, in particular, it performs the Board and management following activities: Structure and senior management responsibilities Assumes direct responsibility for the appointment, Nomination of directors Appointment and removal of compensation, resignation and dismissal of the chairman and company secretary external auditors, including review of the external audit, its cost and effectiveness Strategic matters Reviews the independence of the external auditors, Strategic, financing or adoption of including consideration of the level of non-audit work new business plans, in respect of any carried out by them material aspect of the Company Reviews the scope and nature of the work Business control to be performed by the external auditors, Agreement of code of ethics and before audit commences business practice Reviews the half-year and annual Internal audit financial statements Authority limits for heads of department Ensures compliance with accounting standards and monitors the integrity of the financial statements and Operating budgets Approval of a budget for investments formal announcements relating to the financial and capital projects performance of the Company and supports the board in Changes in major supply contracts its responsibility to ensure that the annual financial statements are fair, balanced and understandable Finance Reviews the internal audit plan, which is updated to Raising new capital and confirmation reflect the changing needs of the business and the of major facilities concerns of management and the audit committee The entry into finance leases Specific risk-management policies, including Reviews and raises questions on all internal audit insurance, hedging and borrowing limits reports and requests management to adjust the Final approval of annual and interim accounts prioritisation of mitigating actions, as needed.
Areas and accounting policies reviewed this year included processes supporting the Appointment of external auditors operation of the distribution centres, time and attendance systems, payroll processes, accounts Legal matters payable, inventory, maintenance contracts, gift cards Consideration of regular reports on material issues relating to any litigation and working time regulations affecting the Company Reviews, with the support of specialists as required, Institution of legal proceedings, controls over access to the IT systems used around the where costs exceed certain values business and agrees with management on the timing of any mitigating actions to be carried out Secretarial Reviews and monitors procedures in relation to the Call of all shareholders meetings Delegation of board powers Companys whistle-blowing policy Disclosure of directors interests Reviews and questions the effectiveness of all risk-management and internal control systems General Reviews the Companys statement on internal Board framework of executive control systems, before endorsement by the board remuneration and costs Considers the overall impact on the business of the Any other matters not within the terms of matters arisen from the various reviews described reference of any committee of the board Any other matter as determined from above and any other matters which the auditors, time to time by the board internal or external, may bring to the attention of the committee Board committees Ensures that all matters, where appropriate, are raised and brought to the attention of the board Audit committee The committee is chaired by Harry Morley and Significant financial reporting items comprises, Elizabeth McMeikan, Debra van Gene and The accounting policies of the Company and the Sir Richard Beckett.
estimates and judgements made by management are assessed by the committee for their suitability.
The Representatives of the Companys external auditors, following areas are those considered to be the most  LLP, and the Companys significant by the committee: internal audit manager, finance director and personnel and legal director are invited to attend each audit committee meeting.
J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The provision for the impairment of fixed assets and Effectiveness of external auditors the onerous leases several judgements are used in The audit committee assesses the ongoing making this calculation, primarily on expected future effectiveness of the external auditors and audit sales and profits.
The committee received reports and process, on the basis of meetings and internal reviews questioned management on the calculations made and with finance and other senior executives.
the assumptions used Significant one-off items of expense or income are In reviewing the independence of the external auditors, reported as exceptional on the face of the income the audit committee considers several factors.
All exceptional items are reviewed by the include the standing, experience and tenure of the committee external auditors, the nature and level of services The committee reviewed and raised questions provided and confirmation from the external auditors on the calculations made by the Company in relation that they have complied with relevant UK to the effectiveness and hedge accounting for independence standards.
interest-rate swaps The terms of reference of the audit committee are The committee is satisfied that the judgements made available on the Companys website.
by management are reasonable and that appropriate disclosures have been included in the accounts.
Remuneration committee The committee is chaired by Debra van Gene and Non-audit services comprises Elizabeth McMeikan, Sir Richard Beckett During the year, the Company made no use of and Harry Morley.
The directors report on specialist teams from  LLP, remuneration is set out on pages 54 to 62. relating to accounting or tax services.
The fees paid to  LLP for non-audit services The terms of reference of the remuneration committee were Nil 2016: Nil.
The use of are available on the Companys website.
 LLP for non-audit work is monitored regularly, to achieve the necessary Nomination committee independence and objectivity of the auditors.
The committee is chaired by Sir Richard Beckett and In addition, the chair of the audit committee is comprises Elizabeth McMeikan, Debra van Gene and consulted before awarding to the external auditors any Harry Morley.
The committee meets at least annually non-audit services in excess of 20,000.
Where the and considers, among other matters, board auditors provide non-audit services, their objectivity appointments and the re-election of directors.
and independence are safeguarded by the use of No director is involved in any decision about his or her different teams.
See note 2 on page 15 for own reappointment.
In carrying out these activities, a breakdown of auditors remuneration for the non-executive directors follow the guidelines of the audit and non-audit services.
Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators ICSA and comply with the Code.
External auditors The audit committee is responsible for making The terms of reference of the nomination committee recommendations to appoint, reappoint or remove are available on the Companys website.
During the year, the external audit was put out to competitive tender, overseen by the Employment policies audit committee.
Several leading audit firms, excluding Staff are encouraged to make a commitment to the the Companys current auditors, were asked to tender Companys success and to progress to more senior for the external audit.
The firms were asked to submit a roles as they develop.
written proposal document, based on which a few firms were selected to make a presentation to the In selecting, training and promoting staff, the Company audit committee.
has to take account of the physically demanding nature of much of its work.
The Company is committed to The potential audit firms were evaluated on their ability equality of opportunity and to the elimination of to deliver an effective audit within given time discrimination in employment.
constraints, the firms ability to constructively challenge and support the business, cultural fit and ability to work The Company aims to create and maintain a working well with the internal audit function.
environment, terms and conditions of employment and personnel and management practices which ensure Following the tender, the Company intends to that no individual receives less favourable treatment recommend to shareholders, for approval at the 2017 on the grounds of his or her race, religion or belief, AGM, the appointment of Grant Thornton LLP as its nationality, ethnic origin, age, disability, gender external auditors.
including gender reassignment, sexual orientation, part-time status or marital status.
 LLP has been the auditor of the Company since 1983, and they completed all work relating to the financial year ended 30 July 2017.
66 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Employees who become disabled will be retained, Where recommendations are made for changes in where possible, and retrained, where necessary.
systems or processes to reduce risk, internal audit will follow up regularly to ensure that the recommendations The Company has established a range of policies, are implemented.
covering issues such as diversity, employees wellbeing and equal opportunities, aimed at ensuring that A summary of the financial risks and treasury policies can be found on page 42, together with other risks all employees are treated fairly and consistently.
Internal communications seek to ensure that staff are well informed about the Companys progress, through Internal control During the year, the Company provided an internal the use of regular newsletters, the Companys intranet audit and risk-management function.
The creation of and staff liaison discussion, at which employees a system of internal control and risk mitigation is a key views are discussed and taken into account.
part of the Companys operations and culture.
The All pub staff participate in bonus schemes related board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
The to sales, profits, stocks and service standards.
function can only manage, rather than entirely Relations with shareholders eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business The board takes measures to ensure that all board objectives.
It can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or members are kept aware of both the views of major loss.
Ongoing reviews, assessments and management shareholders and changes in the major shareholdings of significant risks took place throughout the year under of the Company.
Efforts made to accomplish effective communication include: review and up to the date of the approval of the annual report and accord with the Turnbull Guidance Guidance on Internal Control.
Annual general meeting, considered to be an important forum for shareholders to raise questions with the board The Company has an internal audit function which is discharged as follows: Regular feedback from the Companys stockbrokers Interim, full and ongoing announcements circulated Regular audits of the Companys stock to shareholders Any significant changes in shareholder movement Unannounced visits to pub sites Monitoring systems which control being notified to the board by the company secretary, the Companys cash when necessary Health & safety visits, ensuring compliance The company secretary maintaining procedures and agreements for all announcements to the Stock Market with Company procedures Reviewing and assessing the impact of A programme of regular meetings between investors legislative and regulatory change and directors of the Company Risk-management process, identifying key risks Risk management facing the business The board is responsible for the Companys The Company has key controls, as follows: risk-management process.
The internal audit department, in conjunction with Authority limits and controls over cash-handling, purchasing commitments and capital expenditure feedback from senior management of the business A budgeting process, with a detailed 12-month functions, produces a risk register annually.
operating plan and a mid-term financial plan, The identified risks are assessed, based on the both approved by the board likelihood of a risk occurring and the potential impact Business results reported weekly, with a report compared with budget and the previous year to the business, should the risk materialise.
Forecasts prepared regularly throughout the year, The audit director determines and reviews the riskfor review by the board assessment process and will communicate the Complex treasury instruments are not used.
The Company, from time to time, as stated in our report and timetable annually.
accounts, enters into swap arrangements which fix interest rates at certain levels for a number of years The risk register is presented to the audit committee and management board annually, with a schedule of audit work agreed on, on a rolling basis.
The purpose of this work is to review, on behalf of the Company and the board, those key risks and the systems of control necessary to manage such risks.
J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE and enters into supply arrangements with fixed prices for electricity and gas, for example, which run for between one and three years An annual review of the amount of external insurance which it obtains, bearing in mind the availability of such cover, its costs and the likelihood of the risks involved Regular evaluation of processes and controls, in relation to the Companys financial reporting requirements.
The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Approved by order of the board Nigel Connor Company Secretary 14 September 2017 68 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
