Letter from the Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee Our programme of internal audit The Financial Reporting Council FRC reviewed the Groups 2016 annual activity, supported by external assurance providers, continued throughout the report and financial statements as part of its routine monitoring activity.
Specic reviews were conducted of Customs and Duty, and tax risks pleased to report that the FRC found no material error in compliance with arising from use of a mobile workforce.
In June 2017, we adopted a plan to relevant reporting requirements and did not require any corrections.
They move to a formal internal audit function by the end of the 2019 financial year, did however alert us to the fact that the Company had committed a technical reecting the increased complexity in the business.
The work of the new breach of the Companies Act in respect of the payment of the final dividend in function will be aligned to the risk register.
The breach has been remediated and the Committee noted The Committee has continued its Dear Shareholder that management have taken steps to oversight of the controls in place to ensure that such a breach could not There have been no changes to the address cyber risks which continue to happen again.
Committee since I last wrote to you, pose a risk to all businesses, and noted and Keith Down, our Chief Financial that further progress has been made We also formally reviewed the officer, has been in role for the entire in this area.
I am pleased to note that Committees performance during financial year.
We have therefore been we were not impacted by either the the year.
able to continue building on the strong Wannacry or Petya ransomware attacks.
Looking forward, there are foundations that were already in place.
We have also reviewed the plan in developments in corporate reporting place to address the requirements of From a controls and risk perspective, coming into effect within the next two the General Data Protection Regulation the most significant event of the year years, including alternative performance which comes into force in May 2018, was the acquisition of the Worldstores measures, gender pay gap reporting, and will monitor progress against this.
Group, a relatively young and IFRS 15 and 16, all of which we will entrepreneurial business, in November We paid our auditors review as required.
This is the first large acquisition  LLP advisory I look forward to meeting shareholders made by Dunelm.
The Committee was fees of 15,000 in the financial year in therefore keen to see that management at the AGM.
respect of the half year results review had an appropriate integration plan a service now classied as non-audit.
Yours sincerely, in place, and to ensure that financial This compares to the audit fee of and other controls were implemented 167,000.
We have also adopted a as soon as practicable.
I am pleased Liz Doherty new policy on use of our auditor for to report that the Committee and the Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee non-audit services which came into Board have been satisfied on both effect for the financial year commencing 13 September 2017 fronts.
The Committee has also closely July 2017, and is in line with recently reviewed the specic items in the Group adopted regulations.
As required by financial statements relating to the the regulatory guidance we formally acquisition.
reviewed the 2016 audit and found it to be satisfactory.
