Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT aligned to our non-executive director search to ensure that our new Through the Board Board members would bring the skills and experience needed to development support the strategic direction of the Group.
programme, we were able to identify the Succession planning and talent pipeline skills and experience Last year, we reported that a review of the Boards succession planning had been undertaken, which included the Chairman we need on the Board meeting with each non-executive director to discuss their tenure and to support the delivery contribution to the Board.
This succession plan has been kept under of strategy.
review, with our work during the year extended to assess the skills and experience of the Board so as to ensure that succession planning Andrew Allner, for Board members remains aligned to the strategic direction and Nomination Committee Chair ambition of the Group.
Further work will be undertaken across the year ahead to extend the Dear Shareholder, committees work, specifically around contingency planning for As Nomination Committee Chair, I am pleased to present the executive directors, and succession and development insight to committees report for the year ended 1 July 2017. further strengthen succession planning for the executive directors.
Board succession planning has continued to be a focus for the The committee also oversees the Groups talent strategy, with the committee this year.
Following the review of the Boards composition approach this year developed to focus on leadership skills and better and succession plan last year, the priority has been to assess the aligning our talent strategy with the business strategy.
The committee existing skill set of the Board to ensure that we have the right skills recognises the importance of developing a pipeline of strong and experience to support the delivery of strategy.
leadership capability so that we can appoint trained leaders, particularly where operations are being mobilised in new territories.
Board changes As our approach to strengthening talent management and succession In accordance with our succession plan, Nick Horler will retire from planning is evolving, the committee will continue to retain broad the Board at the 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM and I am oversight of this agenda, with the Group Chief Financial Officer grateful to Nick for the support and dedication he has given the Board takingon the role of Board sponsor for talent management.
As a consequence of Nick Horlers planned retirement, one of the key focus areas for the committee during the Diversity and inclusion initiatives across year has been to lead the process of finding his replacement.
the Group Through the Board development programme, we were able to Our focus on improving diversity has continued to develop with the identifythe skills and experience we were looking for and work committee being provided with regular progress updates on inclusion collaboratively with executive search consultant, Inzito who had no and diversity initiatives across the Group.
The pace and impact of other connection with the Group, to identify suitable non-executive activity has been far reaching, supported by the creation of a new role director candidates to replace Nick Horler.
Having followed the robust of Group Diversity, Inclusion and Engagement Manager.
This key process set out on pages 74 and 75, the committee proposed to the appointment has helped to shape and co-ordinate strategy and Board the appointment of two new non-executive directors and in provide thought leadership on inclusion and diversity across the bus October 2017 we will welcome Harry Holt and Leanne Wood to the and rail divisions.
Additional support has also been provided from the Board.
Together they will bring the skills, experience and behaviours Diversity and Inclusion Steering Group and the new Bus and Rail that will complement the existing Board.
Harry brings a wealth of Working Groups.
For further information on diversity and inclusion experience in government relations, strategic planning and initiatives across the Group, please see page 76. operations.
Leanne has been at the helm of leading corporate strategy and organisational transformation, with an international Apprenticeship Levy career background.
The Apprenticeship Levy came into effect in April 2017, with the With our new Board composition, our female representation on the objective of improving productivity by investing in human capital.
The Board will increase from 17% to 29%.
Levy presents an opportunity for the Group to continue to invest in the training and development of business critical roles e. g. train drivers, The right balance of skills bus and rail engineers, on-board teams, managers and leaders.
The The review of the balance of skills on the Board evolved this year committee will receive updates from a Steering Group who meet regularly to explore ways of maximising the Levy to best support through the Board development programme, where the key focus was to help individual Board members understand their own skills and theworkforce development.
strengths, how they were perceived by their fellow Board members and the collective strengths of the Board as a whole.
There is now better clarity around the different areas of skill and expertise individual Board members bring and all Board members Andrew Allner, are committed to helping their colleagues make greater use of their Nomination Committee Chair strengths.
Where gaps were identified in the skills required, this was 6 September 2017 www.
com 73 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT AT AGLANCE The nomination committee hasfocused on areas that have impacted the key performance areaof people Committee objectives What we have done Committee focus 2017 18 2016 17 Board skills assessment and Build upon the initiatives identified gapanalysis aspart of the Board development Improve committee effectiveness programme through best practice initiatives Non-executive director search and selection Tailor the induction of our two new Continue focus on ensuring Board non-executive directors andsenior management succession Oversight of leadership and talent developments and initiatives Ongoing review of succession plans planning are aligned to strategy andculture forthe Board and business critical Review of the opportunities arising roles across the Group from the newApprenticeship Levy Undertake Board skills assessment and gap analysis Continue to take a more active interest Oversight of the inclusion and diversity in developing the leadership talent initiatives across the Group Oversight of leadership and talent pipeline to protect and enhance future initiatives, linking to new vision, beliefs Continued to be well informed of organisational capability and attitudes bestpractice, good governance and Promote diversity in Board and senior Full integration of the rail division into market developments management appointments the diversity steering group and forums Review development initiatives for thesenior management team Nomination committee membership Attendance Andrew Allner Committee Chair Katherine Innes Ker Senior Independent Director Nick Horler Independent Non-Executive Director Adrian Ewer Independent Non-Executive Director Carolyn Ferguson attends the meetings in her capacity as Group Company Secretary In accordance with the Boards succession plan, Nick Horler will retire from the Board at the 2017 AGM.
Harry Holt and Leanne Wood will be appointed as independent non-executive directors and members of the nomination committee on 23 October 2017.
Details of the rigorous selection process that was carried out in respect of their appointments can be found below and on page 75 of this nomination committee report.
Committee at work Recruitment of new non-executive directors, Harry Holt and Leanne Wood Succession Board Recruitment Selection planning composition Identified a vacancy for a Work undertaken as part The committee directed Under the leadership non-executive director, of the Boards development the selection process with of the Chairman, a when one of the existing programme identified a Inzito, an external search sub-committee examined non-executive directors need for a non-executive consultant, appointed to a long list of candidates confirmed his intention director with specific assist with the search against the role to retire know-how areas and specification, with role behaviours a shortlist of candidates identified 74 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information This included seeking comfort from the new non-executive directors, Committee composition, skills and experience who will join the Board in October 2017, that they could devote the The committee consists of the Chairman and three independent time required in addition to reviewing any changes to the non-executive directors, who together bring a diverse and commitments of our existing Board members during the year.
complementary range of backgrounds, personal attributes and experience.
The review this year resulted in the committee being satisfied that the contribution made by all directors continued to be effective and that Nick Horler will resign from the Board as a non-executive director all directors are able to commit fully to their role.
Accordingly, all and member of the nomination committee with effect from the close current directors with the exception of Nick Horler will stand for of the Annual General Meeting on 2 November 2017.
Harry Holt and re-election at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Harry Holt and Leanne Wood will be joining the Board as non-executive directors on Leanne Wood will stand for election for the first time at the 2017 23 October 2017, at which time they will also become members of the Annual General Meeting, with full details provided in the Notice nomination committee.
The committee will then comprise the of Meeting.
Chairman and four independent non-executive directors.
Terms of reference Committees purpose and responsibility A full list of responsibilities is detailed in the committees terms The main purpose of the nomination committee is to monitor the of reference which are reviewed annually and approved by the balance of skills, experience, knowledge, independence and diversity Board.
During the year, the terms of reference were updated of the Board and to keep succession arrangements for the Board and in accordance with best practice and a copy is available on our senior management under review.
com or upon request from the Group Company Secretary.
The committee usually meets at least twice a year, excluding meetings held to review its effectiveness as part of the annual performance evaluation.
This year, a number of additional subEffectiveness of the nomination committee committee meetings were held to focus on the non-executive director The externally facilitated Board development programme undertaken search process.
Members individual attendance at committee during the year concluded that the committee was fulfilling its duties meetings for the year under review can be found on page 48. effectively, with the committee spending more time discussing By invitation, the Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial succession planning, leadership capability and talent management Officer attend meetings and there are regular presentations from and diversity initiatives.
The work undertaken as part of the Board senior management.
development programme during the year was also pivotal to enhancing the Boards composition and overall effectiveness.
Time commitments Succession planning and talent pipeline The majority of the Board, excluding the Chairman who was independent upon appointment, are independent non-executive The annual leadership review now highlights succession strength to directors.
The independence, effectiveness and time commitment of business critical roles, performance of leaders, functional expertise, each non-executive director are reviewed on an annual basis.
This leadership strengths and deficits, mobility and gender diversity.
It year, a particularly rigorous review was undertaken for Katherine also identifies those with longer term leadership potential.
Innes Ker, who, as at 1 July 2017, has served on the Board for almost During the year, the committee was updated on developments in the seven years.
The committee also keeps under continual review the approach to building a strong and resilient talent pipeline.
Three time commitments of all Board members, to ensure they do not pools of talent are now actively supported including high-potential become overstretched.
employees, mid-level managers and graduates.
Several of our bus and rail businesses also support talent pools locally.
Balance Interview Appointment Induction of skills Candidates were initially In order to maximise the Harry Holt and Leanne The committee will play interviewed by the effectiveness of the Board, Wood were announced as an active part in providing Chairman, Senior two non-executive joining the Board and a bespoke induction that Independent Director, directors were appointed, members of the audit, will be tailored to the skills Group Chief Executive and increasing the size of the remuneration and and experience of each of Group Company Secretary Board but more nomination committees, the new non-executive and then met all other importantly ensuring that succeeding Nick Horler as directors Board members the Board has the right independent nonbalance of skills and executive director experience www.
com 75 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Graduate recruitment is an important way of introducing talent into Diversity and inclusion initiatives both bus and rail operations.
The first year of the rail graduate across the Group scheme has successfully concluded and a further tranche of The committee has been updated on the diversity strategies graduate entrants will join the Group in September 2017.
The bus developed across the Group, which have objectives and actions that graduate scheme is under review and will evolve so it aligns with and are common across all of our operating companies.
Equality and complements the bus business strategy, particularly where diversity training has been made available to all managers across operations are being mobilised overseas.
The committee tracks the head office and the bus division, with training planned in our rail careers of graduate entrants and a number of former graduates are division over the coming year.
A refreshed equality and diversity policy now in management or senior management positions.
was launched during the year, which outlines our responsibilities Consultation with leaders from the bus and rail operating companies under the Equality Act 2010, detailing the definitions of discrimination established new requirements for improving talent development and, and the steps we take to ensure equal opportunities are made in early 2017, colleagues with longer term leadership potential were available to all employees.
identified and commenced either a high-potential programme or a Our bus division has completed a diversity monitoring exercise to management development programme to accelerate their growth.
identify areas of focus and action plans to ensure inclusive practices Entry to the high-potential programmes is determined by a robust set around recruitment, customer experience and colleague of criteria and the programme is a blend of formal and development.
We have made progress in setting our baseline and experiential development.
ensuring that we are well placed to measure our continued The committee recognises that, in addition to developing our own performance as an inclusive employer.
In support of this we have people, identifying external talent fulfils an important role in taken Champion membership of Opportunity Now, Business in the improving organisational capability.
We continue to be able to attract Communitys BITC gender campaign, and Core membership of high calibre talent to senior roles both in the UK and overseas and Race for Opportunity, the BITC race campaign.
are pleased to have recruited females into leadership positions.
In the Analysis of our Group Executive Committee and their direct reports year ahead, we intend to be more proactive in tracking external talent shows that we have achieved more than 30% female representation in so that we are able to respond quickly to sourcing external talent.
Our focus will be on ensuring there is female representation at senior levels throughout our bus business and Board Diversity Policy developing action plans for fair Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic Our approach to diversity on the Board is set out in our Board representation at all levels in the organisation.
Diversity Policy, which is reviewed annually.
Across the year ahead, the committee will oversee the move into the The Board remains committed to improving levels of female implementation phase of strategies developed by the Bus and Rail representation on the Board, whilst ensuring that diversity in its Working Groups.
Priorities include ensuring our practices around broadest sense remains a key priority.
With the appointment of people data are compliant with the General Data Protection Leanne Wood on 23 October 2017, our female representation on the Regulation as improved people data will enable action plans to be Board will increase from 17% to 29%.
We will also review recruitment practices across the Group to ensure these are inclusive.
In support The Board is also committed to developing and strengthening our of this, inclusive recruitment training is to be developed and made talent pipeline and culture to improve the number of females in available to all managers.
Our Champion membership of Opportunity senior management positions.
Now will provide access to tools and best practice ensuring those To achieve this ambition, the committee will endeavour always to undertaking the review are equipped.
engage executive search firms that are accredited under The We are due to publish data on our Gender Pay Gap in April 2018 and Enhanced Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms, which we will use our membership of BITC to support female career promotes gender diversity and best practice.
The charts below show the gender diversity of the Board as at the year ended 1 July 2017 and also for the forthcoming year, which Development opportunities for colleagues reflects the appointment of Harry Holt and Leanne Wood on The committee continues to recognise the importance of supporting 23 October 2017 and the retirement of Nick Horler at the 2017 Annual the development of all colleagues across the Group.
supported in many ways including initiatives delivered by rail and bus HR teams as well as Group-wide approaches.
The Group Academy Gender diversity has evolved and is now branded as The Learning Hub.
The services Female offered by The Learning Hub include a catalogue of management Male development and personal effectiveness programmes and online learning resources.
The committee will oversee the further 17% 29% development of this service over the coming year to support the delivery of compliance and regulatory training and to provide more 83% online resources to support managers and leaders.
71% There will also be a greater focus on leadership development over the year ahead as a key enabler of the business strategy, and senior management team members will be supported to put robust development plans with attributed hours to ensure they invest in their professional development.
16 17 17 18 76 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
