Code compliance This report explains how we have applied the principles of Corporate good governance and code of best practice set out in the Corporate Governance Code published in April 2016 the Corporate Governance Code, which is available from the Governance website of the Financial Reporting Council, www.
The Board considers that it has fully complied with the Corporate Governance Code during the financial year Report covered by this annual report.
In making its determination, consideration was given to the independence of Simon Emeny, who has served ten years on the Board in June 2017.
Further details are given in the section below headed Independence of Non-Executive Directors.
Overview We share the Governments view that good governance helps z We support corporate governance guidelines and apply companies to take better decisions, for their own long term them in a way that is meaningful to our business and benefit and that of the UK economy overall.
Our approach, consistent with our culture and values which has not changed since the otation of the Company in z If we decide that the interests of the Company and its 2006, is summarised below: shareholders can be better served by doing things in a z We believe that good governance leads to stronger value different way, we will explain the reasons why creation and lower risks for shareholders For more information please see the copies of the z It is the Boards responsibility to instil and maintain a presentations that we made to our major institutional investors culture of honesty, integrity and transparency throughout and shareholder representatives, available in the Reports and the business, through our policies, communications and by Presentations section of our website, www.
the way in which we act Board role and composition The Board has three roles: Strategy Governance Performance z Set the strategy to secure z Instil and maintain a culture z Review progress towards the continued growth of the of honesty, integrity and strategic and operational Group over the long term in the transparency goals and the performance of interests of our shareholders, management z Ensure that financial and other taking account of our controls and processes for risk z Ensures that Board balance responsibilities to colleagues, management are in place and and committee membership customers, the communities working effectively are appropriate and effective, in which we operate and and fully compliant with the z Set an effective the interests of our other requirements of the Corporate remuneration policy stakeholders Governance Code z Maintain good relationships with z Ensure that resources are in shareholders place to deliver the strategy The Board structure at the date of this report is shown below: CHAIRMAN ANDY HARRISON EXECUTIVES NON-INDEPENDENTS INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVES Simon Emeny Senior Independent Director Will Adderley Deputy Chairman Liz Doherty Non-Executive Director Keith Down Chief Financial officer William Reeve Non-Executive Director Marion Sears Non-Executive Director Peter Ruis Non-Executive Director Following the resignation of John Browett in August 2017, Andy Harrison is providing interim executive leadership, supported by Will Adderley, the Deputy Chairman, and Keith Down, the CFO, until a new Chief Executive has been appointed.
indd 54 06 10 2017 12:11:53 Governance Board responsibilities The Board has adopted written statements setting out the respective responsibilities of the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman and the Chief Executive: these are available on the Groups website or from the Company Secretary.
A summary of the names and responsibilities of the Directors is set out below: CHAIRMAN Andy Harrison is responsible for: z The leadership, effectiveness and governance of the Board z Ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information z Setting the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions with a particular focus on strategic matters z Chairing the Nominations Committee z Ensuring each Non-Executive Director makes an effective contribution to the Board DEPUTY CHAIRMAN Will Adderley is responsible for: z Maintaining a close dialogue with the Chairman and the CEO z Assisting the CEO in strategic and operational activities as requested z Leading the preservation of the culture and values of the Company through visible demonstration of the key business z Supporting and deputising for the Chairman as required principles z Member of the Nominations Committee SENIOR INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Simon Emeny is responsible for: z Acting as a sounding board for the Chairman and an z Making himself available to shareholders, particularly if they have intermediary for the other Directors concerns that the normal channels have failed to resolve, or for which such contact would be inappropriate z Leading the Non-Executive Directors in their annual assessment of the Chairmans performance z Chairing the Remuneration Committee CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER The Chief Executive is responsible for: z Proposing the strategic objectives of the Group for approval by z Leading the Executive Board and senior management in the Board, and delivering the strategic and financial objectives in managing the operational requirements of the business line with the agreed strategy z Providing clear and visible leadership in business conduct z Effective and ongoing communication with shareholders NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Simon Emeny, Liz Doherty, William Reeve, Peter Ruis and Marion Sears are responsible for: z Constructive contribution and challenge to the development of z Oversight of financial and other controls and processes for risk strategy management z Monitoring operational and financial performance and scrutiny of z Liz Doherty chairs the Audit and Risk Committee management performance in the delivery of strategic objectives z With the exception of Andy Harrison and Marion Sears, all NonExecutive Directors chair or sit on all Board Committees CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Keith Down is responsible for: z Working with the CEO to develop and implement the Groups z Ensuring proper financial controls and risk management of the strategic objectives Group and compliance with associated regulation z The financial delivery and performance of the Group z Investor relations activities, and communications with investors z Ensuring that the Group remains appropriately funded to pursue the strategic objectives COMPANY SECRETARY Dawn Durrant is responsible for: z Supporting the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors with z Facilitating individual induction programmes for Directors and their responsibilities assisting with their development as required z Advising on regulatory compliance and corporate governance z Communications with shareholders and organisation of the AGM z Overseeing the Corporate Responsibility activities of the Group 55 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
indd 55 06 10 2017 12:11:53 Corporate Governance Report CONTINUED Independence of Non-Executive Directors Board attendance As required by the Corporate Governance Code and the The Board held 11 meetings in the course of the year, one Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority, the of which was dedicated to a formal review of strategy.
Board considers annually whether all independent NonAttendance at meetings was as follows: Executive Directors continue to exhibit independence of Meetings character and judgement prior to putting them forward Director attended for reappointment at the AGM.
This was last considered in September 2017 and we confirmed that Andy Harrison Will Adderley 11 11 was independent on appointment and that Simon Emeny, John Browett 11 11 Liz Doherty, William Reeve and Peter Ruis are independent.
Liz Doherty 10 11 Simon Emeny will retire at the AGM in November 2017.
Keith Down 11 11 The Board has treated Marion Sears as a non-independent Director since September 2015 in view of her tenure of Simon Emeny 11 11 more than nine years on the Board, and her subsequent Andy Harrison 10 11 appointment as a director of WA Capital Limited in March Peter Ruis 11 11 2016.
WA Capital Limited is a private limited company established by Will Adderley the Deputy Chairman, and a William Reeve 11 11 major shareholder to act as a long term holding company Marion Sears 11 11 for his beneficial interest in the Company and various other Andy Harrison and Liz Doherty were unable to attend one unscheduled investments.
The Dunelm Board has determined that this Board meeting in connection with the Worldstores acquisition: however, appointment does not affect her judgement as a Director they communicated their views in advance to Will Adderley, who chaired of Dunelm, and that any potential conict of interest has the meeting.
been cleared on the basis that WA Capital Limited and Will Adderley are parties to a Relationship Agreement referred to below in the section headed Conicts of Interest which regulates their conduct.
Marion will put herself forward for reappointment at the AGM by shareholders independent of the Adderley family as well as a full shareholder vote.
As noted in the report of the Nominations Committee, Board refreshment is a continued area of focus and we continue to consider the tenure of all Directors as part of our succession planning.
Our policy on Board diversity is explained in the Nominations Committee report.
Change of Non-Executive Director responsibilities There were no changes to the responsibilities of the NonExecutive Directors during the year.
Following the planned retirement of Simon Emeny at the AGM in November, committee responsibilities will change when a new NonExecutive Director is appointed.
A search process is well advanced and an announcement will be made in due course.
indd 56 06 10 2017 12:11:53 Governance Board meetings There is a schedule of matters reserved to the Board for At each meeting, the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial decision or approval, which is available on the Groups officer report on operational performance including health website or from the Company Secretary.
Examples of such and safety and the Chief Financial officer reports on financial matters include Group strategy and budget, Group capital performance.
There is a rolling agenda of other operational, structure, approval of financial results and Annual Report strategic and risk topics which is regularly refreshed to reect and financial statements, significant capital or contractual the most up-to-date strategy and live issues in the business.
commitments, maintaining internal control and risk The principal areas of focus discussed by the Board in management and approval of significant Group-wide policies.
Areas of focus z Group strategy, including our vision, goals z Digital strategy Strategy and business plans z Furniture strategy z Budget z Product strategy z Impact of Brexit z Capital and Dividend policy z Worldstores acquisition and integration z Tax policy z Customer insight and brand strategy z Competitors z Board succession z Gender pay Governance and risk z Board independence, composition and diversity z Culture and values z Investor feedback via advisers z Health and safety z AGM voting and feedback z Ethical sourcing and modern slavery z Update on Directors duties and responsibilities z Internal Audit z Corporate governance reform z IT security and cyber security z Risk reviews and what keeps us awake at night z Market Abuse Regulation z The General Data Protection Regulation z Customer insight z People strategy, colleague engagement Operational and succession planning z Store operating model z Supply chain strategy z Format development z Integration of the Worldstores business We measure the time spent on strategy, governance and Non-Executive Director meetings operational performance at each meeting.
Over the year, the We adopted one of the recommendations of our Board biggest part of our time was spent on strategy, followed by Evaluation in 2016, to have timetabled Non-Executive Only governance and operational performance, which the Board time at the end of each Board meeting, attended by the considers to be appropriate.
Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors.
This has proved to be a useful way of exchanging views and dealing with any Minutes of all Board and Committee meetings are taken concerns or questions.
In addition to this, the Chairman and by the Company Secretary and circulated for approval.
the other Non-Executive Directors regularly have informal, Any unresolved concerns raised by a Director are recorded individual, meetings with the Executive Directors and other in the minutes.
senior managers in the business, usually at a store location.
Four of the Non-Executive Directors gave a presentation to colleagues in the Store Support Centre which covered their area of expertise and interest and its relevance to Dunelms business.
57 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
indd 57 06 10 2017 12:11:53 Corporate Governance Report CONTINUED We have an open culture and Non-Executive Directors are Board committees free to make direct contact with senior management and store The Board has three committees, an Audit and Risk teams.
Throughout the year all Directors have visited stores Committee, a Nominations Committee and a Remuneration both informally and together with members of the senior Committee.
The terms of reference of each of these management team.
committees can be found on the Groups website and are available from the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary reports to the Board at each meeting on new legal, regulatory and governance developments Details of the membership of the committees and of their that affect the Group and actions are agreed where activities during the past financial year can be found in the needed.
Directors attend seminars and tutorials provided reports from the Chair of each of the committees.
by independent organisations which cover a wide range of governance topics.
Our corporate brokers, UBS, attended our Training and induction January Board meeting to provide an update on Directors Upon joining the Board, any new Director is offered a duties and responsibilities under company law, the Listing comprehensive and tailored induction programme with visits Rules and the Market Abuse Regulation.
to key sites and meetings with senior managers and other colleagues.
As part of the annual Board evaluation, any additional training or development needs are addressed by the Chairman with No new Directors were appointed during the year, but each Director.
Please see the Directors biographies on pages typically, a new Director will meet with the Chairman, the 50 to 52 for details of the specic skills and experience of Deputy Chairman and other Directors and receive a brieng each Director.
from the Company Secretary on the duties of PLC directors.
They will visit stores and other Company sites, accompanied Evaluation by a member of the Executive Board.
They will be given Each of the Directors receives a formal evaluation of their access to past Board papers and to the auditors and other performance during the year.
professional advisers, and to members of the Executive Team and senior management, based on their area of expertise and The Board and committees are also formally evaluated responsibilities.
2016 External evaluation The recommendations arising from the 2016 review conducted by Lorna Parker, an independent Board Evaluation specialist, and actions implemented in response are set out below: Recommendation Action taken Focus more of the Boards agenda on key aspects of the Time allocated on agenda to strategy topics doubled.
strategy where the Board can add most value to the Executive One debate held over dinner.
team, with sufficient time on each topic to allow a free flowing debate.
Build more structured Non-Executive time into the Board Non-Executive Director only session timetabled at the end of timetable: additional Non-Executive only dinners and each Board meeting.
scheduled Non-Executive only sessions at the end of each Dinners attended by the full Board rather than NEDs only Board meeting.
to allow time to debate strategic topics.
NED only dinners scheduled for next year.
Maximising value from the Non-Executive Directors by Each Non-Executive Director informally mentors one informal mentoring of Executives and continuing to share member of the Executive Board.
their specialist knowledge and leadership experience through Presentations given by the Chairman and four of the presentations to the Senior Management Team.
Non-Executives to the Executive Board and Senior Management team on Leadership, Governance, Introduction to the City, Brand Marketing, and How to succeed with an online business.
The Company Secretary to facilitate more formal governance Details circulated of external seminars.
training for the Non-Executive Directors.
Brokers attended a Board meeting to provide an update on directors legal and regulatory responsibilities.
indd 58 06 10 2017 12:11:53 Governance z Review the structure of Board meetings and the rolling 2017 External evaluation agenda again to ensure that the Board is allowing enough There were a number of changes to our Board in 2015 16, time for discussion of the external environment, and other and when the 2016 external review was held, new softer matters such as people and culture relationships and ways of working were still being established.
z Improve meeting dymanics, in particular to promote more We therefore decided to ask Lorna Parker, who carried out the open discussion and focused debate external evaluation in 2016, to do a follow-up review in 2017.
Lorna does not have any other connection with the Group or z Review Board papers to ensure that they reect the any of its Directors.
rearticulated, customer-centric strategy and objectives, and contain only relevant detail and KPIs The 2017 review noted that in the year the Group has z Consider whether an additional Non-Executive Director faced the expected strategic challenges in a fast moving should be appointed, to strengthen the overall skill base and increasingly competitive retail environment, but Board amongst the Non-Executive Directors processes have been effective, efficient and thorough, and the Board believes that there is clarity, alignment and genuine These actions will be progressed during the year and we will excitement around the medium term strategy.
A number of report back on them in next years report.
actions were agreed, including: Investor relations and understanding shareholder views We formalised our Investor Relations Strategy in 2013 and it is available on our corporate website.
The main elements are: Event Company attendees Results presentation Presented by Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer Twice a year Attended by Chairman and other Directors Meetings with institutional investors roadshow Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer Twice a year Chairman and Non-Executive Directors attend a selection of meetings Adderley family dinner All Directors and Company Secretary Once a year AGM All Directors and Company Secretary Once a year Corporate governance presentation Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Every one or two years Analyst and shareholder presentation at store Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer Every two or three years Other senior managers as appropriate an opportunity to discuss with us a range of governance The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial officer report back to the Board after the investor roadshows.
Matters discussed in the past have included Board composition, the work of the Audit and Risk Committee, Groups brokers and financial PR advisers also provide a written feedback report after the full and half year results remuneration, the Rule 9 waiver and corporate social responsibility.
We are planning to hold another meeting in announcements and investor roadshows to inform the Board about investor views, and in addition Non-Executive Directors January 2018. attend a selection of investor meetings.
Our corporate website contains useful shareholder Every two years or so, we hold a Corporate Governance information, copies of presentations and policies in relation meeting, attended by Will Adderley, the Non-Executive to governance and corporate social responsibility.
Please see Directors, the Company Secretary and myself, to which our www.
major institutional shareholders are invited.
This gives the All Directors will be available at the Annual General Meeting corporate governance representatives of our shareholders to meet with shareholders and answer their questions.
59 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
indd 59 06 10 2017 12:11:53 Corporate Governance Report CONTINUED How the Board engages with its other stakeholders Our Business Principles identify customers, colleagues, suppliers, the environment and communities as our principal stakeholders in addition to our shareholders, and our Corporate Responsibility report sets out more detail on how we manage our relationships with them.
The table below sets out how the Board engages with each of these: Customers z Customer insight report in Board packs z Customer KPIs in Board pack z CEO Deputy Chairman reply personally to a number of high level customer contacts z All Directors visit stores regularly Colleagues z People Director updates the Board twice a year including the results of our colleague engagement survey z Colleague KPIs in Board pack z Annual conference for Store Managers and senior support colleagues, attended by Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial officer and Company Secretary z All Directors visit stores regularly accompanied by a member of the Executive or Senior Management Team z Non-Executive Director presentations to the Senior Management Team on leadership topics z Executive Directors and Company Secretary attend a selection of Colleague Council meetings Suppliers z Annual supplier conference held, attended by Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive z Key suppliers attend the annual Store Managers conference z Chief Executive and Deputy Chairman meet regularly with key suppliers z Annual Board presentation on ethical trading modern slavery Environment community z Chief Financial officer and the Company Secretary attend the Sustainability Committee, which considers matters relating to the environment, community and other topics z A representative of the Company-sponsored charity attends the annual Store Managers conference z All Directors visit stores regularly The Governance in Action case study on page 62 shows as it avoids dilution of shareholdings, and it is supported by how the interests of stakeholders have been considered in the majority of our institutional shareholders.
I would like to connection with the construction of our new distribution reassure shareholders again that shares bought back by the centre at Stoke DC2.
Company will be held in treasury and used only to satisfy share option entitlements, and not cancelled.
Rule 9 waiver Significant shareholders In April 2016, Will Adderley, our Deputy Chairman and a major shareholder, disposed of part of his shareholding.
The Groups significant shareholders are listed in the As his shareholding is now below 30%, and the combined Directors Report on page 103 and voting rights are stated on Adderley shareholding is above 50%, we are no longer page 102. required to seek a Rule 9 waiver at the AGM to support our Conflicts of interest policy to buy back shares to satisfy employee share option The Companies Act 2006 allows the Board of a public entitlements, so long as this situation remains the case after company to authorise conicts and potential conicts the Company share purchase.
The Rule 9 waiver vote caused a of interest of individual Directors where the Articles of policy difficulty for a number of our institutional shareholders, Association contain a provision to that effect.
The Companys which can now be avoided.
Articles of Association give the Board this authority subject to The Board has reviewed whether our policy to purchase the following safeguards.
shares in the market to satisfy share option entitlements as z Directors who have an interest in matters under discussion opposed to issuing shares is still appropriate: we believe at a Board meeting must declare that interest and abstain that it is in the interests of our shareholder base as a whole from voting 60 dunelm.
indd 60 06 10 2017 12:11:53 Governance z Only Directors who have no interest in the matter being The Nominations Committee makes recommendations to the considered are able to approve a conict of interest and, Board on the appointment and removal of Directors.
in taking that decision, the Directors must act in a way they In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code, all consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote Directors will retire from the Board and offer themselves the success of the Company for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Nonz The Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when Executive Directors will also be subject to a separate vote by giving authorisation if they feel this is appropriate shareholders independent of the Adderley family as required All Directors are required to disclose any actual or potential by the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority.
conicts to the Board and the following existing matters have Powers of Directors been considered and approved: The business of the Company is managed by the Board, z Will Adderley is a major shareholder and connected to which may exercise all of the powers of the Company, subject other major shareholders.
Authorised on the basis that to the requirements of the Companies Act, the Articles of Will continues to abide by the terms of the Relationship Association of the Company and any special resolution of the Agreement entered into between himself, other major Company.
As stated above, the Board has adopted internal shareholders and the Company on otation of the delegations of authority in accordance with the Code and Company in 2006 these set out matters which are reserved to the Board or z Marion Sears is a director of WA Capital Limited, a private committees and the powers and duties of the Chairman and limited company established by Will Adderley to act as a the Chief Executive respectively.
long term holding company for his beneficial interest in At the Annual General Meetings of the Company from 2007 the Company and various other investments.
Authorised onwards, the Board has sought and been given authority on the basis that WA Capital Limited is party to the to issue shares and to buy back and reissue shares.
Similar Relationship Agreement referred to above resolutions are being tabled at the 2017 Annual General Any actual or potential conicts are considered by the Board Meeting.
Any shares bought back would be held in treasury and any authorisations given are recorded in the Board for reissue to employees who exercise options under one of minutes and reviewed annually by the Board.
the Groups share incentive schemes.
For further details see the Notice of Annual General Meeting which accompanies Conicts that have been disclosed are reviewed annually by this report.
Advice and insurance The Board considers that its procedures to approve conicts of interest and potential conicts of interest are operating All Directors have access to the advice and services of the effectively.
In addition, Directors may seek legal advice at the Groups expense if they consider it necessary in Appointment and removal of Directors connection with their duties.
The Articles of Association of the Company provide that a The Group purchases Directors and Ofcers liability Director may be appointed by ordinary resolution of the insurance cover for its Directors.
Companys shareholders in general meeting, or by the Board so long as the Director stands down and offers him Articles of Association or herself for election at the next Annual General Meeting of The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended the Company.
The Articles also provide that each Director by a special resolution of shareholders.
must stand down and offer him or herself for re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting at least every Governance and risk three years.
The Board has decided to adopt the requirement Details of the Groups risk management framework, systems of the Corporate Governance Code, that all Directors should and controls and internal control framework are set out in the stand down and offer themselves for re-election at each Strategic report on pages 28 to 29.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on Directors may be removed by a special resolution of 13 September 2017. shareholders, or by an ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given in accordance with the Companies Act Andy Harrison 2006.
The Articles also provide that the ofce of a Director Chairman shall be vacated if they are prohibited by law from being a Director, or is bankrupt: and that the Board may resolve that his or her ofce be vacated if he or she is of unsound mind or is absent from Board meetings without consent for six months or more.
A Director may also resign from the Board.
61 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
