AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT It has been important for the committee to gain a good understanding Setting the risk of the risks and emerging risks for the Group and our industry, in appetite for the addition to the measures being taken to address potential areas of Group is an vulnerability.
We have challenged both internal audit and senior management on the effectiveness of controls in place and are integral part of satisfied that measures are being taken to minimise the Groups how we develop vulnerability to cyber security threats with appropriate focus and actions our strategy.
on wider IT processes underway.
For an example of some of thework we have been doing on cyber security, please read page 40.
Adrian Ewer, Audit Committee Chair Integrity of reporting As in previous years, one of the committees upmost priorities has been to ensure that the nature of the relationship between the auditor and the Group in the preparation of the Groups financial statements Dear Shareholder, is rigorous, objective and not in any way compromised.
This year, following feedback from analysts and investors, the committee also As Audit Committee Chair, I am pleased to present the committees played an important role in the review and change of the accounting report for the year ended 1 July 2017. policy for rail pensions.
This required additional focus and detailed As required by the UK Corporate Governance Code, published in April discussions with both management and the auditor, with the committee 2016 the Code, I have the recent and relevant financial experience to considering a wide range of factors before concluding that the change chair this committee and my fellow committee members bring a wide would more appropriately represent the Groups results which was range of financial and commercial expertise which has enabled the also in accordance with current accounting standards.
The change was committee to meet its responsibilities in a robust and announced in December 2016 ahead of the Groups half year results.
In conjunction with the external auditor, the committee has also continued to focus on the key areas where significant judgements Risk and internal controls areapplied and which could have a material impact on the financial Last year, following an independent review by  statements.
These critical accounting judgements and key sources LLP PwC, we made some changes to enhance our risk management ofestimation uncertainty are disclosed on page 116.
In particular, and internal control framework.
It was important, therefore, that the the committee has discussed in detail the contractual variations and committee reviewed the effectiveness of those changes, which we did claims on the GTR franchise and the relating financial judgements this year.
Our review concluded that the changes had been successfully with management and the auditor.
embedded across the Group and had improved the robustness of our processes, particularly around the focus of risk discussions, both at Fair, balanced and understandable operating company and Board level.
This year, the committee built The Code provides that through its financial reporting, the Board upon these enhancements, spending time further improving the should provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of quality of information provided to the audit committee and Board, in the Groups prospects.
At the Boards request, the committee has order to support the Boards robust assessment of the principal risks reviewed the 2016 17 Annual Report and Accounts collectively, the facing the Group.
Further details are set out on pages 40 to 45.
Annual Report and has determined that it considers the document, taken as a whole, to meet the standard and provide the information Risk appetite necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and Setting the risk appetite for the Group is an integral part of how we performance, business model and strategy.
develop our strategy and our risk appetite statement is on page 42.
It sets out how we balance risk and opportunity in pursuit of achieving External auditor effectiveness our business objectives.
It also supports the committees assessment Last year, we reported on the auditor transition process from of risk and the level of mitigation and resource required to reduce the Ernst & Young LLP to Deloitte LLP.
This year, the committee potential impact of each of our principal risks.
undertook a thorough assessment of the quality and effectiveness of Deloitte LLPs second full audit cycle, the details of which are IT controls and cyber security summarised on page 67.
Following the review, the committee was There has been an increasing focus on IT risks over recent years, satisfied that the external audit had provided appropriate focus to with the committee commissioning internal audits of IT governance, those areas identified as the key risk areas to be considered by the resilience and information security and the external auditor also audit committee.
It had also continued to address the areas of commenting on the IT processes and the internal control significant accounting estimates.
On this basis, and considering the environment during the course of the audit.
We take the protection of views of senior management, the committee concurred that the data and cyber security risks very seriously and this has continued to external audit had been effective and was satisfied that the audit be a key area of focus during the year, with an increase in the number process in respect of the Annual Report was robust, challenging of presentations to the audit committee and Board.
Specifically, the and appropriately targeted.
committee has discussed the Groups IT maturity levels and management controls, where significant improvements have been made over the last 12 months.
Considerable time has also been spent discussing cyber security risk, with a growing focus on the Adrian Ewer, handling of personal data we hold on our customers and our Audit Committee Chair colleagues, which we recognise is an evolving and complex risk area for many businesses.
6 September 2017 64 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT AT AGLANCE The audit committee has focused on areas that have impacted the key performance area of finance Committee objectives What we have done Committee focus 2017 18 2016 17 Reviewed the effectiveness of the Review the effectiveness of the systems enhancements made to the system of of risk management and internal Assess the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control control, including risk appetite enhancements made to systems of risk processes management and internal control Continual assessment of cyber security Increased discussion and articulation risks including those associated with processes during 2015 16 of risk appetite the holding of personal data, with Continual assessment and focus on ensuring IT controls remain Increased focus on IT governance, improvement of cyber security with robust and dynamic focus on ensuring IT controls remain resilience, controls and cyber security Continue to strengthen and enhance IT robust and dynamic Overseen significant improvements to systems across the Group and monitor Implement the recommendations of the Groups IT maturity levels and maturity levels management controls professional advisors to continue to strengthen and enhance IT systems Ensure the committee is exercising its Increased understanding of cyber risk assurance oversight role in the best across the Group and gained assurance of the measures possible way and continues to be Monitor changes in the external being taken to address potential areas well-informed of best practice of vulnerability regulatory environment and best practice Continue to assess the external Reviewed and changed accounting auditors effectiveness policy for rail pensions Ensure the committee is exercising its assurance oversight role in the best Review the effectiveness of the Improved the quality and presentation changes made to the internal audit possibleway of health and safety reporting process Carry out an assessment of the Reviewed the significant financial Continue to oversee the significant external  judgements made during the year and financial judgements Review of scope and delivery of internal provided assurance to the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts taken audit and monitor progress as a whole is fair, balanced and Continue to oversee the significant understandable financialjudgements Reviewed the effectiveness of Deloitte LLPs second full audit cycle Reviewed and changed the scope of the internal audit function Audit committee membership Attendance Adrian Ewer Committee Chair Katherine Innes Ker Senior Independent Director Nick Horler Independent  Carolyn Ferguson attends the meetings in her capacity as Group Company Secretary In accordance with the Boards succession plan, Nick Horler will retire from the Board at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Harry Holt and Leanne Wood will be appointed as independent non-executive directors and members of the audit committee on 23 October 2017.
Details of the rigorous selection process that was carried out in respect of their appointments can be found in the nomination committee report on pages 73 to 76. www.
com 65 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Committee composition, skills and experience Committee roles and responsibilities The membership of the committee, which comprises three The principal responsibilities of the audit committee are: independent non-executive directors, provides the range of financial and commercial expertise necessary to meet its responsibilities External audit manage and review the reports from 1 in a robust and independent manner.
Adrian Ewer is a Fellow of theexternal auditor, recommend any changes to the the Institute of Chartered Accountants and has significant financial externalauditor, oversee any retendering process and experience in the UK listed environment, enabling him to fulfil his reviewremuneration role as Audit Committee Chair.
2 Financial reporting monitor the integrity of the Groups Nick Horler will resign from the Board as a non-executive director Annual Report and Accounts, any formal announcements and member of the audit committee with effect from the close of relating to financial performance and consider significant the Annual General Meeting on 2 November 2017.
Harry Holt and financial reporting issues, judgements and estimates Leanne Wood will be joining the Board as non-executive directors on 3 Risk management and internal controls review the 23 October 2017, at which time they will also become members of the systemof internal control and risk management, including audit committee.
The committee will then comprise four independent financial controls non-executive directors.
4 Internal audit set and monitor the internal audit plan and How the committee operates review its findings The committee usually meets at least four times a year, excluding Performance review the performance and work of both 5 meetings held to review its effectiveness as part of the annual the internal and external auditors performance evaluation.
Members individual attendance at 6 Whistleblowing and anti-bribery procedures monitor committee meetings for the year under review can be found on and review the effectiveness of the whistleblowing and page48.
anti-bribery procedures in place Meetings of the committee generally take place immediately prior to a Board meeting to maximise the effectiveness of collaborating with the Board.
Meetings are attended by the Key activities during the year independent non-executive directors.
By invitation, the Chairman, The key activities undertaken by the audit committee during the year Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial are set out below: Controller and internal and external auditors regularly attend meetings.
The Group Corporate Services Director also attends at 1 External audit least two meetings a year to provide the committee with health and safety reports, including best practice and standards across the The committee has primary responsibility for overseeing the operating companies.
To ensure matters are progressed, the Audit relationship with, and performance of, the external auditor.
Committee Chair holds pre-audit committee meetings with This includes making the recommendation on the appointment, management and key advisors between scheduled committee reappointment and removal of the external auditor, assessing their meetings.
independence on an ongoing basis and negotiating the audit fee.
At least once a year, the non-executive directors hold separate External auditor appointment meetings with the external and internal auditors, without the executive directors being present.
Deloitte LLP was appointed as the Groups external auditor in November 2015 following an audit tender.
While the Group has no current retendering plans at this time, it will be required to put the Terms of reference external audit contract out to tender by 2025.
Deloitte LLP will also The committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and be required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit approvedbythe Board.
During the year, the terms of reference were every five years and therefore the current lead audit partner Chris updated in accordance with best practice and a copy is available on Powell, who was appointed in November 2015, will be required to step our corporate website at www.
com or upon request from down following the completion of the 2020 audit.
The committee continues to review the external auditor appointment and the need to tender the audit, ensuring the Groups compliance Effectiveness of the audit committee with the Code and the reforms of the audit market by the UK The externally facilitated Board development programme undertaken Competition and Markets Authority.
Accordingly, the Group confirms during the year concluded that the committee was fulfilling its duties that it complies with the provisions of the Competition and Markets effectively.
In particular, the review found that the changes made in Authoritys Order for the financial year under review.
For the financial the previous financial year to enhance the risk management and year ending 30 June 2018, the audit committee has recommended to internal control framework had improved the robustness of the Board that Deloitte LLP be reappointed under the external audit the process.
contract and the directors will be proposing the reappointment of Deloitte LLP at the Annual General Meeting in November 2017.
66 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Effectiveness of the external audit process The committees assessment was based on input from the Group Chief Financial Officer, key members of the Group Finance Team and During the year, an assessment of the quality and effectiveness of the the Group Company Secretary.
Deloitte LLP also provided feedback external audit process was undertaken.
The primary purpose of this on their own performance, measured against their internal assessment was to gain assurance that the external auditor had performance objectives, and this was taken into consideration when conducted a comprehensive, appropriate and effective audit.
Through forming the committees opinion.
Feedback arising from the a constructive, honest and open dialogue with the external auditor assessment process was fed back to the Groups lead audit about its performance, the objectives of the process were to: engagement partner.
Assess each phase of the audit process against a quality Given this was Deloitte LLPs second full audit cycle, the audit framework, as shown in the table below committee paid specific attention to continuous improvement, Discuss with the external auditor what areas had worked well and ensuring that lessons learned from the first audit cycle, both from an what could beimproved efficiency and improvement perspective, had been embedded and, if Confirm optimised assurance was being derived from the audit necessary, built upon.
The committee used the Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality The observations from the assessment were presented and Practice Aid as guidance to support the committees assessment of discussed at a committee meeting, with the committee concluding the external audit.
In addition to seeking input from a range of that the audit process was robust, challenging and appropriately sources, the auditors effectiveness was also assessed against a targeted to focus on the key areas of audit risk.
range of valuation components including skills and knowledge, mindset and culture, judgement and quality control.
Audit planning and design Firmwide policies and procedures Team structure and leadership demonstrated by the Independence and quality control audit partner Review of external auditors internal quality control Globally integrated audit approach procedures and how the auditor expects to reply on them Audit tailored to the business Review of the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor Leverages sources of assurance Consideration of audit firm transparency report in line with Use of innovation and technology the Code, paying specific attention to the sections on Key risks to the audit quality, with assurance by the independence and quality assurance and training audit partner on how these risks will be addressed Review of continuous improvement ensuring that lessons learned from previous audit cycle were embedded and built upon External Auditor Effectiveness Audit execution Role of management Behavioural factors including mindset and culture, Detailed questioning of the role of management at both professional scepticism and judgement operating company and Group level Technical excellence, skills and knowledge Challenge of the auditors strategy based upon managements own internal assessment Communication and audit reporting Audit efficiency and project management www.
com 67 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Independence, objectivity and fees 2 Financial reporting The Board recognises the importance of auditor independence and is The primary role of the committee in relation to financial reporting is aware of the situations which may give rise to the impairment of to review, with both management and the external auditor, the auditor independence.
The audit committee considers carefully the appropriateness of the half year and annual financial statements objectivity of the auditor on an annual basis in relation to both the concentrating on, amongst other matters: audit process and the relationship with the Group.
The quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices To safeguard auditor objectivity and independence, the committee Material areas in which significant judgements have been applied has, as part of its terms of reference, the following policy for the or where significant issues have been discussed with the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor: external auditor The auditor will only be used for the provision of non-audit work if it The clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial can be demonstrated that the engagement will not impair reporting standards and relevant financial and governance independence, is a natural extension of their audit work or there reporting requirements, including the Code are other overriding reasons that make them the most suitably Any correspondence from regulators in relation to the Groups qualified to undertake the work financial reporting The auditor will not provide certain categories of non-audit services An assessment of whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken to the Group, such as internal audit and litigation support, the full as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the list of which can be found in the committees terms of reference information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups The provision of certain non-audit services including accounting position and performance, business model and strategy.
This and tax services if the fees exceed a cumulative 50,000 is subject assessment forms the basis of the advice given to the Board to to approval by the audit committee.
For the 2016 17 financial year assist in making the statement required by the Code only, the cumulative threshold of 50,000 was waived in relation to Reviewing the assumptions and providing assurance to support the Deloitte LLP providing support to the Group on a specific piece of long term viability statement.
The committee is mindful of the views of investors and shareholder bodies and supports the general Viability statement sentiment that non-audit work can potentially introduce a conflict The committee reviewed managements work on assessing potential of interest within the audit firm, with independence and objectivity compromised.
The committee approved this exceptional deviation risks to the business and the appropriateness of the Groups choice of a three year assessment period.
Following this review, the committee from policy having deliberated and then concluded that Deloitte LLP was the sole advisor available to provide this advice.
Despite a was satisfied that management had conducted a robust assessment and recommended to the Board that it could approve and make the wide survey of the advisor market being undertaken, alternative advisors either did not have the requisite expertise, resource or viability statement on page 41. were conflicted by working on competitor bids.
The non-audit fees for this one-off piece of work were 306,066.
This work falls under the new Ethical Standards best practice gap of 70% of the average ofaudit fees for the preceding three year period which will apply toGo-Ahead for the first time in 2020.
Excluding the recurring interim review work of 54,000, the only additional non-audit fees were attributable to the completion of comfort letters associated with the bond of 60,000, which was consistent with Deloitte LLPs role as auditor and required for the sterling bond to be raised.
The ratio of the external auditors audit to non-audit fees during the year, as a proportion of the annual external audit fee, is kept under review by the committee.
During the financial year, the Group external auditors fees were 0.7m 2016: 0.6m : in addition, non-audit fees of 0.4m 2016: 0.1m were payable to the Groups external auditor.
Excluding the one-off overseas bid work, non-audit fees were 0.1m 2016: 0.1m.
In comparison, non-audit fees paid to other providers during the financial year were 1.8m 2016: 1.4m.
This comprised 1.5m paid to KPMG in respect of bid costs, 0.2m to PwC for internal audit work and 0.1m to Ernst & Young LLP for fees related to tax work.
68 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Fair, balanced and understandable Collaborative process The committee adopted the same approach as in previous years to ensuring that the Annual Report and Accounts collectively, the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
The process was led by an internal Annual Report Team ART consisting of members drawn from Group Finance, May June 2017 Group Company Secretariat and Investor Relations teams.
The inclusion of these various departments, with input from Group Legal and operating Reporting requirements and timetable divisions as appropriate, ensures the balance, completeness and accuracy of the Annual Report.
The ART was responsible for regularly reviewing work Early planning and implementation of timetable and ensuring balanced reporting with appropriate links between key withexperienced project managers for each section messages and sections of the Annual Report.
The audit committee, Timetable allowed for sufficient time for a together with senior management, reviewed the Annual Report in its final comprehensive review of early drafts and input from stages and the committee and then the Board were able to confirm that the audit committee Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Groups Detailed briefings on changes toreporting position, performance, business model and strategy.
requirements for allcontributors and reminder ofthefair, balanced and understandable requirement In considering whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable, the committee reflects upon the information it has receivedand discussions throughout the year.
The committee considers anumber of key questions which include: Is the Annual Report fair?
August 2017 Is the whole story presented, has equal weight been given to all External auditor review messages and has any sensitive material been omitted which should have been included?
Validation of data and information included in the Annual Report undertaken both internally and by the Is the narrative reporting consistent with the financial reporting, with key external auditor messages reflected in both?
Is the description of the business, principal risks and uncertainties, The audit committee considered the external auditors review of the Annual Report.
The views of strategy and objectives in the Annual Report consistent with the Boards understanding?
the external auditor were provided to management, who were challenged on the proposed disclosures to Are Key Performance Indicators disclosed at an appropriate level based ensure a fair and balanced review was presented on the financialreporting?
Is the Annual Report balanced?
Is there a good level of consistency between the narrative reporting in the front and the financial reporting in the back of the Annual Report and August 2017 does the messaging reflected in each remain consistent when read independently of the other?
Formal audit committee review Is the Annual Report a comprehensive document for shareholders?
The audit committee conducted a thorough review of Are the key judgements referred to in the narrative reporting and the key the final draft Annual Report and provided comments financial and internal control matters reported in this audit committee report consistent with the disclosures of key estimation uncertainties and Earlier drafts had been provided well in advance critical judgements set out in the financial statements?
toensure timely review and allow comments to be incorporated How do these compare with the risks which the external auditor Deloitte LLP includes in their report?
Is the Annual Report understandable?
Is there a clear and understandable framework to the Annual Report with September 2017 the important messages highlighted appropriately throughout?
Is the layout clear with good linkage throughout in a manner which Finalised report reflects the whole story?
The audit committees comments were incorporated and final audit committee recommendation to Conclusion the Board Following its review, the committee was of the opinion that the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 1 July 2017 is representative of the year and present a fair, balanced and understandable overview, providing the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Groups position, performance, business model and strategy.
com 69 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Key financial and internal control matters During 2016 17, the committee considered the following key financial and internal control matters in relation to the Groups financial statements and disclosures, with input from management and the external auditor: Key financial and internal control matters for 2016 17 How the committee addressed these key financial matters Compliance with franchise terms and conditions relating The committee regularly reviews the accounting policies relating to income and to the rail components of the Group, specifically relating costs arising from franchise agreements and considers a range of reasonably to the accounting for related income and costs arising probable outcomes.
At interim and year end reviews, a full schedule of material from franchise agreements.
income statement and balance sheet figures is assessed against the committees expectations and discussed with the Group Chief Executive, the Please see page 116 for further information.
Group Chief Financial Officer and, where appropriate, the external auditor.
Ongoing review of provisions for liabilities, specifically At interim and year end, the levels of provision for third-party claims, lease relating to third-party claims, lease return and return and dilapidation provisions are reviewed with the Group Chief Executive dilapidation provisions for rolling stock, stations, depots, and the Group Chief Financial Officer.
Managements review is supported by other properties and measurement of reports from appropriate third-party experts who independently assess the uninsuredliabilities.
required provision based on their industry knowledge and an understanding ofthe Groups specific circumstances.
Increases in provisions, utilisation and Please see note 24 of the consolidated financial release of provisions are all reviewedfor reasonableness in light of these statements for furtherinformation.
reports and the Groups specific circumstances.
Impairment testing in respect of the carrying value of The ongoing review of goodwill and carrying value of investments, as presented goodwill on the Groups investments.
by management, is challenged by the committee.
This is done by assessing the expected performance of the individual cash generating units and ensuring that relevant risk factors are imputed to the rate of return used to assess net Please see note 13 of the consolidated financial present value of future cashflows.
The committee also reviews historic statements for furtherinformation.
performance against expectations set in previous years.
Assumptions underpinning the calculation of the Pension scheme liabilities are assessed on behalf of the Group by independent Groups defined benefit pension liabilities.
Additionally, management review and challenge the underlying assumptions with other professional advisors to ensure that the actuaries own Please see note 27 of the consolidated financial assumptions are appropriate for the Group.
The committee also discusses the statements for furtherinformation.
appropriateness of the assumptions with the Groups external auditor.
Understanding and treatment of exceptional items in the The committee will consider separate disclosure of exceptional income or year endaccounts.
costsin light of the FRC recommendations of a balanced and consistent approach.
The committee is mindful of the need to understand the underlying trends of each division within the business with the impact of large and unusual Please see page 118 of the consolidated financial items separated out as necessary to avoid distortions from such nonstatements for furtherinformation.
Ensuring operating company compliance with Group The committee, together with the Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief policies and procedures and maintaining the required Financial Officer, approves the scope of internal audit including the cycle of financial control environment.
visits to test operating company compliance and financial controls, based on a risk assessment.
The results of the internal audit visits are considered by the committee, together with managements responses to any improvement points.
Control matters and reporting issues identified as part of the external auditor interim and year end audits are also reviewed by the committee which considers the adequacy of any management responses.
In addition, management ensure that the recruitment and review process for operating company directors gives confidence in the calibre of the operating company teams and their management, and review of the control environment in which theyoperate.
70 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 3 Key features of the Groups risk management and internal Risk management and internal controls control system The Boards responsibility The Groups approach to risk, including the roles of the Board and the The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and the audit committee in setting risk appetite and monitoring risk exposure, system of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
are detailed in the managing risk section on pages 40 to 45.
Specifically, it determines the extent and nature of the risks it is A top-down risk review is combined with a complementary bottom-up prepared to take to achieve the Groups strategic objectives.
While the approach to ensure that risks are fully considered.
As well as Board does not have a separate risk committee, risk management complying with the Code, the best practice recommendations in and resource is embedded throughout the organisation with the Guidance for Risk Management, Internal Control and Related committee responsible for monitoring risk and discussing with the Financial and Business Reporting have also been adopted.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups risk appetite.
Prior to the announcement of full year and half year results, the audit committee reviews the Groups principal risks.
This includes a The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of commentary on how risk exposures have changed during the period failure to achieve the Groups business objectives and can only and any emerging risks in the Groups risk register.
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key features of the Groups internal control and risk management system are set out below: Group structure The Groups devolved organisational structure supports an effective topdown bottom-up approach to risk management and control Compliance management Leadership Annual certification by each operating Clear leadership from the Board with company that it has adhered to the the executive directors playing an Groups policies and procedures integral role in working with manual, which reinforces the Groups operating companies corporate governance, internal control processes and management of risk Strategy and financial reporting A comprehensive Group-wide system Board reporting of financial reporting, budgeting and Regular review of reports received cash forecasting and control through from the Groups internal auditor, which the consolidated financial external auditor and the accounts are prepared and submitted executive directors to the Board monthly and from which the interim andannual Health and safety consolidated financial reporting is derived reporting Regular review of health and safety reports and audits, including best practice and standards across the operating companies www.
com 71 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Building on the improvements from last years independent review of the Groups risk management processes During the previous financial year, PwC conducted an independent review of the Groups risk management processes.
Significant progress has been made during the year to embed all of the enhancements suggested within the reviews conclusions.
Assurance and effectiveness have been improved by the enhancements made to risk registers which now rate more effectively the strength of control mitigation in place.
Additionally, the self-assessment document introduced during the previous year has enabled management to better consider what the most important risk and control areas are and to focus discussions accordingly.
This then flows up to the audit committee and Board, thus ensuring the right risk management discussions at this level.
What the risk reporting year looks like January and May February and June July February and August Operating companies Consolidation of risks for Group Executive Team Audit committee and submit risk registers and both the rail and bus GEM oversight Board review risk heat maps on a division bi-annual basis From the previous financial year, Consolidation of risks to enable Key data received from the The audit committee assesses this now also includes a selfa look across all of the operating company reports are the effectiveness of the risk assessment report which details operating companies and discussed annually at a GEM management and internal how the operating company challenge any inconsistencies at meeting, which allows for wider control system.
The Board undertakes the formal risk the individual operating input on the Group risks from agrees the principal risks that management process and company board meetings.
This other areas of the business such are considered to be financially outlines the key risks, the main is also sent out to all operating as marketing, procurement, or reputationally material as changes to the inherent and companies with the full suite of legal, IT and HR, in addition to outlined on pages 42 to 45, in residual scores, overall risk risk registers at the start of each the managing directors of bus addition to the key risk focus exposure and levels of assurance.
5 Whistleblowing Assessment of the Groups risk management and anti-bribery procedures andinternal control system The Group is committed to the highest standards of quality, honesty, The Board has confirmed that through its audit committee and the openness and accountability.
The Group and all operating companies committees review of the key financial and internal control have whistleblowing policies in place.
Employees are encouraged to matters for 2016 17 as detailed on page 70, it has reviewed the raise genuine concerns under the policy and any concerns raised are effectiveness of the system of internal, financial, operational and investigated carefully and thoroughly to assess what action, if any, compliance controls and risk management, and considers that should be taken.
Any matters of significance are reported to the this system of internal controls operated effectively throughout auditcommittee.
the financial year and up to the date on which the financial statements were signed.
The Board supports the objectives of the Bribery Act and procedures have been established to ensure that compliance is achieved.
These set out what is expected from our colleagues and stakeholders to 4 Internal audit ensure that they protect themselves as well as the Groups reputation The Groups internal audit function has been outsourced to PwC on and assets.
Training has been provided to the Board and senior arolling 12 month contract, with overall responsibility and direction management and is refreshed on a regular basis.
Any breach of the being retained by the audit committee.
The internal audit function Bribery Act will be regarded as serious misconduct, potentially provides assurance over the effectiveness of key internal controls justifying immediate dismissal.
asidentified as part of the risk assessment process.
In addition to meetings with local management, the internal auditor reports to thecommittee at least four times a year.
Modern Slavery Act 2015 In accordance with the previously agreed internal audit plan for the The Board recognises the importance of the provisions of the two years ending June 2017, the committee reviewed reports Modern Slavery Act 2015 and the directors aim to ensure that confirming the findings from the internal audit reviews undertaken, slavery and human trafficking have no part in the Groups supply the actions to implement the recommendations and the status of chain.
The Group has always been vigilant about employee progress against previously agreed actions.
welfare and aims to be transparent in its practices.
A Modern Slavery Act Policy has been approved by the Board.
A signed The committee keeps under review the internal audit relationship Modern Slavery Act Statement can be found on the Groups with PwCand maintains the procedures necessary to ensure website and the website of each of its operating companies.
appropriate independence of the internal audit function.
During the Further details on the Groups approach to human rights are set year, a review of the services provided by PwC was undertaken and a out on page 37. number of changes were made to improve the focus and effectiveness of the internal audit approach.
72 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
