Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee Our 2015 Remuneration Policy requires Dear Shareholder Executive Directors to invest two-thirds The year under review was difficult of performance pay earned after with challenging market conditions, payment of tax and national insurance and we made a number of significant in Dunelm shares, and to build a investments in the business, including personal shareholding equivalent opening a second distribution centre to 1 salary after three years and 2 and the acquisition of the Worldstores salary after five years.
After one year Group, a loss-making online business.
and nine months Keith Down holds While we are confident that these 21,610 shares 35% of salary.
Due to investments will create value they, the fall in Dunelms share price over the together with a difficult marketplace, year, this does not reect the personal have impacted the financial investment made of 42% of salary.
This performance of the Group this year, includes investment of at least twoand both profits and the share price thirds of bonus earned in FY16 under have declined.
the Lifetime Lock-in requirement Given these circumstances and described in the Remuneration Policy.
reecting the financial performance Keith Down intends to invest at least of the Group, the variable elements of two-thirds of bonus received in respect pay of executives has been lower than of FY17 in Dunelm shares, and he is also last year.
The annual bonus entitlement due to receive the second instalment was 14% of the maximum.
No payment of his shares under his Joining Award was made in respect of the financial in September, which he will retain after targets which were linked to delivery payment of tax and national insurance.
of budgeted PBT and which was not Remuneration continues to be an achieved.
The remainder of the bonus issue of focus for shareholders and was linked to delivery of our Business governance analysts, particularly Plans, against which good progress has where executive reward earned is out been made, and personal performance.
of line with profits and shareholder No awards were due to vest under returns.
Our policy has always been our Long Term Incentive Plan.
Will to devise a simple and transparent Adderleys basic salary was reduced remuneration structure designed to to 1 from 1 July 2015 at his request, reward shareholder value creation over and he has also requested that he not the long term, the majority of which be considered for entitlement to an is performance based, according to award under the Long Term Incentive stretching targets.
Total executive pay was therefore aware that increasingly attention is 1.3m, 1.2% of PBT.
turning to the overall levels of executive Since the year end, John Browett pay compared to the remainder of the stepped down from the Board.
employee population and we have Severance terms are still to be nalised, acknowledged this by decreasing the but will be in accordance with our maximum pension entitlement for newly Remuneration Policy and will be posted appointed Executive Directors on our website once agreed in final form.
indd 70 06 10 2017 12:12:03 Governance Last year, we left the targets applicable Mindful of the views of investors and to our Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP the government in relation to pension unchanged, but I mentioned that entitlement of executive directors, we we would keep this under review as have also proposed that we reduce the the potential impact of Brexit and maximum pension entitlement for new other external factors on consumer Executive Directors from 20% of salary, behaviour and the cost structure of to 15%.
We consulted with our major the business became clear.
In light shareholders in respect of all of the of the impact of changes to our above changes and the majority of them business model, the investments we were wholly supportive.
are making to accelerate our growth, Further details of these changes and and the challenging market conditions, the rationale for them are set out in the the Committee reviewed the likely Policy report on the following pages.
vesting prole for the LTIP.
After careful Subject to shareholder approval, this consideration, we determined that this new Remuneration Policy will remain is no longer aligned to our policy to binding until our AGM in 2020. reward strong performance: the targets have become far more stretching than I hope that shareholders will understand originally envisaged, and full payout is the reasons for these changes and now virtually unachievable.
We have support them at the AGM.
therefore decided to recommend to As I am retiring from the Board shareholders that our 2015 Policy be following the AGM, I shall be handing changed to reduce the top end of the over the chairmanship of the Committee performance range so that it remains and full details will be announced in due stretching, but is achievable: under course.
the new Policy the maximum vesting will occur when compound annual I look forward to meeting shareholders growth in EPS equals RPI 12% over at the AGM.
the three year performance period.
We also propose moving back to an award based on percentage of salary rather Yours sincerely, than a xed number of shares.
These changes will only apply to awards Simon Emeny made from 2018 onwards in respect of Chair of the Remuneration Committee the three financial years commencing in 13 September 2017 June 2018.
To ensure executive alignment, we propose that we pay dividend equivalents in respect of special dividends that are paid during the performance period of an LTIP award, in respect of shares which vest only.
71 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
