Governance in Action Building our supply chain for the future in Stoke-on-Trent AS A LONG TERM BUSINESS, WE MAKE DECISIONS THAT WILL PROVIDE FUTURE BENEFITS OVER THE YEARS TO COME AS WE CONTINUE TO GROW.
WERE CAREFUL TO ENSURE WE DO THINGS THE RIGHT WAY, FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS, OUR COLLEAGUES AND THEIR COMMUNITIES Distribution Centre 2 DC2 Stoke-on-Trent Long term decisions In June 2016, we opened our new Distribution Centre, a We opened our first Distribution Centre DC1 in Stoke stones throw from our existing facilities in Stoke-on-Trent.
In 2011 Dunelm appointed a Supply Chain Executive Director, Building and opening the new site, was a substantial project who developed a long term supply chain strategy.
In 2013 with capital investment of over 12m involving a crossplanning began to open further warehouse capacity, to functional team of colleagues working together, alongside support the growth of the business and the increase in directexternal contractors, for a period of two years to get the new sourced product volumes.
At the Boards strategy discussion facility ready.
in 2014 the decision was made to prioritise growth in our online and furniture businesses which accelerated the need to The Boards involvement began at the conception of this project.
Reviewing and approving the original business increase our warehouse capacity and supply chain capability.
plans, and then providing ongoing challenge throughout In February 2015 the Board approved the business plan the development process ensured that the right long term to lease the DC2 site and begin the project.
The new DC decisions were being made in the interests of the Companys doubled our warehouse capacity to 1,000,000 sq ft, which employees and its other stakeholders.
was anticipated to full our needs for at least the next five years.
It would also enable us to bring outsourced distribution Relationships with existing suppliers were encouraged, operations onto one site to improve operational efficiency, and new supplier relationships fostered.
The Board gave improving crisis management capability, and importantly thoughtful input to ensuring that Dunelm maximised improving our customer offer, especially relating to online the customer benets from the new build, and carefully sales orders.
In July 2016, we moved our Home Delivery considered the impact of the new operations on both the fullment operation into DC2.
local community and the environment.
As is the Dunelm way, ensuring that we do the right thing from a business conduct In November 2016 we acquired the Worldstores business.
and ethical perspective was a key area of governance focus.
Pleasingly, the new DC has provided the capacity in Stoke to allow Dunelm to move the Kiddicare and Achica operations from their existing site in Peterborough.
This is anticipated to deliver efficiencies of between 1m and 2m per year from FY19.
DC2 Facts at a Glance CO 2 CAPITAL 350 12m INVESTMENT -13.8% new jobs created Reduction in Stoke Planet Mark 500k sq ft DEVELOPED Award Acres of 100% 418 Landfill rainforest ANNUAL PALLET protected diversion 260,000 THROUGHPUT CAPACITY 62 dunelm.
indd 62 06 10 2017 12:11:57 Governance Developing our supply chain proposition Our Suppliers for our stakeholders Great supplier relationships have been key to supporting Dunelms growth.
During the development of DC2 we were Our Colleagues able to draw on the broad experience of our suppliers to help: Our commitment to Stoke-on-Trent has resulted in Dunelm z Many of our committed store development suppliers were becoming a significant employer in the city with over 600 able to support us with the build and t-out of DC2 colleagues working in our two DCs and our local store.
During z Supporting our Home Delivery fullment partners peak times, additional colleagues are engaged to support the relocation into DC2, by helping them relocate existing volume of activity in the DCs.
colleagues and recruit new colleagues locally Colleague well-being was a major consideration for the Board All of our suppliers are required to sign our Anti-Bribery in the planning of our new facilities: Policy and our Code of Conduct, by which they commit to z A team of colleagues helped design the look and feel of ensure that their employees and those of their contractors the building, with product and store imagery and product adhere to international standards on the welfare and display areas to showcase current ranges treatment of employees.
z We built a large training area, and a comfortable Pausa As part of the rigorous work we do to tackle modern slavery, coffee shop serving a range of subsidised hot and cold we retrained colleagues in Stoke and employees of our food, drinks and snacks supply chain partners to raise awareness.
We also developed z We ran a series of welcome activities for new colleagues a number of safeguards, including extra colleague checks and and to engage existing colleagues with the changes being have deliberately reduced our use of agency labour.
made, including fund-raising activities for our nominated charities Roald Dahl Home-Start UK.
A free Christmas lunch for all was served by the leadership team!
z Colleague health and safety is a major consideration for the Board and a complete review of our processes was undertaken.
A new Health and Safety Manager was appointed and over 50 colleagues received National Examination Board in Occupational Safety and Health NEBOSH training Our Customers Making shopping experiences easy for our customers is a big focus for Dunelm.
The new DC2 was developed with a range of customer benets in mind: Caring for our environment and community z We have been able to improve availability in store and reduce lead times for Reserve & Collect from 24 to 3 hours Developing a sustainable DC2 was a priority for the due to improved replenishment from our DCs and better Board and were proud to receive the Planet Mark award store processes highlighting the 416 acres of rainforest protected as a result of the DC2 development compared to benchmark z Locating our Home Delivery fullment in Stoke has sites.
Local primary school environmental awareness improved online availability and enabled quicker delivery workshops run by the Eden Project were funded by to customers homes this award.
z DC2 will be a key enabler for us to launch a Click and Collect service in 2017 18.
This will enable customers to As part of the build, we carefully diverted natural access a signicantly extended range of products for next waterways and developed new sanctuaries for wildlife day delivery to their local store onsite to ensure minimal disruption to the local habitat.
z Increased operational efficiencies through modern To help aid trafc congestion, we built a large bike logistics technology allows us to continue to offer great shelter and showers locker rooms, and also arranged value products to our customers, when and where they with the local council for a bus stop to be put outside want to shop the warehouse, and for the route to drop off and pick up z The additional capacity has allowed us to bring in more around shift start nish times.
seasonal ranges for customers, as well as accommodate Our DC operations handle recycling from our stores Kiddicare and Achica enabling us to achieve high landll diversion rates.
The two DCs in Stoke themselves achieve 100% landll diversion due to careful planning of materials being used inside.
63 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
