Governance Nominations Committee Report No Director attended that part of a meeting during which his Summary of principal activities or her own position was discussed.
z Search for new Non-Executive Director at an advanced stage Meetings Member attended: z External Board review held Andy Harrison Chair 1 z Formal review of Board skills and balance Will Adderley 1 z Since the year-end, search commenced for new Liz Doherty 1 Chief Executive Simon Emeny 1 This report provides details of the role of the Nominations Marion Sears 1 Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
William Reeve 1 Principal duties Peter Ruis 1 The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board by keeping the composition of the Board under review and conducting a rigorous and transparent process against Committee Activities in 201617 objective criteria and with due regard for the benets of Board Succession Planning diversity of the Board, when new appointments to the Board For a number of years we have had a formal, long range plan are made.
The full terms of reference for the Committee can for how Board membership should develop.
As usual, we aim be found on the Companys website, www.
to balance continuity with regular refreshment of skill and While all Board appointment processes and succession experience.
discussions are led by the Nominations Committee, these are On at least an annual basis each Directors intentions are viewed as important whole-Board topics and no appointment discussed with regard to serving on the Board and their has been or will be made to the Board without agreement of succession is considered in the context of the shape of the all Directors.
overall Board and the corporate governance guidance on Committee Membership Non-Executive Director tenure.
This transparency amongst a small and collegiate Board allows for an open discussion The following Directors served on the Committee during the year: about succession for each individual, both for short term emergency purposes as well as longer term plans.
Member Period from: To: As part of our Board evaluation process, we conducted an Andy Harrison Chair 1 September 2014 To date analysis of the balance of skills on the Board as a whole, Marion Sears 18 January 2005 To date taking account of the future needs of the business, and the knowledge, experience, length of service and performance Simon Emeny 25 June 2007 To date of the Directors.
In accordance with our policy, we also had Will Adderley 17 February 2011 To date regard to the requirement to achieve a diversity of characters, backgrounds and experiences amongst Board members.
Liz Doherty 1 May 2013 To date William Reeve 1 July 2015 To date Peter Ruis 10 September 2015 To date There was one formal Committee meeting held in the year and members attendance was as shown in the table below.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
99 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
indd 99 06 10 2017 12:12:07 Nominations Committee Report CONTINUED Board changes in 201617 Diversity There were no changes to the Board during the year.
We are In 2011 we set out the Boards policy on diversity which at an advanced stage of our search for a new Non-Executive we believe remains appropriate for Dunelm.
It can be Director to succeed Simon Emeny, who will retire from the summarised as follows: Board at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
We engaged z Our overriding concern is to ensure the Board comprises an external search consultant to seek candidates based on a outstanding individuals who can lead the Group, and specication agreed by the Nominations Committee and the we believe the Groups best interests are served by Board.
We asked the consultant to shortlist at least an equal ensuring that these individuals represent a range of skills, number of female and male candidates.
experiences, backgrounds and perspectives, including gender.
Naturally it is our policy is that the Board should In August 2017, after the financial year end, John Browett, always be of mixed gender our Chief Executive, stepped down from the Board.
A search for his successor has commenced.
In the meantime, I am z We support the objective of promoting diversity on our providing interim executive leadership, supported by Will Board and throughout the Group.
Quotas are a blunt Adderley, our Deputy Chairman, and Keith Down, our Chief instrument but they do bring focus, as well as the risk of Financial officer.
compromised decisions on Board membership, quality and size, particularly with a small and collegiate Board Board evaluation z We shall continue to ensure that specic effort is made to There were a number of changes to our Board in 2015 16, bring forward female candidates for Board appointments and when the 2016 external review was held new z We will monitor the Groups approach to people relationships and ways of working were still being established.
development to ensure that it continues to enable talented We therefore decided to ask Lorna Parker, an independent individuals, regardless of gender and background, to enjoy Board evaluation consultant who carried out the external career progression within Dunelm evaluation in 2016, to do a follow-up review in 2017.
Details of the gender balance within the Group are set out Separately I carried out a formal evaluation of the Nonin the Corporate Responsibility report on page 40.
The Executive Directors and the Chief Executive: the Chief Committee is pleased that there is a good level of gender Executive reviewed the performance of the Chief Financial diversity at Board, Executive Board and senior management officer: and the Non-Executive Directors reviewed my level 22%, 36% and 30% respectively.
In the financial year we will be making our first gender pay The results of the evaluation are described in the Corporate disclosures.
Reecting the McGregor Smith review, we will Governance report.
also be collecting data about ethnic diversity within our Culture and values business and considering whether there is more action needed in this area.
our Business Principles Dunelm was founded by the Adderley family, and Will Adderley, our Deputy Chairman, has a particular interest and accountability for ensuring that the Dunelm culture is preserved.
Will formulated the Business Principles which describe the Dunelm culture, and during the financial year these have been reinvigorated, and now form part of induction, appraisal and colleague communications.
We are taking steps in the coming year to embed them more deeply into the Group.
A key theme running through our principles is to do the right thing, whether this relates to our decisions, or how we deal customers, colleagues, suppliers, the community, investors, and regulators.
Our approach is also reected in our Code of Business Conduct, our Anti-bribery policy, our Ethical Policy and our Tax Policy.
The Board has oversight of these through our risk management procedures, regular presentations from the People Director, and through regular meetings with senior management and visits to stores and other company operations.
As part of our formal Board review, we have also agreed to have a formal discussion of how our culture is embedded in the business.
indd 100 06 10 2017 12:12:07 Governance Tenure and Re-election of Directors The tenure of the Non-Executive Directors is set out below.
Current term Additional Board Appointment years Next renewal role Andy Harrison September 2014 3 September 2020 Chairman Marion Sears July 2004 13 July 2018 Simon Emeny June 2007 10 n a SID, RemCo Liz Doherty May 2013 4 May 2019 Audit and Risk William Reeve July 2015 2 July 2018 Peter Ruis September 2015 2 September 2018 Marion Sears has served 13 years on the Board.
Marion is now Although these activities are not formally conducted as part considered by the Board to be non-independent in view of the work of the Nominations Committee, we see this as a of her tenure.
As noted in last years report, we asked Simon useful way of preserving our culture and an important aspect Emeny to stay for an extra year at the end of his nine year term of our oversight of the Executive team development and to provide continuity during the period of change in 201516: succession process.
it is expected that he will retire at the 2017 AGM following the Approved by the Board on 13 September 2017. appointment of a successor.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors with the exception of Simon Emeny, who will retire at that date, will seek re-election at the 2017 AGM, and as Andy Harrison now required by the Listing Rules, the Non-Executives will be Chair of the Nominations Committee subject to an additional vote by shareholders independent of the Adderley family.
Executives below Board The Committee has for some years had both formal and informal oversight of the Executive team below Board.
Dunelm Board members have regular contact with these Executives, both through formal Board presentations, attendance of the Executive Board at the annual Strategy Days, and in regular store visits, where a Non-Executive Director meets a member of the Executive Board on a less formal basis.
The Board receives an annual Talent Management presentation from the People Director which provides an assessment of performance of the Executive Board and Senior Management Team, together with succession planning.
As part of the development of the Senior Management Team, we have implemented a programme of presentations by Non-Executive Directors to this group of 40 or so senior managers, to share their leadership experience.
101 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
