DIRECTORS REPORT Election and re-election of directors The directors present their report and audited financial statements for the year ended 1 July 2017.
The appointment and replacement of directors are governed by the Groups articles, the Code, the Companies Act 2006 the Act and This report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements related legislation.
The directors are appointed by ordinary resolution of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts at a general meeting of shareholders.
The directors have the power to and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and forms part of the appoint a director during the year but any person so appointed must management report as required under Disclosure and be subject to election at the first Annual General Meeting following Transparency Rule DTR 4.
Certain information that fulfils the their appointment.
The current articles require that all directors are requirements of the directors report can be found elsewhere in this subject to re-election on an annual basis.
document and is referred to below.
In accordance with the Boards succession plan, Nick Horler will retire from the Board at the 2017 Annual General Meeting and will Corporate governance statement therefore not be standing for re-election.
All other directors will be submitting themselves for re-election at the 2017 Annual General Under DTR Rule 7, a requirement exists for a corporate governance statement to be included in this directors report.
The corporate Meeting in accordance with the Code.
Harry Holt and Leanne Wood will offer themselves for election for the first time following their governance statement setting out how the The Go-Ahead Group plc the Group complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code appointment to the Board on 23 October 2017.
The Board is satisfied that each director is qualified for election re-election by virtue of their published in April 2016 the Code and which includes a description of the main features of its internal control and risk management skills, experience and contribution to the Board.
Biographical details of all directors as at the year ended 1 July 2017 can be found on arrangements in relation to the financial reporting process is set out on pages 46 to 99.
The information required by DTR 7.2.
Biographical details for Harry Holt and Leanne Wood will be included in the notice for the 2017 Annual found in the shareholder information section on pages 176 to 177.
Adescription of the composition and operation of the Board and its General Meeting.
committees is set out on pages 50 to 56.
Directors indemnities Strategic report The Group maintains directors and officers liability insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its The strategic report on pages 1 to 45 includes an indication of future directors.
The Group has also granted indemnities to each of its likely developments in the Group, the Groups business and model directors to the extent permitted by law.
Qualifying third party strategy and greenhouse gasemissions.
indemnity provisions as defined in Section 234 of the Act were in force during the year ended 1 July 2017 and remain in force, in Articles of association relation to certain losses and liabilities that the directors may incur to The Groups articles can only be amended by a special resolution at a third parties in the course of acting as directors or employees of the general meeting of shareholders.
Shareholders of the Group can Group or of any associated company.
Neither the Groups indemnity request a copy of the articles by contacting the Group Company nor its insurance provides cover in the event that a director is proven Secretary at the registered office.
to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Directors and their interests Share capital and substantial shareholdings The directors of the Group as at the date of the approval of this All information relating to the Groups capital structure, rights Annual Report and Accounts are shown on pages 50 and 51.
All were attaching to shares, dividends, any restrictions on the transfer of directors throughout the year to 1 July 2017. shares, the policy to repurchase the Groups own shares, substantial shareholdings and other shareholder information is shown on pages The interests of directors and their connected persons in the shares 176 to 177. of the Group, along with details of directors share options, are contained in the directors remuneration report set out on pages 77 Change of control to 95.
The details of the change of control provisions in the Groups rail franchise agreements, the sterling bond issue dated 24 March 2010, Directors conflicts of interests the sterling bond issue dated 6 July 2017 and the revolving credit The Board has established robust procedures for ensuring that its facilities dated 16 July 2014 and 27 April 2017 are set out on page 177. power to authorise conflicts of interest is operated in accordance with Details of the powers of Transport for London and the Land Transport the Groups articles of association.
The Board considers that the Authority to prevent the operation of contracts is also provided.
procedures in respect of this power, which have been properly followed, have operated effectively during the year and the conflicts There are no agreements between the Group and its directors or register has been updated accordingly.
The Board is aware of its employees providing for compensation for loss of office or directors other commitments and any changes to these employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or commitments are advised to and approved by the Board committees.
otherwise that occurs because of a takeoverbid.
Dividends Our current dividend policy, which is kept under regular review, is for progressive dividend growth whilst maintaining dividend cover of approximately two times earnings.
Details of the proposed final dividend payment for the year ended 1 July 2017 are shownon the consolidated income statement on page 108 of the report.
96 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Listing Rule 9.8.
4R disclosures Disclosures required pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.
4R of the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules, can be found within the following sections of the Annual Report and Accounts: Listing Rule 9.8.
4 Required disclosure Reference 1 Interest capitalised and tax relief Not applicable 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable 3 Details of long term incentive schemes Note 7 to the financial statements and directors remunerationreport on pages 77 to 95 4 Waiver of emoluments by a director Directors remuneration report on pages 77 to 95 5 Waiver of future emoluments by a director Not applicable 6 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash by major subsidiary Not applicable undertakings 8 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable 9 Contracts of significance Not applicable 10 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable 11 Shareholder waivers of dividends Directors report on pages 96 to 99 12 Shareholder waivers of future dividends Directors report on pages 96 to 99 13 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable www.
com 97 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Employees Share schemes Details of the Groups employee policies, including those concerning Employee Benefit Trust the employment of disabled persons and employee engagement, are provided on pages 36 to 37 within the People section.
There have Computershare Trustees Jersey Limited, the Trustee of The been no significant changes to our policies over the year.
Go-Ahead Group Employee Trust the Trust, holds shares for the benefit of the Groups executive directors and senior managers, and in particular for the satisfying of awards made under the Groups Reappointment of external auditor Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and Deferred Share Bonus Plan Details of the reappointment of the external auditor are provided on DSBP.
During the financial period, as part of a planned 12 month page 66. programme of monthly share purchases, the Trust purchased a total of 121,084 ordinary shares at a total price of 2,376,540.68 including Post balance sheet events all associated costs.
The average price was 19.11 per share.
As at On 6 July 2017, the Group raised a 250m bond which will replace the 6 September 2017 being the latest practical date prior to the date of 200m bond.
this report the Trust held 187,817 ordinary shares representing 0.44% of the issued share capital of the Group, less treasury shares, in trust for the benefit of the executive directors of the Group under Going concern the LTIP and DSBP.
The voting rights in relation to these shares are The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to exercised by the Trustee and dividends are waived while the shares affect its future development, performance and position, are set out are held by the Trustee.
The financial position of the Group, its cashflows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described Share Incentive Plan in the financial review on pages 30 and 31.
In addition, note 22 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and The Group operated a Share Incentive Plan during the year under processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management review, enabling employees of the Group to acquire shares in the objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: Group.
In order to preserve certain tax benefits, these shares are and its exposures to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash held in a trust by EES Corporate Trustees Limited for participating flow risk.
Whilst these shares are held in trust, the voting rights attached to them will not be exercised by the Trustee or the Cash generation from the Groups bus and rail operations was strong employees for whom they are held.
As at 6 September 2017 being and the balance sheet remains robust.
Core financing is provided by a the latest practical date prior to the date of this report, 1% of the 250m sterling bond entered into on 6 July 2017 securing financing to issued share capital of the Group, less treasury shares, was held by 2024 and committed bank facilities of 280.0m to July 2021.
The EES Corporate Trustees Limited.
In the event of an offer being made directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business to acquire these shares, the employees are entitled to direct EES risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
Corporate Trustees Limited to accept an offer in respect of the shares held on their behalf.
The directors have assessed, in the light of current and anticipated economic conditions, the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors confirm they are satisfied that the Group Save As You Earn Scheme has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the The Group also operates a save as you earn scheme known as foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going TheGo-Ahead Group Plc 2013 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Sharesave, for which the last launch was in February 2016.
Under Sharesave, all permanent employees who have completed at least The directors are also required to provide a broader assessment of six months continuous service with a participating company are viability over a longer period, which can be found on page 41. invited to make monthly savings of between 5 and 50 for three The directors going concern confirmation and viability statement years.
At the end of the savings term, participants have the choice of have both been considered in accordance with the Guidance on Risk their money back, or to purchase Go-Ahead Group shares at a 20% Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business discount to the market price set at the date ofinvitation.
Reporting published by the Financial Reporting Council in In May 2017, Sharesave 2014 matured with an option price of 17.34.
Employees have until 25 October 2017 to submit their instructions.
Political donations and expenditure It is the Groups policy not to make political donations and accordingly no such payments were made in the year 2017: nil.
Additionally, the Group did not incur any political expenditure as defined in the Act 2017: nil.
98 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors statement of responsibilities Directors statement of responsibility under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and The directors confirm to the best of their knowledge: regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group The financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the directors are required to prepare Group financial statements under assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a European Union.
Detailed below are statements made by the whole directors in relation to their responsibilities and disclosure of information to the Groups auditor.
The strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole Financial statements and accounting records together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Under company law, the directors must not approve the Group that they face financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group at the end of the Directors statement under the UK Corporate financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Governance Code In preparing the Group financial statements, the directors are The directors further confirm, to the best of their knowledge, that required to: the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for Present fairly the financial position, financial performance and shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, cashflows of the Group business model and strategy.
Select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors Disclosure of information to the auditor and then apply themconsistently Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the directors are Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by section that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and 418 3 of the Act, of which the Groups auditor is unaware and the understandable information directors have taken all the steps they ought to have taken to make Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific that the Groups auditor is aware of thatinformation.
requirements in IFRS as adopted by the European Union is By order of the Board insufficient toenable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, otherevents and conditions on the Groups financial position and financialperformance State whether the Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union Carolyn Ferguson, Group Company Secretary The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 6 September 2017 records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group, and enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the Act and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for the system of internal control, for safeguarding the assets of the Group and, hence, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are also responsible for preparing the strategic report, directors report, including the directors remuneration report and the corporate governance report, in accordance with the Act and applicable regulations, including the requirements of the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Groups corporate website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in otherjurisdictions.
