Governance Audit and Risk Committee Report Summary of Principal Activities Principal duties z Approval of the Boards dividend policy statement The principal duties of the Committee are to: z Approval of the Boards tax policy statement z Oversee the integrity of the groups financial statements and public announcements relating to financial z Approval of revised policy on use of auditor to provide performance non-audit services z Hold the relationship with the external auditor and oversee z Review of controls implemented following the acquisition the external audit process of the Worldstores Group z Oversee the internal audit process z Plan to develop a more formal internal audit function adopted z Monitor the effectiveness of financial controls and the process for identifying and managing risk throughout the z Reviews of the following: group Annual financial statements for FY16 and interim results z Monitor the financial reporting process and submit for FY17 recommendations Internal controls and the process for the identication and mitigation of principal risks z Monitor the statutory audit of the annual report and financial statements The plan to address the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation and the duty to report on z Review and monitor the external auditors independence Payment Practices and the provision of additional services External assurance reviews of Customs and Duty, end to The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on end import processes and tax risk arising from use of a the Groups website, www.
These terms were last mobile workforce reviewed by the Committee in June 2017.
Findings from the FRC review of FY16 financial The Committee has approved a policy which allows statements which revealed no material errors in the employees to raise legitimate concerns in confidence without financial statements fear of discrimination, including access to an independent z Since the year end, approval of the full year annual whistleblowing helpline.
A copy of our policy is available financial statements for FY17.
During the year the Committee received reports detailing the calls made to the helpline.
This report provides details of the role of the Audit and Risk Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year and at its meeting in September 2017 when this annual report and financial statements were approved.
Committee membership The following Directors served on the Committee during the year: Name From: To: Liz Doherty Chair 1 May 2013 To date Simon Emeny 25 June 2007 To date William Reeve 1 July 2015 To date Peter Ruis 10 September 2015 To date The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Chief Executive, Chief Financial officer and the Chairman of the Board usually attend meetings by invitation, along with a representative from the external auditor.
Other Directors attend by invitation as required.
The Board considers that I have recent and relevant financial experience to chair the committee, by virtue of my professional qualication and my previous executive roles, including as Chief Financial officer of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
Members of the Committee can also demonstrate a breadth of experience across the retail and consumer goods sector through their current and previous roles please see the Directors biographies on pages 50 to 52 for full details.
65 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
indd 65 06 10 2017 12:12:02 Audit and Risk Committee Report CONTINUED Committee activities in 2016 17 Committee effectiveness Three meetings were held in the year and members At its meeting in June 2017, the Committee carried out a attendance was as shown in the table below.
review of its own effectiveness, using a checklist prepared by one of the major accounting rms.
The conclusion was that Name Meetings attended the Committee is broadly functioning well, in accordance with regulatory and best practice requirements, and providing Liz Doherty 3 appropriate assurance to the Board.
Simon Emeny 3 Significant areas of judgement William Reeve 3 Within its terms of reference, the Committee monitors the Peter Ruis 3 integrity of the annual and interim reports, including a review of the significant financial reporting issues and judgements The activities of the Committee included: contained in them.
Routine items At its meetings in September 2016 and 2017, the Committee z Approval of the full year results issued in September 2016 reviewed a comprehensive paper prepared by the Chief and the half year results issued in February 2017 Financial officer, which analysed the Groups results for the z Review of the process for identifying and managing risk financial year: highlighted matters arising in the preparation and a full review of the principal risks and how they are of the Group financial statements: and provided information managed in September 2016, and a mid year review in to support the Directors viability and going concern February 2017 statements.
The Committee also considered a paper prepared by the external auditor, which included significant reporting z Verication of the independence of the auditor and and accounting matters.
approval of the scope of the audit plan and the audit fee z Review of fraud and Bribery Act controls and cyber The major accounting issues discussed by the Committee in security, which are standing agenda items for each September 2017 in relation to the FY17 Annual Report and meeting Accounts were as follows: z Receipt of external assurance reports see below Provisions for inventory z Approval of the annual Audit and Risk Committee report The Committee considered the approach taken by z Review of whether the FY16 and FY17 annual reports are management and assessed available evidence, including fair, balanced and understandable historical outcomes.
Particular attention was given to reviewing the provision for obsolete, slow-moving or z Annual review of tax policy, business control framework discontinued inventory and the pattern of stock clearance and committee terms of reference over the financial period.
The Committee concluded that the z Formal review of auditor performance values recorded in the financial statements are appropriate.
z Formal review of Committee effectiveness Acquisition treatment of Worldstores and Specific topics subsequent exceptional items z Review of how controls have been implemented in the The Committee considered the approach to acquisition newly acquired Worldstores Group accounting taken by management, explained in a detailed z The FRC letter and actions taken to address the payment of paper prepared by management for the Committee and an unlawful dividend discussed at Committee meetings post acquisition, which were also attended by the auditor.
The approach to identify, z Review and approval of dividend policy statement measure and disclose exceptional items was also considered z Approval of updated policy on use of auditors for nonand the Committee concluded that the approach taken audit work and the values reported in the financial statements are z Consideration of the plans to address the requirements appropriate.
of the General Data Protection Regulation and the duty to report on Payment Practices z Plan to develop a more formal internal audit function adopted z External assurance reviews of Customs and Duty, and tax risk arising from use of a mobile workforce 66 dunelm.
indd 66 06 10 2017 12:12:02 Governance The conclusion was that the audit had been effective and that Fair, balanced and understandable no significant issues had been highlighted: this was endorsed At the request of the Board, the Committee also considered by the Committee.
whether the annual report and financial statements as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable.
Factors taken into Auditor appointment for FY17 account included: It is the Committees responsibility to make recommendations z Does the narrative of the Business Review and Financial to the Board in relation to the appointment, reappointment and Review fairly reect the performance of the Group over the removal of the external auditor, and to agree the audit fee.
In February 2017, the external auditor presented their strategy z Are the narrative sections consistent with each other, and for the 2016 17 audit to the Committee.
The Committee with the financial statements?
reviewed and agreed with the external auditors assessment z Is the connection between strategy and remuneration of risk.
The Committee also reviewed and agreed the audit clearly described?
approach and the approach to assessing materiality for the Group.
z Can readers easily identify key events that happened during the year?
The fee proposed by  LLP for the statutory audit of the Group and Company financial Committee members received the draft annual report in statements and the audit of Group subsidiaries pursuant to advance and had the opportunity to make comments in legislation was 167,000. advance of the formal meeting at which the report was tabled for approval.
Taking into account the review of the FY16 audit and the proposed plan and fee, the Committee agreed that Following its review, the Committee confirmed to the Board  LLP be reappointed as auditor for that in its view the FY17 annual report was fair, balanced and the FY17 audit for the fee proposed.
 LLP as auditor and to authorise External auditor the Directors to agree their remuneration will be put to The report and financial statements were audited by shareholders at the AGM.
 LLP, following that rms Use of auditors for non-audit work appointment as statutory auditor in January 2014.
Mark Smith The Committee is aware that the use of audit rms for nonhas been the audit partner since the rms appointment.
audit work is a sensitive issue for investors and corporate  LLP attended the Committee governance analysts, as it could potentially give rise to a meetings in September 2016, February, June and September conict of interest.
The Committee also met privately with them during the Following the issue of the EU Audit Directive in June 2016, we September meetings, and as Chair of the Committee I had reviewed our policy on the use of auditors for non-audit work dialogue with the audit partner on a number of occasions.
The full policy is available on our website, Audit effectiveness www.
com, but in summary from FY17: It is the responsibility of the Audit and Risk Committee to z Fees for non-audit services provided by the statutory assess the effectiveness of the external audit process.
auditor in any year may not exceed 70% of the average fees for the Group statutory audit in the three previous The Chief Financial officer and his team presented their years review of the FY16 audit in February 2017.
This covered a number of aspects including: z The quality of reports provided to the Committee and the Board and the quality of advice given z The level of understanding demonstrated by the audit team of the Groups businesses and the retail sector z The objectivity of the external auditors views on the controls around the Group and the robustness of challenge and findings on areas which required management judgement z The findings from the FRCs annual inspection of auditors published in May 2016 67 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
indd 67 06 10 2017 12:12:02 Audit and Risk Committee Report CONTINUED z The auditor is prohibited from providing certain non-audit The Committee also asked for the register to include details of services, including: the assurance activities which assess the strength of mitigating factors in respect of principal risks.
almost all tax work internal audit The Committee discussed the fact that, during the year to July 2017, the Directors became aware that a dividend paid in corporate finance November 2015 totalling 32.4m had been made otherwise involvement in management activities, including than in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, because working capital and cash management and the interim accounts had not been led at Companies House provision of financial information prior to payment.
At a General Meeting of the Companys The external auditor may not be engaged to provide any shareholders held on 2 March 2017, a resolution was passed which authorised the appropriation of distributable profits non-audit services without the agreement of the Audit and Risk Committee Chair.
During the period we paid to the payment of the relevant dividend and removed any right for the Company to pursue shareholders or Directors for  LLP 182,000, of which 15,000 was for their review of the interim financial statements.
This constituted a related party transaction under IAS 24.
The overall effect of the resolution being passed was paid to  LLP for audit work were 167,000. to return all parties so far as possible to the position they would have been in had the relevant dividends been made Auditor rotation in full compliance with the Act.
The Committee noted that It is our policy to tender the statutory audit at least every five management had subsequently taken steps to ensure that years, and to rotate auditors at least every 20 years within the such a breach could not happen again, including a capital requirements of the EU Audit Directive that require a tender restructuring exercise referred to in last years financial at least every ten years.
This means that the next tender will statements.
be for the 2018 19 audit at the latest.
We will also invite at Internal control framework least one rm outside the Big Four to participate in the tender process.
I can confirm that the Company has complied In 2015 the Committee adopted a formal internal control with The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies framework, covering the following areas: business ethics Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender including anti-bribery controls: accountabilities: people Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 management, including succession planning: development during the financial year.
and alignment of incentives: risk management processes: internal control: crisis management: monitoring and Risk management reporting.
The framework and the controls in place are The Committee is responsible for assessing the scope and reviewed annually, the last review was in June 2017: no effectiveness of the systems established by management to significant control weaknesses have been identied.
identify, assess, manage and monitor financial and nonDuring the year the framework was updated to include details financial risks, and to consider the level of assurance.
of internal and external assurance: the Committee concluded The Committee carried out a formal risk review in September that the assurance in place is sufficient given the current size, 2016 and February 2017.
At the September review, the scale and complexity of the business.
However, as mentioned principal risks were rephrased to align the terminology more below, in June 2017 a plan to develop a more formal internal closely to our strategic and financial planning process to audit function was agreed.
The June 2017 review also ensure that all elements are appropriately aligned.
In February considered how the controls have been implemented in the 2017, following the acquisition of the Worldstores business Worldstores business which was acquired in November 2016, in November 2016, we included a new principal risk of and agreed that as a result of work undertaken and planned failure to successfully integrate the Worldstores business, as part of the integration, adequate controls were in place.
acknowledging that this activity will be a significant focus for management during the year.
The Board has closely monitored the integration plan, developed with expert external assistance, and the resource put in place to deliver it.
indd 68 06 10 2017 12:12:02 Governance Viability statement and risk management FRC review of FY16 financial statements In September 2017, the Committee reviewed the viability The Financial Reporting Council FRC reviewed the Groups statement given by the Board in this report and the process in 2016 annual report and financial statements as part of its place to support the assurance given and confirmed that it is routine monitoring activity.
The FRC found no material error in appropriate and in compliance with regulatory requirements.
compliance with relevant reporting requirements and did not This review took into account the principal risks facing the require any corrections.
They did however alert us to the fact Group and the process by which they are managed by the that the Company had committed a technical breach of the Board and management.
Companies Act in respect of the payment of the final dividend in November 2015.
The breach has been remediated and Internal audit external assurance the Committee noted that management have taken steps to The Committee initiated a formalised programme in 2013 ensure that such a breach could not happen again.
with activities conducted either by an internal team that is The FRC has requested that we advise shareholders that independent of the area under review, or by an external their review provides no assurance that the annual report party, decided on a case by case basis.
In either case, the and financial statements are correct in all material respects, review is conducted on behalf of the Committee and reports as its purpose is not to verify the information provided but to back to them.
consider compliance with reporting requirements.
As such, In February 2017 the Committee discussed and agreed that the FRC and its ofcers, employees and agents accept no while this approach to internal audit remains satisfactory for liability for any reliance on its review by third parties, including the time being, a plan to develop a more formal internal audit but not limited to shareholders and investors.
function by the end of the 2019 financial year was agreed Cyber security and data protection in June 2017, reecting the increased complexity of the business.
Information security remains one of the most important risk areas and it is a standing Committee agenda item, as well At the Committees suggestion, the Executive Board was as being one of the Boards principal risks, as outlined in the involved in making recommendations for future topics to be Risks and Uncertainties section of this annual report.
The addressed, in conjunction with the risk review process.
Committee received an update from the Chief Information officer at each meeting, and was pleased to note that Reviews completed in the year are set out below: progress to strengthen controls had been made at each stage.
Reviewed by The Committee also reviewed the plan in place to secure compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation by Customs & Duty KPMG May 2018, and will receive regular updates on this matter Risks associated with the use of mobile workers KPMG going forward.
Reports were discussed by the Committee and the Board and Approved by the Board of Dunelm Group plc on a number of actions agreed to improve controls.
In addition, the Committee monitored progress against actions agreed following the reports received in the 201516 Liz Doherty financial year from external assurance providers and noted Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee that these had been completed.
69 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
