BOARD OF DIRECTORS Andrew Allner David Brown Patrick Butcher Katherine Innes Ker Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Director N R A N R Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Andrew Allner joined the Board in David Brown was appointed to Patrick Butcher was appointed Katherine Innes Ker joined the October 2008 and was appointed the Board as Deputy Chief to the Board as Group Board in July 2010 and was as Chairman of the Group in Executive on 1 April 2011 before Chief Financial Officer on appointed as Senior Independent April 2013 his accession to the post of 14 March 2016 Director in April 2013 Group Chief Executive on 3 July 2011 Length of service: Length of service: Length of service: 8 years and 8 months 1 year and 3 months 6 years and 11 months Length of service: 6 years and 3 months Independent: On appointment Independent: Independent: Yes Skills, experience and Skills, experience and Skills, experience and Independent: qualifications: qualifications: qualifications: Skills, experience and Significant Board experience Member of the Institute of Former city financial analyst.
qualifications: including Finance Director, Chartered Accountants South Extensive executive and Chief Executive Officer, Over 34 years of experience in Africa.
Over 16 years of non-executive experience in Non-Executive Director and the industry with particular experience as a Finance Director helping to grow successful and Chair roles.
Experience across expertise in the London bus at Board level in transport and dynamic organisations.
Held a broad range of UK and market.
many previous non-executive multinational companies and Director of Surface Transport Former Group Finance Director directorships including sectors.
Former Partner at at Transport for London.
of Network Rail as well as St Modwen Properties plc,  LLP and Thorough knowledge and Finance Director roles at Victoria plc, Taylor Wimpey plc, a Fellow of the Institute of understanding of the Groups English, Welsh and Scottish Taylor Woodrow plc, The Chartered Accountants in business, having been Chief Railways now DB Schenker and Television Corporation plc, England & Wales.
Graduate of Executive of Go-Aheads London London Underground.
Extensive Fibernet plc, Williams Lea plc, Oxford University.
Non-Executive bus business from 2003 to 2006 experience working as a Shed Media plc and Gyrus Director of AZ Electronic Materials and advisor to the main Board management consultant and Group plc SA from 2010 to 2014, of CSR plc auditor for Deloitte LLP.
from 2008 to 2013 and of Moss Formermember of the British Other directorships Other directorships Bros Group plc from 2001 to 2005 Transport Police Authority and offices: and offices: Director of Rail Delivery Non-Executive Chair of The Other directorships Other directorships Group Limited, Director of Mortgage Advice Bureau: and offices: and offices: ATOCLimited Chairman of the Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Chairman of remuneration committee and None Gigaclear plc and Non-Executive Marshalls plc Chairman of the Non-Executive Director of Renew Director of Forterra plc nomination committee, Holdings plc Non-Executive Director of Northgate plc and Non-Executive Chairman of Fox Marble Holdingsplc member of remuneration committee Key to committees A Audit committee Chairman N Nomination committee Committee Secretary R Remuneration committee 50 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors tenure Nick Horler Adrian Ewer Carolyn Ferguson Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Group Company Secretary A N R A N A N R R 0-2 years: 17% Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: 4-6 years: 33% Nick Horler joined the Board in Adrian Ewer joined the Board in Carolyn Ferguson was appointed 6-8 years: 33% November 2011 April 2013 as Group Company Secretary in 8-10 years: 17% July 2006 Length of service: Length of service: Length of service: 5 years and 7 months 4 years and 2 months Board changes 11 years As of 23 October 2017, Harry Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Holt and Leanne Wood will Independent: join the Board as independent Skills, experience and Skills, experience and Non-Executive Directors and Skills, experience and qualifications: qualifications: members of the audit, qualifications: remuneration and nomination Former Chief Executive Officer of Became a chartered accountant committees.
Scottish Power and Managing in 1977 and, as a Fellow of the A Fellow of the Institute of Director of E. On Retail.
Extensive Institute of Chartered Chartered Secretaries and general management experience Accountants, has sound recent Administrators.
Qualified and Harry Holt in UK and USA regulated and relevant financial practising coach and mentor.
Harry is currently the markets, specialising in sales experience.
Former Chief Extensive company secretarial, President of Rolls-Royce and marketing.
Brings valuable Executive Officer of John Laing compliance, governance and Holdings plc Nuclear Division insights to Go-Aheads plc and associated limited pensions experience.
Began and Non-Executive Chairman development of social networks companies.
Wealth of experience working as Assistant Company of Royal Foundations and digital marketing to attract of major long term contracts.
Secretary in 2001, before being Endeavour Fund.
Harry will new passengers Strong customer focus and flair appointed to Group Company complement the existing for strategy and finance.
Previous Board with his wealth of Experience in bidding and employment included working Other directorships experience in government operating heavy and light rail for Northern Electric, relations, strategic planning and offices: franchises as well as rail predominantly in the field and operations.
Non-Executive Chairman infrastructure procurement of pensions of Alderney Renewable Leanne Wood Energy Limited: Non-Executive Other directorships Other directorships Chairman of Meter Provida Leanne is currently Chief and offices: and offices: Limited, Meter Provida Strategy, People and Holdco Limited and Meter None None Corporate Affairs Officer at Provida Investments Limited: Burberry Group plc.
Leanne Non-Executive Director of will bring to the Board an Thames Water Utilities Limited: international career Non-Executive Chairman of background and experience of Adler and Allan Group Limited leading corporate strategy and and Non-Executive Chairman of organisational transformation.
UK Power Reserve Limited Nick Horler Nick Horler will retire as an independent Non-Executive Director and member of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees with effect from the conclusion of Go-Aheads Annual General Meeting on 2 November 2017.
Details of the directors contracts, emoluments and share interests can be found in the directors remuneration report on pages 77 to 95 www.
