Letter from the Chair of the Nominations Committee This year we held a follow-up to last This year the Financial Reporting years externally facilitated Board Council issued a paper emphasising evaluation, which was completed the importance of Board oversight of shortly before the financial year end.
Nurturing The results are described in the Dunelms culture has always been a Corporate Governance Report and the central area of focus for the Board.
Its overall conclusion was that the Board maintenance is one of our principal risks, and a particular accountability of has continued to work effectively.
We obtained some helpful insights to our Deputy Chairman, Will Adderley, whose family founded the Group and, improve this further.
together with Will, remain majority In August, John Browett, our Chief shareholders.
I have included in this Executive, stepped down from the report a summary of recent activities Board.
I would like to thank John for which have been discussed by the his contribution to the business and Dear Shareholder Board.
the strategic progress made under We are fortunate to have a high quality his leadership, most notably the I look forward to meeting shareholders Board, with strong Non-Executive exciting acquisition of Worldstores.
Directors who provide valuable advice The Nominations Committee has and counsel, and we benefit from the commenced a search for his successor, breadth and quality of their business to lead the Group in our next stage of Yours sincerely, experience.
This has been particularly growth, with a style of leadership that is helpful to me as I have settled into my fully consistent with our special Dunelm role as Chairman.
Chair of the Nominations Committee I would like to thank Simon Emeny, our Our Board combines experience Senior Independent Director, who has 13 September 2017 and different perspectives with served the Group admirably over the complementary retail, consumer last ten years.
As noted last year, we and online expertise.
At least once a asked Simon to serve an additional year year we review the skills and Board beyond his nine year term to provide balance, as well as our succession continuity.
Simon will step down as plan, in the light of the strategy and planned at this years AGM, and we are requirements of the Board.
We have well advanced with the appointment of used this to help us formulate the role his successor.
and personal specication for our new Chief Executive and the Non-Executive Director who will succeed Simon Emeny.
After that, our next scheduled rotation of Non-Executive Directors is in 2019 at the earliest: however, we are considering the appointment of an additional NED to strengthen the breadth of expertise, particularly in finance.
