The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2017 Report of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Samantha Wren who is a Policy on Non-Audit Services Chartered Management Accountant.
The other members of the The Audit Committees policy is that the external auditor will not be Committee are Simon Barratt, an experienced lawyer, and David engaged to provide non-audit services to the Company.
There may Brief, an experienced pensions investment professional.
however be situations where a non-audit service is required to be carried out which is relevant to the annual audit, where legislation Meetings requires the external auditors to carry out this service or where it is The Committee met three times during the year under review.
The clearly more efficient for the auditor to do so.
The Audit Committee Companys Auditors are invited to attend meetings of the Committee will assess and approve such services on a case-by-case basis by on a regular basis.
Representatives of the Manager and BNP Paribas considering them against the criteria set out in the FRCs Revised Securities Services may also be invited to attend if deemed necessary.
Ethical Standard 2016 and the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees.
In any event, the external auditor will not be engaged to Role and Responsibilities provide any non-audit services which are prohibited by the FRCs The role of the Committee is to assist the Board in applying financial Revised Ethical Standard 2016.
There were no non-audit services reporting and internal control principles and to maintain an provided during the year.
appropriate relationship with the Auditors.
The Audit Committee formally reports to the Board.
The Committees responsibilities are set out in formal terms of reference which are reviewed at least Audit Tendering annually.
As a Public Interest Entity listed on the London Stock Exchange, In the year under review the main duties undertaken were: the Company is subject to the mandatory auditor rotation requirements of the European Union.
The Company will put the consideration of the appropriateness of the Companys accounting policies and of the quality and effectiveness of the external audit out to tender at least every ten years, and change auditors at least every twenty years.
This legislation will require the accounting records and management information maintained on behalf of the Company: Company to put the audit out to tender for the 2025 year end.
The Committee will, however, continue to consider annually the need to a review of the half year results and the annual report, including go to tender for audit quality or independence reasons.
the disclosures made therein in relation to internal controls and risk management, viability, going concern and related parties and  LLP have been the Companys Auditors consideration of whether the report is fair, balanced and since 2009.
During the financial year ended 30 June 2014 the understandable and provides the information necessary for Company tendered its audit.
The tender was conducted on an shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, integrated basis with Henderson and, upon consideration of the business model and strategy in order to make recommendations tenders received, the Board decided to reappoint to the Board:  LLP.
consideration of the internal controls in place at Janus Henderson, External Audit, Review and Auditors BNP Paribas Securities Services as administrator, and HSBC as Depositary and Custodian: Reappointment consideration of whether there is a need for an internal audit The Committee discuss the audit process with the Auditors without function in order to make a recommendation to the Board: representatives of the Manager present and consider the consideration of the Companys anti-bribery policy: effectiveness of the audit process after each audit.
The Audit consideration of the whistle blowing policy that Janus Henderson Committee remains satisfied with the effectiveness of the audit has put in place for its staff to raise concerns about possible provided by  LLP.
The Committee is improprieties, including in relation to the Company, in confidence.
satisfied that the Auditors are independent of the Company.
The The policy includes the necessary arrangements for independent Auditors are required to rotate partners every five years and this investigation and follow up action: isthe fourth year that the current partner has been in place.
consideration of Janus Hendersons policies in relation to cyber  LLP have indicated their willingness risk and business continuity, meeting with representatives of tocontinue in office.
Accordingly, resolutions to confirm the Janus Hendersons internal audit and risk departments appointment of  LLP as Auditors to periodically: theCompany, and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine consideration of the annual confirmation from the Companys their remuneration, will be proposed at the AGM.
Depositary: Fees paid or payable to the Auditors are detailed in note 6 consideration of the key risks, risk management systems in place onpage46.
and the Companys risk map: Financial Reporting Council Review consideration of the appointment of the Auditors, the Auditors performance and remuneration: and The Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Review team consideration of the nature and scope of the external audit and completed a review of PwCs audit of the Companys financial statements for the financial year ending 30 June 2015.
There were the findings therefrom, the Auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process.
32 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2017 Report of the Audit Committee continued Audit for the year ended 30 June 2017 In relation to the Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2017 the following significant issues were considered by the Committee: Significant issue How the issue was addressed Valuation and ownership of The Directors have appointed the Manager, who outsource some of the administration and the Companys investments accounting services to BNP Paribas Securities Services, to perform the valuation of the assets of the Company in accordance with its responsibilities under the AIFMD rules.
As required under the AIFMD rules, the Manager has adopted a written valuation policy, which may be modified from time to time.
Actively traded investments are valued using stock exchange prices provided by third party pricing vendors.
Ownership of listed investments are verified by reconciliation to the Custodians records and the Directors have received quarterly reports of the Depositary who has responsibility for overseeing operations of the Company, including verification of ownership and valuation.
Recognition of income Income received, particularly special dividends, are accounted for in line with the Companys accounting policy as set out on pages 42 to 44.
Special dividends, and their treatment as revenue or capital, have been reviewed by the Committee and agreed.
The Committee is satisfied that the Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2017, taken as a whole, isfair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Samantha Wren Chair of the Audit Committee 22 September 2017 33
