The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Statement The Corporate Governance Statement forms part of the Report of All Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years.
TheArticles of Association require one-third or the number nearest to one-third of the Directors to retire by rotation at each AGM.
However, Applicable Corporate Governance Codes the UK Code and the AIC Code require all directors of FTSE 350 The Board is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the companies to retire annually.
All the current Directors will retire and, being Companys affairs.
As an investment trust, the Companys day-to-day eligible, have all stated that they will offer themselves for re-election.
responsibilities are delegated to third parties: the Company has no employees and the Directors are all non-executive.
Therefore not all Under the Articles of Association, shareholders may remove a theprovisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code Director before the end of his term by passing an ordinary resolution issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in April 2016 are at a general meeting.
directly applicable to the Company.
The Board has therefore considered the principles and recommendations of the Code of Corporate Board Independence Governance published by the Association of Investment Companies in All Directors have a wide range of other interests and are not July 2016 the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate dependent on the Company itself.
At the Nominations Committee Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
The meeting in July 2017, the Directors reviewed their independence and AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the applicable confirmed that all Directors remain wholly independent of Janus principles set out in the UK Code as well as setting out additional Henderson.
Simon Barratt is the Companys Senior Independent principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance Director.
There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the to the Company.
The FRC has confirmed that, by following the AIC Guide, year in which a Director of the Company is or was materially interested boards of investment companies should fully meet their obligations and which is or was significant in relation to the Companys business.
inrelation to the UK Code and paragraph 9.8.
Directors Professional Development Copies of the AIC Code, the AIC Guide and the UK Code can be When a new Director is appointed he or she receives an induction found on the respective organisations websites: www.
co. uk seminar which is held by Janus Henderson at the request of the and www.
Directors are also provided on aregular basis with key information on the Companys policies, regulatory and statutory New Zealand Listing requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting Directors It should be noted that the UK Code of Corporate Governance may responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
Directors also materially differ from the New Zealand Stock Exchanges corporate regularly participate in relevant training and industry seminars.
governance rules and principles of the Corporate Best Practice Code.
Directors individual training requirements are considered as part of the annual evaluation process which is led bythe Chairman of the Board.
Statement of Compliance The Directors believe that the company has complied with the Directors Insurance and Indemnification recommendations of the AIC Code during the year under review and up Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in place in respect to the date of this report, and thereby the provisions of the UK Code, ofthe Directors.
Under the Companys Articles of Association and except as set out below.
subject to the provisions of UK legislation, a qualifying third party provision indemnity may be provided to Directors in respect of costs The UK Code includes provisions relating to: which they may incur relating to the defence of any proceedings the role of chief executive brought against them arising out of their positions as Directors, in which executive directors remuneration they are acquitted or judgment is given in their favour by the Court.
the need for an internal audit function Noindemnity was given during the year or up to the date of this report.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Code, the Board considers that these provisions are not relevant to The Board theCompany as it is an externally managed investment company.
Responsibilities of the Board and its Committees Inparticular, all of the Companys day-to-day management and The Boards policy is for Directors to serve for no more than nine administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the years, other than in exceptional circumstances.
The Chairman is Company has no executive Directors, employees or internal operations.
responsible for leading the Board and for ensuring that it continues to deal effectively with all the aspects of its role.
He ensures that the Directors Manager provides management, regulatory and financial information Board Composition in a clear and timely manner.
During the year seven Board meetings The Articles of Association provide that the total number of Directors were held to deal with the important aspects of the Companys shall not be less than three nor more than seven: the Board currently affairs.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically consists of five non-executive Directors.
All served throughout the year reserved for its decision, which include management, structure, under review.
The biographies of the Directors holding office at the capital, financial reporting, internal controls, gearing, asset allocation, date of this report, which are set out onpage 16, demonstrate the share price premium discount, contracts, investment policy, finance, breadth of investment, commercial and professional experience risk, investment restrictions, performance, corporate governance and relevant to their positions as Directors.
The Board is responsible for the approval of the annual and half Directors Appointment and Retirement year results and other public documents and for ensuring that such The Board may appoint Directors to the Board and any Director so appointed must stand for election by the shareholders at the AGM documents provide a fair, balanced and understandable following appointment, in accordance with the Articles of Association.
assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
29 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Statement continued At each meeting the Board reviews the Companys investment theyear, the Directors undertook a review of the Board structure, performance and considers financial analyses and other reports including an evaluation of the performance of the Board, the ofanoperational nature.
The Board monitors compliance with the Committees and of individual Directors.
The appraisal of the Chairman Companys objective and is responsible for setting asset allocation, was led by Simon Barratt.
As a FTSE 350 Company, the Company is investment and gearing limits within which the Manager has obliged to engage an external facilitator for Board evaluation every discretion to act.
The Board has responsibility for the approval of three years: last year the external review was facilitated by Lintstock anyinvestments in in-house funds managed or advised by the Limited who also carried out the previous external review in 2013.
Italso has adopted a procedure for Directors, in the Lintstock Limited are unconnected to the Company.
This year the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional review was undertaken internally using a questionnaire approach.
adviceatthe expense of the Company.
In order to enable them Theevaluation concluded that the Board has a good balance of skills todischarge their responsibilities, all Directors have full and timely and experience and the Chairman continues to provide effective access to relevant information.
The Board has two principal Committees: the Audit Committee Board Attendance andtheNominations Committee.
The terms of reference for these The table below sets out the number of formal Board and Committee Committees are available on the Companys website or via the meetings held during the year under review and the number of Corporate Secretary.
The Company also has an Insider Committee meetings attended by each Director.
All Directors attended the AGM todeal with the obligations of the Market Abuse Regulations.
The Board has not formed a Management Engagement Committee as it Audit Nominations Board remains the role of the Board as a whole to keep under review the terms Committee Committee of the management agreement between the Company and the Manager.
Number of meetings 7 3 1 Aseparate Remuneration Committee has not been established as the Simon Barratt 7 3 1 Board consists of only non-executive Directors and the Board as a whole David Brief 7 3 1 considers the Directors remuneration in line with the Remuneration Policy 1 set out on page 27, which is subject to periodic shareholder approval.
Richard Hextall 3 1 1 Martin Morgan 7 n a 1 Audit Committee Philip Remnant 7 n a 1 The Audit Committee is chaired by Samantha Wren.
Theother Samantha Wren 7 3 1 members of the Committee are Simon Barratt and David Brief.
1 Retired from the Board on 27 October 2016 TheReport of the Audit Committee which forms part of the Corporate Governance Statement, can be found on pages Internal controls 32and33.
The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the Company.
Nominations Committee Theprocess accords with advice issued by the FRC and is subject All Directors are members of the Nominations Committee.
The toregular review by the Board.
Chairman of the Board acts as Chairman of the Committee but would not chair the Committee when the Chairmans successor was The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal being considered.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing Board controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such asystem is succession planning, the performance of the Board as a whole and designed to manage rather than eliminate risks of failure to achieve the the Board Committees, and the appointment of new Directors.
When Companys business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not considering succession planning, the Committee bears in mind the absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity including reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls gender existing on the Board and will recommend when the for the year ended 30 June 2017.
During the course of its review of internal recruitment of additional non-executive Directors is required.
Given controls, the Board has not identified or been advised of any failings or the size of the Board it is not considered appropriate to have set weaknesses that have been determined as significant.
targets in relation to diversity.
Once a decision is made to recruit additional Directors to the Board, a formal job description is drawn Janus Henderson has established an internal control framework to upand each Director is invited to submit nominations and these are provide reasonable but not absolute assurance on the effectiveness of considered in accordance with the Boards agreed procedures.
the internal controls operated on behalf of its clients.
The effectiveness TheCommittee may also use external agencies as and when the ofthe internal controls is assessed by Janus Hendersons compliance requirement to recruit an additional Board member becomes and risk department on a continuing basis.
The Board receives a formal necessary.
The Committee also reviews and recommends to the report from Janus Henderson each quarter detailing the steps taken to Board the Directors seeking re-election.
Recommendation is not monitor the areas of risk, including those that are not directly the automatic and will follow a process of evaluation of each Directors responsibility of Janus Henderson, and which reports the details of any performance and consideration of the Directors independence.
Each year the Board receives from Janus TheCommittee also takes into account the mix of skills and Henderson a report on its internal controls which includes a report from experience of the current Board members.
In accordance with the Janus Hendersons Auditors on the control policies and procedures in AICCode any Director serving forlonger than six years would be operation.
Steps will continue to be taken to embed the system of subject to particularly rigorous assessment of his her contribution.
internal control and risk management into the operation and culture ofthe Company and its key suppliers.
Performance Evaluation The Directors recognise the importance of the AIC Codes The Company does not have an internal audit function: it delegates recommendation in respect of evaluating the performance of the to third parties most of its operations and does not employ any staff.
Board as a whole, the Committees and individual Directors.
During Accordingly, in practice the Board must place reliance on Janus 30 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2017 Corporate Governance Statement continued Henderson and its other contractors to ensure that they operate Continued Appointment of Janus Henderson effective internal audit functions.
The Board will continue to monitor The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of its system of internal control in order to provide assurance that it investment management and other services to the Company on operates as intended and the Directors will review at least annually anongoing basis.
The principal contents of the agreement with the whether a function equivalent to an internal audit is needed.
Manager are contained on page 4.
Accountability and Relationship with The Board reviews investment performance at each Board meeting and a formal review of the Manager is conducted annually.
As part of the annual JanusHenderson review in July 2017 the Directors discussed the quality and continuity of The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the financial the personnel assigned to handle the Companys affairs, with particular statements is set out on page 26, the Independent Auditors Report reference to performance and results achieved to date.
Inaddition, they on pages 34 to 38 and the viability statement on pages 18 and 19. reviewed other services provided by the Manager to the Company, such The Board has delegated contractually to external third parties, including as accounting, company secretarial and administration services, and the the Manager, the management of the investment portfolio, thecustodial Managers promotion of investment and savings products linked to the services which include the safeguarding of the assets which is delegated Companys shares.
The Board noted the Managers resources and through the appointment of the Depositary as explained onpage 21, experience in managing and administering investment trust companies.
the day-to-day accounting, company secretarial and administration As a result of their annual review, it is the opinion of the Directors that the requirements and registration services.
Each of these contracts was continued appointment of the Manager on the terms agreed is in the entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality interests of the Companys shareholders as a whole.
and cost of the services offered, including the control systems in operation in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
Share Capital Please see the Report of the Directors on page 24.
The Board receives and considers regular reports from the Manager and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as Relations with Shareholders required.
In addition, the Chairman is able to attend meetings of all the chairmen of the investment trust companies managed by Janus Shareholder relations are given high priority by the Board.
The prime Henderson which provide a forum to discuss industry matters which medium by which the Company communicates with its shareholders would then be reported to the Board.
is through the half year results and Annual Report which aim to provide shareholders with a clear understanding of the Companys The Manager takes decisions as to the purchase and sale of activities and their results.
This information is supplemented by the individual investments.
The Manager also ensures that all Directors daily calculation and publication of the NAV pershare at the London receive, in a timely manner, all relevant management, regulatory and and New Zealand Stock Exchanges and amonthly fact sheet which financial information.
Representatives of the Manager attend each is available on the website.
The Manager also provides information Board meeting enabling the Directors to probe further on matters of on the Company and Fund Manager videos are on the website, via concern.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the various social media channels and through its HGi content platform, Corporate Secretary through its appointed representative who is more details of which are on page 17. responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board and Committee procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are The Board considers that shareholders should be encouraged to complied with.
The proceedings at all Board and Committee meetings attend and participate in the AGM, which will be available to watch are fully recorded through a process that allows any Directors live by visiting www.
Shareholders concerns to be recorded in the minutes.
The Board and the Manager have the opportunity to address questions to the Chairman of the operate in a supportive, co-operative and open environment.
Board, the Chair of the Audit Committee and all other Directors at The Corporate Secretary, Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, is the meeting and the Fund Manager will make a presentation to asubsidiary of Janus Henderson with its own reporting lines and audited shareholders.
Asummary of the proxy votes received on the internal controls.
There are processes and controls in place to ensure resolutions proposed isdisplayed at the meeting and each that their is a clear distinction between the two entities, particularly when substantial issue is dealt with in aseparate resolution.
It is the dealing with any conflicts or issues between the Company and Janus intention of the Board that the Annual Report and Notice of AGM Henderson.
Any correspondence from shareholders addressed to the beissued toshareholders so as to provide at least 20 working days Chairman or the Company received at Janus Hendersons offices is notice of themeeting.
These documents are also included on the forwarded to the Chairman of the Company in line with the audited website.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of the procedures in place.
Any correspondence is submitted to the next meeting, orraise issues or concerns at any time, are invited to do Board meeting.
soby writing to the Chairman at the address given on page 17.
Janus Henderson and BNP Paribas Securities Services, which acts General presentations to both shareholders and analysts follow the for Janus Henderson, have arrangements in place by which their staff publication of the annual results.
All meetings between the Manager and may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in shareholders are reported to the Board.
relation tofinancial reporting or other matters.
By order of the Board The Board has reviewed the implications of the Bribery Act 2010, which came into force on 1 July 2011, and confirmed its zero tolerance to bribery and corruption in its business activities.
It has received Henderson Secretarial Services Limited assurances from the Companys main contractors and suppliers that they will maintain adequate safeguards to protect against any Corporate Secretary potentially illegal behaviour by their employees and agents.
