EMIT pp24-37 05 10 2017 16:21 Page 33 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT page63, the nature of the portfolio and expenditure projections, Role and Composition the Company has adequate resources, an appropriate financial The Audit Committee, chaired by Richard Laing and whose structure and suitable management arrangements in place to membership is set out on pages 24 and 25, meets at least twice continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The members of the Audit Committee consider that at these reasons, they consider that there is reasonable evidence to least one member has recent and relevant financial experience and continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial that the Committee as a whole has competency relevant to the statements.
They have not identified any material uncertainties to sector in which the Company operates.
the Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the Manager twelve months from the date of these financial statements.
in relation to the half year and annual accounts and the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
It examines Auditor Appointment and Tenure the effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems, Representatives of the Companys Auditors attended the Audit receives information from the Managers Compliance department Committee meeting at which the draft Annual Report & Accounts and also reviews the scope and results of the external audit, its cost were considered and also engage with Directors as and when effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external required.
Having reviewed the performance of the external auditors.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the independence and Auditors, including assessing the quality of work, timing of objectivity of the auditors and is satisfied that the auditors are communications and work with the Manager, the Committee independent.
The Audit Committee also has the primary considered it appropriate to recommend their reappointment.
responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the The Board supported this recommendation which will be put to reappointment and the removal of external auditors.
shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board reviews and approves any non-audit services provided by Financial Statements and Significant Accounting the independent auditors and assesses the impact of any non audit Matters work on the ability of the auditors to remain independent.
The only non-audit work carried out by the auditors this year was in relation During its review of the Companys financial statements for the year to their member firms work on the Companys tax return in ended 30th June 2017, the Audit Committee considered the Pakistan.
The Board has resolved that such non-audit work does following significant issues, including those communicated by the not impact the independence of the auditors.
Details of the auditors Auditors during their reporting: fees paid for audit and non audit services are disclosed in note 6 Significant issue How the issue was addressed on page 51.
 have audited the Companys Valuation, existence The valuation of investments is undertaken in financial statements since its launch in 1991 and were reappointed and ownership of accordance with the accounting policies, disclosed following an auditor review in 2013.
The Companys year ended investments in note 1 b to the accounts on page48.
Controls are 30th June 2017 is the current Audit Partners third of a five year in place to ensure that valuations are appropriate maximum term.
The Company will need to appoint a different audit and existence is verified through custodian firm to succeed  in 2020. reconciliations.
Recognition of The recognition of investment income is undertaken Fair, Balanced and Understandable investment income in accordance with accounting policy note 1 d to the As a result of the work performed, the Committee has concluded accounts on page 48. that the Annual Report for the year ended 30th June 2017, taken Compliance with Approval for the Company as an investment trust as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Sections 1158 and under Sections 1158 and 1159 for financial years information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys 1159 Corporation Tax commencing on or after 1st October 2012 has been position and performance, business model and strategy, and has Act 2010 Section obtained and ongoing compliance with the eligibility reported on these findings to the Board.
The Boards conclusions 1158 and 1159 criteria is monitored on a regular basis.
in this respect are set out in the Statement of Directors The Board was made fully aware of any significant financial Responsibilities on page 37. reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the preparation of the financial statements.
By order of the Board Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of JPMorgan Funds Limited, Going Concern Company Secretary The Directors believe that having considered the Companys investment objective see page 20, risk management policies see 5th October 2017 pages 58 to 63, capital management policies and procedures see 33
