EMIT pp24-37 05 10 2017 16:21 Page 28 Directors Report continued DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED charged on the value of the Companys assets, over a greater Corporate Governance Statement number of shares.
The issue proceeds are available for investment in line with the Companys investment policies.
Compliance The Company currently holds 8,583,029 shares in the capital of the The Company is committed to high standards of corporate Company in Treasury.
The full text of the resolutions is set out in the governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of Notice of Annual General Meeting on page65.
Directors Responsibilities on page37, indicates how the Company has applied the principles of good governance of the Financial iii Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Reporting Council 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the UK resolution 14 Corporate Governance Code and the AICs Code of Corporate The authority to repurchase up to 14.99% of the Companys issued Governance, the AIC Code, which complements the UK Corporate ordinary share capital, granted by shareholders at the 2016 AGM Governance Code and provides a framework of best practice for will expire on15th May 2018, unless renewed prior to that time.
Directors consider that the renewing of the authority is in the interests of shareholders as a whole, as the repurchase of shares at The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of a discount to the underlying NAV enhances the NAV of the corporate governance and considers that the Company has remaining shares.
complied with the best practice provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and of the AIC Code throughout the year under Resolution 14 gives the Company authority to repurchase its own review.
issued ordinary shares in the market as permitted by the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The authority limits the number of shares that Role of the Board could be purchased to a maximum of: 18,554,696ordinary shares, representing approximately 14.99% of the Companys issued A management agreement between the Company and the Manager ordinary shares as at 4th October 2017 being the latest practicable sets out the matters over which the Manager has authority.
This date prior to the publication of this document.
The authority also includes management of the Companys assets and the provision of sets minimum and maximum prices.
accounting, company secretarial, administrative and some marketing services.
All other matters are reserved for the approval If resolution 14 is passed at the AGM it is the Companys current of the Board.
A formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board intention to hold in Treasury any shares it may repurchase pursuant for decision has been approved.
This includes determination and to the authority granted to it for possible re-issue at a premium to monitoring of the Companys investment objectives and policy and NAV.
This policy is kept under review by the Board.
its future strategic direction, gearing policy, management of the The full text of the resolution is set out in the Notice of Annual capital structure, appointment and removal of third party service General Meeting on pages65 and66.
Repurchases of ordinary providers, review of key investment and financial data and the shares will be made at the discretion of the Board and will only be Companys corporate governance and risk control arrangements.
made in the market at prices below the prevailing NAV per share, The Board has procedures in place to deal with potential conflicts of thereby enhancing the NAV of the remaining shares as and when interest and, following the introduction of The Bribery Act 2010, has market conditions are appropriate.
adopted appropriate procedures designed to prevent bribery.
It confirms that the procedures have operated effectively during the Recommendation year under review.
The Board considers that resolutions 11 to 14 are likely to promote Anatole Kaletsky is a founding partner and chief economist of the success of the Company and are in the best interests of the Gavekal Dragonomics, whose clients include JPMorgan.
The Board Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors does not believe this connection influences Mr Kaletskys unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions independence as a Director of the Company.
as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings which amount in aggregate to 38,000ordinary shares representing The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and additional approximately 0.03% of the voting rights of the Company.
meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely information is provided to the Board to enable it to function effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
28 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 EMIT pp24-37 05 10 2017 16:21 Page 29 There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent Induction and Training professional advice if necessary and at the Companys expense.
This On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary provide all is in addition to the access that every Director has to the advice and Directors with induction training.
Thereafter, regular briefings are services of the Company Secretary, JPMF, which is responsible to provided on changes in law and regulatory requirements that affect the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that the Company and the Directors.
Directors are encouraged to attend applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
industry and other seminars covering issues and developments relevant to investment trust companies.
Regular reviews of the Board Composition Directors training needs are carried out by the Chairman by means The Board, chaired by Alan Saunders, consists of six non-executive of the evaluation process described below.
Directors, all of whom are regarded by the Board as independent of the Companys Manager, including the Chairman.
The Directors have Meetings and Committees a breadth of investment knowledge, business and financial skills and The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to experience relevant to the Companys business and brief committees.
All Directors are members of the committees, with the biographical details of each Director are set out on pages24 and 25. exception of the Chairman who attends the Audit Committee by invitation.
A review of Board composition and balance is included as part of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of which The table below details the number of Board and Committee may be found below.
The Senior Independent Director leads the meetings attended by each Director.
During the year, there were evaluation of the performance of the Chairman and is available to five Board meetings, two Audit Committee meetings, a Management shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through Engagement Committee meeting, a Nomination Committee meeting discussion with the Chairman.
The Boards policy on diversity, including gender, is to take account Management Audit Engagement Remuneration Nomination of the benefits of this during the appointment process.
The Board Board Committee Committee Committee Committee remains committed to appointing the most appropriate candidate Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Director Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended and therefore no targets have been set against which to report.
Sarah Arkle 52 1 1 1 Tenure Anatole Kaletsky 52 1 1 1 1 Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual General Nigel Kenny 31 11 1 Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of Association, it is Richard Laing 52 1 2 required that they be appointed by shareholders.
Thereafter, Ruary Neill 21 a Directors appointment is subject to the performance evaluation Andrew Page 52 1 1 1 3 carried out each year and the approval of shareholders at each Alan Saunders 52 1 1 1 annual general meeting, in accordance with corporate governance 1 Retired 16th November 2016. best practice.
The Board does not believe that length of service in 2 Appointed 1st January 2017. itself necessarily disqualifies a Director from seeking reappointment 3 Ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee on 30th October 2009.
Mr Saunders but, when making a recommendation, the Board takes into account now attends by invitation.
the ongoing requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, including the need to refresh the Board and its Committees.
Board Committees The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out in Nomination Committee formal letters of appointment, copies of which are available for The Nomination Committee, chaired by Alan Saunders, consists of inspection on request at the Companys registered office and at the all of the Directors and meets at least annually to ensure that the Annual General Meeting.
Board has an appropriate balance of skills and experience to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and propose suitable A schedule of interests for each Director is maintained by the candidates for appointment when necessary.
The appointment Company and reviewed at every Board meeting.
New interests process takes account of the benefits of diversity, including gender.
are considered carefully, taking into account the circumstances surrounding them and, if considered appropriate, are approved.
29 EMIT pp24-37 05 10 2017 16:21 Page 30 Directors Report continued DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Relations with Shareholders Corporate Governance Statement continued The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full understanding The Committee conducts an annual performance evaluation of the of the Companys activities and performance and reports formally to Board, its committees and individual Directors to ensure that all shareholders twice each year by way of the annual report and Directors have devoted sufficient time and contributed adequately accounts and the half year report.
These are supplemented by the to the work of the Board and its Committees.
The evaluation of the daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of the net Board considers the balance of experience, skills, independence, asset value of the Companys shares and the Companys level of corporate knowledge, its diversity, including gender, and how it Gearing.
In the year under review, an independent evaluation was undertaken by Lintstock, an independent consultancy.
All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged to Lintstock, who have no connection with the Company or the attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which the Manager, produced a report at the conclusion of the process which Directors and representatives of the Manager are available in was then discussed by the Board.
The evaluation of individual person to meet shareholders and answer their questions.
In Directors is led by the Chairman.
The Senior Independent Director addition, a presentation is given by the Investment Manager who leads the evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
The Companys brokers, the Investment Manager and the Manager hold regular discussions with Remuneration Committee larger shareholders.
The Directors are made fully aware of their The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Alan Saunders, consists views.
The Chairman and Directors make themselves available as of all of the Directors and meets annually to review the levels of and when required to address shareholder queries.
The Directors remuneration of the Chairman, the Chairman of the Audit may be contacted through the Company Secretary whose details are Committee and other Directors.
This takes into account the level shown on page71 or via the Companys website.
of fees paid to the directors of the Companys peers and within the investment trust industry generally to ensure that high quality The Companys annual report and accounts is published in time to individuals are attracted and retained.
Recommendations are give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of the Annual made to the Board as and when appropriate.
Shareholders wishing to raise questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit questions via the Management Engagement Committee Companys website or write to the Company Secretary at the The Management Engagement Committee, chaired by Alan address shown on page71.
A formal process is in place for all letters Saunders, consists of all of the Directors and meets annually to to the Directors to be immediately forwarded.
As part of this review the performance of the Manager.
process, any feedback from shareholders is also communicated to The Committee conducts a formal evaluation of the Manager on the Board.
The evaluation includes consideration of the Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be investment strategy and process of the Investment Manager, noting published on the Companys website shortly after the Annual consistent outperformance of the benchmark over the long term, General Meeting.
and the quality of support that the Company receives from JPMF.
As a result of the evaluation process, the Board confirms that it is Risk Management and Internal Control satisfied that the continuing appointment of the Manager is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Directors, at least annually, to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of Audit Committee risk management and internal control and to report to shareholders The report of the Audit Committee is set out on page 33. that they have done so.
This encompasses a review of all controls, which the Board has identified as including business, financial, Terms of Reference operational, compliance and risk management.
The Nomination, Remuneration, Audit and Management The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of risk Engagement Committees all have written terms of reference which management and internal control which is designed to safeguard define clearly their respective responsibilities, copies of which are the Companys assets, maintain proper accounting records and available on the Companys website and for inspection on request at ensure that financial information used within the business, or the Companys registered office and at the Companys Annual published, is reliable.
However, such a system can only be designed General Meeting.
30 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 EMIT pp24-37 05 10 2017 16:21 Page 31 to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve reviews reports on the internal controls and the operations of its business objectives and therefore can only provide reasonable, but custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is itself independently not absolute, assurance against fraud, material misstatement or reviewed: loss.
reviews every six months an independent report on the risk Since investment management, custody of assets and all management and internal controls and the operations of the administrative services are provided to the Company by JPMF and Manager: and its associates, the Companys system of risk management and reviews quarterly reports from the Companys Depositary.
internal control mainly comprises monitoring the services provided by the Manager and its associates, including the operating controls By the means of the procedures set out above, the Board confirms established by them, to ensure that they meet the Companys that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of business objectives.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, risk management and internal control for the year ended 30th June evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company 2017 and to the date of approval of this Annual Report and see Principal Risks on pages22 and23.
This process has been in Accounts.
place for the year under review and up to the date of the approval The Board confirms that any failings or weaknesses identified of the annual report and accounts, and it accords with the Financial during the course of its review of the system of risk management Reporting Councils guidance.
The Company does not have an and internal control were not significant and did not affect the internal audit function of its own, but relies on the internal audit Company.
This arrangement is kept under review.
The key elements designed to provide effective risk management Corporate Governance and Voting Policy and internal control are as follows: The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM through Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by the the Manager.
The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy Board of key investment and financial data, including management statements on corporate governance, voting policy and social and accounts, revenue projections, analysis of transactions and environmental issues, which has been reviewed and noted by the performance comparisons.
Details on social and environmental issues are included in the Strategic Report on page 22.
Management Agreement Appointment of a manager and custodian regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA, whose Corporate Governance responsibilities are clearly defined in a written agreement.
JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to our investment process.
As part of our commitment to delivering superior Management Systems The Managers system of risk management investment performance to our clients, we expect and encourage the and internal control includes organisational agreements which companies in which we invest to demonstrate the highest standards of clearly define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control corporate governance and best business practice.
We examine the procedures and systems.
These are monitored by the Managers share structure and voting structure of the companies in which we Compliance department which regularly monitors compliance with invest, as well as the board balance, oversight functions and FCA rules.
These analyses then form the basis of our proxy Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the voting and engagement activity.
Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the Board.
Proxy Voting The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, keeps JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted to it as it under review the effectiveness of the Companys system of risk would manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in management and internal control by monitoring the operation of a prudent and diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable the key operating controls of the Manager and its associates as judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of our clients.
follows: So far as is practicable, we will vote at all of the meetings called by companies in which we are invested.
reviews the terms of the management agreement and receives regular reports from the Managers Compliance department: 31 EMIT pp24-37 05 10 2017 16:21 Page 32 Directors Report continued DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Corporate Governance Statement continued Stewardship Engagement JPMAM recognises its wider stewardship responsibilities to its clients as a major asset owner.
To this end, we support the introduction of the FRC Stewardship Code, which sets out the responsibilities of institutional shareholders in respect of investee companies.
Under the Code, managers should: publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge their stewardship responsibilities to their clients: disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: monitor their investee companies: establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: be willing to act collectively with other investors where appropriate: have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their voting record: and report to clients.
JPMAM endorses the Stewardship Code for its UK investments and supports the principles as best practice elsewhere.
We believe that regular contact with the companies in which we invest is central to our investment process and we also recognise the importance of being an active owner on behalf of our clients.
JPMAMs Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Guidelines are available on request from the Company Secretary or can be downloaded from JPMAMs website: http: www.
This also sets out its approach to the seven principles of the FRC Stewardship Code, its policy relating to conflicts of interest and its detailed voting record.
32 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
