Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Audit Committee report Statement from the Chairman of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present to you my first Audit Committee report as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
During my first year, I have spent time meeting with senior financial management, internal audit and the external auditor.
I have attended meetings with various parts of the business and visited regions and divisions in order to fully understand key controls and processes and to see their application.
In addition, I visited a number of sites and met with avariety of regional, divisional and functional management.
Tender of external audit and tax compliance and advisory services During the year ended 30 June 2017, we have conducted a full tender exercise of our external audit in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the provisions of the CMI Order 2014.
We also tendered the Groups tax compliance and advisory services.
More information on both ofthese items can be found on pages 72 and 73 respectively.
Risk management We continue to monitor our risk management processes and during the year each business function developed or updated their risk registers.
These registers set out the key risks currently affecting that function, the likelihood and impact of that risk and the mitigation in place.
They are reviewed twice a year and are also assessed by the internal audit team as part of the internal audit process.
Each risk register is also presented to the Risk Committee as part of a functional update at least once a year.
The Chief Internal Auditor notifies the Audit Committee of any issues identified by the Risk Committee as part of their review.
Our focus going forward is to further embed risk management into day to day management processes.
Our constant drive for continuous In conjunction with this, we have also undertaken a detailed review of all of our policies, processes and procedures.
These have been updated to ensure that they accurately reflect improvement throughout the Group current practices and are easy to understand and follow.
To ensure compliance with our policies, all senior and middle management have confirmed, in writing, that they and their teams, have in all aspects of financial reporting, read and understood the policies appropriate to their role and that they have been complied risk management and internal control with.
In addition, our delegation of authorities matrix has been simplified in an attempt to avoid confusion.
Both the Group policies and the delegation of authority matrix have been refreshed ensures a continued focus on and re-published to the business on the Groups intranet, during the year under review.
Key activities in FY17 Throughout the year under review we held frequent discussions on key accounting judgements Jock Lennox ensuring that they remain appropriate to the Groups financial reporting.
We had in-depth sessions with Senior Management on a variety of topics important to the business including: Audit Committee Chairman cyber security and the EU General Data Protection Regulation to fully understand the practical aspects of the important issues facing the Group including their related risks, accounting judgements and policies.
As with any business, there are areas where employees will be required to make individual judgements.
We continually monitor these areas in order to ensure that they are appropriately treated and controlled and do not promote inappropriate behaviours.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 65 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Audit Committee report continued Audit Committee authority As an Audit Committee we have been given our authority by the Board and we act in accordance with our written terms of reference.
We have complied with our duties under the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code and followed the best practice guidance set out by the FRC.
In performing our role we work closely with both internal and external audit teams in order toensure our internal control processes remain robust, our financial reporting remains clear andconcise and our accounting judgements are appropriate.
Areas of focus for FY18 FY18 will no doubt be another busy year.
Our priorities are to: i c ontinue to develop processes and reporting in respect of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 16 Leases, which will impact the Group in FY19: ii c ontinue to monitor the cyber security risks for the business and ensure that the business is in a position to defend itself as the types of cyber attacks evolve: iii e nsure that the business is fully prepared for the EU General Data Protection Regulation: and iv c ontinue to review the Groups principal risks and uncertainties as Brexit unfolds and the new Government takes shape and adapt accordingly.
Set out in the following pages is more detail of how we have discharged our duties in respect of the financial year under review.
Jock Lennox Chairman of the Audit Committee 5 September 2017 66 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Audit Committee role and activity FY17 Main role and activities undertaken during the financial year The main role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its corporate governance obligations relating to the Groups financial reporting practices, internal control and risk management framework.
It follows an annual work programme to ensure that its roles and responsibilities are completed throughout the year.
The Audit Committees responsibilities as delegated by the Board are formally set out in its written terms of reference which are available from www.
co. uk investors corporate-governance governance-policies.
Going concern and viability statement Integrity of Financial Statements and announcements Assessed the Groups available facilities, headroom and banking covenants.
Analysed drafts of half and full year Reviewed and challenged managements results announcements.
Committee effectiveness detailed analysis, which included forecasts and Reviewed and addressed key accounting judgements Progressed actions arising from the external scenarios considering potential downturns in the and significant issues see pages 68 and 69. evaluation from FY16.
Reviewed and approved the Financial Statements for FY16 and agreed the format for the Financial Undertook an internal evaluation of its performance Satisfied itself, and recommended to the Board, that Statements for FY17.
and devised an action plan to address the issues the going concern basis of preparation continues to be identified page 56. appropriate page 68.
Reviewed the process established for ensuring that and opined on whether the Annual Report and Assessed the long term prospects of the Company, Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable and agreed the timescale, the viability statement for page 69. disclosure in the FY17 Report and Accounts page 69.
Considered and approved material accounting policies, estimates and judgements.
Governance Assessed and approved pension assumptions Ensured a smooth transition to the new Audit and reviewed funding levels of the defined benefit Committee Chair, Jock Lennox.
Received updates on the implications of new Considered and recommended for approval the accounting standards and key regulatory changes.
proposed corporate governance disclosures for the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts including fair, Reviewed the tax strategy of the Group.
Received updates on general corporate governance Internal control and requirements, including the application of the EU risk management systems General Data Protection Regulation.
Reviewed and updated its terms of reference.
Monitored and regularly reviewed the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management systems including Environment, Social and Governance ESG risks in the context of the Companys appetite for risk and the potential impact of Brexit and a new Government page 70.
Considered regular updates from the Risk Committee which included reports on the Executive and divisional External audit risk workshops, risk registers and residual risk, Internal audit including ESG risks.
Considered the external auditors reports on half and full year Received regular updates from the Chief Internal Financial Statements.
Considered regular updates from the Chief Internal Auditor on matters arising from audits undertaken Auditor on whistleblowing and suspected fraud Met with the external audit partner without management being present.
reports and related investigations page 73.
Assessed the effectiveness and performance of the external audit page 71.
Met with the Chief Internal Auditor without Reviewed and updated the policy framework and management being present.
Assessed and confirmed the independence of the external auditor page 71. the policies specifically allocated to it including the delegation of authority matrix.
Reviewed and agreed the Internal Audit plan for FY18 Tendered the Groups external audit page 72.
Received updates on the Groups disaster recovery policies with due regard to the principal risks of the Company.
Agreed external audit terms of reference, fees, and scope for the half and and processes including impact of Cyber Security risks.
Assessed the effectiveness of the Internal Audit full year ends.
Reviewed, and recommended to the Board for function during FY17 page 73.
Regularly reviewed the ratio between audit and non-audit fees page 71. approval, the principal risk disclosures for inclusion in the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts page 41.
Reviewed the implementation of the EU Audit Regulation and Directive and updated the policy on auditor independence and non-audit fees accordingly Reviewed the tender procedures in operation page 71. throughout the Group.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 67 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Audit Committee report continued Membership and attendance at Audit Committee meetings Significant issues considered during the financial year In compliance with the Code, the Committee comprises exclusively of Non-Executive Directors The significant issues considered by the Audit Committee during the financial year and how each and each member is considered to be independent by the Company.
John Allan is not a member of them was addressed were as follows: of the Audit Committee.
The Board is satisfied that, Jock Lennox has recent and relevant Going concern financial experience to Chair the Audit Committee.
Jock Lennox succeeded Mark Rolfe as Chair of the Audit Committee on 16 November 2016.
Jock is a chartered accountant and chairman of The Audit Committee: another listed Company Audit Committee and is therefore well qualified to undertake this role assessed the Groups available facilities, headroom and banking covenants: effectively.
As part of the effectiveness review, the Nomination Committee was satisfied that the Audit Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the sector in which we operate.
reviewed managements detailed analysis, which included forecasts and scenarios considering There were four scheduled meetings during the year.
Details of the members and attendance at potential downturns in the housing market: each of the meetings is shown in Table 8 and the biographies and qualifications of the members satisfied itself, and subsequently the Board, that the going concern basis of preparation are shown on pages 46 to 47. continues to be appropriate in the context of the Groups funding and liquidity position: Table 8 Audit Committee attendance considered the going concern requirements of the Code to ensure compliance: and Member Role Number of meetings attended continued to monitor market conditions following the UKs decision to leave the EU and the 1 Jock Lennox Chairman Member 4 4 outcome of the General Election to ensure any appropriate adjustments are made to the Groups strategic and financial planning.
Richard Akers Member 4 4 Further details on the Groups going concern assessment can be found on page 124.
Tessa Bamford Member 4 4 Nina Bibby Member 4 4 Financial reporting Former members The Audit Committee reviewed the integrity of the Financial Statements of the Group and the 2 Mark Rolfe Chairman 2 2 Company and all formal announcements relating to the Groups and Companys financial performance.
This process included the assessment of the following primary areas of 1 J ock Lennox was a member of the Audit Committee from joining the Board on 1 July 2016 and became its Chairman on 16 November 2016.
2 Mark Rolfe stepped down from the Board on 16 November 2016. judgementand took into account the views of Deloitte LLP.
Note: X Number of meetings attended whilst a Director.
X Number of meetings whilst a Director.
In addition to the Company Secretary, the Chief Internal Auditor, George Dobie, and representatives from Deloitte LLP attended each of the Audit Committee meetings.
The Audit Committee met the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Internal Auditor and Deloitte LLP independently of management and the Chairman of the Board.
The Chief Executive and other members of Senior Management also attended meetings or parts thereof, by invitation.
After each meeting, the Chairman reports to the Board upon the business undertaken by theAudit Committee.
68 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Significant critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty for FY17 remained unchanged from FY16 and include: Significant financial estimates for FY17 Carrying value of land and work in progress Goodwill and intangible assets impairment review Land and WIP are the most significant assets of the Group and as at 30 June 2017 were carried at 4,404.7m The Group has 792.2m of goodwill and 100.0m of intangible assets which arose upon the acquisition of see note 3.1 to the Financial Statements.
The Group undertakes housebuilding and commercial development Wilson Bowden see note 4.2 to the Financial Statements.
The Group reviews the carrying value of these assets and the majority of activity carried out is not forward sold before development is commenced.
Accordingly, there on an annual basis to ensure that the present value of the future cash flows that the housebuilding business is a risk that land and WIP may be held at a value in excess of the lower of cost and net realisable sale value.
is expected to generate is greater than the carrying value of these assets.
This review includes a number of The Group conducts half yearly reviews of land and WIP carrying value and if the estimated net realisable value judgements around the estimation of future cash flows and the determination of an appropriate rate with is lower than the carrying value, it impairs the land and WIP value.
whichto discount these cash flows.
How the Audit Committee addressed those estimates Carrying value of land and work in progress valuation Goodwill and intangible assets impairment review The Audit Committee considered land and WIP accounting estimate review papers at its August 2016, February The Audit Committee considered a paper on goodwill and intangible assets accounting estimates at its August and June 2017 meetings.
These outlined the review process undertaken and the estimates made with regards meeting.
This outlined the assumptions made, the sources for these assumptions, and the resulting valuation.
to the estimation of further sales proceeds and further build costs.
Deloitte LLP reported upon land and WIP Deloitte LLP reported upon goodwill and intangible assets valuation also at the February and August meetings carrying value at the February and August meetings in the context of the half year review and year end audit.
in the context of the half year review and year end audit.
Following detailed consideration of the Material Following detailed consideration of the accounting estimates papers and the findings of Deloitte LLP, the Audit Accounting Policies, Estimates and Judgements paper and the findings of Deloitte LLP, the Audit Committee Committee agreed with the estimates made by management and concluded that the carrying value of our land agreed with the estimates made by management and concluded that the valuation of goodwill and intangible and WIP remains appropriate.
2017 Annual Report and Accounts: fair, balanced and understandable Following detailed consideration, the Audit Committee concluded that the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts: The Audit Committee undertook a detailed review of the process undertaken in drafting the Annual Report and Accounts to support its deliberations on whether the 2017 Annual Report accurately reflected the Companys performance in the year under review: and Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable.
The process involved various parts of the contained an accurate description of the business model: Group including, the Group Finance team and Company Secretariat with support and advice from the Companys strategy was correctly reflected: other functions and the Companys advisers.
This collaborative approach enabled a clear link between the Strategic Report, the Governance section and the Financial Statements.
The Audit the messages were consistent between each of the sections of the Report and Accounts: and Committee received an early draft of the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts including the risk the KPIs were consistent with the business plan and remuneration strategy: management statement and principal risks disclosure to allow itself sufficient time to review the disclosures therein.
The Audit Committee then assessed, at its meeting in August 2017, whether and therefore the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable.
In reaching its and contained sufficient information for shareholders to assess the Companys position, decision, the Audit Committee reviewed: performance, business model and strategy and recommended as such to the Board.
the feedback provided by shareholders in respect of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts: Long term viability statement the assurance of the Annual Report and Accounts, in relation to the financial and non-financial In accordance with provision C. 2.2. of the Code and the FRC guidance on Risk Management, Internal management information: Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting, the Audit Committee revisited the timescale the balance between statutory and adjusted performance measures: over which it could sensibly assess the Companys ability to continue to trade, taking into account the Companys business model and prospects.
It concluded that this analysis should continue to the internal processes underpinning the Groups reporting governance framework and the be performed over a three-year timespan.
Presentations were received from management and it reviews and findings of the Groups external legal advisers and the auditor: and was concluded that there was a reasonable expectation that the Group would be able to continue a report from the Company Secretary which confirmed that: i the Annual Report and Accounts in operation and meet its liabilities over this three-year period.
This was then communicated and had been reviewed by the Executive Directors: and ii the Company had received confirmation recommended to the Board for approval.
from its external advisers, that the Annual Report and Accounts adhered to the requirements The long term viability statement is shown on page 44 of the Strategic Report.
of the Code and relevant rules and regulations.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 69 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Audit Committee report continued The effectiveness of internal controls and the risk management process monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of risk management and all internal controls: The Audit Committee plays a vital role in managing the effectiveness of internal controls and reviewed a number of process improvements and confirmed that the risk management and the risk management process on behalf of the Board.
The key aspects of the Groups system internal control systems had been in place and had operated effectively throughout the year ofinternal control and risk management framework are as follows: ended 30 June 2017: i a c lear organisational structure with defined levels of authority and responsibility for each provided regular reports to the Board in respect of the findings of its monitoring of the operating division: effectiveness of the internal controls and risk management process, in order to assist the Board with its assessment that sound risk management and internal control systems had been ii financial and management reporting systems under which financial and operating maintained throughout the year to safeguard shareholders investments as well as the Groups performance is consistently reviewed against budget and forecasts at divisional, regional assets in accordance with principle C. 2 of the Code : andGroup levels on a monthly basis: assisted the Board to determine the nature and extent of the principal risks that are iii i dentification and review of principal operational risk areas to ensure they are embedded appropriate for the Group to take in order to achieve its strategic objectives and to be assured in the Groups monthly management reporting system.
This embeds the identification and that Executive Directors and Senior Management continue to implement and maintain the control of risk as routine aspects of managerial responsibility.
Details of the management Groups internal control and risk management systems within the governance and policy of risk system utilised and the principal risks and uncertainties and their relevance to the framework approved by the Board: operations and financial performance of the Group are set out in the Risk management section on pages 40 to 44 of the Strategic Report: and carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks including those that would threaten the business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity and confirmed that they are being iv a ssessment of compliance with the internal control and risk management systems.
appropriately managed: This assessment is supported by the Groups Internal Audit team which is responsible for undertaking an annual audit plan, ad hoc audits and reporting to the Audit Committee, and if received presentations from management below Board level to understand risks and controls necessary, the Board, on the operation and effectiveness of those systems and any material in a number of areas of the business including: tender processes, Group IT planning and failings.
The planned programme of audit appraisals across Group operations, which is disaster recovery provision, cyber security, and pension provision and funding: approved by the Audit Committee, is set with reference to the principal risks of the Group reviewed in detail the output of the six monthly control self-certification process from each of including those risks associated with culture, safety, health and environment and other the divisions: business process areas.
It includes full divisional audits and targeted audits of key risk areas considered all whistleblowing and suspected fraud reports and actions, including oversight of such as land acquisition and sale, cost controls and monitoring WIP, Treasury, payroll and HR.
the investigation relating to tendering and procurement processes in the London business: Where the Internal Audit team does not have the expertise or resources required to conduct complex audits they use external expertise.
reviewed all internal audit results and action plans and the effectiveness of the Group Internal Audit function: The Groups operations and financing arrangements expose it to a variety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in borrowing and debt profiles, Government policy, market received regular reports from the Risk Committee in respect of the work it had undertaken prices, credit risks, liquidity risks and interest rates.
The most significant of these to the to review the effectiveness of the Groups internal control policies and procedures for the Group is liquidity risk.
Accordingly, there is a regular, detailed system for the reporting and identification, assessment and reporting of risks and for assessing individual key risks on a forecasting of cash flows from the operations to Group management to ensure that risks are rolling basis: promptly identified and appropriate mitigating actions taken.
These forecasts are further stress reviewed the concurrency of the principal risks and the risk management framework to tested at a Group level on a regular basis to ensure that adequate headroom within facilities determine if the descriptions of their operation were up to date, the system of internal control and banking covenants is maintained.
In addition, the Group has in place a risk management remains effective and reported their findings to the Board when considering the draft half year programme that seeks to limit the adverse effects of the other risks on its financial performance, and full year Financial Statements: assisted the Executive Committee to prioritise the risk in particular by using financial instruments, including debt and derivatives, to hedge interest framework by identifying the risks considered most significant to the Group and assessed their and currency rates.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative potential impact on the business of any risks identified: and purposes.
Activities aredelegated, by the Board, to a centralised Treasury Operating Committee.
The Treasury department implements guidelines in accordance with approved treasury policies robustly assessed the structure deployed by the Group when assessing risks.
This is set out in that are established by the Board and the Treasury Operating Committee.
the Risk management section on pages 40 to 44 of the Strategic Report.
Specifically in relation to risk management and internal control, the Audit Committee, during The Audit Committee is pleased with the progress with its short and medium term work the year: programmes to date, and recognises that work will need to be continued in these areas during the next financial year.
70 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Review of accounting policies iii Non-audit services The Committee has approved a policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit purposes The Audit Committee considered the accounting standards applied in the year and reviewed the and continually monitors the ratio of non-audit to audit fees to ensure that it does not exceed the Groups progress on projects to consider the impact of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, IFRS 15 1:1 ratio prescribed by that policy, further details of which are set out in section iv.
At the end of Revenue from contracts with customers and IFRS 16 Leases upon theGroups accounting FY17, non-audit fees represented 59% of audit fees.
Further details of the audit including auditpolicies and Financial Statements.
Further information on the impact ofaccounting standards related and non-audit fees incurred by the Group can be found on page 128. ison page 125.
The majority of the non-audit fees related to other services which comprised advice provided External Auditor on land acquisitions and disposals and other transactions in the normal course of business, in addition to taxation advice relating to the Chinese representative office.
Accordingly, the Audit i Audit performance and effectiveness Committee was satisfied that the work performed by Deloitte LLP was appropriate in the context of ensuring their independence as auditor, particularly given that the audit-related assurance The Audit Committee assessed the performance of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the external audit for HY17 and FY17.
In coming to its conclusion the Audit Committee reviewed services, relating to the review of the Groups half year report, is usually conducted by the Groups auditor and that the tax advisory services had been managed by a partner who has no amongst other matters: involvement with the audit of the Group.
This safeguard will be applied to any non-audit work feedback on the effectiveness and performance of the external audit from Group, divisional and that the auditor may be asked to provide by the Committee.
Consequently, the Audit Committee regional management and the Chief Internal Auditor who were closely involved in both the half concluded that the level of non-audit fees was justified and did not raise any concerns in terms year and full year reporting process: of Deloitte LLPs independence as auditor to the Group.
However, as outlined on page 73 during Deloitte LLPs fulfilment of the agreed audit plan for FY17: the year taxation compliance and advisory services were put to a full competitive tender and  LLP are now providing these services to the Group.
reports highlighting the material issues and accounting judgements that arose during the conduct of the audit: and iv Auditor independence and non-audit fees policy Deloitte LLPs objectivity and independence during the process.
In FY16 the Audit Committee performed a thorough review of the policy which the Company The Audit Committee concluded that the audit process as a whole had been conducted robustly has implemented on Auditor independence and non-audit fees the Policy to take account of and that the team selected to undertake the audit had done so thoroughly and professionally.
the legislation arising from the European Commission reforms of the EU audit market which Deloitte LLPs performance as auditor to the Company during FY17 was therefore considered to became effective from 17 June 2016.
In FY17, the Committee again reviewed this policy to ensure be satisfactory.
it continues to be appropriate.
The Policy sets out the duties of the Audit Committee with respect to protecting the objectivity and independence of the auditor and codifies: the limited range ii Interaction with the FRC of services which have been pre-approved by the Audit Committee: permitted services which must be approved by the Audit Committee before being provided: and those services that the We can confirm that, during the financial year under review, the Company had no interaction with Auditor will not be permitted to provide under any circumstances.
These are set out in the table the FRCs Corporate Reporting Review Team or its Audit Quality Review Team.
The Audit Committee also continually monitors non-audit fees paid to the Auditor by the Group.
The review confirmed that the Policy remains fit for purpose and has been drafted in line with the requirements of the Ethical Standard.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 71 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Audit Committee report continued Other non-audit services that have been pre-approved by the Audit Committee Audit related services still subject to Audit Committee approval Prohibited services Consultations concerning financial accounting and reporting matters not classified Reporting required by law or regulation to be provided by the auditor: Tax services and compliance see exceptions below : as audit: training support for accounting, risk management projects, internal audit reviews of interim financial information: services that involve playing any part in the management or decision making process methodology and systems: of the Company: quality assurance procedures: reporting on regulatory returns: bookkeeping and preparing accounting records and Financial Statements payroll services: advice and assistance with regard to any risk management related projects reporting to a regulator on client assets: designing and implementing internal controls related to financial information or andreviews: designing and implementing financial information technology systems: IT audits not being part of the audit or otherwise related to the Financial Statements reporting on Government grants: valuation services see exceptions below : of the Company: advice and assistance with respect to general corporate finance and treasury reporting on internal financial controls when required by law or regulation: and legal services internal audit human resource services: matters: internal control reviews unless set out elsewhere in the Policy: extended audit work that is authorised by those charged with governance and services linked to financing, capital structure and allocation, and investment strategy performed on financial information and or financial controls where this work of the Company: isintegrated withthe audit work and is performed on the same principal terms andconditions.
advice and comment on manuals and instructions: promoting, dealing in or underwriting shares in the Company: and financial, actuarial and tax due diligence support under direction and responsibility of any other service that the Audit Committee determines is not permissible.
management related to potential business acquisitions: issuance of comfort letters in respect of information provided to third parties including debt covenants: consultation regarding accounting policy: regulatory filings services related to shareholder circulars issued in accordance with the Listing Rules of the FCA: and annual review of the Companys Sustainability Report.
1 Non audit fees including audit related non-audit services still subject to Audit Committee approval are subject to certain annual limits.
with independence requirements and explaining why they believe that they remain independent 2 Exceptions to prohibited services: within the requirements of the applicable regulations and their own professional standards.
Certain tax and valuation services, including tax advice will be allowed provided: The report also explains why the ratio of audit to non-audit fees and the extent and type of nonthey have no direct or clearly inconsequential effect on the audited Financial Statements: audit services provided by them is appropriate.
the auditor has documented and explained the estimated effect on the Financial Statements in their report to the Audit Committee: the ethical principles of the ethical standards are upheld: and Following receipt of such confirmations and the completion of their own review, the Audit significant reliance is not placed on the results of the non-audit service for the purpose of the audit.
Committee endorsed Deloitte LLPs conclusions that the Policy had been appropriately complied with throughout the year under review: there were no items that may affect the independence of As per the previous year, the Policy continues to include restrictions on the recruitment of employees from Deloitte LLP, so that no employee at whatever level of seniority involved in the auditor: and non-audit fees were of an appropriate level.
the Companys audit for a two-year preceding period can be hired without the pre-approval External audit tender of each of the Chairman of the Company: the Chair of the Audit Committee and the Chief As announced in the 2016 Audit Committee report, a tender process for the Company and Financial Officer.
Groups external audit service was completed during the first half of the year under review.
With effect from 1 July 2016, Deloitte LLP no longer provided services to the Group that are The vigorous, full and transparent process undertaken is outlined below.
Where the auditor does provide non-audit services, independence and objectivity is maintained as they are managed by a partner with no other involvement with the The Company invited two audit firms to tender for the audit of the Group, in addition to the incumbent auditor Deloitte LLP, who had indicated their wish to be re-appointed.
The tender Audit of the Group.
Tax compliance services provided by Deloitte LLP concluded during FY16 and are now provided  LLP.
process took place in October and November 2016.
Each tender participant: Under the Policy the Company is required to annually obtain written confirmation from Deloitte was provided with an invitation to tender document: LLP that they remain independent.
For FY17 Deloitte LLP provided a comprehensive report to the was given access to a data room containing sufficient information on the Group necessary for Audit Committee verifying that they have performed their audit and audit-related services in line them to arrange their proposal: 72 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information attended visits, arranged by the Company as requested: Tender of the taxation services submitted a written tender document: and Following the introduction of the revised policy on Auditor Independence in 2016, Deloitte LLP were unable to continue to provide taxation services to the Group.
Five firms were therefore was given the opportunity to present to a specially arranged Audit Tender Panel which invited to tender to provide ongoing taxation services.
Following a competitive tender process it consisted of the Chief Financial Officer, the Chair and Chair elect of the Audit Committee, was agreed that  LLP had the capability and strength to best advise the theChief Internal Auditor, the Group Financial Controller and Head of Group Accounting.
Group on its tax affairs and they were therefore appointed to provide services with effect from In advance of the presentations, the Audit Tender Panel agreed a set of selection criteria against 23 December 2016. which the participants could be assessed.
This criteria included, but was not limited to: strength of the leadership team: cost: sector knowledge: independence: governance and professionalism.
Audit Committee effectiveness Following the presentations the Audit Tender Panel discussed the merits of each tender The 2016 performance evaluation of the Audit Committee was generally positive with the one document, and each participants presentation and unanimously agreed to recommend to main outcome being for more of a strategic view of financial and audit issues to be taken.
theAudit Committee that Deloitte LLP be re-appointed as the auditor of the Group.
The Audit Committee has successfully implemented this recommendation.
Presentations to The Audit Committee considered the results of the tender process and the recommendation of the Audit Committee must now include a more strategic outlook, with detail available to the the Audit Tender Panel.
Based on the information provided, the Audit Committee recommended Committee.
This year the Audit Committees evaluation was performed internally along with two potential auditors for FY18 to the Board noting that Deloitte LLP was the preferred choice.
The outcome of the review was positive, particularly in respect The Board, in arriving at its conclusion, took into account: of each member having a clear understanding of what is expected of them to undertake and discharge their responsibilities.
The outcomes and actions arising from each review are the advice of, and information provided by, the Audit Tender Panel and the Audit Committee: described in more detail on pages 55 and 56. that Claire Faulkner, who led the audit tender process on behalf of Deloitte LLP, would replace Mark Goodey who was appointed on 2 July 2012 and was required to rotate in line with the FRC Whistleblowing guidelines as lead audit partner.
This would help to preserve Deloitte LLPs objectivity and The Chief Internal Auditor updated the Audit Committee at each meeting on new whistleblowing independence: and incidents, ongoing investigations and the outcome of any completed investigations.
On the back of Deloitte LLPs continued performance as the incumbent auditor.
these updates, the Audit Committee assessed the adequacy of the Groups whistleblowing policy in accordance with the requirements of the Code.
It reviewed the whistleblowing procedure Accordingly, the Board unanimously agreed to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Auditor for the adopted by the Group, including steps that can be taken to enhance awareness of the process, to Company commencing with the FY18 audit.
ensure it remains appropriate and available to those who need to raise concerns.
The procedure The Committee confirms compliance with the provisions of the CMI Order 2014. allows individuals who become aware of possible improper, unethical or even illegal behaviour to raise the matter with their manager or alternatively refer the matter to a confidential and Internal Audit function independent telephone number the Whistleblowing Number.
During the year, the Audit Committee received reports from the Chief Internal Auditor on the The Whistleblowing Number is available to all employees together with sub-contractors findings of internal audits conducted throughout the business, together with details of the and suppliers 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
Any issues reported to the Whistleblowing proposed actions to rectify any issues identified.
The Internal Audit function is fully independent Number are immediately brought to the attention of the Chief Internal Auditor.
The Chief of business operations and has a Group-wide mandate.
The Chief Internal Auditor attends all Internal Auditor reviews and investigates the issues and, at his sole discretion, can seek Audit Committee meetings.
In addition, the Audit Committee monitors and reviews the systems guidance from appropriate individuals within the Group, such as the Company Secretary, as and and processes adopted by the Internal Audit function to ensure that they remain fit for purpose.
During the year the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
This report forms part of the Corporate Governance report and is signed on behalf of the Audit The Chief Internal Auditor presented to the Committee a formal review of the effectiveness of the Committee by: Internal Audit function.
The Chief Internal Auditor answered questions from the Audit Committee on the contents of that report and other aspects of Internal Audits performance during the year.
Following this review, the Audit Committee confirmed that in its opinion, the Internal Audit Jock Lennox function had operated effectively and provided an appropriate level of independent scrutiny of the Chairman of the Audit Committee operations of the Group.
5 September 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 73
