Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate governance report Introduction and Overview Leadership See pages 49-54 Your Board is collectively responsible for the long term success of the highest quality.
In addition, Board processes are set up to ensure your Company.
The roles are clearly defined with Executive Directors adequate oversight of the implementation of those decisions.
managing the business on a day to day basis and the Non-Executive This section details the structure and composition of the Board and its Directors providing an appropriate level of scrutiny, challenge and Committees, how responsibilities are divided amongst the Board, its support.
In this way proposals relating to strategy, performance, Committees and individual Directors, the main activities of the Board in responsibility and accountability are constructively challenged and the FY17 and its main focus areas for FY18 in addition to the induction process Board ensures that all decisions are well considered, justified and of for new Directors.
Effectiveness See pages 55-57 Your Board continuously reviews its balance of skills, experience, This section outlines the internal Board evaluation process independence and knowledge to ensure it remains in the best possible undertaken in FY17 and the outcomes.
It also sets out the progress position to discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively.
made on the actions arising from the FY16 external evaluation.
The Board undertakes an annual evaluation of its own effectiveness and that of its Committees and of individual Directors.
Accountability See page 57 Your Board is mindful of the risk environment in which it operates This section details the Boards approach to risk management, its when making any decisions.
It maintains sound risk management and internal controls and risk management systems and its processes for internal control systems and regularly reviews the principal risks and evaluating that the Annual Report and Accounts of the Company are Underpinning any successful assesses the appropriate appetite for risk in striving to achieve the fair, balanced and understandable.
company is good corporate Companys strategic objectives.
Corporate Relations with shareholders governance is the basis of See pages 58-59 good management practice Your Board recognises the importance of maintaining open dialogue This section summarises how the Board and individual Directors with its shareholders, both private and institutional.
A number of engaged with shareholders throughout FY17 and how shareholders and we place it at the heart events and communications take place on an annual basis to regularly can communicate with the Company.
communicate with shareholders and gain feedback on matters such ofeverything we do.
John Allan Remuneration Chairman See pages 76-105 The Board, through its Remuneration Committee, has established This section sets out the Groups revised Remuneration Policy which a formal and transparent procedure for developing its policy on will be presented to shareholders for approval at the 2017 AGM, how executive remuneration.
The Groups Remuneration Policy that the current policy operated during FY17 and how it will be applied operated throughout the year was presented to, and approved by, in FY18.
The new policy will be effective immediately on approval shareholders at the 2014 AGM and is designed to promote the long by shareholders.
term success of the Group.
48 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate governance report Leadership Board composition, diversity and experience as at 30 June 2017 Board composition Gender split Non-Executive Director tenure including the Chairman 40% 40% The Board 0-3 years 3-6 years 20% Chairman 13% Male 62% 6 years Executive Directors 37% Female 38% Independent Non-Executive Directors 50% Experience Retail Housebuilding Commercial Business Finance development Construction Marketing development See page 64 for details on Board diversity See page 33 for details on diversity in the workforce Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 49 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate governance report Leadership continued Corporate Governance Statement Details of the Directors interests in shares of the Company are contained in Table 21 on page 99 of the Remuneration report.
The Board confirms that during the year ended 30 June 2017, and as at the date of this report, John Allan was considered to be independent on appointment to the Board and on taking up the the Company has fully complied with the main and supporting principles of the UK Corporate role of Chairman.
As part of the FY17 annual review of the Chairmans effectiveness, the NonGovernance Code the Code issued in September 2016 a copy of which is available from Executive Directors led by Richard Akers, as Senior Independent Director, considered Johns www.
This report, together with the other statutory disclosures, and the reports other significant commitments and confirmed that they do not impinge upon his availability from the Audit, Nomination, Safety, Health and Environment and Remuneration Committees, to fulfil his duties to the Company.
John Allan has demonstrated this throughout the year by provide details of how the Company has applied the principles and complied with the provisions ensuring full attendance at each of the Board and Committee meetings, being available to Board of the Code during the year under review.
We describe how we have applied the main principles members whenever required and spending time out in the business and within the Groups throughout pages 48 to 105. corporate office in London.
John Allan continues to show dedication to his role and commits the The Company has also complied with the requirements under the Disclosure Guidance time necessary to discharge his duties.
and Transparency Rules, the Listing Rules and the BIS Directors Remuneration Reporting regulations and narrative reporting requirements.
In addition, in accordance with the requirements of the Code, the Chairman met at least once with the Non-Executive Directors independently of the Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors meet without the Executive Directors being present usually prior to or immediately Board balance following Committee meetings.
The names, responsibilities and other details of each of the Directors of the Board are set out on pages 46 and 47 with the composition of the Board on page 49.
The Board believes it has an Membership and attendance at Board meetings appropriate balance of Executive and independent Non-Executive Directors having regard to the Members of the Board throughout the financial year and attendance at each of its scheduled size and nature of the business.
In addition, the combination of the experience and calibre of the meetings are set out in Table 1.
Non-Executive Directors collectively, having regard to their diverse backgrounds, experience and their varying lengths of service, further enhances this balance and mitigates the risk of group think.
During the year, the Nomination Committee conducted a review of the balance of Table 1 skills and experience on the Board.
The outcome of the review was that, in general, the Board has the appropriate balance of skills and experience to deliver Group Strategy, however, it Member Role Number of meetings attended could further benefit from the addition of a Non-Executive Director with experience of the wider John Allan Chairman 7 7 housing environment.
David Thomas Chief Executive 7 7 Steven Boyes Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Operating Officer 7 7 Board independence 1 Jessica White Chief Financial Officer 0 0 The Company recognises the importance of its Non-Executive Directors remaining independent Richard Akers Senior Independent Director 7 7 throughout their appointment, as it enables them to provide objective advice and guidance to the Tessa Bamford Non-Executive Director 7 7 Executive Directors and Senior Management through the application of their wide business and commercial experience and diverse backgrounds.
This independence allows the Non-Executive Nina Bibby Non-Executive Director 7 7 Directors to constructively challenge and scrutinise the performance of the Executive Directors Jock Lennox Non-Executive Director 7 7 and provide an independent perspective on business strategy, performance and the integrity of Former Directors the financial information considered by the Board and disclosed to the Companys shareholders.
2 Neil Cooper Chief Financial Officer 4 4 In addition, their independence is of the utmost importance when considering the appointment 3 Mark Rolfe Senior Independent Director 3 3 or removal of Executive Directors and in the determination of succession planning for Board positions and other Senior Management roles within the Group.
All Non-Executive Directors 1 Jessica White joined the Board on the 22 June 2017. remained independent in character and judgement during the financial year.
It was confirmed 2 Neil Cooper stood down from the Board on 19 January 2017. as part of the annual conflict of interests review that none of the Non-Executive Directors have 3 Mark Rolfe stood down from the Board on 16 November 2016. business or other relationships with the Group or other outside interests that might influence Note: their independence or judgement.
Given that Tessa Bamford is currently serving her third three X Number of meetings attended whilst a Director.
year term on the Board, her independence was subject to particularly rigorous review.
The Board X Number of meetings held whilst a Director.
was satisfied that she continues to be independent and commits satisfactory time to her role as a Non-Executive Director.
50 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Board Committees and delegation to Committees Decisions, matters reserved to the Board and delegated authorities The Board takes decisions on matters of strategy and in relation to items set out in the matters reserved for the Board.
Other than these matters, in order to ensure the appropriate split of responsibilities, it has delegated operational decisions to several Board Committees and Management Committees whose remits are shown below.
The Schedule of matters reserved to the Board, and the Terms of Reference of the Board Committees are available on the Companys website at www.
co. uk investors corporate-governance governance-policies.
Group Management Committees Board Committees The Board also delegates items to various Group Management Committees as shown below: Audit Committee The Risk Committee Responsible for monitoring the integrity of the Groups Financial Statements Reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal control policies and and its systems for internal control and risk management.
It also procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of risks monitors the independence, objectivity and tenure of the external auditor: andassessing individual key risks on a rolling basis.
considers whether the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable: and assesses the long term viability of the Company.
See page 65 for full report The Land Committee The Reviews and approves all land acquisition proposals across the Group.
Board Depending on the value of the land acquisition or its complex nature Remuneration Committee e. g. high rise apartments or joint venture arrangements, Board approval Responsible for designing and implementing the Groups overall mayalso be required.
remuneration strategy and policy and for setting the remuneration of the Executive Directors and members of Senior Management directly below the Board.
See page 76 for full report The Treasury Operating Committee Reviews the Groups funding requirements and approval of new debt facilities.
Additional approval from the Board may be required for certain types of Nomination Committee funding and where the level of funding is over and above the levels delegated Responsible for monitoring the composition and balance of the Board to the Treasury Operating Committee.
Chief Executive to ensure that it has the appropriate skills, experience and diversity to successfully deliver the strategy of the Group and ensuring progressive refreshing of the Board and its Committees.
It is also responsible for The Allotment Committee overseeing the succession planning of Board and Senior Management roles and overseeing the diversity policy of the Group.
See page 60 for full report Executive Committee Responsible for approving the allotment of shares within dilution limits and Supports the Chief Executive in carrying out the day to the authority obtained from shareholders.
day management of the activities of the Group.
The Disclosure Committee The Operations Committee Responsible for ensuring that the Company remains compliant with the requirements of the Market Abuse Regulation.
Responsible for managing operational performance.
Chief Operating Officer Safety, Health and Environment Committee The Safety, Health and Environment Operations Committee Responsible for the stewardship of safety, health and environmental issues impacting the business including, but not limited to, the Groups compliance Develops the health and safety strategy for the Group: ensures that health with the safety, health and environmental management system.
It also and safety policies and procedures are adequately implemented and adhered monitors any significant safety, health and environmental risks and exposure to throughout the Group: monitors the effectiveness of the Groups health to the business and the steps taken to mitigate against these.
See page 74 for and safety systems: and keeps abreast of changes in legislation surrounding full report safety, health and the environment.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 51 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate governance report Leadership continued Board roles and their responsibilities The Chairman Leads and manages the Board in the achievement of its objectives, sets its agenda and chairs its meetings: John Allan responsible for the effectiveness of the Board and its governance: facilitates the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and constructive relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors: makes certain that the continued development needs of each Director are identified and addressed: and ensures effective communication with shareholders and participates in corporate relations activities including meetings withshareholders and other stakeholders as appropriate.
Chief Executive Develops the Groups strategy for the enhancement of long term shareholder return and its recommendation to the Board for approval: David Thomas leads the implementation of Group Strategy approved by the Board: responsible for the day to day leadership and management of the operational activities of the Group in accordance with overall strategy and policy as determined by the Board: chairs the Executive Committee through which he carries out his duties: overseas corporate relations with shareholders and other stakeholders: and responsible for sustainability policies and practices of the Group.
Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Operating Officer Responsible for the Groups housebuilding operations including day to day responsibility for safety, health and the environment: and Steven Boyes chairs the Operations Committee meetings, the other members of which include the Regional Managing Directors.
Chief Financial Officer Devises and implements the Groups financial strategy and policies: Jessica White manages Group Finance, Tax, Internal Audit, Treasury and Investor Relations functions: supports the Chief Executive with his corporate relations responsibilities with shareholders and other stakeholders: and manages the Companys relationship with the external auditor.
The Senior Independent Director Available to shareholders, when required, to: Richard Akers i address any material issues or concerns which the Chairman and or Chief Executive have failed to resolve: and ii listen to their views in order for the Company to gain a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns: chairs the Board Safety, Health and Environment Committee: evaluates the performance of the Chairman, at least annually: and acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and, if necessary, an intermediary for the other Directors.
Independent Non-Executive Directors Supports and constructively challenge the Executive Directors using the broad range of their experience and external perspective: Tessa Bamford, Nina Bibby and Jock Lennox develops proposals on strategy: and monitors the implementation of the Groups strategy within its risk and control framework.
Company Secretary Supports the Chairman and Chief Executive in fulfilling their duties especially with respect to induction and training: Tina Bains available to all Directors for advice and support: keeps the Board regularly updated on governance matters and best practice: ensures Group policies and procedures are maintained and updated on a regular basis: and attends and maintains a record of the matters discussed and approved at Board and Committee meetings.
52 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Board activity FY17 Main activities undertaken during the financial year including Matters Reserved The Board provides clear, entrepreneurial, responsible and executive leadership to the Group in order to promote the long term success of the Group whilst ensuring the Group has an appropriate risk and control framework, adequate resources and appropriate values and standards to deliver its strategy.
Strategy and management Risk management and internal controls Financial reporting and controls Detailed strategy sessions held throughout the year Robustly reviewed and approved the effectiveness of Reviewed monthly reports on performance against tofurther develop future strategy.
internal control and risk management systems.
Received presentations from business functions on Reviewed the Companys appetite for risk and Reviewed the proposed three-year business plan.
risks and opportunities both strategic and otherwise.
approved the principal risks and uncertainties Reviewed and approved half and full year results affecting the business.
Reviewed and approved various material land and announcements.
Received regular updates from the Audit Committee Assessed if the Annual Report and Accounts were inrespect of internal and external audit reviews.
Monitored the effect of Brexit on the industry as a fair, balanced and understandable.
whole with a mind to adjusting strategy as necessary.
Undertook six-monthly in-depth health and Approved the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
Approved payment of an interim dividend and agreed to recommend payment of a final dividend and special dividend under the Groups Capital Return Plan.
Reviewed and renewed the Groups financing agreements.
Shareholder engagement Reviewed and approved the budget for FY18.
Reviewed shareholder feedback on half and full Reviewed and approved process for satisfaction year results, trading updates and outcomes from of awards under share performance schemes investor roadshows.
and the admission of further shares to the London Received presentations from the Groups Stock Exchange.
Reviewed the long term viability of the Company over Met with shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
a period of three years and approved the long term Reviewed the 2016 AGM proxy voting figures.
viability statement to be included in the Annual Report and Accounts following the recommendation of the Reviewed and approved the 2016 AGM Notice.
Other Governance Collectively visited sites within the Central and London Received updates on changes and potential changes Board composition and effectiveness and Southern regions and received presentations on inregulations and assessed their impact.
the status of the regions in terms of sales, personnel, Considered and managed the departure of Neil Reviewed share dealing control processes.
and land opportunities and progress on build.
Cooper and approved the appointment of Jessica Received updates from each of its Committees.
White as Chief Financial Officer see page 62.
Individual Directors visited various regions to meet Reviewed and approved the Groups management and employees to understand their Implemented the induction process for Jock Lennox.
perspective of the Groups operations.
Considered and approved the re-appointment of Reviewed and approved the Boards principal policies, Reviewed and demonstrated commitment to the JohnAllan as Chairman.
including the new Modern Slavery Statement.
culture, values and ethics of the Group.
Reviewed, considered and updated potential conflict Reviewed and approved matters reserved to it, its own Individually conducted health and safety site visits with ofinterests at each meeting.
terms of reference and those for the Chairman, Chief the Group Safety, Health and Environment Director.
Undertook an internal evaluation of its own Executive and Senior Independent Director.
Discussed and reviewed management performance and that of its Committees and Reviewed the Groups operating structure to ensure succession plans.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 53 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate governance report Leadership continued Induction On joining the Company, each new Director participates in a full and formal induction process.
Board visits The aim of the induction is to assist the Director to familiarise themselves with the business and its culture, in addition to the roles and responsibilities of the Board and each member of Each year the Board collectively visits two regions which are selected on a rotational basis.
Site and divisional functional visits are arranged so the Groups business During FY17 these visits were to the Central region and the London and Southern region.
Each new Director is provided with an induction pack containing general At each of these regions the Board met with Senior Management who provided an overview and specific information relating to their role such as a schedule of meetings, copies of Board of the regional business including their business plan, customer service levels, employee minutes, terms of reference of the Committees upon which they will serve and other Committee turnover and engagement and other operational matters.
specific information, various policies and procedures, details of their duties as a Director of a As part of their visit to the London and Southern region, the Board also visited the Groups listed plc and other obligations under the various regulations governing the Company.
During development at Cane Hill Park, Coulsdon, Surrey.
Cane Hill Park is a large brownfield the financial year under review, the Company completed the induction of Jock Lennox to the regeneration site acquired from the HCA on which we are developing 659 units 494 private role of Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Details of his induction residential units and 165 affordable units under both the Barratt and David Wilson Homes were reported in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
As Jessica White was previously Group brands.
Both brands are piloting the use of modern methods of construction, primarily Financial Controller, she already has an extensive understanding of the business.
She will still, timber frame and light gauge steel frames on some of their units.
however, be subject to a thorough and formal induction process which will take place throughout FY18 and be reported on in the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts.
Richard Akers with IanMenham, Managing Director Southern Counties.
Jock Lennox, Richard Akers, David Thomas and Nina Bibby with Ian Menham, Managing Director Southern Counties, Nicola Spencer-Skeen and Graham Orrick, Sales Advisors.
54 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Effectiveness Board and Committee evaluation In accordance with the Code, the Board is responsible for undertaking a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
For FY16 the Board undertook the review with the assistance of Ffion Hague of Independent Board Evaluation who has no other connection with the Company.
Progress on FY16 evaluation We reported the outcomes of the Board evaluation for the last financial year in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
Details of progress made on these are set out below.
Table 2 The Board Succession planning Training and development Strategy FY16 outcomes Further work required to identify talent within the business and to To assess the requirements for Board training and To have a longer term view on strategy for the Group.
ensure that potential successors to Board roles are developed.
Increased focus required on diversity ethnic and gender throughout the business.
Actions for FY17 Executive Directors together with HR to focus on identifying Each Director to provide suggestions and an annual timetable Specific sessions to be held throughout the year to focus on strategic employees below Board level as potential future successors.
for training and development to be maintained.
issues identified by the Board.
Progress made in FY17 A programme on diversity led by the Chief Executive Presentations on the topics identified have been included in Each Board meeting is now followed by a strategy session.
The commenced in FY16 and was developed further in FY17.
the Boards schedule of presentations for the year.
topics covered in FY17 ranged from Government policy and planning to increasing volume, retaining and attracting talent and the skills In conjunction with Spencer Stuart, an external Board and The Company Secretary provides an update on regulatory, shortage, and improving margin.
executive leadership consultant, assessments have been legislative or best practice changes at each Board meeting.
undertaken of a number of individuals across the business to identify those with the potential to step up to the next level.
A Diversity and Inclusion Forum has been formed to focus on increasing awareness of diversity and inclusion.
Training on diversity has started to be rolled out across the business and initiatives to attract individuals from various backgrounds, such as ex-forces, into the industry have been launched.
Family friendly policies, such as maternity and paternity policies, have also been reviewed to ensure that they are in line with good market practice.
Table 3 The Committees Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee FY16 outcomes All Committees are operating effectively with members understanding what is expected of them to undertake and discharge their responsibilities as well as their regulatory requirements.
Actions for FY17 To support the Board in identifying successors for Board and The Committee is well versed in the detail of audit issues and Continue the focus on simplifying remuneration structures over the Committee members as well as Senior Management.
focus over the next year will be to include a more strategic coming year.
view of financial and audit issues.
Focus on diversity throughout the business especially with regards to gender and ethnic diversity.
Progress made in FY17 As above for the Board.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is undertaking a full A full review has been undertaken of the remuneration structures in review of the Audit Committee processes and topics and how conjunction with New Bridge Street, the remuneration consultants these are addressed.
and where possible structures have been simplified.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 55 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate governance report Effectiveness continued FY17 Board performance evaluation FY17 Internal Board effectiveness evaluation outcomes Following the external review in FY16, it was agreed to undertake the evaluation internally The results of the evaluation were generally positive and showed that the Board is running for FY17.
The Chairman of the Board led the evaluation process, supported by the effectively.
The Board is seen as being cohesive and comprising of the appropriate balance of Company Secretary.
experience, skills and knowledge to implement the Groups strategy over the next few years.
Board meetings operate in a spirit of openness, fostered by the Chairman, in which Directors are able to challenge and discuss openly ideas of importance to the Group and its strategy.
Board and Committee evaluation process Members of the Board felt that the new arrangements for deep dive strategy discussions at The Company Secretary issued questionnaires to Board and Committee members and to each Board meeting rather than one offsite strategy day ensured a detailed discussion of each individuals who attend the Committee meetings on a regular basis.
The questionnaire looked at strategic area of focus and greater integration of strategy into the running of the Group.
avariety of areas including, among other matters, the composition of the Board and Committees, the advice and support provided, the focus of meetings and top three priorities for the next year.
The Company Secretary collated the results of the questionnaires and provided a summary to each of the Chairmen.
The results were then discussed between Board and Committee members respectively at their meetings.
Table 4 Areas of improvement for the Board Succession planning Relationship with suppliers and customers Risk, culture and behaviours FY17 outcomes Continue to focus on identifying successors for Executive More interaction with shareholders, suppliers and To further develop risk oversight processes and monitor culture and Directors and Senior Management.
customers to gain a better understanding of their behaviours throughout the organisation.
Actions for FY18 To build on the assessments undertaken by Spencer Stuart Establish a calendar of events that Non-Executive To continue to focus on the Groups culture, behaviours and appetite and work with the individuals identified with the potential to Directors could attend to meet with shareholders, to risk.
progress to Senior Management or Board level.
Table 5 Areas of improvement for the Committees Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee FY17 outcomes Increase the focus on succession for Executive Directors and To focus more on risk at a strategic level and reduce the To reduce the focus on the detail and concentrate more on the bigger Senior Management.
length of the meeting packs.
picture to speed up the decision making process.
Actions for FY18 Dedicate more time on the agenda to address this issue.
Establish when and how risks are to be reviewed and agree Establish a statement of intent before or at the beginning of a presentations required from which areas of the business.
financial year to enable management to have longer to consider To build on the assessments undertaken by Spencer Stuart what is required and how it can be achieved.
and work with the individuals identified with the potential to Better promote the use of Executive summaries to ensure key progress to Senior Management or Board level.
information is highlighted and the detail is available if required.
56 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Accountability Evaluation of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Internal controls and risk management The evaluation of the effectiveness of the Chairman was conducted by the Senior Independent In accordance with provision C. 2.3. of the Code, the Board monitors and regularly reviews Director with assistance from the Company Secretary.
A questionnaire was issued to each Board the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, including those related to the member and the result was unanimous support for the Chairman.
Of particular note was how material financial, operational and compliance performance, and risk management systems supportive the Chairman is of other Directors and his wish to listen to all contributions during see the Audit Committee report on pages 65 to 73.
A risk framework has been developed for the course of a debate.
In addition, Board members found him engaging and encouraging of all business processes by the Internal Audit function and approved by the Audit Committee.
building Board cohesion through activities outside of formal Board meetings.
The Directors This framework forms the basis of the internal control audit plan for the year ahead, which tests were complimentary of the way in which the Chairman managed his other commitments, always if key controls are being applied effectively in each operating division.
Material issues identified ensuring sufficient time is given to his role with the Company.
The Senior Independent Director during internal audits and follow-up action plans are reviewed by the Executive Directors and shared the feedback with the Board without the Chairman being present before discussing it by the Board on a quarterly basis.
Any necessary actions are immediately taken to remedy any with the Chairman.
significant failings in the internal control system.
The Chairman held one to one meetings with each Director to assess their effectiveness and to The Groups system of internal controls is designed to manage risks that may impede the agree any areas of improvement or training and development, including on environmental social achievement of the Groups business objectives rather than to eliminate those risks entirely.
There were no issues of any substance arising from this review.
The system of internal controls therefore provides only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The system of internal controls does, however, provide reasonable assurance that potential issues can be identified promptly and appropriate remedial action taken.
Information and support Further details can be found in the risk management section of the Strategic Report pages 40 to 44.
The Chairman, with the assistance of the Company Secretary, ensures that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information.
Each Director is issued with an agenda, briefing papers We continue to cooperate fully with the Metropolitan Police on the ongoing investigation we instigated regarding possible misconduct in the London business.
As stated in October 2016, Barratt and comprehensive operating and financial management reports for the period under review, generally five working days before any Board meeting.
The Company Secretary attends all does not anticipate any material adverse financial effect and our London business is operating well.
Board and Committee meetings and all Directors have access to her advice and, if necessary, The Group operates internal controls to ensure that the Groups Financial Statements are toindependent professional advice at the Companys expense to assist with the discharge of reconciled to the underlying financial ledgers.
A review of the consolidated accounts and  as Directors.
Financial Statements is completed by management to ensure that the financial position and All Directors are provided with a rolling two-year schedule of proposed meeting dates.
results of the Group are appropriately reflected.
Any Director who is unable to attend a meeting is invited to provide their views to the Chairman The Board has not identified, nor been advised of, any failings or weaknesses which it has ahead of that meeting, having reviewed the agenda, briefing papers and management determined to be significant.
Therefore, a confirmation of necessary actions has not been information.
Reasons for non-attendance are recorded by the Company Secretary and either considered appropriate.
sheor the Chairman will meet with any absent Director to go through any action points which areof relevance.
Formal minutes of each Board meeting are prepared, circulated and submitted Fair, balanced and understandable for approval at the next meeting.
As part of its considerations, the Board reflected upon the feedback shareholders provided in respect of our 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
It also set aside adequate time to review Training anddiscuss significant areas of the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
The Chairman regularly reviews training requirements of, and annually agrees development The Board assessed the tone, balance and language of the document being mindful of the needs with, individual Directors.
A number of internal presentations and updates are provided to requirements of the Code and the need for consistency between the narrative section of the Annual Directors as part of the Board and strategy agenda.
This forms part of the training the Directors Report and the Financial Statements in arriving at its conclusion.
It also received a paper from receive for their role.
Subjects are chosen based on their impact on the business and include the Company Secretary explaining the process that had been undertaken to provide assurance but are not limited to general economic and market updates, Government and regulatory to the Audit Committee that the report was Fair, balanced and understandable.
The Boards environment, our customers, financial updates and planning, Modern Methods of Construction formal statement on the Annual Report and Accounts being fair, balanced and understandable is and sales and product development.
contained within the Directors Responsibility Statement on page 112.
The process undertaken by the Audit Committee to assist the Board in assessing if the Annual Report and Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable can be found on page 69.
Following recommendation from the Audit Committee, the paper from the Company Secretary and its own reflections, the Board was happy toendorse the recommendations of the Audit Committee.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 57 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate governance report continued Relations with shareholders 2016 Activity July August September October November December Post year end trading update.
Full year Private client brokers Trading update and Annual Dublin roadshow following results announcement.
Annual update on remuneration to major UK and US roadshows Institutional broker sales Institutional broker sales investors and principal following the full year desk briefings.
Major shareholders and key Institutional broker sales investor roundtable chaired desk briefings.
by Chief Executive and Senior Management team.
J. P. Morgan Cazenove Best ofBritish conference.
Ad hoc meetings with existing and potential investors The Board recognises the importance of having an effective relationship with its shareholders Board updates and other stakeholders.
The Group has arrangements in place which enable it to communicate In order to ensure that all Directors are aware of, and have a clear understanding of, the views effectively with shareholders in respect of business strategy, governance, remuneration and any of major shareholders, the Chief Financial Officer or in her absence, the Chief Executive, reports Senior Management or Board changes.
It also conducts regular institutional investor meetings regularly to the Board on the Companys investor relations activities, including updates from after the release of the annual and half year results and following the publication of each of our the Companys brokers.
Additionally, the Companys brokers presented an analysis of investor trading updates.
feedback during the year under review.
Trading updates Investor meetings The Company is fully aware that the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules have removed The executive team meet regularly with investors and analysts in order to convey an the requirement for companies to publish interim management statements to the market in understanding of the market and the Groups operations and objectives.
These meetings take between the full and half year results.
We undertook a review of our reporting frequency in FY16 place throughout the year but particularly after the annual and half year results announcements.
and, given the cyclical nature of our business, we continue to believe that it is important that we In FY17, the Directors attended a total of 146 investor meetings 130 one to one meetings and 16 keep our shareholders fully informed of the performance of the business on a regular basis.
In addition, they attended a number of conferences and investor roadshows in In addition, given that we only publish short trading updates four times a year, two of which are the UK and the US.
The Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors also have the opportunity in preparation for the half and full year results, the burden on management time is not deemed to attend meetings with major shareholders at the request of either party.
The Senior to be excessive.
We will therefore continue to publish trading updates in FY18 four times a year Independent Director is also available to meet with major shareholders, as and when required, whilst keeping the position under review.
to gain an understanding of any issues and concerns.
During FY17, the Chairman held calls with Any announcement published via the Regulatory Information Service including the half year major shareholders on request following the announcement of Neil Cooper leaving the business and annual results, trading updates and other Company announcements can be found on the and Jessica Whites appointment as Chief Financial Officer.
In addition, the Chairman of the Companys website at www.
Remuneration Committee consulted with major shareholders on remuneration policy and its implementation, as he does annually.
58 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 2017 2016 Activity Activity January February March April May June January February March April May June Post half year end Half year results US roadshow following the Private client Q3 trading update.
Institutional broker sales Post half year end Half year results Institutional broker sales Institutional broker sales Trading update.
announcement and half year results.
Institutional broker sales Institutional broker sales Chairman phone calls analyst presentation.
Institutional broker sales Private client brokers group Institutional broker sales desk briefings.
Institutional broker sales UK roadshow Chief Executive dinner Chief Executive dinner desk briefings.
with major shareholders desk briefings.
following the half year one-on-one meetings with one-on-one meetings with Goldman Sachs Small & Mid oP n r ee elq H uu en st t f B ou llio ld w er in s g t, he Deutsche Bank following the half year results announcement.
m Pa ar jo is r r so ha ar ds eh ho ow f lder ol s l. o wing the cap Symposium.
ap Inp du ois ntr tm ial en s an t ofd J S eu sp sic po ar W t hite.
Chairman and CEO phone Housebuilding Conference.
calls with major shareholders Institutional broker sales Deutsche Bank Remuneration policy Institutional broker sales on request following the desk briefings.
consultation with major desk briefings.
investors and principal investor advisory groups.
Ad hoc meetings with existing and potential investors Ad hoc meetings with existing and potential investors and sell-side analysts.
At 5 September 2017, no change in these holdings had been notified and no further notifications Major shareholders of a disclosable interest had been received.
In accordance with the UKLAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules the DTRs, The Total Voting Rights of the Company as announced on 1 September 2017, are 1,009,901,161. all notifications received by the Company are published on the Companys website www.
co. uk and via a Regulatory Information Service.
On behalf of the Board As at 30 June 2017, the persons set out in Table 6 have notified the Company, pursuant to DTR 5.1, of their interests in the voting rights in the Companys issued share capital: John Allan Chairman Table 6 Notifiable interests 5 September 2017 Number of % of total issued Nature of 1 2 Name voting rights share capital holding FMR LLC 34,579,199 8.24 Indirect BlackRock, Inc. 56,413,704 5.60 Indirect Standard Life Investments Ltd 47,711,714 4.94 Direct & Indirect 1 Represents the number of voting rights last notified to the Company by the respective shareholder in accordance with DTR 5.1.
2 Based on the Total Voting Rights as at the relevant notification dates.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 59
