Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Nomination Committee report Statement from the Chairman of the Nomination Committee I am pleased to present the Nomination Committee report for the financial year ended 30 June 2017.
The Nomination Committee continues to play a vital role in ensuring that not only the Board, but the senior leadership team comprises the right individuals to plan and implement the strategy of the Group.
A number of recommendations have been made by the FRC and other key organisations for Nomination Committees to focus on.
Issues, relating to diversity, including gender, ethnicity and race.
The Nomination Committee fully supports the aims of these recommendations and will take appropriate action as opportunities present.
Skills and experience of the Board Ensuring the Group is led by a first rate Board, operating in a responsive, open and transparent culture is our prime focus.
We undertook an assessment of the tenure and length of service of the Non-Executive Directors and of the skills and experience of the Board needed to deliver the strategy of the Group.
The review highlighted the potential for appointing an additional NonExecutive Director with experience in the wider housing environment such as in central or local Government, Housing Association or strategic and public policy.
Accordingly, we embarked on the recruitment process for a new Non-Executive Director.
Details of the recruitment process can be found on page 62.
Chief Financial Officer A key focus for the Nomination Committee for the year under review has been the recruitment of a new Chief Financial Officer.
Details of the recruitment process and how the role was fulfilled in the interim can be found on page 62.
The values of an organisation are Membership of the Nomination Committee largely influenced by the people leading The Nomination Committee also reviewed its membership in comparison to other FTSE 100 companies during the year.
Consequently, it was agreed that David Thomas would step down it.
By appointing the right people as a member with effect from 30 June 2017.
The members of the Committee are now therefore to the Board a culture of honesty, myself and the independent Non-Executive Directors.
openness and diversity can be achieved Diversity and inclusion throughout the business.
During the year under review we have made good progress with our diversity and inclusion programme.
Further information can be found on page 64.
John Allan Succession planning Nomination Committee Chairman As highlighted from the effectiveness review, we will continue to focus on succession planning for Executive Directors and senior managerial roles during the next financial year.
John Allan Chairman of the Nomination Committee 5 September 2017 60 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Nomination Committee role and activity FY17 Main role and activities undertaken during the financial year The Nomination Committee met formally on three occasions during the year to fulfil the responsibilities delegated to it by the Board.
Its main role is to monitor the size and composition and balance of skills on the Board and its Committees, to ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors and to plan for succession.
Full details of the responsibilities delegated to the Nomination Committee by the Board are set out in the written terms of reference which are available from www.
co. uk investors corporate-governance governance-policies.
The main areas of focus for the Nomination Committee during the year were as follows: Board composition and balance Reviewed the structure, size and composition of the Board.
Reviewed skills, experience and knowledge of each Board member and of the Board as a whole, against the needs of the Board.
Reviewed the time commitment required from the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors to fulfil their roles.
Considered and recommended to the Board the re-appointment of John Allan as Chairman for a second three year term subject to approval by shareholders page 63.
Succession planning Governance Following the departure of Neil Cooper, led the Considered and confirmed that each Non-Executive recruitment process for a new Chief Financial Officer.
Director remained independent and committed to Assessed the tenure of Board members and held their role.
discussions with Directors on expected length of Undertook an annual review and recommended to service in order to inform the succession plan the Board the renewal of the authorisation of existing page 63.
Directors potential conflict of interests.
Conducted external recruitment process for a new Reviewed and approved its annual agenda and terms Non-Executive Director page 62. of reference.
Committee effectiveness Diversity Reviewed and made progress against matters arising Reviewed the Groups diversity policy and from the annual evaluation for FY16.
recommended it to the Board for approval.
Undertook an internal evaluation of its own performance and reviewed and devised an action plan to address issues arising page 55.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 61 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Nomination Committee report continued Membership and attendance at meetings Chief Financial Officer The membership of the Nomination Committee and the attendance at each of its scheduled As announced on 19 January 2017, Neil Cooper left the business by mutual agreement.
meetings is set out in Table 7.
In accordance with Code provision B.
2.1. the majority of Committee The Nomination Committee immediately embarked on a search to find a suitable replacement.
members are considered independent by the Company and their biographies and qualifications David Thomas, who had previously held the position of Group Finance Director, temporarily are shown on pages 46 and 47. re-assumed responsibility for the finance function.
David was ably supported by the Group Financial Controller and the Housebuilding Financial Controller during this time.
In addition, Steven Boyes, Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Operating Officer, supported David with his Table 7 Nomination Committee attendance ongoing executive responsibilities.
The Chairman and the Board, being conscious of the need Member Role Number of meetings attended to maintain good governance practices throughout this period, assessed the robustness and John Allan Chairman 3 3 effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and procedures to ensure that they remained Richard Akers Member 3 3 appropriate to mitigate against any significant risks arising during the period David fulfilled this dual role.
To further enhance the controls and procedures around land acquisitions during this Tessa Bamford Member 3 3 period, John Allan and Richard Akers, in their capacity as Chairman and Senior Independent Nina Bibby Member 3 3 Director, attended the Land Committee meetings on a weekly basis and played a primary role 1 Jock Lennox Member 3 3 inchallenging the proposals brought forward by the divisions.
David Thomas Member 3 3 In February 2017, the Nomination Committee delegated authority to David Thomas, John Allan Former members and Jock Lennox to lead the search for a new Chief Financial Officer.
Subsequently, Russell Mark Rolfe Member 1 1 Reynolds, an independent recruitment agency with no other connection to the Company, were appointed to assist with the search.
Russell Reynolds produced a short list of potential 1 Jock Lennox joined the Board on 1 July 2017. candidates which were reviewed by David Thomas, John Allan and Jock Lennox together with 2 David Thomas stood down from this Committee with effect from 30 June 2017.
Rob Tansey, the Group HR Director.
A desktop benchmarking exercise was undertaken on 3 Mark Rolfe stood down from the Board on 16 November 2016. all of the external candidates, and it was noted that some of the shortlisted candidates had Note: X Number of meetings attended whilst a Director.
been considered for the position in 2015 prior to the appointment of Neil Cooper.
In addition, X Number of meetings held whilst a Director.
applications were received from three internal candidates.
The experience, skills and knowledge of each of the internal candidates was considered and it was agreed that only one Appointment and re-appointment of Directors of them, Jessica White, the then Group Financial Controller, would progress to the next stage.
The Nomination Committee leads the process for appointments to the Board and makes Jessica was put through a rigorous assessment process with Russell Reynolds to allow her to be recommendations to the Board when suitable candidates have been identified.
When a vacancy benchmarked against the external candidates.
She was also interviewed by each of the members arises the Nomination Committee evaluates the balance of skills, experience, independence of the Board and of the Executive Committee.
Feedback from this process confirmed that due and knowledge on the Board and considers this against current and future needs to deliver to her extensive knowledge of the business, the respect in which she is held by other employees its strategy.
It then prepares a description of the roles and capabilities required for that throughout the organisation and her past track record as Group Financial Controller, Jessica appointment.
The search for Board candidates is carried out, and appointments made, on merit was the best candidate for the position of Chief Financial Officer.
Accordingly, the Nomination with due regard for Board diversity and the need to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and Committee recommended to the Board that a formal offer of appointment be made to her.
External recruitment consultants are used where appropriate.
This recommendation was unanimously endorsed by the Board.
Accordingly, on 22 June 2017, Jessica was appointed as the Chief Financial Officer of the Group.
During FY17 the Nomination Committee identified the requirement to appoint an additional Non-Executive Director to the Board with experience in the wider housing environment.
Accordingly, Odgers Berndtson, an independent recruitment agency with no other connection tothe Company, have been appointed to assist with the search for a new Non-Executive Director.
The Board delegated authority to John Allan and Richard Akers to oversee the process and accordingly they have reviewed a longlist of candidates.
Odgers Berndtson are currently in the process of compiling a shortlist from which candidates will be selected for interview with John Allan and Richard Akers in the first instance.
Details of any appointment made as a result of this process will be announced via a Regulatory Information Service at the appropriate time.
62 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Re-appointment of Non-Executive Directors Succession planning Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors are appointed by the Board for an initial three-year term and normally During the year, the Board undertook its annual review of the Groups succession plans.
serve a second three-year term, subject to re-election by shareholders and statutory provisions This involves a review of the succession for Executive Directors and other Senior Management relating to the removal of Directors.
Beyond this a third term of up to three years may be roles below Board level.
The aim of this review is to identify suitable individuals who are capable served subject to particularly rigorous review and taking into account the need for progressive of filling senior managerial positions on a medium and long term basis, whilst ensuring their refreshment of the Board.
The Articles, in accordance with the Code, require any Non-Executive development needs are identified and addressed.
It also seeks to ensure that the Boards future Director who has served nine years or more on the Board continuously to be subject to annual needs are met.
As part of their development, Senior Managers who are not of Board level will be re-appointment.
invited to attend part of a Board meeting to present on their specialist area.
This also enables the Board to assess the quality of internal talent and for the individual to get a greater understanding The letters of appointment of all Non-Executive Directors alongside the service contracts for the of the workings of the Board.
Executive Directors are available for inspection by any person at the Companys registered office during normal office hours or via the Companys website www.
The Nomination Committee plays an active part in this process.
Copies will also be available at the 2017 AGM for 15 minutes before and throughout the meeting.
The letters of appointment clearly set out the time commitment expected from each Succession planning Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Director to ensure they satisfactorily perform their duties.
The required time The Nomination Committee reviews annually the length of service of the Non-Executive commitment is reviewed annually by the Board.
Each Non-Executive Director confirms that Directors and holds conversations with the longer serving members to create a plan for the they are able to allocate the time commitment required at the time of their appointment and progressive refreshment of the Board as necessary.
thereafter as part of their individual annual effectiveness review undertaken by the Chairman.
During the year, with John Allan absenting, the Nomination Committee considered the reDirectors conflict of interests appointment of John Allan as Chairman.
The Nomination Committee was satisfied that John The Board has, in accordance with the Articles and best practice guidelines, authorised the continues to dedicate sufficient time to his duties as Chairman and John confirmed that he Nomination Committee to oversee the process for reviewing and making recommendations to would continue to do so.
Furthermore, the Committee were satisfied that John had no other the Board concerning any actual or potential conflict of interests which may arise for any Board relationship or circumstance that would affect the performance of his role.
Accordingly, the member, including details of any terms and conditions which it deems necessary to impose on re-appointment of John Allan for a second three-year term was recommended to the Board, any authorisation given.
This process was carried out satisfactorily during the year in respect of which it fully endorsed.
Retirement and re-election of Directors The Company Secretary maintains a register of Directors conflict of interests which is reviewed annually with recommendations made to the Board in respect of any changes to the The Articles currently require Directors to submit themselves for re-election by shareholders authorisations that may be required.
The register of conflicts is reviewed at each Board meeting at the first AGM following their initial appointment to the Board and thereafter at intervals of no in order that each Director can review their entries and immediately notify the Chairman and more than three years.
All Board members will, however, in accordance with the Code, stand for or the Board of any new conflict or potential conflict and of any change in circumstances relating election or re-election, as appropriate, by shareholders at the 2017 AGM irrespective of their date to authorisations already given.
The Board, when authorising any conflict or possible conflict of of appointment and length of service on the Board.
interests, does not count in the quorum the Director whose conflict or possible conflict is being Biographical details of each of the Directors and supporting statements for their re-election discussed and reserves the right to exclude a Director from a meeting whilst a conflict or possible are set out on pages 46 and 47 of this report and in the Notice of the 2017 AGM.
Details of the conflict is being considered.
The Board may revoke or vary any authorisation at any time.
Executive Directors service contracts can be found in the Remuneration report on page 87.
Each of the Directors has been subject to a formal performance evaluation process including the appropriateness of a particular Directors experience and the effectiveness with which such experience is utilised in furthering the Companys business.
Following these reviews, the Nomination Committee, and the Board, are satisfied that each Director continues to be effective in, and demonstrate commitment to, their respective roles.
The Board, in the light of the results of the performance evaluation and the breadth of experience demonstrated by each Directors biography set out on pages 46 and 47, therefore recommends that shareholders approve the resolutions to be put forward at the 2017 AGM relating to the election or re-election of the Directors as applicable.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 63 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Nomination Committee report continued Board diversity policy During the year, the Nomination Committee reviewed the Groups policy on diversity, including professional, international and gender diversity.
This policy was also considered by the Board.
The Nomination Committees primary goal remains to identify the most suitable candidate to join the Board and for other senior positions within the Group.
However, it also seeks to ensure that, in managing an appointment and in succession planning, it has regard to the benefits of diversity, including but not restricted to gender diversity and its impact on effective decision making.
In terms of gender diversity the Board will continue to work only with recruitment search consultants who have adopted a voluntary code of conduct addressing gender diversity.
Going forward recruitment search consultants will be required to identify and present potential candidates in accordance with the Parker review and its recommendations regarding the ethnic diversity of boards.
The Board notes that in his report published October 2015, Lord Davies increased the target for women on boards from 25% to 33%.
Whilst the Board appreciates the benefits that can be gained from gender diversity, it has agreed not to impose a gender balance quota preferring instead to appoint strictly on merit as it did with the appointment of Jessica White.
In addition, the Board are aware of the requirements of the Hampton-Alexander review, the Parker review and the McGregor-Smith review.
Details as required by the Hampton-Alexander review can be found on page 33.
In respect of the recommendation of the Parker and the McGregor-Smith reviews, work is currently underway to collate data and amend processes as necessary.
Information on the steps taken will be published in the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts.
The Nomination Committee and the Board do recognise the need to ensure that the business reflects a diverse workforce, at all levels of seniority, whilst always seeking to ensure that each post is offered to the best available candidate.
Promoting diversity at a Senior Management level and more generally within the workforce is an objective for the Chief Executive and HR Director.
Progress has been made with promoting diversity within the business see page 33, Diversity and inclusion.
Barratt Developments PLC Diversity Policy www.
co. uk sustainability our-policies This report forms part of the Corporate governance report and is signed on behalf of the Nomination Committee by: John Allan Chairman of the Nomination Committee 5 September 2017 64 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
