48 Galliford Try plc Governance review Chairmans review Strong governance underpinning sustainable growth I am delighted to be reporting to you for There were a number of other directorship the first time as Chairman of the Board.
As previously announced, I became Chairman on Greg During the financial year, the Financial Fitzgerald stepping down from the Board Reporting Council FRC published its and Terry Miller took on the role of Senior April 2016 edition of the UK Corporate Independent Director, both with effect Governance Code the 2016 Code, from 11 November 2016.
In addition, applicable to financial years beginning on Ken Gillespie stepped down from the or after 17 June 2016.
We are reporting Board on 31 July 2016. against the 2016 Code for the first time and I am pleased to confirm that, since Membership of the Executive Board the Companys Annual General Meeting was strengthened during the year, AGM on 11 November 2016, the with Andrew Hammond Divisional Company has complied with the provisions Chairman West for Linden Homes, of the 2016 Code.
Between 1 January Tom Nicholson Divisional Chairman 2016 and 11 November 2016 Greg East for Linden Homes, and Stephen Fitzgerald was Chairman and, in the light Teagle Chief Executive, Partnerships & of his previous role as Chief Executive Regeneration joining the Executive of the Company, did not meet the Board on 6 September 2016. independence criteria of the 2016 Code Board performance evaluation on appointment.
We have previously Following a brief period with The Board undertook an internal explained to shareholders this point of performance evaluation in April 2017 a non-independent Chairman, non-compliance and are pleased to be in which confirmed that the Board and we are again fully compliant a position of full compliance once again.
committees are operating effectively and with the UK Corporate In February 2017, the Board approved have the appropriate balance of skills, the strategy to 2021, further details of knowledge and experience to draw on.
which can be found on pages 16 and 17.
An update on the 2016 evaluation, The non-executive directors played an together with recommendations and Peter Ventress important role in the development of actions from the 2017 evaluation, Chairman the strategy, challenging managements can be found on pages 51 and 52. assumptions where appropriate and Succession planning bringing the benefit of their experience The Group continued to enact the findings in different businesses and industries.
of the review and refresh of the talent We are already making good progress mapping and succession planning process against our strategy to 2021. commenced in 2015.
Plans for succession Board and Executive Board changes have now gone deeper into the As previously announced, Andrew Jenner, organisation and there is also a clearer Chair of the Audit Committee, is stepping view on the Groups talent pool.
down from the Board after the 2017 AGM.
Diversity Following a formal search process to find The Board has noted the increased focus his replacement, Jeremy Townsend joined on diversity, in particular the Hamptonthe Board on 1September 2017.
His Alexander Review, the Parker Report and appointment took into account the the McGregor-Smith Review.
The policy relevant sector-competence of the Audit of the Nomination Committee has been Committee, as required by the 2016 Code.
to consider a diverse range of candidates, Jeremy Townsend will take over as Chair including those from backgrounds not of the Audit Committee on Andrew Jenner currently represented at Board level, stepping down.
More details on Jeremy for positions as and when they become Townsends appointment and induction available, while basing recruitment can be found on page 55.
Also with effect decisions on merit.
The Board will monitor from 1 September 2017, I took over and review both its strategy to improve from Terry Miller, as Chair of the inclusion and diversity and the results of Nomination Committee.
that strategy and will make adjustments as necessary to promote inclusion and diversity across the Group.
Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 49 Financial Statements 2017 Governance developments There were a number of other key Group governance structure corporate governance developments As at 30 June 2017 during the financial year.
On 3 July 2016 the new Market Abuse Regulation MAR came into force.
As a result of the changes introduced by MAR, the Company undertook a review of its policies and plc Board procedures relating to closed periods, Directors: 7 Meetings annually: 8 inside information and share dealing, updating them as necessary.
Also in July 2016, the FRC published a report into corporate culture to help raise the level of discussion and debate on the role of boards in shaping, embedding and assessing company culture, the value of culture in creating sustainable companies, and the way companies conduct Audit Committee Nomination Remuneration Executive Board themselves and interact with a broader Directors: 4 Committee Committee Members: 7 range of stakeholders.
The Board has Meetings annually: 3 Directors: 5 Directors: 5 Meetings annually: 10 reviewed its role in shaping the culture Meetings annually: 3 Meetings annually: 5 of the Company.
In November 2016, the Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy BEIS published a corporate governance reform green paper covering directors remuneration, the governance of large private companies and how best to include Executive Risk Committee a wider stakeholder view in company Members: 6 decision-making.
The Company submitted Meetings annually: 3 its response to the BEIS in respect of the proposed options for reform.
Annual General Meeting The Company will be holding its AGM on 10 November 2017 and shareholders are encouraged to attend and participate in the business to be discussed at Linden Homes Partnerships & Construction & Executive Board Regeneration Investments the meeting.
Members: 8 Executive Board Divisional Board I and the other Board directors look Meetings annually: 11 Members: 8 Members: 8 forward to meeting with shareholders Meetings annually: 12 Meetings annually: 11 at the AGM.
Peter Ventress Chairman 50 Galliford Try plc Governance review continued Board and Committee meeting attendance All Board meetings were led by the Chairman with the General Counsel and Company Secretary in attendance.
The Senior Independent Director separately led a meeting of the non-executive directors to assess the performance of the Chairman, without him present.
2016 17 Board and Committee attendance table Audit Nomination Remuneration Number of meetings attended scheduled Board Committee Committee Committee 1 Peter Ventress Chairman 8 8 1 1 3 3 5 5 Peter Truscott Chief Executive 8 8 by invitation by invitation by invitation Graham Prothero Finance Director 8 8 by invitation n a n a Terry Miller Senior Independent Director 8 8 3 3 3 3 5 5 Andrew Jenner Non-executive Director 8 8 3 3 3 3 5 5 Ishbel Macpherson Non-executive Director 8 8 3 3 3 3 5 5 Gavin Slark Non-executive Director 8 8 3 3 3 3 5 5 Kevin Corbett General Counsel and Company Secretary 8 8 3 3 3 3 5 5 2 Greg Fitzgerald Former Director 4 4 by invitation 1 1 by invitation 3 Ken Gillespie Former Director 1 1 n a n a n a 1 Peter Ventress stepped down as a member of the Audit Committee on being appointed Chairman of the Board on 11 November 2016.
He attended subsequent meetings by invitation.
2 Greg Fitzgerald stepped down from the Board on 11 November 2016.
3 Ken Gillespie stepped down from the Board on 31 July 2016.
2016 17 Board focus In addition to the items below, standing items on Board agendas include health, safety, environment and sustainability, directors conflicts of interest, previous minutes and matters arising and Chief Executive and Finance Director reports.
The Board also held its annual strategy awayday in October 2016 where it reviewed progress against strategy to 2018, was updated on market conditions and developed and approved Group and divisional strategies to 2021.
2016 July September October November December Site visit Queensferry Full year results Presentation risk review Presentation Health, Safety, Presentation 20182021 Crossing Environment and Sustainability business plan Annual Report Adviser presentations Presentation Building Gleacher Shacklock and HSBC AGM Presentation legal update Annual corporate and Infrastructure governance review Budget for 2017 18 Senior Independent Director Project updates Presentation 2016 17 role review Dividend policy Business plan update Modus Operandi of the Board Group budget Review of internal controls HR review Presentation risk review and risk management Board evaluation review Notice of AGM Insurance renewal Market Abuse Regulation Annual Report 2017 February April May Presentation HR Site visit Shinfield Meadows Presentation Investments Presentation Procurement Presentation Linden Homes Presentation Facilities Management Presentation IT Presentation Partnerships & Regeneration Trading update Half year results Business ethics Results of Board Interim dividend performance evaluation Project updates Project updates Corporate Governance update Risk update Risk register review Annual Report design Modus Operandi of the Board Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 51 Financial Statements 2017 Compliance statement Other than the changes referenced, the roles and responsibilities The Board believes that high standards of corporate governance of each of the non-executive directors, which are detailed in their are integral to the delivery of its strategy, providing the means individual letters of appointment, have not changed from the by which the Board may manage the expectations of previous financial year.
The letters of appointment are available stakeholders to optimise sustainable performance.
The 2016 for inspection on request at the Companys registered office Code is the governance code to which the Group is subject, and will be available immediately prior to the 2017 AGM.
and which sets out principles relating to the good governance Well-established Board procedures for the timely provision of companies.
The Code is available at www.
of quality information in advance of all Board and Committee The Group remains compliant with the Financial Conduct meetings, and for the provision of independent professional Authoritys Listing Rule 9.8.
6 and Disclosure Guidance and advice, have remained in operation throughout the financial year.
Related information can be found in The Board continues to benefit from its established reporting the Directors Report on pages 68 to 69. mechanisms, designed to ensure crucial management and project-specific information and significant Group-wide Board and Executive Board composition developments are reported quickly and accurately facilitating Biographical summaries for each of the directors as at 30 June prompt approval of further actions.
Throughout the year the 2017, their respective responsibilities and their external Board also received regular Group, divisional and business directorships are set out on pages 46 and 47. unit-specific presentations, covering all key aspects of the In line with the 2016 Code, all directors will stand for re-election Groups operations.
at the 2017 AGM except for Andrew Jenner, who has announced All directors have access to the advice and services of the General his intention to step down from the Board following the 2017 Counsel and Company Secretary.
No director sought independent AGM.
Jeremy Townsend will also stand for election at the 2017 advice during the financial year.
The performance of the directors continues to be effective and commitment to their respective roles is clearly demonstrated.
The Board receives regular presentations from the businesses on operational matters, assisting Board members to stay up How the Board operates to date with sector-relevant issues, and receives updates from The Board is led by the Chairman, who on appointment met the advisers on pertinent matters as and when required.
Board independence criteria set out in the 2016 Code and who is members are encouraged to undertake their own continuing responsible for the Boards effectiveness.
As at 30 June 2017, the professional development.
Board was further comprised of four independent non-executive directors, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
The Group maintains appropriate Directors and Officers Liability Insurance on behalf of the directors and General Counsel and The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success Company Secretary.
In addition, individual qualifying third-party of the Company and operates via a formal schedule of matters indemnities are given to the directors and General Counsel and reserved for its decision.
The Board also delegates certain Company Secretary which comply with the provisions of Section matters to management: such delegations being reviewed 234 of the Companies Act 2006, and were in force throughout the annually.
A summary of the matters reserved for the Board year and up to the date of signing the Annual Report.
and the matters delegated to management is set out in the table below.
Board evaluation: 2016 update and 2017 evaluation The 2016 Board evaluation, which was externally facilitated, found that the Board was operating effectively.
The findings Matters reserved Matters delegated were presented to the May 2016 Board meeting and actions for the Board to management were agreed by the Board to address the recommendations of Group values and standards Operational management of the evaluation.
The table below summarises the substantive the Group recommendations made and actions undertaken during the financial year to address them: Group strategy, business plans Implementation of Group policies and annual budgets 2016 evaluation Acquisitions, disposals and Allocation of Groups resources recommendations Actions taken during the year contracts over a prescribed value Transition of The Nomination Committee reviewed the tenure Material joint ventures Contracts of a prescribed value leaving directors of directorships and put in place a plan to appoint a successor to Andrew Jenner whose third Approval of Group policies Management succession planning three-year term was due to end in January 2018.
Material changes to the Groups Risk management Continue to The frequency of discussions around the Groups share capital have ongoing strategy was increased to enable the strategy conversations process to be enhanced through the skills and Group borrowing facilities on: experience of the non-executive directors.
Approval of circulars and financial long-term Regular reporting on succession planning to the reports strategy Nomination Committee has continued, with regular discussions taking place at Executive Board and succession The duties of the Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly divisional board level.
planning specified to ensure proper division of responsibilities and balance of power.
The key responsibilities of the Chairman include Continue to embed Management has continued to promote the Groups culture and ethics Code of Conduct, Doing the right thing, and the leadership of and communication with the Board, value setting, within the Group topic of business ethics has been added to the shareholder liaison, governance and performance evaluation agendas of every divisional and business unit and appraisal.
The key responsibilities of the Chief Executive board meeting.
include developing Group strategy, operational performance and executive management, including chairing the Groups Executive Board.
Copies of the respective role descriptions of the Chairman and Chief Executive are available on the Groups website www.
Terry Miller became the Groups Senior Independent Director on 11 November 2016, taking over from Peter Ventress following his appointment as Chairman.
The Senior Independent Director was available to shareholders throughout the year.
Neither Peter Ventress or Terry Miller were contacted in that capacity by shareholders during the financial year.
52 Galliford Try plc Governance review continued The Group undertook an internal performance evaluation in Governance policies April 2017.
The directors continue to perform to the levels The Group continues to operate a suite of governance and risk expected of them and demonstrate commitment to their roles, management policies, procedures and training programmes, all of including devoting such time as is necessary to discharge their which address obligations arising under the relevant legislation.
The Chairman met with each The Group Corporate and Finance Manuals, which summarise the of the non-executive directors to discuss the findings and policies, procedures and authority matrices by which the central recommendations of the evaluation before they were functions and divisions operate, were subject to ongoing update presented to, and approved by, the Board in May 2017, with and refresh during the financial year.
recommendations being addressed over the forthcoming Shareholder relations financial year.
The Company continues to prioritise maintaining effective Overall, the evaluation confirmed that the Board and its relationships with all its shareholders and seeks to engage committees are operating effectively and have the appropriate with interested parties.
The Board, and in particular the Chief balance of skills, knowledge and experience to draw on, with Executive and Finance Director, continues to organise meetings recommendations being made, among other matters, in relation with existing and prospective institutional shareholders.
to improving Board and committee papers, continuing to embed The Board as a whole continues to engage actively with and develop Board relationships and undertaking an additional institutional shareholders in line with the UK Stewardship Code, annual site visit to provide the Board with even greater access whether on key matters of specific relevance to the Group and to operations.
its operations or general market themes, and specific reports Diversity regarding shareholder views are provided to the Board for In 2013 the Board stated its commitment to addressing the analysis and discussion.
Separately, the Senior Independent expectations of the Davies Report Women on Boards where Director and other non-executive directors are available to attend appropriate and possible.
Following the stepping down of meetings with shareholders and address any significant concerns Andrew Jenner after the AGM on 10 November 2017, stakeholders may have.
women will hold 29% of Board positions.
The Companys AGM, held in November each year, continues to During the financial year, the Groups approach to inclusion be a popular means for private shareholders to receive updates and diversity has further been enhanced with the inclusion of on Group performance, including a presentation from the Chief women on short-lists from recruitment agencies for leadership Executive.
All directors of the Company were in attendance at the roles and the introduction of a values-based interview process.
Arrangements for the meeting including notice period The Group has also registered as a member of the National and voting arrangements followed the requirements of the 2016 Association of Women in Construction and signed up to the Code and related best practice.
Reporting, risk, internal audit and controls Further diversity disclosures can be found in the Strategic Report The governance review commencing on page 48 details the on page 42. specific actions undertaken by the Group during the financial year, including those with a risk management focus.
The Boards Executive Board report approach to risk and internal audit, including its systems in Membership of the Executive Board is detailed on pages 46 relation to the preparation of consolidated accounts, and the and 47. material controls of the Groups established internal control Executive management is the responsibility of the Chief Executive framework, are disclosed in the Principal Risks section on pages who chairs the Executive Board.
The Executive Board is 18 to 21. responsible for the operational management of the Group under There were no significant internal control failings or weaknesses terms of reference delegated by the Board, which also includes during the year.
Any matters of non-compliance with the delegated responsibility for making recommendations to the provisions of the Group Corporate and Finance Manuals have Board on all items included in the formal schedule of matters been rectified either during the financial year or by the date of this reserved for Board authorisation.
The Executive Board receives Annual Report.
A separate programme of 16 internal audits was and considers regular performance and operational reports and also completed across the Groups operations and progress presentations from divisional management.
The Assistant checks were completed against previous recommendations.
Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Executive Board.
The minutes of Executive Board meetings are included as part During the year, the Group undertook a reappraisal of costs to of the Board pack.
complete and recoveries from two major infrastructure joint venture projects and other legacy Construction contracts The Executive Board meets at least 10 times a year and additional contracted in 2014 and earlier.
A thorough review process was meetings are convened when necessary to consider and authorise performed to determine the anticipated liability, which resulted specific operational or project matters.
The Executive Board in the announcement of a 98.3 million one-off charge on 3 May focuses on long-term strategic issues and matters of Group-wide 2017.
As a result, the Group no longer takes on similar-type large policy, with health, safety and sustainability, business ethics and infrastructure projects on fixed-price contracts and is closely customer service as the first agenda items at every meeting, which monitoring the close out of its legacy positions.
highlights the importance of such matters to the Group.
Executive responsibility for operational matters of each business has been devolved to a greater extent to the executive boards of each business, which hold at least 11 meetings per annum.
Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 53 Financial Statements 2017 Audit Committee report Committee Chairs annual statement The authorities and calendar of work The Audit Committee is led by me as remain in line with the requirements of the Chairman and is further comprised of three 2016 Code.
At each meeting, Committee independent non-executive directors.
members take time, in the absence of Additional details on the Committees executive directors, to review separately members can be found on pages 46 and discuss any issues meriting their and 47.
The Chairman of the Board, attention.
The table on page 54 Chief Executive and Finance Director summarises the key activities during attend Committee meetings by invitation, the financial year.
together with the Director of Risk & The Committee also continues to meet Internal Audit and the Director of Group with internal and external audit teams, Finance.
My financial background and without executive management present.
membership of the Institute of Chartered During the financial year, the risk and Accountants satisfies the 2016 Code internal audit team focused on delivering requirement that the Committees its agreed calendar of audit reviews under membership must have recent and relevant its rolling three-year internal audit plan financial experience.
The General Counsel and on providing commercial and risk and Company Secretary or his nominee management support across the Group acts as secretary to the Committee.
at the request of the Committee, the During the financial year the Committee The Audit Committee has Executive Board and senior management.
continued to monitor and review More information about the Groups primarily focused on the integrity developments in corporate governance, principal risks, its long-term viability and of the financial statements and the integrity of the financial statements its risk management and internal control and the adequacy and effectiveness of the the adequacy and effectiveness systems can be found in the Principal Risks risk management and internal control section on pages 18 to 21. of the Groups risk management framework of the Group, as it continues and internal control framework.
to grow each of its businesses.
The Policies and review mechanisms governing Committee considers that the 2017 the provision of material non-audit Andrew Jenner Annual Report and Financial Statements services, and safeguarding the objectivity Audit Committee Chair are fair, balanced and understandable in and independence of the external auditor, terms of the form and content of the remained in force throughout the financial strategic, governance and financial year.
The policy specifies the types of information presented therein.
non-audit services for which the use of the external auditor is pre-approved As previously announced, and after nine ie approval has been given in advance as years on the Board, I will be stepping a matter of policy : the services for which down at the 2017 AGM in November specific approval from the Committee is and, in respect of the Chairmanship of the required before the auditor is contracted: Audit Committee, handing over to Jeremy and the services from which the external Townsend who brings a wealth of financial auditor is excluded.
In respect of and property experience to the Board.
pre-approved services, a financial Jeremy Townsend joined the Board on threshold is in place, applicable to 1 September 2017 which has provided individual and aggregated services in any an opportunity for a smooth transition.
Furthermore, should the total value Remit and activities of non-audit service engagements exceed The Committee meets at least three a defined percentage of the total Group times a year, this number being deemed audit fee for the previous financial year, appropriate to the Committees role the Committee shall consider and give and responsibilities.
The Committees specific prior approval for any subsequent delegated authorities and calendar of non-audit service engagements.
prioritised work have not changed As disclosed in note 6 to the financial substantially from those disclosed in statements, no significant non-audit previous years.
The key responsibilities related services were provided by of the Committee are: delegated the incumbent external auditor, responsibility from the Board for financial  LLP PwC, reporting: monitoring external audit, during the financial year, although the internal audit, risk and controls: and Group did receive non-audit-related reviewing instances of whistleblowing advice and services covering general and the Groups procedures for detecting corporate matters.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Groups website www.
54 Galliford Try plc Governance review continued Each year, the Committee assesses the effectiveness of the external audit process Calendar of 2016 17 Committee which includes discussing feedback from activities and areas of focus the members of the Committee and key September 2016 senior management within the Group.
Committee review of 2015 16 full year results, PwC has been an auditor of the Group including external auditor presentation, going since its initial appointment in 2001 and concern review and approval of fair, balanced retained this appointment following and understandable process a competitive tender completed in 2014.
Risk, internal audit and whistleblowing reports The Committee reviewed the integrity of Review of 2016 UK Corporate Governance the Groups financial statements and all Code formal announcements relating to the IFRS 15 revenue recognition update Groups financial performance.
This included an assessment of each critical February 2017 accounting policy, as set out in note 1, Committee review of 2016 17 half year results, as well as review and debate over the including external auditor presentation, going following areas of significance: concern review and approval of fair, balanced and understandable process Contract revenue and provisions: in conjunction with the annual audit, the Risk, internal audit and whistleblowing reports Committee reviewed a paper setting out May 2017 key judgements in respect of revenue recognition and contract provisions, in Risk, internal audit and whistleblowing reports relation to individually significant long-term Corporate governance and financial reporting construction contracts, including the legacy update, with particular focus on the viability Construction contracts.
statement Approval of external audit plan Going concern and viability: the Committee Approval of internal audit plan assessed the available bank facilities and the associated covenants and sensitivities.
Review of Terms of Reference and The Committee also considered other Non-Audit Fee Policy commercial and economic risks to the Groups going concern status and longer-term viability, including cash Andrew Jenner recovery sensitivities in respect of the Audit Committee Chair legacy joint venture infrastructure projects.
The Committee reported to the Board on its findings.
Goodwill impairment review: during the year, the Committee considered the judgments made in relation to the valuation methodology adopted by management and the model input used, as well as the sensitivities used by management and the related disclosures.
Drew Smith acquisition accounting treatment: including fair value adjustments, recognition of intangible assets and goodwill and related disclosures.
Disclosure of significant transactions and Alternative Performance Measures APMs.
Our business Strategic review Business review Governance Financial information Annual Report and 55 Financial Statements 2017 Nomination Committee report Committee Chairs annual statement The terms of reference of the Committee As previously reported, from 1 September can be found on the Groups website 2017 Peter Ventress became Chair of the www.
As Chair of the delegated to the Committee by the Committee at 30 June 2017, I am pleased Board comprise, among other matters: to report on the Committees activities 5 reviewing the size, structure and during the financial year.
composition of the Board: We are delighted to be able to welcome 5 evaluating the balance of skills, Jeremy Townsend to the Board of knowledge, diversity and experience directors with effect from 1 September of the Board, including the impact of 2017.
Upon joining the Board, Jeremy new appointments: became a member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 5 overseeing and recommending the Committees and, following Andrew recruitment of any new directors: Jenner stepping down from the Board 5 ensuring appointments are after the 2017 AGM, will become Chair appropriately made against objective of the Audit Committee.
criteria: and The appointment process for Jeremy 5 keeping the leadership and succession included the drafting of a detailed job requirements of the Group under The Nomination Committee has description, the use of The Zygos active review.
Partnership search consultants and formal overseen the appointment of interviews of the short-listed candidates The principal task of the Committee during Jeremy Townsend and continued with the non-executive and executive the year, in addition to overseeing the to monitor and oversee the directors.
Following an objective and process for the appointment of Jeremy transparent recruitment process, the Townsend, has been the alignment of succession planning process Committee recommended the Board composition with Company and plans themselves.
appointment of Jeremy to the Board strategy and the continued monitoring which, after due consideration, was and oversight of the previously agreed Terry Miller approved.
Upon joining the Board succession planning process, as well as Nomination Committee Chair Jeremy undertook a formal induction the succession plans themselves.
The process, enabling him to gain a deeper Committee received updates on both the understanding of the Company and ongoing succession planning and talent introducing him to key management mapping process at various levels within personnel, and also commenced a the Group, together with the individuals handover with the current Audit identified, and any development Committee Chair.
We are extremely requirements necessary to ensure pleased that Jeremy has joined us and effective succession.
Succession planning look forward to his contribution to the and leadership requirements, including Board and committees.
actions being taken to identify replacements for senior management Composition and remit roles, will continue to be the subject Membership of the Committee is detailed of direct focus and engagement by the on pages 46 and 47.
The Committee is also Jeremy Townsend joined the Committee committed to embedding inclusion and with effect from 1 September 2017. diversity at Board and executive level and Ichaired the Committee throughout the generally throughout the Group, and to year and the General Counsel and supporting this effort through fostering Company Secretary acted as secretary and direct participation in management to the Committee.
The Board determined initiatives and programmes.
that, following the appointment of Peter At the year end, the Committee comprised Ventress as Chairman of the Board in a majority of independent non-executive November 2016, he should assume directors, complying with provision B.
2.1 chairmanship of the Committee with of the 2016 Code.
External consultant The Zygos Partnership, which advised on Board appointments in the year, has no other connection with the Group.
Terry Miller Nomination Committee Chair
