Governance LEADERSHIP The Hays Board Our aim is to be the worlds pre-eminent specialist recruitment Composition of the Board business.
In pursuit of that aim, our employees across the globe work The Board is currently made up of two executive directors and nine towards achieving our Strategic Priorities, set out on page 20.
The non-executive directors, including the Chairman.
Their biographies, Board closely monitors management and its delivery of a sustainable including prior experience, are set out on pages 44 and 45. and profitable business, ensuring it continues to operate within the appropriate risk-reward culture.
The Board has established a core Board changes during the year setof brand values, which it promotes throughout the Group.
These There were no changes to the Board during the Financial Year values, which underpin our skills, behaviours and way of doing beingreported on.
However, on 12 July 2017 Andrew Martin and business, are being ambitious, being passionate about people, being Susan Murray joined the Board.
expert at what we do and being inquisitive about the world of work.
Election and re-election of directors at the 2017 AGM These values serve to engender an entrepreneurial culture within In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and Hays, which is critical to our continued success without promoting theprinciples of the Code, all Directors of the Company will offer excessive risk-taking.
themselves for election or re-election at the 2017 AGM with the Role of the Non-Executive Directors exception of Paul Harrison and Pippa Wicks.
Having received advice Hays non-executive directors have a broad and complementary mix from the Nomination Committee, the Board is satisfied that each of business skills, knowledge and experience acquired across sectors director standing for election re-election is qualified for election and geographies.
This allows them to provide strong, independent orre-election by virtue of their skills, experience and commitment and external perspectives to Board discussions, which complement tothe Board.
the skills and experience of the executive directors.
In turn, this leads Operational governance to a diversity of views being aired at Board meetings, robust and The Management Board constructive debate and optimal decision-making.
At the same time, Responsibility for the day-to-day management of our business and it also reduces the likelihood of any one perspective prevailing unduly.
operations rests with the Chief Executive, who operates through the A key role performed by the non-executive directors is the scrutiny of Management Board the principal executive committee within Hays.
executive management in meeting agreed objectives and monitoring In performing this role, the Management Board also has responsibility the reporting of performance.
They also ensure that financial controls for monitoring detailed performance of all aspects of our business.
and systems of risk management are both rigorous and appropriate The Management Board, which meets monthly, is chaired by the for the needs of the business.
ChiefExecutive and also comprises the Group Finance Director, the The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors, Company Secretary & General Counsel, the Chief Marketing Officer, including the expected time commitment, are available for inspection the Group Technology Director, the Group Head of People and at the Companys registered office, and a pro forma letter of Culture and the Managing Directors of the Groups operating appointment is also available on the Companys website.
Each Management Board member has a clearly defined remit, business objectives and financial budget within which they During the year, the Board considered the independence of each of operate.
Our organisational structure is built around three regions the non-executive directors, save for the Chairman who was deemed globally: UK & Ireland: Continental Europe & Rest of World: and Asia independent by the Board at the date of his appointment.
Regional Managing Directors operate their business through it concluded that each non-executive director remained independent regional boards, which comprise key business and functional of management and free from any relationship that could interfere managers with specific responsibilities within those regions.
Each with the exercise of their independent judgment.
In making the business is given operational autonomy, as far as possible, within a assessment, the Board recognised that 15November 2016 represented nine years since Paul Harrison was first elected by well-established internal control framework which consists of, among shareholders: notwithstanding the length of his tenure, the Board other things, a Group-wide set of policies and procedures, operational believe Paul Harrison continues to demonstrate independence of delegated authorities and policies on anti-bribery and corruption, thought and judgment and as such the Board continued to deem him competition compliance, conduct and ethics, and whistleblowing.
independent for the purposes of the Code.
All of Hays directors are The role of the Hays plc Board expected to act in the best interests of the Company.
The plc Board is collectively responsible to the Companys shareholders Chairman and Chief Executive for the long-term success of the Company.
It sets the Companys The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, with strategic objectives and determines the risk appetite and control aclear division of responsibilities between them which is set out in framework within which those objectives are achieved.
The Board writing: the responsibility for this separation of duties rests formally provides effective oversight of the Company and its businesses within with the Board.
a robust governance structure that helps achieve the long-term success of the Company and deliver sustainable shareholder value.
As Chairman, Alan Thomson presides over the Board and is responsible for its leadership and overall effectiveness.
In doing so, The Board also provides leadership of the Company and direction hefosters and helps to maintain an effective working relationship formanagement, ensuring that the necessary resources are in place between the executive and non-executive directors.
for the Company to meet its objectives and it keeps under review managements performance in regard to achieving those objectives.
As Chief Executive, Alistair Cox has responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Companys business and the implementation and delivery of the Board strategy.
This separation of roles enhances the independent oversight of executive management by the Board and more closely aligns the Board with shareholders.
It also means that no one individual within the Company has unfettered powers of decision making.
46 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Our governance framework Alan Thomson Alistair Cox Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Leadership and the effective operation of the Board Day-to-day management of the Groups business Chairing the Board and Nomination Committee Formulating strategic business objectives for Board approval Setting the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions including and implementing approved strategic objectives and policies promoting openness, debate and effective individual contribution Managing and optimising the operational and financial Ensuring that all directors receive clear and accurate performance of the business in conjunction with the Group information on a timely basis Finance Director Ensuring the effectiveness of the Board through induction, Fostering a good working relationship with theChairman ongoing training and regular evaluations Chairing the Management Board and developingsenior talent Effective communications with shareholders within the business forsuccession planning Paul Harrison Doug Evans Senior Independent Director Company Secretary and General Counsel Acting as a sounding board for the Chairman Acting as Secretary to the Board, its Committees and the Serving as an alternative contact and intermediary for other Management Board directors and shareholders Providing legal and governance support to the Board as a whole Leading the Chairmans annual performance appraisal and directors individually and ultimate succession Ensuring that the Group complies with all relevant legal, regulatory and governance requirements Senior Independent Director Reviewing annually the effectiveness of internal control and the The Board appointed Paul Harrison to the position of Senior nature and extent of significant risks identified by management Independent Director on 9 November 2011.
In performing this role andassociated mitigation strategies: and Paul provides shareholders with someone to whom they can turn Approving the annual budget.
ifever they have concerns which they cannot address through the No changes to the schedule of matters were made during the year.
normal channels, for example with the Chairman or executive Board decisions are usually by consensus at Board meetings.
Similarly, as Senior Independent Director Paul is available occasion, decisions may be taken bya majority of Board members.
asan intermediary between his fellow directors and the Chairman.
Inthe case of an equality of votes, Hays Articles of Association While there were no requests from directors or shareholders for provide the Chairman with a second or casting vote.
access to the Senior Independent Director during the year, the role serves as an important check and balance in Hays governance Board commitment process.
In the fulfilment of his role Paul ensures he maintains a The Board has established a policy permitting its executive directors thorough understanding of the views of the Companys shareholders.
to hold only one external non-executive directorship, subject to any possible conflict ofinterest.
This ensures that executive directors When Paul steps down from the Board at the 2017 AGM, the role of retain sufficient time for and focus on the Companys business, whilst Senior Independent Director will be taken over by Andrew Martin.
allowing them to gain external Board exposure as part of their Key roles and responsibilities of these positions, and that of the leadership development.
Executive directors are permitted to retain Company Secretary, are provided above.
any fees paid for such services.
Details of the annual rate of fees payable are shown below: Matters reserved for the Board External A schedule of formal matters reserved for the Boards decision and Director Fee appointment approval is available on our website, haysplc.
These largely relate 1 Alistair Cox 60,000 Just Eat plc to matters of governance and business where independence from executive management is important, and include the following: 1 Became a non-executive director of Just Eat plc on 2 May 2017.
Approving financial results and other financial, corporate and governance matters: While the Company does not have a similar policy for non-executive Approving Group strategy: directors, their key external commitments are reviewed each year Approving appointments to the Board: toensure that they too have sufficient time commitment for the Approving and recommending dividends as appropriate and fulfilment of their Board responsibilities.
Key external commitments deciding dividend policy: ofthe Board are included within their biographies on pages 44 and45.
Reviewing material litigation: Approving major capital projects, acquisitions and disposals: The Board considered the commitments of the Chairman and is Approving material contracts: satisfied that he has sufficient time to devote to his Board responsibilities with Hays.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 47 Governance LEADERSHIP CONTINUED Information and support Our values and culture The Board meets regularly throughout the year and agrees a forward Hays is a people business and people are at the core ofwhat we do.
calendar of matters that it wishes to discuss at each meeting.
As such we foster a meritocratic and entrepreneurial culture, which is Standing items, including operational, functional and financial reviews reflected in our four brand values of: and Committee updates are considered at each scheduled Board Expert: meeting, with unplanned items such as commercial or propertyAmbitious: related decisions being considered as and when required.
The Passionate about People: and Chairman, in conjunction with the Chief Executive and Company Inquisitive.
Secretary, plans the agenda for each Board meeting and ensures that To support this culture we maintain an open style of communication, supporting papers are clear, accurate, timely and of sufficient quality which is designed to both identify issues early, and also to recognise to enable the Board to discharge its duties.
potential opportunities, so that in both cases appropriate action can All Board directors have access to the Company Secretary, who advises be taken in terms of reducing any negative impact on the business them on Board and governance matters.
As well as the support of whilst ensuring opportunities are exploited.
theCompany Secretary, there is a procedure in place for any director These characteristics and brand values are core to our Group culture to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense and are supported via the following mediums and underpinned by the inthe furtherance of their duties, where considered necessary.
Hays Group Policies and Procedures: Corporate communications: Global intranet: and Hiring, induction, training and promotion criteria.
Board focus during 2017 What the Board has done in the year Percentage of time spent by the Board 2.
Ensuring appropriate financial management Received and considered regular reports on the Groups financial performance Approved financial announcements for publication Approved the annual budget Approved dividend policy, payments and recommendations as appropriate, including consideration of a special dividend Reviewed the status of the Companys closed defined benefit pension scheme Met with the Companys financial adviser and corporate brokers Considered ad hoc property and finance-related transactions 3.
Implementing governance and ethics and monitoring risk Performed the annual review of the effectiveness ofinternal control and the nature and extent of risksidentified together Developing a successful strategy 30% with mitigation plans Ensuring appropriate financial management 30% Reviewed regular reports on legal and compliance matters from Implementing governance and the Company Secretary ethics and monitoring risk 25% Received formal training updates on corporate reporting, legal and regulatory matters Stakeholder engagement 15% Reviewed Board and Committee effectiveness Reviewed and approved minor changes to the terms of reference 1.
Developing a successful strategy of the Board Committees Attended a Group strategy day, with members of the Reviewed the Directors Conflicts of Interest procedures Management Board and other senior executives, to consider Reviewed the Companys compliance with the Code key strategic priorities and challenges faced across the business Received further updates in connection with the implementation Approved the Group strategy and reviewed associated of the Market Abuse Regulation performance 4.
Stakeholder engagement Visited operations in the USA and the UK, receiving presentations Considered the results from TALKback, the Groups employee from senior management on business performance, the state of engagement survey the market, strategy, succession planning and opportunities Considered and approved invitations under the Companys Reviewed strategy plans and received reports on the operational all-employee share plans performance for the Groups regions Received regular updates on views and feedback from investors Received reports on technology and innovation and related Considered the Companys investor relations strategy industry developments Considered and reviewed the leadership and Reviewed Group risk development strategy Reviewed the Groups succession plans and assessed risks and options 48 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Board attendance The Board met a total of seven times during the year.
In addition, the Board attended an annual Strategy Review meeting with the ManagementBoard being present.
Six Board meetings were held in the UK and one in Tampa, Florida, USA.
Board and Committee attendance for scheduled meetings during the year are shown below.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Board and Committee attendance Board Committee Committee Committee Alan Thomson 7 of 7 3 of 3 Alistair Cox 7 of 7 Paul Venables 7 of 7 1 Paul Harrison 6 of 7 3 of 4 2 of 3 5 of 5 2 Victoria Jarman 7 of 7 4 of 4 3 of 3 4 of 5 3 Torsten Kreindl 7 of 7 4 of 4 2 of 3 5 of 5 MT Rainey 7 of 7 4 of 4 3 of 3 5 of 5 2 Pippa Wicks 7 of 7 4 of 4 3 of 3 4 of 5 Peter Williams 7 of 7 4 of 4 3 of 3 5 of 5 1 Unable to attend one Board meeting, one Audit Committee meeting and one Nomination Committee meeting due to a prior commitment.
2 Unable to attend one Remuneration Committee meeting due to a prior commitment.
3 Unable to attend one Nomination Committee meeting due to a prior commitment.
Complementing these financial controls is a set of Group-wide Risk management and internal control policies and procedures addressing non-quantifiable risks.
These The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control include security policies, the Groups Code of Conduct and Ethics, systems and for reviewing their effectiveness.
This has been designed Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy, and whistleblowing arrangements.
to assist the Board in making better, more risk-informed, strategic The Board regularly receives management and Committee reports decisions with a view to creating and protecting shareholder value.
which also form part of the internal control system.
Inpractice, the Board delegates the task of implementing its policy onrisk and control to management.
Further support and assistance The Groups internal control procedures are subject to regular review isprovided by an independent Internal Audit function, details of and provide an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and which are provided in the Audit Committee Report.
This is in accordance with the Guidance onRisk Management and Internal Control and Related Financial and The Management Board oversees an enterprise risk management Business Reporting September 2014.
The Board recognises that system which allows for a holistic, top-down and bottom-up view such a system has its limitations in that risk management requires ofkey risks facing the business.
These are recorded in a Group risk independent judgment on the part of directors and executive register, which is reviewed at least annually by the Management management.
Internal controls are designed to manage rather than Board and submitted to the Board thereafter to enable it to carry out eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can its risk oversight responsibility.
This exercise involves a current and provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material forward look at various risks affecting the business and prioritising misstatement or loss.
them according to risk magnitude and likelihood.
Risks covered include operational, business and compliance risks as well as financial In accordance with its regulatory obligations, the Board, with the risks.
Each risk is assigned an owner with current and future risk assistance of the Audit Committee, carried out an annual assessment mitigation procedures detailed, with the continuing monitoring of of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal these undertaken on an ongoing basis.
The principal risks currently control system during the reporting period.
During the course of its facing the business are detailed in the Strategic Report.
review, the Board did not identify or hear of any failings or weaknesses that it determined to be significant and it therefore concluded that The Group Risk Committee assists the Management Board in they are operating effectively.
providing strategic leadership, direction, reporting and oversight ofthe Groups risk framework.
The Committee is chaired by the Conflicts of interest GroupFinance Director and membership includes representation Procedures are in place for the disclosure by directors ofany interest across the global network and comprises operational, IT and finance that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests functions.
Meetings are held at least three times a year, with activities and for the appropriate authorisation to be sought if a conflict arises, and recommendations reported to the Management Board.
The Hays in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
plc Board also has oversight of the Committee and its activities.
In deciding whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict of The Board reviews the Group strategy and approves a budget for the interest only those directors that have no interest in the matter under organisation each year, to ensure that the performance of the business consideration will be able totake the relevant decision: in taking such is in line with the plan and financial and operational reporting a decision thedirectors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, procedures are in place.
Comprehensive annual budgets and will be most likely to promote the success of the Company and may quarterly forecasts are approved by the Management Board and impose such limits or conditions as they think fit.
The Board has business divisions.
Monthly progress and variances are reported reviewed the procedures inplace and considers that they continue tothe Management Board and subsequently to the Board at each tooperate effectively.
There were no actual or potential conflicts meeting as part of the ongoing internal control process.
ofinterest which were required to be authorised by theBoard during the year under review or to the date ofthisreport.
Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 49
