Corporate Governance Statement Board statements Under the Code, the Board is required to make a number of statements.
These statements are set out in the following table: Requirement Board statement Where to find further information The Directors confirm that, throughout the 2017 Explanation of non-compliance with the Compliance financial year, the Company complied with the Code below.
with theCode provisionsof the Code, except as described below, Application of the main principles of the and continued toapply the main principles of Code on page 63. theCode.
The Directors are satisfied that the Group has Financial review on pages 52 to 57 inclusive.
Going concern sufficient financial resources to continue operating Strategic Report on pages 1 to 57 inclusive.
basis in the foreseeable future and, therefore, have Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 37 adopted the going concern basis in preparing the to 41 inclusive.
Board statements Going concern in the Risk Management and Audit Committee report on page 75.
The Directors have assessed the viability of the Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 37 Viability statement Group over a three-year period ending 30 June to 41 inclusive.
2020, taking into account the Groups current Systems of risk management and internal position and certain of the principal risks and control in Accountability on page 72. uncertainties set out on pages 37 to 41 Board statements Viability statement in inclusive.
Following this assessment, the the Risk Management and Audit Committee Directors have a reasonable expectation that the report on page 75.
Group will continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they falldue over this period.
The Directors confirm that they have carried out a Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 37 Robust assessment robust assessment of the principal risks facing to 41 inclusive.
of the principal risks the Group, including those that would threaten its Assessment of principal risks in facing the Group business model, future performance, solvency or Accountability on page 72. liquidity.
TheDirectors also assessed, via the RMAC, their appetite with respect to these risks and considered thesystems required to mitigate and manage them.
During the 2017 financial year, the Board Systems of risk management and internal Annual review of monitored the Groups systems of risk control Effectiveness review in the Risk systems of risk management andinternal control, via the RMAC, Management and Audit Committee report management and and carried out a review oftheir effectiveness.
Theconclusion was that, overall, these systems internal control were effective.
The Directors consider that this Annual Report, Board statements Fair, balanced and Fair, balanced and taken asa whole, is fair, balanced and understandable review in the Risk understandable understandable and provides the information Management and Audit Committee report necessary for shareholders toassess the onpages 74 and 75.
Groupsposition and performance, business model and strategy.
A full version of the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website: www.
However, each Non-Executive Directors letter of appointment Explanation of non-compliance with the Code contains a notice period of one month either way and his her Kier complies with all provisions of the Code other than Code appointment is subject to annual re-election and to statutory provision B.
2.3, which requires Non-Executive Directors to be provisions relating to the removal of directors.
The Companys appointed for specified terms.
Although AdamWalker and current policy is that all Directors, including the Non-Executive Constance Baroudel were each  term of Directors, are subject to annual re-election at the Companys AGM three years, the other Non-Executive Directors were not appointed and that, in the future, all Non-Executive Directors other than the for a specified term.
Chairman will be appointed for an initial three-year term.
62 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Application of the main principles of the Code During the 2017 financial year, the Company continued to apply the main principles of the Code, as follows: A.
Leadership C. Accountability A1 The Boards role The Board A3 Role of the Chairman The C1 Financial and business C2 Risk management and met formally nine times during Chairman sets the agendas for reporting The Board has internal control systems the year with other meetings Board meetings, manages the established arrangements to TheBoard sets the Groups being held during the year to meetings in conjunction with ensure that reports and other risk appetite and, via the discuss specific matters.
the Company Secretary and information published by RMAC, monitors and annually There is a clear schedule of facilitates open and theGroup are fair, balanced reviews the effectiveness matters reserved for the Board constructive dialogue andunderstandable.
The ofthe Groups systems of please see page 64 for a during them.
Strategic Report, set out on riskmanagement and summary, together with pages 1 to 57 inclusive, internalcontrol.
A4 Role of the Non-Executive delegated authorities which are provides information about Directors The Chairman C3 Role and responsibilities used throughout the Group.
the performance of the promotes an open and ofthe Risk Management and Group, the business model, A2 A clear division of constructive environment in Audit Committee The Board the Groups strategy and the responsibilities The roles of the the boardroom and actively has delegated a number of risks and uncertainties Chairman and Chief Executive invites the Non-Executive responsibilities to the RMAC.
relating to the Groups are clearly defined.
The The principal activities of the future prospects.
Chairman is responsible for the Non-Executive Directors RMACare summarised in the leadership and effectiveness of provide objective, rigorous Risk Management and Audit the Board.
The Chief Executive andconstructive challenge Committee report on pages is responsible for leading the tomanagement and hold 73 to 78 inclusive.
day-to-day management of the meetings at which the Group within the strategy set Executive Directors are by the Board.
Effectiveness D. Remuneration E. Relations with B1 The Boards composition B4 Induction, training and D1 Levels and elements shareholders The Nomination Committee is development All Directors of remuneration The E1 Shareholder engagement responsible for regularly receive an induction on joining Remuneration Committee and dialogue The Board reviewing the composition of the Board.
Training is made sets levels of remuneration takes an active role in the Board.
In recommending available to members of the which are designed to engaging with shareholders.
appointments to the Board, the Board in accordance with their promote the long-term The Board particularly Nomination Committee requirements.
Please see success of the Group and values opportunities to considers the range of skills, page68 for details of structures remuneration meet with shareholders and knowledge and experience Constance Baroudels soas to link it to both the Chairman ensures that required, taking into account induction during the year.
corporate and individual the Board is kept informed the benefits of diversity on the performance, thereby about shareholders views.
B5 Provision of information and Board, including gender.
aligning managements Please see Relations with support The Chairman, in interests with those shareholders on page 81.
B2 Board appointments conjunction with the Company of shareholders.
The appointment of new Secretary, ensures that all E2 Constructive use of the Directors is led by the Board members receive D2 Development of AGM The AGM provides the Nomination Committee.
remuneration policy Board with an important Further details of the and packages Details opportunity to meet with B6 Board and committee activitiesof the Nomination of the activities of the shareholders, who are performance evaluation Committee can be found Remuneration Committee invited to meet the Board Duringthe 2017 financial onpages 70 and 71. can be found in the following the formal year, the Board undertook Directors Remuneration business of the meeting.
B3 Time commitments anevaluation of its own Report on pages 82to 101 On appointment, Directors performance.
arenotified of the time evaluation, which was commitment expected from , can be them which, in practice, goes found on page 69. beyond that set out in their B7 Re-election of Directors letter of appointment.
External AllDirectors were subject to directorships, which may affect shareholder election or existing time commitments, re-election at the 2016 AGM, must be agreed with as will be the case at the the Chairman.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 63
