Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance in action Strategic priority The Boards governance role What we achieved in 2017 The Board, together with the Safety, Oversaw a 38% reduction in the Groups Operate a safe and Health and Environment Committee, reportable accident incidence rate.
sustainable business oversees the framework within which Led the culture of visible leadership theGroup manages safety, health and on safety matters, with regular site environmental risks.
visits by members of the Board.
For further information, please see Challenged management to Corporate responsibility on pages 30 communicate lessons learned to33 inclusive.
fromsafety and environmental incidents effectively.
The Board approves the Groups Monitored progress against Vision Accelerate growth to be a strategy, reviews subsequent progress 2020, with regular reviews during top three player in our and makes decisions to support the theyear.
Completed the acquisition of For further information on progress McNicholas, a leading infrastructure during the year, please see the services provider, in July 2017.
ChiefExecutives strategic review Oversaw the simplification of the onpages14to 19 inclusive.
Groups portfolio to enable greater focus on its principal businesses.
The Board sets operational and financial Monitored the businesses Achieve top quartile targets and reviews performance by the performance against a set of formal performance and efficiency Groups businesses.
For further information on the businesses Challenged management to maintain performance, please see the divisional its disciplined approach to working reviews on pages 42 to 51 inclusive.
Approved managements strategies relating to under-performing businesses.
The Board, via management, oversees Challenged management to promote Provide sector-leading the delivery of services to customers and effective client relationship customer experience reviews and challenges reports which management systems throughout provide details of customer feedback.
For further information on customer Discussed how to strengthen and feedback, please see Strategic develop key client relationships.
Encouraged active measurement of client satisfaction by the business.
The Board, together with the Nomination Reviewed managements processes Attract and retain Committee, reviews the pipeline of foridentifying, attracting and highly-motivated, potential talent at senior level and retainingtalent.
high-performing teams challenges management to ensure that The Nomination Committee the Group is appropriately resourced.
reviewedthe senior management For further information on the senior succession plan.
management succession plan, please Discussed appointments to senior see the Nomination Committee report on positions within the business.
The Board challenges management to Approved innovation as a new area Embracing innovation support a focus on innovation to drive offocus within Vision 2020. andtechnology across the Groups future growth.
Reviewed managements proposals to ourbusiness For further information on steps taken to drive innovation throughout the Group.
promote innovative practices, please see Oversaw the establishment of Strategic performance on page 27. aGroup-wide innovation forum.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 61
