Corporate Governance Statement Leadership Highlights Good progress againstVision 2020, with management challenged to continue to meet targets Open and challenging debate at Board meetings, on a wide variety of strategic, financial and operational issues Board members undertook a number of visible leadership tours to the Groups sites Further reduction in the Groupsaccident incidence rate As part of his induction, Philip Cox visits Kier PropertysFoley For further information on Kiers strategy and performance, please turn to pages 1 to 57 inclusive.
Street development in central London.
The matters requiring Board approval include, amongst others: The Board The Board is responsible for the effective leadership and the the Groups strategy: long-term success of the Group.
mergers, acquisitions and disposals of a material size and nature: The Board has delegated certain of its responsibilities to the material changes to the Groups structure and capital: Boardcommittees.
The principal activities of each of these the payment of dividends: committees during the year are set out in their respective reports the approval of material Group policies: and in this Annual Report.
The decisions which can only be made material contract tenders and material investments.
by the Board are clearly defined in the schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
The full schedule of matters reserved The Executive Directors have significant commercial, financial and forthe Board is available on the Companys website at operational experience of the markets and sectors within which www.
The diverse range of skills and leadership experience of the Non-Executive Directors enables them to the paragraphs under the heading TheRemuneration Committee on page monitor the performance of, provide constructive challenge to and 101 are incorporated by reference into this Corporate Governance Statement.
Biographical details of each of the Directors are set out on pages 66 and 67.
Governance framework Shareholders The following chart provides details of the Boards governance framework, together Board with those individuals who provide support Accountable to the Board committees: to shareholders and responsible for the long-term success of the Company Committees Nomination Remuneration Risk Safety, see page 70 see page 82 Management Health and and Audit Environment Group HR Director Group HR Director see page 73 see page 79 Chris Last Chris Last Talent and Group Reward and Organisational Pensions Director Mark Bradshaw Development Director Group Financial Group SHE Director Jan Atkinson John Edwards Controller Simon Martle General Counsel and Group Head of Risk and Company Secretary Hugh Raven Internal Audit Clare Ball 64 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Board and committee meeting attendance Board and committee meetings are typically held in London, Tempsford Hall or at one of the Groups regional offices or sites.
For example, the October 2016 meeting was held in Dubai and was followed by a site visit to two local projects.
The number of formal Board and committee meetings attended by each Director during the 2017 financial year is as follows: Risk Management Safety, Health and Nomination Remuneration and Audit Environment Director Board Committee Committee Committee Committee 9 8 8 4 4 Justin Atkinson 9 8 8 4 4 Constance Baroudel 9 8 8 4 4 Kirsty Bashforth 9 8 8 4 4 Nigel Brook 9 Bev Dew 9 1 Amanda Mellor 4 3 3 1 1 Haydn Mursell 9 Nigel Turner 9 Claudio Veritiero 9 Adam Walker 9 8 8 4 2 Phil White 9 2 8 - Nick Winser 9 8 8 4 4 The Board and its committees held a number of other meetings to discuss specific matters or issues during the year.
Certain Executive Directors attended certain committee meetings: please see the respective committee reports in this Corporate Governance Statement for further details.
1 Amanda Mellor retired from the Board with effect from 18 November 2016 and attended all Board and committee meetings which occurred prior to that date.
2 Phil White did not attend Nomination Committee meetings where the principal purpose of the meeting was to consider the Chairmans succession, but attended all other Nomination Committee meetings during the year other than that held inJune 2017, when he was absent due to a medical appointment.
Board composition As at the date of this Annual Report, the Board comprises 11Directors, of which six are Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman and five are Executive Directors.
During the 2017 financial year: Constance Baroudel was appointed as Amanda Mellor retired from the on 23 March2017, we announced a Non-Executive Director with effect Board, and as Chair of the the appointment of PhilipCox as from 1 July 2016 and as Chair of the Remuneration Committee, with aNon-Executive Director and Remuneration Committee with effect effect from the conclusion of the ChairmanDesignate with effect from the conclusion of the AGM on AGM on 18 November 2016: and from 1 July 2017.
18November 2016: On 1 August 2017, we announced that Phil White would retire asChairman on 31 August 2017 and thatPhilip Cox would take over the role of Chairman from 1 September 2017.
Details of the Boards composition, tenure and gender balance asat the date of this Annual Report are as follows: Board composition Board tenure Board balance Executive Directors 0-2 years Male Non-Executive 2-4 years Female Directors 4-6 years Chairman 6 years Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 65
