Corporate Governance Statement Nomination Committee report The Nomination Committee has a vital role in ensuring that the Board has the right mix of skills and experience to deliver the Groups strategy and for identifying tomorrows leaders.
Philip Cox CBE Chair Nomination Committee members Allocation of time Chairman succession Philip Cox Chair Kirsty Bashforth Senior management Justin Atkinson Adam Walker succession planning Constance Baroudel Nick Winser Board inductions Phil White retired as the Chair of the Committee on 31 August 2017.
AmandaMellor retired asa member oftheCommittee on 18 November 2016.
Dear shareholder Committee performance evaluation Following Phil Whites retirement as the Chair of the Committee, 2017 progress against 2016 evaluation Iam pleased to present the Nomination Committee report, which The 2016 Board evaluation identified: provides a summary of the Committees activities during 2017. a need for regular reviews of the Executive Director succession plan: and Role the commencement of the Chairmans succession process The role of the Committee includes: as being the two key areas of focus for the Committee in the 2017 reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board financial year.
The 2017 Board evaluation process confirmed that and making recommendations to the Board with regard to the Committee had made good progress with respect to the any changes: Executive Director succession plan and the Committee oversaw evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge, experience theappointment of a new Chairman duringthe year.
and diversity on the Board: and 2018 principal areas of focus considering succession planning for the Board and other Following the 2017 Board evaluation, the Committees principal senior executives, taking into account the challenges and areas of focus for the 2018 financial year include: opportunities facing the Group and the skills and expertise needed on the Board in the future.
clarifying the Committees immediate priorities, following the appointment of a new Chairman: and The terms of reference for the Committee can be viewed on the Companys website at www.
reviewing the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of theBoard.
Committee composition and meeting attendance Diversity The names of the members of the Committee are set out above.
As a board, we recognise the benefits of diversity.
Diversity of skills, background, knowledge, experience and gender, amongst a At the invitation of the Committee, any other Director may attend number of other factors, are and will continue to be taken into meetings of the Committee.
During the year, the Chief Executive consideration when new appointments to the Board are made.
attended certain of the meetings at which the Chairmans AllBoard appointments are and will continue to be made on merit.
succession process was discussed and the Chief Executive, theGroup HR Director and the Group Head of Talent and The Committee notes the recommendations in the five-year review Organisational Development attended meetings to discuss of Lord Davies Report October 2015 and the Hampton-Alexander Executive Director succession planning.
Review November 2016, one of which is that there should be a minimum representation of women on FTSE350 company boards The secretary of the Committee is the Company Secretary of 33% by 2020.
The size of the Board in recent years, amongst HughRaven.
other factors, has made this challenging to achieve.
Gender The Committee met formally eight times during the year: details diversity will, however, remain an important consideration when ofattendance at these meetings are set out on page 65. reviewing the Boards future composition.
70 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Principal activities 2017 financial year The Committeestwo principal activities during the year were overseeing the Chairmans succession and reviewing the ExecutiveDirector succession plan.
In addition, the Committee oversaw Constance Baroudels induction to the Board please seepage 68.
Chairmans succession The process for identifying and appointing a successor to PhilWhite as Chairman was led by the Senior Independent Director, Justin Atkinson.
The Committee appointed Korn Ferry which has no other connection with the Company to assist it in the process.
Phil White did not attend any of the Committees meetings at which the process was discussed and was not involved in the selection or appointment of his successor.
The key elements of the role profile for the new Chairman included: strong experience of overseeing the implementation of strategy: a familiarity with tight margin business environments and the associated risks: and an ability to manage multiple stakeholders effectively.
A summary of the process is as follows: Sept 2016 Oct 2016 Nov 2016 Dec 2016 Jan to Mar 2017 Commencement Korn Ferry Korn Ferry met Committee Mar 2017 Preferred candidate ofthe Chairmans appointed to assist Board members meeting, with Korn identified: Interviews held succession process the Committee individually to Ferry, to agree a list agreement of letter bymembers of following a discuss the role.
of candidates for of appointment: theCommittee detailed selection Role profile agreed interview Committee withcandidates: process by the Committee recommendation: feedback discussed: announcement of references taken appointment Executive Director succession planning As a committee, we are keen to ensure that a strong pipeline of future senior management has been identified, from which future Board appointments can be made.
In particular, our focus is on ensuring that the Board has the right mix of skills and experience both to lead a business which has changed significantly in recent years and also to oversee the delivery of the Groups strategy.
During the year, the Committee has worked closely with the Group HR Director and the Group Head of Talent and Organisational Development to identify a pipeline of potential future Board members.
A summary of some of the key elements of the approach adopted, and discussed with the Committee, is as follows: Action Why?
Progress Next steps Using business psychologists To obtain a consistent and Approximately 100 individuals have Assessments to be conducted Deloitte, assessment of the objective assessment ofthe beenassessed on selected other individuals on Executive Committee ExCo, strengths, development areas a case-by-case basis senior management and and potential of individuals selected other individuals ExCo members and others To provide a framework Reviews of progress against plans ExCo members to share aspects drafted development plans forcontinuing personal conducted with ExCo members of their plans with Kier leaders.
development Others will be challenged to deliver agreed actions First fast potential leadership To provide a dedicated, focused See Action Members of first cohort to talent cohort Accelerate development programme for report back on progress: launched those identified as having fast potential future candidates to potential as leaders be identified Appointment of ExCo sponsor To drive the ExCos strategy for ExCo oversight of senior level vacancies: Continue to focus on the steps for balanced business agenda tangible action to increase continued targeted action on hiring and highlighted under Progress Claudio Veritiero Group diversity throughout the Group promotion: and increased focus on Strategy and Corporate mentoring and targeted development for Development Director female talent Developing early careers To broaden the experience Actions include internal secondments: Continue to focus on the steps opportunities for talent below oftalent at the early stage membership of the CBI Leadership highlighted under Progress Accelerate level ofcareers Programme: and media and IR skills training Conclusion I will be available to answer any questions about theCommittee, our work and how we operate at the AGM on 17 November 2017.
Philip Cox CBE Chair of the Nomination Committee 20 September 2017 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 71
