Governance Board and Committee attendance Attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year is set out in the table below.
The table shows the number of meetings each Director was eligible to attend.
Corporate Governance & Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Bigger Picture Number of meetings held in year 6 6 6 3 1 Executive Directors Jeremy Darroch, Group CEO 6 6 Andrew Griffith, Group COO & CFO 6 6 Non-Executive Directors 3 Chase Carey 5 5 Tracy Clarke 6 6 6 6 1 1 4 Martin Gilbert 5 6 6 6 2 3 Adine Grate 6 6 6 6 6 6 1 Dave Lewis 2 2 2 2 1 1 3 James Murdoch 5 5 3 3 1 1 3 John Nallen 5 5 4 Matthieu Pigasse 5 6 4 6 2 3 Andy Sukawaty 6 6 6 6 3 3 2 Katrin Wehr-Seiter 4 4 1 Dave Lewis stepped down from the Board on 13 October 2016.
2 Katrin Wehr-Seiter joined the Board on 13 October 2016.
3 The 21st Century Fox affiliated directors did not participate in the Board meeting which established the Independent Committee in relation to the 21st Century Fox Offer and the number of meetings they were eligible to attend has been reduced accordingly.
4 Directors are encouraged to attend Board and Committee meetings but in certain circumstances meetings are called at short notice and due to prior business commitments and time differences Directors may be unable to attend.
In these circumstances Directors receive relevant papers and are updated on developments by either the Chairman or Group CEO.
Effectiveness Board Composition Board composition and independence Chairman 1 The Board currently comprises 11 Directors, made up of two Executive Executive Directors 2 Directors and nine Non-Executive Directors.
A majority of six of the Board Independent Non-Executive Directors 6 of Directors are determined to be independent by the Board in accordance Other Non-Executive Directors 2 with provision B.
Further details are set out in the biographies of each of the Directors which are set out on pages 36 and 37.
Chase Carey, James Murdoch and John Nallen represent the Companys largest shareholder, 21st Century Fox, and as such are not considered to be independent within the meaning of the Code.
Each of these Directors has extensive media and pay TV experience and makes a significant contribution to Board discussion.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors bring a wide range of experience Appointments to the Board, diversity and succession planning and expertise to the Groups affairs and carry significant weight in The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee keeps the Boards the Boards decisions.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors are balance of skills, knowledge, experience and the length of service of encouraged to challenge management and to help develop proposals individuals under constant review.
In respect of succession planning and on strategy.
Time is regularly put aside at Board meetings to discuss supplementing the skill set of the Board, there is an established procedure the strategic direction of the Company.
for the appointment of new Directors.
In brief, the Committee identifies Prior to appointment, and on an annual basis, each Board member receives the set of skills and experience required and, with the assistance of and completes a questionnaire to determine factors that may affect external search agencies, selects individuals to take Board positions independence according to best practice statements contained within the on review of their individual merits, regardless of gender, race, religion, Code.
The responses to the questionnaire assist the Board in ascertaining age or disability.
Further information on the work of the Committee whether a Director is independent in character and judgement and whether during the year can be found on pages 47 and 48. there are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors judgement.
Annual Report 2017 41 Corporate governance report continued Copies of the Executive Directors service contracts and letters of Time commitment appointment of the Non-Executive Directors may be inspected at All Non-Executive Directors are advised of the likely time commitments the registered office of the Company during normal business hours required on induction and are expected to devote sufficient time on any weekday except public holidays and at the place of the Annual for the effective discharge of their functions.
The Company provides General Meeting AGM for 15 minutes prior to the meeting until the Non-Executive Directors with appropriate support and facilities for conclusion of the AGM.
consideration of the Companys strategy and performance and a dialogue with the Chairman is strongly encouraged so that any issues The Board currently comprises eight men and three women 27% female regarding conflicting commitments and time pressures can be representation on the Board.
As required by company legislation, a table addressed appropriately.
on page 71 illustrates gender diversity across the Group as well as at Board level.
Induction and training All new Directors receive an induction tailored to their individual Diversity ratio of Directors appointed in past four years requirements.
The induction process involves meeting with all of the Companys Executive Directors and Senior Executives.
This facilitates their understanding of the Group and the key drivers of the business performance.
During the year, Directors have received presentations from a number of areas of the business including Customer Group, Male 1 Female 2 Content, Business Development, Technology and Strategic Planning Group.
The Chairman meets with the Directors throughout the year Length of time served on the Board to review their developmental needs.
An example of a tailored induction programme is detailed below: 0-5 years 5 5 years 6 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Meetings with Customer Product Accompanying Industry Background experience Senior Executives, contact demonstrations a Sky engineer Sky News and centre visit on customer Industry related 7 Sky Studio visits visits International 9 Finance investment 8 In addition to this, various presentations from prior Board meetings will Technology Innovation 5 be made available to the Director in order to improve their understanding Regulatory 5 of the Group and the competitive and regulatory landscape in which it Executive 9 operates.
Consideration is given to Committee appointments and where relevant, tailored training may be required.
Note: T his covers the experience of the Non-Executive Directors who may fall into one or more of the above categories.
Board evaluation In line with the Code, and following the external Board evaluation carried Directors reappointment out by Alice Perkins of JCA Group in 2016, an internal Board and Committee In accordance with Code provision B.
7.1. all continuing Executive and evaluation was carried out during the year facilitated by Andy Sukawaty, Non-Executive Directors will retire and offer themselves for reappointment the Senior Independent Director.
The findings of the evaluation were at the Companys 2017 AGM.
considered by the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee and External directorships reported to the Board.
The overall conclusion was that individual Board Any external appointments for the Executive Directors are considered by members are satisfied that the Board and its Committees work well and the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee.
Executive Directors operate effectively, in an environment where there is constructive challenge are not allowed to take on the Chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company, but are from the Non-Executive Directors.
The Directors were satisfied with the allowed to take up one external Non-Executive FTSE 100 appointment and current mix of skills and experience and the size of the Board.
The Directors retain any payments in respect of such appointments.
noted that appropriate rigour was applied to related party transactions Jeremy Darroch was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director and the 21st Century Fox Offer was a solid example of the Companys of Burberry Group plc on 5 February 2014.
Jeremy serves as Chairman of governance procedures working well in practice.
The allocation of Board and the Audit Committee, a member of the Nomination Committee and, from Committee discussion topics would be reviewed and some topics currently 1 July 2017, as Senior Independent Director.
discussed in detail at committee level may be brought to the whole Board from time to time.
The quality of information presented to the Board was Andrew Griffith was appointed as Senior Independent Non-Executive considered to be of a high standard and distributed on a timely basis.
Director of Just Eat plc on 12 March 2014 and since April 2017 has been serving as Interim Chairman.
He also Chairs the Audit Committee and The performance of each Director was evaluated as part of the evaluation is a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
process, based on self-analysis and input from the other Directors.
It is the Boards intention to continue to review its performance and that of its Details of pay in respect of these appointments can be found in the Committees and individual Directors on an annual basis.
In respect of the Directors remuneration report on page 58. evaluation process for the 2017 18 financial year, it is likely another internal evaluation will be undertaken.
