Governance The Directors of the Board are selected on the criteria of proven skill Board and Committee framework and ability in their particular field of endeavour and a diversity of outlook and experience which directly benefits the operation of the Board as the Board custodian of the business.
A full biography of each Director is provided on pages 36 and 37.
Roles and responsibilities The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive Officer are separate and have been so since the Companys shares were admitted to listing Audit Remuneration Committee Committee in 1994.
The roles and expectations of each Director are clearly defined and recorded within their letters of appointment or service contracts.
The roles and responsibilities of the Board members are explained below.
The Chairman Bigger Picture Corporate James Murdoch is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its Committee Governance & Nominations effectiveness on all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
The Chairman Committee is responsible for creating an environment for open, robust and effective debate.
This includes ensuring, via the Company Secretary, that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The significant commitments of the Chairman are detailed in his biography on page 36.
Company Secretary The Group Chief Executive Officer Group CEO Chris Taylor is responsible for the following in respect of effective Board Jeremy Darroch is responsible and accountable to the Board for the operation: management and operation of the Company, advancing long-term To ensure good information flows within the Board and its Committees, shareholder value, supported by the management team.
He is also between senior management and Non-Executive Directors: involved in the management of the social and environmental responsibilities of the Company.
To facilitate Director induction and assist with professional development: Deputy Chairman To advise the Board through the Chairman of all corporate governance Martin Gilbert deputises for the Chairman as appropriate, provides a obligations and developments in best practice: and sounding board to Non-Executive Directors and is an additional point To be responsible for communicating with shareholders as appropriate.
The Deputy Chairman in particular plays a All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company key role in situations where the Chairman has a conflict of interest, such Secretary who advises on corporate governance matters, Board procedures as the current 21st Century Fox Offer.
During the Offer Period he is acting and other relevant rules and regulations.
In addition, Directors have the as Chairman of the Independent Committee and has held a series of right to seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
meetings with the Companys largest shareholders.
Environment supportive of challenge Senior Independent Non-Executive Director The effective operation of the Board is dependent on the inherent Andy Sukawaty is responsible for providing support to the Chairman and checks and balances within the various Board roles.
As highly qualified provides an independent point of contact for shareholders, particularly and successful individuals in their respective fields of endeavour, all if they have concerns which have not been resolved through the normal Non-Executive Directors influence, debate and contribute to decisions channels or for which such contact is inappropriate.
He also plays a key relating to the strategy of the Company, its performance and its impact role in ensuring the Board have a balanced understanding of the issues on stakeholders.
The Non-Executive Directors are evaluated and judged and concerns of major shareholders.
on the quality and content of their contributions to Board debate and Non-Executive Directors are expected to offer alternative viewpoints and challenge perceptions Chase Carey, Tracy Clarke, Martin Gilbert, Adine Grate, James Murdoch, and decisions as appropriate.
John Nallen, Matthieu Pigasse, Andy Sukawaty and Katrin Wehr-Seiter, collectively, are responsible for constructively challenging the Executive Directors and overseeing the delivery of the Companys strategy within the risk and control framework.
Annual Report 2017 39 Corporate governance report continued Board agenda The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the remuneration In addition to its reserved and standing matters, during the year policy for the Board and ensures that no Director is involved in decisions the Board also considered and received a number of updates and affecting their own remuneration.
The Directors remuneration report can presentations, giving Directors a further opportunity to explore be found on pages 50 to 69. and analyse topics such as: The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee is responsible The Groups operations and five-year financial plans: for oversight of the structure, size, composition and succession planning of the Board and its Committees and overall compliance with corporate The general market and economic outlook: governance standards.
The report of the Corporate Governance The competitive landscape, opportunities and market trends: & Nominations Committee can be found on pages 47 and 48.
Growth of existing business activities: and The Bigger Picture Committee has responsibility for oversight of the social, environmental and ethical impacts of the Companys activities.
Existing and new products, services and technological developments.
The report of the Bigger Picture Committee can be found on page 49.
The members of the Independent Committee have taken steps to ensure The Executive Committee is responsible for approving routine business that 21st Century Fox affiliated Directors do not receive information relating such as the approval of share option exercises and specific business to the Company that is deemed relevant to the Offer during the Offer delegated by the Board.
As described on page 38, the Independent Committee has the authority to exercise all powers of the Board in relation to the Offer.
The minutes of Committee meetings are made available to all Board Directors on a timely basis.
At each Board meeting the Chairman of each To maintain an appropriate level of control over the day-to-day affairs Committee provides the Board with a brief update of the work currently of the Company, the Board has identified certain matters that only being carried out by the Committee they chair.
Other sub-committees it can approve.
These matters are contained within the Companys and steering groups provide additional resource and support to the Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board which can be found at Board Committees or are formed for specific tasks.
A Committee of senior management generally meets on a weekly basis Board delegation to allow prompt discussion of relevant business issues.
The Committee The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to Board committees, comprises the Group CEO, Group Chief Operating Officer and Chief notably the Audit, Remuneration, Corporate Governance & Nominations, Financial Officer Group COO & CFO and other senior executives Bigger Picture and Executive Committees.
Each Committees terms from within the Group.
of reference can be found on the Companys corporate website www.
The Audit Committee has responsibility for oversight of corporate reporting, risk management and the Companys relationship with its auditor.
The Audit Committee conducts a robust assessment of the Groups principal risks and their mitigation on behalf of the Board and reviews the effectiveness of internal controls.
Significant risks to the business are kept under review and appropriate material controls are sanctioned and employed as appropriate.
The Companys principal risks and examples of how we mitigate those risks are detailed on pages 28 to 31.
The Audit Committee also oversees the review of whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
For further details, the Audit Committee Report can be found on pages 44 to 47.
