Corporate Governance Statement LEADERSHIP AN INDEPENDENT BOARD The Boards Role The two charts that follow show the The Board, under the Chairmans length of time our NEDs have served leadership, is responsible for ensuring on the Board, and the number of our long-term success.
It approves Board members with experience 2 our strategy and corporate goals of particular relevance to Genus.
and monitors our performance against them.
It determines that NON-EXECUTIVE TENURE ON THE BOARD we have the necessary resources, systems and controls to achieve 1 MORE THAN 9 YEARS our objectives, and sets the culture 6 TO 9 YEARS 1 and standards of behaviour we 4 want to see throughout Genus.
3 TO 6 YEARS 2 1 1 TO 3 YEARS 1 The Board is also responsible for 00.0 other critical decisions, including approving the corporate budget: Executive Directors A BROAD BASE OF RELEVANT EXPERIENCE ensuring we have the right funding: Independent Non-Executive Chairman approving material contracts, Independent Non-Executive Directors INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS 6 acquisitions and investments: FINANCE 3 and reporting to shareholders.
SCIENTIFIC BIOTECH 3 The Boards Composition FOOD INDUSTRY 1 Following Mike Buzzacotts retirement 00.0 at the 2016 AGM, the Board now comprises five independent NEDs, The Board has a good mix of wellincluding the Chairman, and two established and newer NEDs.
In recent Executive Directors the Chief years, we have broadened the range Executive and the Group Finance of skills and experience on the Board Director.
This gives us a majority of through Non-Executive appointments, independent Directors on the Board.
giving us an appropriate blend of different areas of expertise, longstanding knowledge of the Group and its markets, and fresh perspectives.
This helps to ensure the Board provides even-handed oversight, works in a constructive and focused manner and has the capabilities to manage the Board Roles and Responsibilities To ensure we have clear responsibilities at the top of the Company, the Board has set out well-defined roles for the Chairman and Chief Executive.
These, along with the responsibilities of our other Directors, are summarised in the table below.
Title Individual Responsibilities Chairman Bob Lawson Bobs primary responsibility is to lead the Board and ensure it operates effectively.
He achieves this in part through promoting an open culture, which gives people the courage to challenge the status quo, and holding meetings with the NEDs without the Executives present.
Bob is also responsible for the Boards communications with shareholders.
Chief Executive Karim Bitar Karim is responsible for devising and implementing our strategy and managing our day-to-day operations.
He is accountable to the Board for the Companys development, in line with its strategy, and taking into account the risks, objectives and policies set out by the Board and its Committees.
Group Finance Stephen Wilson Stephen is responsible for supporting the Chief Executive in devising Director and implementing the strategy, and managing the Groups financial and operational performance.
Senior Nigel Turner Nigel provides a sounding board for the Chairman and is an alternative Independent line of communication between the Chairman and other Directors.
He NED leads meetings of the NEDs, without the Chairman present, to appraise the Chairmans performance, and consults with shareholders in the absence of the Chairman and Chief Executive.
NEDs Lysanne Gray, The NEDs constructively challenge and provide oversight and assistance Duncan Maskell, in the progression of our execution of strategy, management of the Lykele van der Broek Company and management of our governance structures, within the risk and control framework set by the Board.
| 50 Genus plc Annual Report 2017 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE challenges of a complex and evolving when recruiting, while ensuring the be effective and to demonstrate global business environment.
Board has the skills it needs.
More commitment to their roles.
information about our approach to Almost all our Directors have held Board composition and recruitment As required by the Code, all the leadership positions in international can be found in the Nomination Directors will offer themselves for companies, with several having run Committee report on pages 55 to 56. election at the next Annual General businesses overseas.
Several of our Meeting AGM.
Details can be Directors, including the Chair of the The Board believes that all of found in the Notice of AGM at the Audit Committee, have significant the NEDs are independent in end of this report.
If re-elected to financial experience, while others have character and judgement, and the Board at the AGM, Nigel Turner strong backgrounds in scientific that there are no relationships or will reach the tenth anniversary research or in leading science-based circumstances that are likely to of his original appointment as a businesses.
affect or could appear to affect NED in January 2018.
Following the review, the Board is satisfied that As Genus grows, the Board must performance evaluation described Nigel remains independent and evolve to keep pace.
We consider on page 47, the Board also confirms that he has no connection with the diversity in its broadest sense that all the Directors continue to Companys operational activities.
Board and Committee Structure The diagram below shows the Board and the Committees that report to it.
AUDIT COMMITTEE Executive Committees Information about the GELT and the Ensures the integrity R&D PMT can be found on pages of our financial REMUNERATION 44 to 45 and page 48 respectively.
reporting, evaluates R&D PMT COMMITTEE our risk management The CSR Committee defines our and internal control Gives us a Determines system, and oversees Group-wide CSR strategy, reviews comprehensive remuneration for our the internal and our policies and practices, monitors view of our R&D Executive Directors and external auditor.
programme and senior management, external developments, and advises involves our business to support our growth GELT and the Board about CSR units in prioritising strategy and matters.
It recommends annual our R&D initiatives.
deliver value for goals and initiatives, and identifies stakeholders.
the key performance indicators for monitoring and reporting our performance.
More information about our CSR activities can be found in GENUS PLC NOMINATION the Strategic Report, on pages 34 BOARD GELT COMMITTEE to 39, and at www.
Leads our Reviews the Boards strategic delivery structure, size and ensures and composition organisational and proposes alignment, candidates for engagement and appointment to efficient execution.
COMMITTEE Ensures that the Group continues to engage in business in a socially responsible and ethical manner.
Board Committees The table below shows Board Committee membership: Committee The Committee Chairs oversee and Director Audit Nomination Remuneration lead the Committees activities, within their terms of reference, and Bob Lawson C M are responsible for their effective Karim Bitar M operation.
More information about the roles and work of the Board Nigel Turner M M C Committees can be found in their Lysanne Gray C M M statements on pages 55 to 81, and in their terms of reference on our Duncan Maskell M M M website at www.
Lykele van der Broek M M M M Committee memberC Committee Chair | Genus plc Annual Report 2017 51 Corporate Governance Statement continued LEADERSHIP CONTINUED Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings The table below shows how many Board and Committee meetings each Director attended during the year.
Director Board Nomination Audit Remuneration Non-Executive Chairman 1 Bob Lawson 8 8 3 3 5 6 6 Executive Directors 1 1 Karim Bitar 8 8 3 3 5 6 8 5 1 1 1 Stephen Wilson 8 8 3 5 6 BOARD AUDIT MEETINGS COMMITTEE Non-Executive Directors MEETINGS Nigel Turner 8 8 3 3 5 5 6 6 Mike Buzzacott retired on 17 November 2016 3 3 1 1 3 3 3 3 2 Lysanne Gray 7 8 3 3 5 5 5 6 3 Duncan Maskell 8 8 2 3 4 5 6 6 Lykele van der Broek 8 8 3 3 5 5 6 6 3 6 NOMINATION REMUNERATION Note: Figures in brackets are the maximum number of Board or Committee meetings the Director could COMMITTEE COMMITTEE have attended.
MEETINGS MEETINGS 1 Attendance by invitation.
2 Due to prior commitments pre-appointment, Lysanne Gray was unable to attend the November 2016 Board and July 2016 Remuneration Committee meetings.
However, Lysanne was provided with all Board and Committee materials and submitted feedback via the Board and Committee Chairs prior to the meeting.
3 Due to prior commitments pre-appointment, Duncan Maskell was unable to attend the November 2016 Audit and Nomination Committee meetings.
However, Duncan was provided with all Committee materials and submitted feedback via the Committee Chairs prior to the meetings.
ACCOUNTABILITY Risk Management and risks has been in place for the year The Board also sought regular Internal Control under review and up to the date updates on a number of specific The Board is responsible for of approval of the Annual Report risks during the year, including our risk management system and Accounts.
Our principal risks the Groups work on the: and for reviewing our controls and our mitigations for them are litigation relevant to the GSS and risk mitigations.
summarised on pages 12 and 13. project and preparation for market launch of its products and services: The risk management system is The Board performed its annual risk in-licensing of IP rights, particularly designed to identify, evaluate and review in May 2017.
This involved those relating to gene editing prioritise the risks and uncertainties reviewing its risk appetite and a assets: we face, and applies to the Board, fresh assessment of the types and IT resilience and cyber security: the Audit Committee, GELT, our levels of risk facing Genus, as it and acquisition: and businesses and our divisional business executes its strategy.
This top-down acquisition and integration reviews.
The Board sets our risk assessment was designed to identify of companies appetite, which defines the types and evaluate any new or emerging and levels of risks that the Board is risks and ascertain whether the risk Internal Control prepared to seek and accept as the register covered all relevant risks.
The Board, with the help of the Group executes its strategy.
Audit Committee, has reviewed the The Board then monitors our risk To further assist its understanding effectiveness of our internal control exposure against the appetite for of risk, the Board continued system, as well as our financial, our principal risks and ensures its programme of visits to our operational and compliance controls appropriate executive ownership local operations and received and our risk management.
This on-going process regular political, economic and for identifying, evaluating and industry risk updates from the managing the Groups significant relevant business groups.
| 52 Genus plc Annual Report 2017 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE The review considered our internal Risk Management and Internal The main internal control and risk Audit Function management processes relating control self-assessment process, which is designed to assess Oversees the risk management to our preparation of consolidated process and provides guidance on accounts are our Group-wide compliance with our minimum control standards, the independent risk management.
accounting policies and procedures, Maintains the risk schedule created segregation of duties, system access internal audit programme, and the reports management prepared in consultation with senior controls, a robust consolidation and management.
reporting system, various levels of when the Board approved the interim and final results and financial Engages with senior management, management review and centrally to review risks and their mitigation.
defined process control points statements.
It also assessed: whether we had identified, and reconciliation processes.
evaluated, managed and controlled Our Internal Control System significant risks: and The key elements of our internal Investment Appraisal whether any significant weaknesses control systems are set out below.
We control our capital expenditure had arisen, and if so, whether we An internal control system cannot through our budget process and had addressed them.
completely eliminate the risks we by having clear authorisation levels, face or ensure we do not have a above which our businesses must The assessment also took into material misstatement or loss.
submit detailed written proposals account any risk or control issues to the Board for approval.
we identified through our divisional Management Structure business reviews, Board and GELT The Board sets formal authorisation We carry out due diligence for meetings, and insurers reviews.
levels and other controls that allow business acquisitions and material it to delegate authority to run our licences, and conduct postWe have an internal control businesses to the Chief Executive, completion reviews of major projects, continuous improvement work GELT and their management teams.
to ensure we identify areas for programme and routinely identify Our management supplements these improvement and correct any areas opportunities to strengthen our controls by setting the operating of underperformance or overspend.
control environment and improve standards that each subsidiary our risk management capabilities.
needs for its business and location.
Internal Audit However, the Board has not identified Our internal audit activities are or been told of any material GELT regularly reviews our provided by in-house and external weaknesses in our internal controls.
performance against strategy, budget resources, under the leadership and a defined set of operational of our Head of Risk Management Risk Management Framework key performance indicators.
During the year, The roles and responsibilities Chief Executive, Group Finance Internal Audit completed a riskwithin our risk management Director, Group General Counsel and based audit programme agreed by framework are set out below: Company Secretary, and the Group the Audit Committee.
The Audit Financial Controller also hold monthly Committee reviews the results of The Board reviews with each business unit.
these audits and the subsequent Has overall responsibility for the actions we take, which we also Groups risk management and Quality and Integrity of Our People communicate to the external auditor.
We strive to operate with high Approves our strategic objectives.
integrity in everything we do.
Our All business units complete risk and Monitors the nature and extent of control environment depends on control self-assessments twice a year.
our risk exposure against risk high-quality people who maintain Internal Audit, as part of its work appetite, for our principal risks.
We ensure programme, performs independent Provides direction on the our peoples ability and integrity reviews of these assessments importance of risk management through our recruitment standards, to identify any deficiencies in and the risk management culture.
training and consistent performance our controls and how we should management.
The Board is informed address them.
The external auditor GELT of appointments to our most also provides observations on Identifies, addresses and mitigates senior management positions.
the control environment as part risks Group-wide.
The results are Monitors our risk management Information and Financial communicated to senior management process and internal controls.
Reporting Systems and the Audit Committee.
We create detailed operational Audit Committee budgets for the year ahead, along Supports the Board in monitoring with five-year strategic plans, which risk exposure against risk appetite.
the Board reviews and approves.
Reviews the effectiveness of our We then monitor our performance risk management and internal throughout the year, so we can control system.
The information we consider includes our monthly financial results, key performance indicators and variances, updated fullyear forecasts and key business risks.
| Genus plc Annual Report 2017 53 Corporate Governance Statement continued RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Investor Relations Calendar Date Type of communication Location September 2016 Preliminary results announcement and presentation London September 2016 Preliminary results investor roadshow London, Edinburgh November 2016 Investor Conference London November 2016 AGM and trading update London February 2017 Interim results announcement and presentation London February and March 2017 Interim results investor roadshow London, Edinburgh Calls Investor calls London, New York, Paris Our Chief Executive and Group Key Themes Discussed in Finance Director regularly meet Shareholder Meetings institutional investors, to discuss Our meetings with shareholders our strategy and progress, and to during the year covered a understand how investors view our wide range of topics.
The Chairman also attends common themes included: certain meetings.
These meetings Genuss operational and financial 30 usually take place after we release performance: NON-HOLDING our interim and preliminary results.
market conditions and our INSTITUTIONS initiatives to address them: AND POTENTIAL During the year, our investor relations strategic progress across the INVESTORS MET programme included meetings in Group: the locations set out in our investor R&D progress and our increased relations calendar.
The Board sets spending to accelerate the time aside during its meetings to programme: discuss feedback from shareholder progress in ABS through the meetings, including relevant fide Novo and IVB acquisitions: feedback obtained by independent capturing a share of the value brokers and our advisers.
This we deliver to customers: allows all Directors to understand the Hermitage acquisition: 59% major shareholders views.
the opportunity for PRRSv PROPORTION OF resistant pigs: and SHARES HELD BY The AGM also gives the Board updates on the GSS litigation.
INSTITUTIONS MET an opportunity to communicate DURING YEAR with both private and institutional investors, and we welcome their involvement.
All our Board members will be available to answer questions at the AGM on 16 November 2017.
20 NUMBER OF TOP 25 SHAREHOLDERS MET 8 OF TOP 10 Note: Shareholdings as at 30 June 2017.
