Corporate governance report Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Chairmans overview The UK Corporate Governance Code Code provides the standard for corporate governance in the UK.
The Financial Conduct Authority requires listed companies to disclose whether they have complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the financial year.
The Board considers that the Company has complied with the provisions and applied the main principles of the Code for the whole of the year ended 30 June 2017.
This section of the Annual Report along with the Directors remuneration report on pages 50 to 69, the Directors report and other statutory disclosures on pages 70 to 75 provide details of how the Company has applied the main principles of corporate governance, On behalf of the Board it gives me great pleasure to introduce this years in particular those laid down in the Code.
The Code can be accessed corporate governance report.
I would like to take this opportunity to at www.
provide you with some direct insight into the Boards view of Corporate Governance and the changes to our Board composition through the year.
21st Century Fox Offer Following the approach by 21st Century Fox on 7 December 2016 with an As a Board, we are the stewards of the Company.
It is our responsibility initial proposal to acquire the fully diluted share capital of the Company to ensure that the Companys strategy is aligned to the interests of that it does not already own, the Board appointed a committee comprising our investors and takes account of the interests of all the Companys the Independent Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors stakeholders.
As individuals, we believe that effective corporate the Independent Committee, all of whom the Board considers to be free governance is based on honesty, integrity and transparency and can from conflicts of interest with regard to the offer.
On 15 December 2016, only be fully realised within an environment of open, robust and effective 21st Century Fox announced that it had reached agreement with the debate.
This is the Board culture we foster at Sky and it is my personal Independent Committee on the terms of a recommended pre-conditional responsibility as Chairman to ensure that we continue to live this culture cash offer for the fully diluted share capital of the Company which it did and promote it within our business.
not already own the Offer or the 21st Century Fox Offer.
It is intended At the conclusion of last years AGM, Dave Lewis stepped down from the that the Offer will be implemented by means of a scheme of arrangement Board and Katrin Wehr-Seiter was appointed as a Non-Executive Director.
I would like to thank Dave for his significant contribution since joining the The Independent Committee is chaired by Martin Gilbert and has the Board in 2012 and welcome Katrin as a member of the Board.
authority to exercise all powers of the Board in relation to the 21st Century This year we undertook an internal Board evaluation and Andy Sukawaty, Fox Offer.
The Independent Committee, whose members constitute a our Senior Independent Director, met with all the Directors and discussed majority of the Board, are exercising their rights and powers to manage a range of topics.
The feedback from the evaluation confirmed that the the governance of the Board during this period in the best interests of all Board and each of its Committees continue to operate effectively and shareholders.
This includes taking such steps as they consider appropriate that each Director continues to make an effective contribution and to regulate the attendance of Directors connected with 21st Century Fox retains a strong commitment to their role.
The resulting findings of at meetings of the Board and information they receive relating to the the evaluation are discussed on page 42.
Company that is deemed relevant to the Offer.
This ensures that all matters relevant to the Offer including matters relating to the future prospects The Board has established arrangements to evaluate whether the or strategy of the Company are dealt with by the Independent Committee.
information in the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
These arrangements will continue for the duration of the Offer or until Further details of these arrangements can be found on page 45. the successful completion of any transaction the Offer Period.
As a result the Board considers the Annual Report, taken as a whole, The Independent Committee met on nine occasions between is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information 7 December 2016 and 30 June 2017. necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Leadership In December 2016, 21st Century Fox where I am Chief Executive Officer Role of the Board approached the Deputy Chairman of Sky with an initial proposal The Board has collective responsibility for the management, direction and to acquire the shares in the Company that it does not already performance of the Company and provides leadership within a framework own.
Following this approach, specific governance arrangements of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be appropriately were put in place to protect the interests of all shareholders.
The Board sets the strategic direction, ensuring Those arrangements are described further in this report.
that the necessary resources are in place for the Company to meet its During the year we have continued our work in promoting greater and objectives and deliver sustainable performance.
more effective engagement with our shareholders.
The Executive Directors The Board takes a long-term outlook and sees itself as responsible to meet our investors and analysts and discuss a wide range of topics.
a wide range of stakeholders, whilst pursuing its objectives in a manner Andy Sukawaty, as the Senior Independent Director, has engaged with consistent with its statutory duties, for the benefit of the Companys shareholders on governance issues.
As described on page 43, Martin Gilbert members as a whole.
has engaged with shareholders on issues in relation to the 21st Century Fox Offer and Tracy Clarke, Chair of the Remuneration Committee, has also engaged on remuneration issues.
We will continue to engage with our shareholders over the course of the coming financial year.
James Murdoch Chairman 38 Sky plc
