Audit Committee Report CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTABILITY ENSURING THE COMPANYS FINANCIAL REPORTING INTEGRITY Dear Shareholder This is my first report as Chair of the Audit Committee.
I joined the Board and the Committee in April 2016 and became Chair of the Committee in November 2016.
During my first year, I underwent a thorough induction programme, which involved meetings with the global management team and visits to both Group and customer sites, to better understand the business operations and industry sector.
I also had meetings with the Groups external auditor and THE COMMITTEE invested time to learn about the Groups system of risk management and internal control.
CONTINUED TO FOCUS The Audit Committee acts on behalf of the Board and shareholders, ITS EFFORTS ON RISK to ensure the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, evaluate its system of risk management and internal control, and oversee the MANAGEMENT, INTERNAL performance of the internal and external auditors.
We have an annual work programme that is designed to deliver these commitments.
CONTROL AND THE I am happy to report that the Committees membership continues to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code and related GROUPS FINANCIAL guidance, with all members being NEDs, and maintains a sound range of financial, commercial and scientific expertise required to fulfil its REPORTING PROCESSES role effectively.
More details on this, and the appointment and induction process for new Board members, are in the Corporate Governance Statement of this Annual Report.
Committee Composition During the financial year, we focused on risk management, internal and Governance control and the Groups financial reporting processes.
We have supported the Board in monitoring the risk management process Chair Members and in reviewing the long-term viability statement and supporting analysis.
We have carefully considered the critical accounting policies Lysanne Gray Nigel Turner and judgements, the quality of disclosures, compliance with financial Duncan Maskell reporting standards and reviewed the half-year and Annual Report, Lykele van der Broek together with the related external audit reports.
We have also reviewed the effectiveness of internal and external audit, discussed the outcomes of these assessments and agreed any actions that were needed.
The Committee was satisfied with the performance of the Focus areas 2017 internal audit function and the external auditor during the year.
Biological assets valuation Lysanne Gray Chair of the Audit Committee Goodwill and intangible assets 6 September 2017 Pensions Presentation and disclosure of exceptional and adjusting items | Genus plc Annual Report 2017 57 Audit Committee Report continued ACCOUNTABILITY CONTINUED The Committees members are NEDs Committee Role and Responsibilities The Committee reports its findings to with a wide range of financial, The Committees role and responsibilities the Board, identifying any matters commercial and scientific research include reviewing and monitoring: that require action or improvement, expertise, appropriate for fulfilling the financial reporting process and and making recommendations about the Committees duties.
In 2017, the any significant financial reporting the steps to be taken.
Committee met the UK Corporate judgements: Governance Codes requirement that the integrity of the Groups The Committees Main Activities at least one Committee member financial statements and any formal During the Year should have recent and relevant announcements relating to financial During the year, the Committee financial experience, with Lysanne performance: held five meetings and invited the Gray having this experience.
the Annual Report to ensure it is Companys Chairman, Chief Executive, fair, balanced and understandable: the Group Finance Director, the Group The Committee has formal terms of the Companys reporting to Financial Controller, the Head of Risk reference, approved by the Board, shareholders: Management and Internal Audit, and that comply with the UK Corporate the effectiveness of the Groups senior representatives of the external Governance Code.
These are available accounting systems and control auditor to attend these meetings.
com environment, including risk Committee members and I also held management and the internal audit separate private sessions during the Our annual review of these terms took function: and year with the Head of Risk place during the year.
The Committee the effectiveness, independence and Management and Internal Audit and also assessed its own effectiveness, objectivity of the Groups external the external audit partner.
At its through a structured questionnaire, auditor, including any non-audit meetings, the Committee focused on: and concluded that it was effective.
services it provides to the Group.
The Committee agreed to enhance its Financial Reporting effectiveness by further emphasis on The Committee also: The main areas of focus and matters broadening the Committees ensures that the Group maintains where the Committee specifically knowledge on financial matters.
suitable confidential arrangements considered managements for employees to raise concerns: and judgements are set out below: reviews the Groups systems and controls for preventing bribery.
Financial reporting area Judgement and assumptions considered Biological assets In compliance with IAS 41, Genus records its biological assets at fair value in the Group balance valuation sheet 375.3m, with the net valuation movement excluding foreign exchange translation shown in the income statement.
At each reporting period, the Committee was updated on the methodology and outcomes of the biological assets valuation.
Having noted that the methodology was unchanged during the year, the Committee debated and considered managements assumptions and estimates, and discussed and reviewed the external auditors report on this area.
The Committee was satisfied with managements accounting treatment, including the income statement increase of 27.4m in the value of porcine biological assets and the reduction of 28.5m in the value of bovine biological assets.
Goodwill and Genus has 104.7m of goodwill and 88.3m of intangible assets on the Group balance sheet.
These intangible assets balances are tested for any indications of impairment by reference to the forecasts for the relevant cash generating units.
Within intangible assets, Genuss policy is to capitalise certain development costs and to perform periodic impairment reviews of the carrying amounts.
At the balance sheet date, the Group had 20.9m of capitalised development expenses in respect of GSS, as well as 9.3m in associated fixed assets.
The Committee discussed managements goodwill and intangible asset impairment reviews, as well as the external auditors work, including its assessment of managements models supporting the estimates and judgements.
After due challenge and debate, the Committee was satisfied with managements assumptions and judgements.
Pensions The Committee received and reviewed management reports on the treatment of pension costs and also received and considered the external auditors pensions accounting input.
The Committee considered managements recommendations were appropriate, including the recognition of 5.7m as an exceptional credit, as a consequence of NMR withdrawing from the MPF.
The Committee also continued to review the status of the other parties who are jointly and severally liable for the MPF deficit and concurred with managements assumptions for reporting Genuss share of the fund.
Presentation Genus had 16.9m of adjusting items including 2.5m of exceptional items in the Group income and disclosure of statement.
The Committee gave consideration to the presentation of these items in the financial exceptional and statements this financial year due to the nature of these items and the recent guidelines on the adjusting items use of alternative performance measures issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority.
The Committee received detailed reports from management outlining the judgements applied in relation to the disclosure of adjusting items which include net IAS 41 valuation movement on biological assets, amortisation of acquired intangible assets, share-based payment expense and exceptional items.
For adjusting items the Committee took into consideration their volatility and lack of correlation to the underlying progress and performance of the business.
Specifically for exceptional items, the Committee took into consideration the materiality, frequency, and nature of the items.
Following this detailed review and active discussion with management, the Committee has concluded that the presentation of the financial statements is appropriate.
| 58 Genus plc Annual Report 2017 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE Monitoring Business Risks Internal Control System The Committee reviewed and agreed The Committee reviewed the GroupOur risk management process and the external auditors scope of work wide risk management process system of internal controls are and fees, held detailed discussions of designed to identify, evaluate and described in detail on pages 52 the results of its audits and continued mitigate risks.
In the external auditors and 59.
The Committee reviewed a to meet the external auditor without presence, the Committee discussed refreshed approach to monitoring management being present.
The the risks identified with the Chief the Groups implementation of Committee reviewed the external Executive and Group Finance Director, controls and the results of the key auditors objectivity and along with managements plans to financial controls self-assessment independence and the Groups policy mitigate them.
In view of their process, which is performed every on engaging the external auditor to importance during the year, the six months.
The Committee further supply non-audit services.
The Committee ensured that the Board reviewed internal audits findings Committee received details of the received and discussed detailed input at each scheduled meeting, and external auditors non-audit services from management on the following the Groups whistleblowing policy to the Group, reviewed the nature and key risks and mitigations: and bribery prevention procedures, monetary levels of these services, and conducted its annual review which stood at 45% of audit fees, and GSS: this is the risk that we are of the effectiveness of the Groups reviewed compliance with the Groups unable to commercialise our GSS internal controls and disclosures.
Non-Audit Services by Auditor Policy technology.
The Board continued see note 8 to the financial statements to receive regular updates The Committees review of the for further details.
The Committee throughout the year on go-toGroups system of internal control did was satisfied that using Deloitte for market readiness and product not identify any material deficiencies.
such services did not impair its trials, as well as the legal However, Genus routinely identifies independence as the Groups external proceedings relating to the antiand implements control improvement auditor.
trust and patent issues connected opportunities and the Committee with this key initiative.
discussed with management various The Committee assessed the external Gene-editing technology: this is opportunities to further strengthen auditors performance in conducting the risk that we fail to successfully the Group system of internal control.
the audit for the June 2016 year end, develop and commercialise gene based on questionnaires completed editing technologies due to Oversight of External Audit by key finance staff and Committee technical, IP, market, regulatory or and Internal Audit members.
The questionnaires covered financial barriers.
The Board was the external auditors fulfilment updated regularly on the Internal Audit of the audit plan, the auditors development of our gene editing The Committee reviewed and agreed robustness and perceptiveness in capabilities.
the internal audit functions scope, its handling of key accounting and Pensions: the Board was updated terms of reference, resources and audit judgements, the content of the on the status of discussions with activities.
The Head of Risk external auditors reports and cost the Milk Pension Fund in relation Management and Internal Audit effectiveness.
The Committee also to the outcome of the triennial provided regular reports to the considered any regulatory reviews valuation and the NMR Flexible Committee on the work undertaken performed on the external auditor.
and managements responses to While noting some opportunities Enterprise systems: the Board proposals made in the internal audit for further improvement, the reviewed plans to replace the reports issued during the year.
The Committee concluded that the ageing existing multiple enterprise Committee continued to meet the external auditor was effective and systems across the Group with a Head of Risk Management and was satisfied with the plan put single integrated best in class Internal Audit without management forward by the external auditor cloud-based solution to improve being present.
The Committee to respond to the opportunities effectiveness and efficiency.
reviewed and was satisfied with the for improvement identified.
IT resilience and cyber security: internal audit functions performance.
the Committee received updates from the global Chief Information External Audit Officer on the Groups IT recovery The FRCs Audit Quality Review and continuity plans, as well as the Team AQRT selected to review effort to strengthen infrastructure the audit of the Companys financial and systems security and the statements as part of its 2016 annual implementation of Group wide inspection of audit firms.
The Chair of cyber security measures.
the Committee received a full copy of H&S: the Board received updates the findings of the AQRT and discuss on the controls and mitigation ed these with Deloitte.
There were activities in place and or being no significant areas for improvement implemented to manage this risk, identified within the report.
We both on Group and third-party are satisfied that there is nothing premises.
within the report which might have a bearing on the audit appointment.
The Committee also received an update on supply chain risks.
