Board of Directors and Company Secretary 1, 2 1 Bob Lawson Karim Bitar Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Nomination Committee Chair Board Appointment September 2011 Board Appointment November Skills and Experience Career 2010 Karim has extensive experience of Prior to joining Genus, Karim worked Skills and Experience leading international, science-based for more than 15 years for Eli Lilly and Bob has significant experience of organisations.
His strategic review of Company, where he was President of leading international businesses, Genus in 2012 resulted in a new vision, Lilly Europe, Canada and Australia.
An including through operational and strategy, structure and core values.
He ex-McKinsey and Company consultant, culture changes, and a deep has a BSc in Biochemistry from the he also held management roles at understanding of listed companies and University of Wisconsin and an MBA Johnson and Johnson, and the Dow corporate governance.
from the University of Michigan.
On 1 July 2017, Karim was appointed a Non-Executive Career Director on the board of Spectrics plc.
Bobs executive career spanned several He is also a member of the University of UK and continental groups, including Michigan Ross School of Business ten years as Chief Executive of Advisory Board.
Electrocomponents plc and three years as Managing Director of Vitec Group plc.
He is currently Non-Executive Chairman of Eurocell plc and was formerly Chairman of the Federation of Groundwork Trusts and Non-Executive Chairman of Barratt Developments plc.
Stephen Wilson Group Finance Director Board appointment January 2013 Skills and Experience Career Before joining Genus, Stephen worked Stephen was previously Executive Vice in France and the US and gained President and Chief Financial Officer of wide-ranging experience of mergers Misys plc.
Prior to Misys, he spent 25 and acquisitions, financing, strategy years at IBM, in roles encompassing and investor relations.
He is a Fellow of finance, business development and the Chartered Institute of Management change programmes.
He was a NonAccountants and holds a degree in Executive Director of Xchanging plc, Key to Committees Mathematics from the University of where he chaired the Audit Committee 1 Member of the Nomination Committee.
until its acquisition by CSC in May 2016.
2 Member of the Remuneration Committee.
3 Member of the Audit Committee.
| 42 Genus plc Annual Report 2017 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE 1, 2, 3 1, 2, 3 Nigel Turner Lysanne Gray Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Audit Committee Chair Remuneration Committee Chair Board appointment April 2016 Board appointment January 2008 Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Lysanne has significant experience of Nigel has substantial experience of risk management, audit, business international business and corporate operations, acquisitions and disposals, finance.
and corporate governance, gained within the food sector.
She is a Career Chartered Accountant.
Nigel was Chairman of Numis Securities Ltd and Deputy Chairman of Numis Career Corporation plc from December 2005 Lysanne is Financial Controller at to November 2007.
Prior to this he was Unilever plc and Unilever NV.
Prior to Vice Chairman of ABN AMROs this she was Chief Auditor, working Wholesale and Investment Bank, having closely with Unilevers Audit joined in 2000 from Lazard, where he Committee, and before that Chief was a Partner for 15 years and sat on its Financial Officer of Unilevers global Supervisory Board.
Nigel is Senior food service business.
She has also held Independent Director of Croda a number of other senior operational International plc.
and financial positions within Unilever.
1, 2, 3 1, 2, 3 Professor Duncan Maskell Lykele van der Broek Dan Hartley Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Board appointment April 2014 Board appointment July 2014 Appointment June 2014 Skills and Experience Skills and Experience Duncan has co-founded several biotech Lykele has vast experience of growing Skills and Experience companies and has extensive companies and working in agricultural Dan has significant experience in experience of commercialising science businesses throughout the world, multi-jurisdictional patent litigation, and innovation.
He is also an including in emerging markets.
mergers and acquisitions, patent experienced scientific adviser to licensing and managing product life companies, using his broad perspective Career cycles in complex areas.
He holds on life sciences.
Lykele retired as a member of the degrees in science and law.
Board of Management of Bayer Career CropScience, a division of Bayer AG, Career Duncan is Senior Pro-Vice Chancellor in 2014, being responsible for the Dan joined Genus from Shire plc, where PVC of the University of Cambridge, commercialisation of innovative he was Senior Vice President and where he and the four other PVCs are agricultural products and services International Counsel.
Dan joined Shire responsible for the Universitys strategy globally.
Prior to this, he held senior in 2002, after a number of years in and policy development.
He was international roles including the Head private practice, and worked in previously Head of the School of the of Bayer CropSciences BioScience increasingly senior and global roles in Biological Sciences at the University, division and President of the Bayer the UK and the US.
where he led research on infectious HealthCare Animal Health division.
diseases of livestock and people.
