Governance Information provided to the Directors Shareholder engagement The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring good information flows The Company is committed to maintaining and improving dialogue with within the Board and its Committees and between senior management shareholders in order to ensure that the objectives of both the Group and Non-Executive Directors.
For each Board and Committee meeting, and the shareholders are understood.
A programme of meetings with Directors are provided with a tailored Board pack at least one week prior institutional shareholders, fund managers and analysts takes place each to the meeting.
To improve the delivery and security of Board papers, the year and the Group CEO and Group COO & CFO have attended meetings Company has adopted an electronic system allowing the Board to easily with investors, as appropriate.
The Company also makes presentations access information, irrespective of geographic location.
Directors regularly to analysts and investors around the time of the half-year and full-year receive additional information from the Company between Board meetings, results announcements: conference calls are held with analysts and including a daily press summary and a monthly Group performance update.
investors following the release of the first quarter and third quarter trading Where a Director was unable to attend a meeting, they were provided statements and presentations are made during the year to many existing with all the papers and information relating to that meeting and were or potential shareholders at investor conferences.
The Company holds able to discuss issues arising directly with the Chairman and Group CEO.
meetings with its major shareholders to discuss corporate governance and remuneration matters from time to time.
Conflicts of interest On 20 October 2016 the Company held an Investor Day at its Osterley Under UK Company law, all Directors must seek authorisation before headquarters at which the Companys shareholders were given details on taking up any position with another company that conflicts, or may a wide range of topics including its strategic priorities, capabilities, position possibly conflict, with the Companys interests.
The Companys Articles in each market, content strategy, cost efficiency and future growth plans, of Association contain provisions to allow the Directors to authorise all of which was also made available on www.
situations of potential conflicts of interest so that a Director is not in breach of his duty under company law.
Prior to the 21st Century Fox Offer, Tracy Clarke, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, engaged with certain major shareholders All existing external appointments for each Director have been authorised to solicit their views on the Remuneration Policy in advance of any new by the Board and each authorisation is set out in a Conflicts Register.
policy being put to the 2017 AGM.
In light of the 21st Century Fox Offer, Directors are required to notify the Board of potential conflicts so that they the Remuneration Committee decided to place the Policy review on can be considered and, if appropriate, authorised by the Board.
Further details are included in the Chairman of the Remuneration the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee conducts an annual Committees letter, which can be found on page 50. review of Directors conflicts and reports its findings to the Board.
The Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee reviewed the Since the 21st Century Fox Offer, Martin Gilbert has held a series of Boards conflicts during the financial year and concluded that conflicts meetings with major shareholders to discuss the background to, had been appropriately authorised and that the process for authorisation and reasons for, the Independent Committees recommendation.
The Corporate Governance & Nominations The AGM Committee and the Board will continue to monitor and review potential The Board views the AGM as an opportunity to communicate with private conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
investors and sets aside time at the meeting for shareholders to ask Directors and Officers insurance and indemnity questions.
At the AGM, the Chairman provides a brief summary of the The Company recognises that all Directors are equally and collectively Companys activities for the previous year.
All resolutions at the 2016 accountable under the law for the proper stewardship of the Companys AGM were voted by way of a poll.
This follows best practice and allows affairs.
The Company maintains a Directors and Officers liability insurance the Company to count all votes rather than just those of shareholders policy.
Additionally, the Companys Articles of Association allow the attending the meeting.
As recommended by the Code, all resolutions were Company to indemnify the Directors and deeds of indemnity have been voted separately and the final voting results, which included all votes cast issued to all Directors of the Company to the extent permitted by law.
for, against and those withheld, together with all proxies lodged prior to the meeting, were released to the London Stock Exchange as soon as Relations with shareholders practicable after the meeting.
The announcement was also made available Shareholder communications on the Companys corporate website.
As in previous years, the proxy form Presentations and webcasts on the development of the business and the announcement of the voting results made it clear that a vote are available to all shareholders on the Companys corporate website.
withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation The Company also uses email alerts and actively promotes downloading of the proportion of the votes for or against the resolution.
of all reports enhancing speed and equality of shareholder communication.
The Company has taken full advantage of the provisions within the Companies Act 2006 allowing the website to be used as the primary means of communication with shareholders where they have not requested hard copy documentation.
The shareholder information section on page 144 contains further details on electronic shareholder communications together with more general information of interest to shareholders which is also included on the Companys corporate website www.
