Corporate governance report continued Attendance at Committee meetings Report of the Audit Committee John Nallen has a standing invitation to attend meetings.
However, Chairmans overview his attendance at these meetings is as an observer and in a non-voting capacity.
The Group COO & CFO, other business and finance executives and representatives from the external auditor, Deloitte LLP, and the internal audit department attend meetings at the request of the Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Audit Committee agenda Focus for the Committee this year has included the following items: Review and recommendation to the Board of the interim and full-year financial statements, including whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable During the year the Audit Committee has continued to play a key oversight Review and approval of the first and third quarter trading statements role on behalf of the Board and has remained focused on this role despite the 21st Century Fox Offer.
The Committees principal activities have Quarterly updates from the Group COO & CFO on business performance focused on the financial performance of the Company, internal audit, across the Group external audit, risk management, compliance and governance.
Audit plans and findings of external and internal audits The Committee has also monitored the Companys approach to risk The review and recommendation to the Board of the 2016 final dividend management and the independence and effectiveness of the external Liquidity, going concern and viability statement review auditors, and received a number of presentations from management relating to data governance, security, internal audit, treasury, taxation, Annual reporting due diligence procedures and corporate governance technology and health and safety, as well as regular presentations on updates business performance.
Assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit process and We have considered the processes underpinning the production and scope of audit approval of this years Annual Report to enable the Board to confirm that Auditor independence and the policy on the provision of non-audit the Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable services by the external auditor and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Quarterly review of non-audit services and fees the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
A description of how we approached this can be found in this report.
Quarterly reports from the treasury function on the funding, liquidity, going concern and operational capabilities of the Group and compliance The Committee assessed the viability of the Group over a three-year period, with treasury policies applying downside sensitivity to our business as usual plans which takes account of the principal risks identified.
Further information on how Quarterly updates on planned internal audit work and on the status the Committee approached this is detailed in this report.
of Senior Accounting Officer SAO certification work to ensure SAO compliance There were six meetings during the year and after each Committee meeting I provided an oral update to the Board on the key issues discussed during Quarterly reports of all transactions with a related party during our meetings.
I have also met separately with the external audit partner the period and key management on a number of occasions during the year.
Review of transactions with the exception of the Offer which fall within You can find additional information of how we have carried out our role the Listing Rule 11.1.
5R definition of Related Party Transaction and all and responsibilities within the remainder of this report.
transactions with a related party in excess of 10 million and where required recommendation to the Board Adine Grate Review and oversight of the Group risk register, risk methodology and risk Committee Chairman management systems and processes Committee composition Deep dive update on the Technology function Adine Grate Chairman Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit Martin Gilbert function and controls Dave Lewis resigned 13 October 2016 Matthieu Pigasse Review and approval of updated policies relating to whistleblowing and anti-bribery and corruption The Committee members have considerable financial and business experience and the Board has determined that the membership Taxation, security, fraud, health and safety and data protection matters.
as a whole has sufficient recent and relevant sector and financial The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys experience to discharge its responsibilities and that at least corporate website.
one member has competence in accounting or auditing in line with the Code.
The Committee comprises three Independent Non-Executive Directors, in compliance with the Code and DTR 7.
44 Sky plc Governance Significant accounting issues There is a comprehensive budgeting and forecasting process, and the When considering the annual financial statements, the Committee annual budget, which is regularly reviewed and updated, is approved by reviewed the significant accounting issues and the Groups critical the Board.
Performance is monitored against budget through weekly accounting policies as set out on pages 94 to 95 with particular and monthly reporting cycles.
During the financial year under review focus on the following: monthly reports on performance were provided to the Board, and the Group reports to shareholders each quarter.
Retail subscription revenue: The majority of the Groups revenues derive from retail subscription In respect of Group financial reporting, the Group Finance team is packages, including hardware and installation services, supplied to responsible for preparing the Group financial statements and there are customers.
The Group applies judgement in determining the accounting well established controls over the financial reporting process.
These are allocation of payments received from customers to different elements also documented in line with the requirements of the SAO legislation of the bundled package, taking into consideration the timing and relative and the controls are reviewed and signed off to confirm their continuous value attributed to each element.
During the year, the Committee received operation by the control owners twice a year and are independently a performance report from the Group COO & CFO quarterly that included tested by the internal audit team.
The results of the SAO testing a review of revenues recognised in the period.
are reported to the Committee on a quarterly basis.
The Committee considered managements policy and considered the views Changes in internal controls of the external auditor and is satisfied that the policies have been applied No change in the Groups internal control over financial reporting has consistently and appropriately.
occurred during the year ended 30 June 2017 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Groups internal control General entertainment programming inventory: over financial reporting.
The Committee reviewed the policy for the recognition of content costs and challenged management on the appropriateness of the policy, and took Risk registers into account the views of the external auditor that the policy is appropriate There are risk registers which identify the risks faced by the Group and has been applied consistently.
The method for recognising general and these are consolidated into a Group Risk Register.
The risk register entertainment programming expense requires estimation and judgement framework is based on methodology to identify the risk based on impact to ensure that the expense profile is consistent with the expected value and likelihood.
The risk is assessed, quantified and measured which enables of the content to the Group.
The registers detail the controls that manage the risks and where necessary, the action plans to mitigate The Committee is satisfied that the policies have been applied consistently, the risk exposure.
are appropriate and are aligned to industry practice.
The business develops the action plans and the internal audit team Capitalisation of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment: monitors their implementation.
The internal audit team provides objective The Committee considered the Groups policies and sought assurances assurance as to the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal from management that the Groups project accounting controls are control and risk management to the Groups operating management.
operating as intended and that spend capitalised as property, plant and equipment and intangible assets meets the relevant accounting The Committee reviews the Group Risk Register typically twice a year and requirements.
The Committee also considered the report from the carries out a robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties external auditor.
facing the Group and has done so during the year.
The Groups principal risks and uncertainties are detailed on pages 28 to 31.
There is an The Committee is satisfied that the Group has followed appropriate ongoing monitoring process, which is operated by the Group Risk team accounting standards regarding the capitalisation of project expenditure.
and supported by senior management across the Group, to identify Internal control and risk management and report to the Audit Committee on significant changes or new risks.
The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the Groups Effectiveness of internal audit process systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing their The Committee also reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function effectiveness.
These systems are designed to manage and, where possible, on an annual basis and this review has been carried out for the year ended eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide 30 June 2017. reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing Fair, balanced and understandable assessment the significant risks faced by the Group in accordance with the revised The Financial Reporting Committee FRC, an internal committee, has guidance on internal control issued by the Financial Reporting Council in responsibility for the production of the annual report and the associated September 2014.
During the period under review, the Committee discussed review process.
Guidance and comprehensive due diligence procedures a number of areas where actions had been identified to further improve were issued to reviewers by the FRC to help them assess whether the the control environment, however no material failings or weaknesses document was fair, balanced and understandable and complied with the were identified.
The FRC maintained oversight of the review process and submitted certification to the Committee to enable it to The Committee, on behalf of the Board, considers the effectiveness of the be in a position to recommend to the Board that the required statement operation of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management could be made.
during the year and this review has been carried out for the year ended 30 June 2017 and up to the date on which the financial statements were The Committee also reviewed the disclosures regarding the Companys approved.
This review includes all material controls and relates to the alternative performance measures APMs having regard, in particular, Company and its subsidiaries and does not extend to joint ventures.
to the Guidelines on Alternative Performance Measures issued by The Committee meets on at least a quarterly basis with the Groups the European Securities and Markets Authority in October 2015.
Director: Audit, Risk Management and Compliance and the external auditor.
Annual Report 2017 45 Corporate governance report continued Viability statement Audit and non-audit services provided during the year were approved by The Directors are required to confirm whether they have a reasonable the Committee.
An analysis of auditor remuneration is disclosed in note 4 expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to continue to to the consolidated financial statements.
operate and meet their liabilities as they fall due over a longer-term period.
Audit and non-audit services The disclosure must set out the basis for Directors conclusions and explain The Group has a policy on the provision by the external auditor of audit why the period chosen is appropriate.
and non-audit services, which categorises such services between: The Committee sought managements input to its assessment of the Those services which the auditor is not permitted to provide: viability of the Company and the Group.
The assessment, which was based Those services which are acceptable for the auditor to provide and on the Groups operating, capital and funding plans, also included the provision of which has been pre-approved by the Committee: and consideration of the principal risks which could impact the performance of the Group and its liquidity and capital projections over the period.
Those services for which the specific approval of the Committee The Committee was satisfied that the viability statement could be is required before the auditor is permitted to provide the service.
provided and agreed that three years was a suitable period of review.
The policy defines the types of services falling under each category The Viability Statement is detailed on page 31. and sets out the criteria which need to be met and the internal approval Disclosure control and procedures mechanisms required to be completed prior to any engagement.
The Company maintains disclosure controls, procedures and systems that The policy was reviewed and updated during the year and an analysis are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed as part of all services provided by the external auditor is reviewed by the of the Companys UK listing obligations is accumulated and communicated Committee on a quarterly basis.
to management, including the Group CEO and Group COO & CFO, as During the year, the following examples of non-audit work were deemed appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.
to be pre-approved in accordance with the policy: Auditor independence Audit of the Sky pension plan During the year ended 30 June 2017, the Committee reviewed audit independence and the scope of non-audit services and independence Assurance of certain KPIs for the Bigger Picture Review safeguards with Deloitte LLP Deloitte, the Groups external auditor.
Effectiveness of external audit process As part of the review, the Audit Committee has received and reviewed During the year, the effectiveness of the audit process and managements confirmation in writing that, in Deloittes professional judgement, Deloitte role within that process was assessed by the Committee, Group Finance is independent within the meaning of all UK regulatory and professional team and other key internal stakeholders in the form of a questionnaire.
requirements and the objectivity of the audit engagement partner and The areas under review were: audit staff is not impaired.
Quality, resources and scope of planning of the audit The Committee was satisfied throughout the year that the objectivity Objectivity, independence and transparency of the audit and independence of Deloitte was not in any way impaired by either the Identification of key accounting judgements, significant audit nature of the non-audit related services undertaken during the year, the and accounting issues level of non-audit fees charged, or any other facts or circumstances.
Level of technical knowledge and professional scepticism Prior to the Groups acquisitions of Sky Italia and Sky Deutschland, Deloitte member firms in Italy and Germany had substantial consulting Understanding Sky as a business, its values and culture and challenges engagements with those businesses.
A transition plan was approved by it faces the Committee and fully implemented in order to restructure and cease The quality of planning and supervision of the Group audit any  aspects of those engagements in accordance with relevant auditor independence rules.
Quality of reporting and communications to the Audit Committee During the current year, the Group has continued to substantially reduce The responses to the assessment were discussed by the Committee and the level of Deloittes non-audit work.
Deloitte has been involved in certain it was confirmed that Deloitte are performing as expected.
Deloitte strategic customer and operating systems projects since their inception continue to demonstrate strengths in the majority of these areas.
and has specialist knowledge which it would be time consuming and costly There were no significant findings from the assessment and the review to build up with another advisor.
The Committee therefore approved confirmed that Deloitte continue to carry out an effective and robust a certain level of permitted consulting advisory services with respect external audit, including the supervision of the Group audit.
The Committee to these strategic projects for the current year, and has approved the also continues to be satisfied with the quality of challenge and scepticism continuation of this work at a further reduced level in the year ending of the external auditor.
Non-audit fees are expected to decline very significantly The Committee therefore recommended to the Board that shareholder over the four-year period, from a peak of 15.8 million in 2014 15 approval be sought to reappoint Deloitte as the external auditor for the pro-forma basis spend of 19.5 million to a level below that of the audit 2017 18 financial year.
fee in 2017 18 excluding any non-audit fees incurred as a consequence of the 21st Century Fox Offer.
The Committee is satisfied that all of Deloittes non-audit work continues to be of a permitted nature, meaning that Deloitte is independent within the meaning of UK regulatory and professional requirements, and that appropriate safeguards are in place to assure Deloittes continued independence.
In this regard, the Committee also closely monitors the developing regulatory regime relating to the use of auditors for non-audit work and is satisfied that the Company has complied and continues to comply with the regulations in force.
