The Boards Year in Review OUR MAIN ACTIVITIES IN 2017 UPDATES RECEIVED AT ALL BOARD RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT FINANCE MEETINGS Received regular updates on R&D Approved the annual and interim pipeline developments, new initiatives results and dividends Strategic business and competitive and potential collaborations landscape developments from CEO Approved the 2018 budget Received regular updates on the Financial performance of Received tax and treasury updates progress of the PRRSv development businesses and forecasts from Received pension updates programme Group FD Approved the terms of the exit of Received updates from Directors Corporate governance and legal National Milk Records plc from the attending the R&D Portfolio issues from Group General Counsel MPF Management Team and Company Secretary, and external advisers Updated on the recruitment of key EXECUTIVE GELT UPDATES R&D personnel LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS Received monthly financial and COMPANY PERFORMANCE operational performance updates Carried out Board effectiveness Received regular presentations review Received updates on the operational from each business unit performance of the business and Update on the appointment of market conditions for each division COO ABS Dairy and GELT H&S succession planning Received updates on the integration of the new ABS Dairy COO and the Reviewed 2017 targets for H&S plans to accelerate ABS growth BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AND and reviewed progress throughout Monitored the Groups performance STRATEGY the year against its goals Received monthly and quarterly Held strategic meeting with GELT updates from Head of H&S see page 48 EMPLOYEES including progress against the Approved: H&S KPIs the dairy genetic improvement Updated on key vacancies and hires, joint venture, fide Novo, in in particular in sales and R&D RISK MANAGEMENT partnership with one of the Met key talent and business leads on leading Holstein breeders fide-Su Board site visits Monitored the Group risk register the acquisition of Hermitage Updated on resourcing for growth Updated on whistleblowing hotline porcine genetics and strategic and other initiatives, in particular the: reports and investigations distribution channels recruitment and training of GSS the acquisition of the remaining Reviewed and approved a project teams in the US and India 49% stake in IVB to implement a new Enterprise resourcing of IVB expansion and the PRRSv programme System across Genus building of capability Received updates on: IVB integration, including the SHAREHOLDERS launch in Mexico to serve large dairy operations Updated on meetings with GSS development progress and shareholders, potential investors and US litigation see note 14 analysts the fide Novo joint venture Received regular briefings from progress Executive teams business development opportunities, including summaries of due diligence reviews the competitor landscape | 46 Genus plc Annual Report 2017 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE EFFECTIVENESS Assessing Our Effectiveness To ensure the Board provides effective leadership, we YEAR 1 have a three-year evaluation External Board eectiveness cycle, using a mixture of review produces an action plan internal and external for areas of focus evaluations.
THE BOARD PROVIDES AN APPROPRIATE BALANCE OF YEAR 3 YEAR 2 Internal Follow-up questionnaires questionnaire CHALLENGE AND SUPPORT and interviews by some external with the Chairman evaluation consultant, to monitor progress with the focus areas This was the second year of the Our Progress Against Last Years Areas of Focus three-year cycle.
The evaluation was The table below shows progress against the three focus areas in 2017: externally facilitated by Dr Tracy Long Focus area Our progress this year of Boardroom Review, who has no other connection with the Group.
Strategy, including our Competitors activities are monitored competitor landscape through our business development team.
The Chairman agreed the scope and our shareholders The Board is updated on competitor of the review, which involved: expectations.
activity at each Board meeting, and in effectiveness questionnaires with dedicated deep dives twice a year.
each Board member, following which the Board discussed the Developing the risk In addition to the formalised process in strengths and challenges identified agenda, in line with our place to monitor Group risks and the by the process: strategic objectives.
deep dive sessions to appraise risk a workshop with the Board, to management plans, the Board performed examine and discuss a case study, a comprehensive Group-wide risk review based on strengths and challenges in May 2017, to validate existing risks and similar to Genuss: and identify and evaluate new or emerging ones.
discussion of how the Board could enhance the effectiveness of its Succession planning, A Board skills matrix and updated Board contribution to the Company.
including diversity and the role specifications have been developed.
mix of skills on the Board, The Evaluations Conclusions to identify any current The review showed that the Board and future skills gaps.
had particular strengths in the following areas: Board culture and leadership, with the Board functioning well as a What We Will Focus On in 2018 team and having an appropriate The evaluation identified that the priorities for the Board were to continue balance of challenge and support, to focus on the areas identified in the full external effectiveness review with open, forthright and relevant performed in the previous year.
dialogue on critical issues: realism about the challenges and These were: opportunities facing Genus, and continuing to focus on strategic clarity in a changing competitive the ability to take long-term decisions because they are right for landscape: the Company: continued risk analysis to better understand the Companys risks, the benefit of high-quality Board controls and risk appetite: and papers, produced in a timely manner and presented by the succession planning, including for the Chairman and CEO, Executives, enabling the Board to and focusing on structured communications with shareholders.
discharge its duties: a focus on risk assessment, including H&S: and possession of all the required disciplines, with the Board being well prepared for meetings and generating productive solutions.
| Genus plc Annual Report 2017 47 The Boards Year in Review continued REVIEWING AND MONITORING OUR PERFORMANCE landscape and the challenges REVIEWING THE STRATEGY the businesses face, as well as the One of the Boards key responsibilities anticipated five-year financial plans.
This gives us a benchmark against is to approve the Companys strategy and monitor our performance which we can review, challenge, approve and monitor each business against it.
To understand how well our strategy is working and to units strategic goals and initiatives.
For GELT, it is an opportunity to take ensure it remains appropriate, the Board holds an annual strategy stock, consolidate its plan and receive independent advice that draws on review each January.
Members of GELT present to the Board on the Boards wealth of experience and expertise.
In summary, the strategy their business unit or function.
reviews provide an excellent forum for constructive debate about the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Nigel Turner said: The future, with high-quality contributions from senior management, annual strategy reviews are extremely Nigel Turner Senior Independent Non-Executive Director important for both the Board and GELT and Board members.
The Board gains greater understanding of the competitive Professor Duncan Maskell is a OVERSEEING R&D Non-Executive Director and our adviser to the R&D PMT, providing a The R&D PMT has a number of responsibilities.
These are periodically direct link between the R&D PMT and the Board.
He said: R&D is to: review and prioritise our Genuss lifeblood and it is vital that we oversee it effectively.
investment in R&D and technology: assess the quality and The R&D PMT is therefore a key forum for the Group.
In addition to competitiveness of our R&D pipeline, including considering its our standing agenda items, this year we reviewed two focus areas.
We risk profile: oversee and encourage the conducted a deep dive review of the PRRSv resistance development ideation management process: and approve our patent and other IP plan and our technical progress.
We also reviewed the strategy for the strategies for new technologies, based on business and technical Biosystems Engineering function, Professor Duncan Maskell and its plans to continue to drive Non-Executive Director opportunities.
innovation in sexing technology, after the launch of GSS.
Both these areas The R&D PMT typically meets twice a year.
This year it held one meeting are strategically important to the Company and its customers.
in Chicago, with a second meeting in Basingstoke shortly after the year end.
| 48 Genus plc Annual Report 2017 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE THE STRATEGY REVIEWS PROVIDE AN EXCELLENT FORUM FOR CONSTRUCTIVE DEBATE ABOUT THE FUTURE, WITH HIGH-QUALITY CONTRIBUTIONS FROM SENIOR MANAGEMENT, GELT AND BOARD MEMBERS Commenting on the site visit, GAINING INSIGHT Non-Executive Director Lykele van INTO THE BUSINESS der Broek said: The Board visit was designed to give us a deeper We want to ensure that the Board understanding of our European has first-hand experience of key businesses, our operations on the areas of our business and markets, ground, our markets and the needs so we include at least one annual of our key customers.
We met some site visit in the Board calendar.
In of our largest customers in the UK May 2017, the Board spent a week and Spain, which gave us an insight visiting our operations and facilities into their perspectives of Genus, what in the UK and Spain.
This included drives their purchasing decisions, meeting our ABS and PIC European how they see the markets and how leadership and key members of they expect their future product and their teams, as well as receiving service requirements will develop.
visit also gave our local management Lykele van der Broek Non-Executive Director teams the chance to have a mutually stimulating interaction with the Board, face-to-face.
Genus clearly demonstrates its REFLECTIONS values through the decisions our ON MY FIRST YEAR people take each day, from Board level through to AI Technicians out on Lysanne Gray joined the Board in customer farms.
Reflecting on her first business and there have been some year as a Non-Executive Director, in-depth discussions and complex she said: Since joining Genus, I have decisions to take, as Genus pushes met with GELT, senior managers and forwards into new areas.
Following key personnel, through both Board my appointment as Audit Committee presentations and site visits.
What Chair in November 2016, I have been is overwhelmingly apparent is that impressed by the quality of debate everyone is genuinely passionate around business and financial risks about delivering the best genetics and our internal control procedures.
and services for our customers while maintaining consistently high levels I want to take this opportunity to Lysanne Gray of animal well-being.
Our people thank my fellow Board members and Non-Executive Director have a wealth of expertise and the management team, for welcoming knowledge and the skill set required me into the business and ensuring to deliver on the Companys strategy.
