Governance Audit firm and partner rotation Corporate Governance The external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the engagement every five years.
The prior audit partner rotated & Nominations Committee off the engagement following the conclusion of the 2014 15 audit and Chairmans overview his successor was in place for 2015 16.
In turn, the current audit partner Paul Franek will be required to rotate after the 2019 20 audit.
The regulatory regime relating to mandatory audit tendering has significantly changed in the UK and Europe.
The Committee is closely monitoring these developments and taking into account that Deloitte has been the external auditor of the Company since June 2002, it expects to conduct an audit tender in advance of June 2020, which itself is in advance of 2023 by which the transitional rules in UK and EU regulation would require the Company to have performed a tender.
The Committee has reviewed the timing of a future tender and feels that it is not currently We have had an active year.
There have been two Board changes with in shareholders interests, but it will continue to keep the appropriate Dave Lewis stepping down and the appointment of Katrin Wehr-Seiter timing of a future tender under review.
The appointment process is explained in this report.
The Company and the Group confirms its compliance with the provisions I undertook this years Board Evaluation and reported the findings of the of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation evaluation to the Committee and the Board.
The results of the evaluation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee were very encouraging.
The overall conclusion was that individual Board Responsibilities Order 2014 for the year to 30 June 2017. members are satisfied that the Board works well and operates effectively in an environment where there is constructive challenge from the Non-Executive Directors.
The Board as a whole welcomes the opportunity to adapt to innovation and change and is actively progressing initiatives such as addressing gender balance on the Board, sourcing the right skills to complement our talented management team and creating robust succession plans to safeguard the Companys future performance.
There were three Committee meetings held during the year and after each Committee meeting I reported to the Board on the key issues discussed during the meetings.
The Committee continues to comprise a majority of Independent Non-Executive Directors in compliance with the Code.
Andy Sukawaty Committee Chairman Committee composition Andy Sukawaty Chairman Martin Gilbert James Murdoch Matthieu Pigasse Attendance at Committee meetings The Group CEO and General Counsel attend the meetings from time to time and the Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Annual Report 2017 47 Corporate governance report continued Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee agenda Following Dave Lewiss retirement and Katrin Wehr-Seiters appointment, Focus for the Committee this year has centred on the following items: there remain 11 directors on the Board, of which six directors are deemed by the Board to be independent.
Board changes Board and Committee composition Committee composition During the year, the Committee reviewed the composition of the Board Board evaluation Committees and agreed that during the Offer Period the membership Review of Non-Executive Director independence of the Committees would remain unchanged.
Review of Directors conflicts of interest Board evaluation The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys The approach and findings of this years internal board evaluation corporate website.
Activities during the year Independence Board changes During the year, all Non-Executive Directors were asked to complete The Committee keeps the Boards balance of skills, knowledge and questionnaires to enable the Committee to determine their independence.
experience and the length of service of individuals under constant review.
The Committee reviewed the questionnaires and recommended to the In respect of succession planning and supplementing the skill set of the Board that there be no changes to the independent status of the current Board, there is an established procedure for the appointment of new Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors who Directors.
The Committee will identify the set of skills and experience are considered by the Board to be independent are clearly identified in their required and, with the assistance of external search agencies, select respective biographies on pages 36 and 37. individuals to take Board positions on review of their individual merits, As noted on page 41, James Murdoch, Chase Carey and John Nallen are not regardless of gender, race, religion, age or disability.
considered to be independent within the meaning of the Code.
However, At the conclusion of last years AGM, Dave Lewis stepped down from the following the evaluation the Committee considers that each of these Board and Katrin Wehr-Seiter was appointed as a Non-Executive Director.
Directors continue to make a significant contribution to Board and The Board commenced the search for a new Independent Non-Executive Committee discussions.
Director when Dave Lewis indicated he would step down.
Board diversity The Committee engaged JCA Group, an external recruitment consultancy, The Committee pursues a policy of diversity of skills, experience, nationality in late July 2016 to help identify possible candidates and run the search and gender in its approach to Board appointments.
The coaching arm of JCA Group, which is a separate business directors have been appointed and the Board currently comprises eight from the recruitment consultancy performed the external Board men and three women 27% female representation on the Board.
evaluation during the 2015 16 financial year.
Other than external Directors conflicts recruitment consultancy for the Group, JCA Group has no other The Committee reviewed the Boards conflicts during the year and connection with the Company.
concluded that Directors conflicts had been appropriately authorised The Chairman of the Committee briefed the recruitment consultants and that the process for authorisation was operating effectively.
to ensure they had a thorough understanding of the Companys The Committee and the Board will continue to monitor and review potential requirements, including key skills and experience required.
The recruitment conflicts of interest and take action to mitigate them as necessary.
consultants produced a long list of candidates which was reviewed by the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Director and the Group Chief Executive Officer.
Taking into account the candidates backgrounds, experience and skill set, and potential areas for strengthening the Board, two candidates were shortlisted and brought forward for interview.
After the interview process was concluded in early October 2016 the Committee met to discuss the two candidates.
The Committee agreed that Katrin Wehr-Seiter was the preferred candidate and the Committee then made their recommendation to the Board.
The Board noted that Katrin was an experienced financial professional with valuable panEuropean media industry experience which would strengthen the Board.
