Genus Executive Leadership Team GELT During 2017, we strengthened the leadership team and ensured it was aligned to our business priorities.
The appointments we made have deepened GELTs industry expertise and commercial acumen, further improving its capability to deliver the Groups strategy.
Jerry Thompson was appointed to lead our Genus ABS Beef business from July 2016 and his strategic review is now being implemented see pages 26 and 27.
Saskia Korink, who was COO of Genus ABS Dairy, left the business in November 2016 and was replaced by Dr Nate Zwald, who joined us in January 2017.
Catherine Glickman, Group HR Director, stepped down from GELT on 1 July 2017 and Angelle Rosata was promoted to the role with effect from July 2017.
Karim Bitar Stephen Wilson Dan Hartley Chief Executive Group Finance Director Group General Counsel and Company Secretary See pages 42 and 43 for Karims, Stephens and Dans biographies.
Dr Bill Christianson Chief Operating Officer, Genus PIC Skills and Experience Bill has spent his career at the intersection of agriculture and biotechnology, giving him a unique blend of deep industry knowledge and extensive commercial and global experience.
He holds doctorates DVM and PhD in Veterinary Medicine from the University of Minnesota.
Career Bill joined in 1993 as Manager of Veterinary R&D, based in the US.
He subsequently worked in operational roles spanning Europe, South America and the US, before becoming General Manager of PIC North America in 2007.
He led the combined ABS and PIC business across the Americas from 2010, before becoming COO of Genus PIC in 2012.
| 44 Genus plc Annual Report 2017 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE Jerry Thompson Chief Operating Officer, Genus ABS Beef Skills and Experience Jerry is a natural entrepreneur and has brought his deep industry knowledge, commercial skills and international experience to develop the business in countries as diverse as the UK, Russia and China.
He has helped Genus establish and grow its business in new markets.
Career Jerry has worked for PIC and subsequently Genus for more than 20 years.
He joined as a graduate in the Dr Jonathan Lightner UK, subsequently working in Siberia Chief R&D and Scientific Officer and Romania before leading PIC in Central and Eastern Europe.
He then Skills and Experience led PIC Europe before becoming Jonathan is a world-renowned Regional Director for PIC and ABS quantitative molecular geneticist, with in Russia and Asia Pacific and expertise spanning inter-related fields subsequently COO for Genus Asia.
such as molecular biology, analytical He was appointed to his current role chemistry and omic technologies.
He in July 2016. also has extensive regulatory and commercial experience.
He holds a Masters in Systems Engineering from Iowa State, an MBA from the University of Iowa and a Doctorate in Plant Physiology from the Institute of Biological Chemistry at Washington State University.
Career Dr Nate Zwald Jonathan joined Genus in 2013 from Chief Operating Officer, Pioneer Hi-Bred International Inc, a Genus ABS Dairy DuPont business, where he led a global team focused on genetic solutions to Skills and Experience enhance agricultural productivity.
His Nate brings deep dairy genetics other leadership roles with DuPont expertise, a strong commercial focus Pioneer included Senior Research and a passion for people development.
Director for Trait Characterization He grew up on the Bomaz dairy farm in within Hi-Bred International.
Jonathans the US, which has produced highprevious experience included three ranking industry and ABS sires, before years with Exelixis, as Director of studying at the University of Wisconsin.
Here, he obtained a degree in Dairy Science, an MBA and a PhD focused on the genetic evaluation of health traits in dairy cattle.
Career Angelle Rosata Nate joined Genus in January 2017 Group HR Director from 1 July 2017 after 15 years at Alta Genetics.
This Skills and Experience Career included being Altas Advantage Angelle combines commercial acumen Angelle joined Genus PIC in September Program Manager, in which he with her broad expertise in resourcing, 2013 as HR Director, following more redesigned progeny testing in partner talent and succession, leadership than 20 years in the healthcare sector.
For his final ten years with the development, and H&S.
She developed and delivered PICs company, Nate led Altas successful Her strategic planning skills and people strategy, before being US business as General Manager.
pragmatism help to align the Groups appointed HR Director for Genus ABS.
Nate has a strong dairy industry people agenda with its business needs.
Angelle was appointed Group HR network and sits on the board of the Angelle holds a Masters in Human Director and a member of GELT on Council on Dairy Cattle Breeding and Resource Development from 1 July 2017. is Vice President of the National Vanderbilt University.
