Nomination Committee Report CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE EFFECTIVENESS A WELL-BALANCED BOARD Introduction The Nomination Committee reviews the Boards structure, size and THE COMMITTEE CONTINUED composition and manages appointments to the Board.
This year, the Committee continued to focus on succession planning for the Board, TO FOCUS ITS EFFORTS ON byreviewing the Directors skills and experience and identifying areas toconsider for future appointments.
This Committees approach recognises its critical role in ensuring the Company has an effective SUCCESSION PLANNING FOR andwell-balanced Board.
THE BOARD Bob Lawson Chair of the Nomination Committee 6 September 2017 Committee Composition and Governance Focus areas 2017 Chair Members Continued succession planning Bob Lawson Nigel Turner Ongoing review of diversity and Duncan Maskell mix of skills to identify any current Lykele van der Broek skills gap Lysanne Gray Karim Bitar The Committee has written terms of reference, which set out the authority delegated to it by the Committee Roles and Responsibilities Board.
These are available from The Committee is responsible for: succession planning for the our website: www.
making recommendations to Non-Executive and Executive the Board on the structure, size Directors and other senior The Committees biographies, along and composition of the Board executives: and with information on Genuss other and its Committees: identifying and recommending Board members, can be found on evaluating the balance of skills, suitable candidates to become pages 42 to 43. experience, independence, Directors, based on merit.
knowledge and diversity on the Board: The Committee met three times in the year, primarily to discuss the Boards current skills and experience, and succession planning.
| Genus plc Annual Report 2017 55 Nomination Committee Report continued EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED The Committees Main Activities During the Year Succession Planning Process In 2016, the Committee formalised and committed to a three-phase succession planning process: ASSESSMENT APPROACH EXECUTION Board Skills Matrix and Experience Engagement Rules Appointments As part of the Assessment phase, As part of the Approach phase: Desired skills for any new which was formalised last year Non-Executives have been Engagement rules were developed following an in-depth review and identified, for use in filling any for use in succession planning, discussion, the Committee has future vacancies on the Board.
including: mapped out the Boards current Potential internal candidates for skills and experiences across a succession planning in line with promotion to Executive Director.
the Committees terms of reference: This resulted in a skills matrix, considering the skills which identified good skills of any departing NED for coverage from all Board members.
replacement: and Potential skills gaps were filling any skills deemed to be identified, so they can be missing or required for the incorporated into future Companys future strategic succession planning at Board and direction.
Job specifications for the NonAreas for ongoing Board upskilling Executives and Executives have were identified and discussed.
Diversity Policy Board Induction and Training Genus recognises and embraces the A good induction is a key part of benefits of Board diversity.
A diverse ensuring new Board members can Board has members with different fully contribute, so we get the most skills, backgrounds, regional and benefit from their experience.
industry experiences, race, gender and other qualities.
By bringing these Our induction programme has three differences to bear in its discussions main elements: and decision-making, a diverse Board helping our Board members to can help Genus to maintain its conduct themselves effectively, competitive advantage.
Diversity also through a course run by Spencer links directly to our values, not only by Stuart, one of the worlds leading being people-focused and global executive search and responsible, but by encouraging new leadership consulting firms: ideas which deliver for our customers ensuring our Directors understand and ultimately drive our results.
Our the legal and regulatory aspects of Board diversity policy therefore aims being a Board member: and to ensure that we consider diversity in an introduction to our business, its broadest sense.
Genus will through site visits and meetings continue to make all Board with our management teams.
appointments based on individual merit.
The Committee reviewed the Service Contracts and Letters Board diversity policy during the year of Appointment and concluded that it remained Copies of service contracts and letters appropriate for Genus.
of appointment between the Directors and the Company will be available More information about diversity for inspection at the Companys across Genus can be found in the registered office during normal Strategic Report on page 34. business hours until the conclusion of the AGM on 16 November 2017, and at the AGM from at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting until its conclusion.
