Governance Corporate governance CHAIRMANS GOVERNANCE INTRODUCTION Ian Burke Chairman Application of our social responsibility and anti-moneyDear shareholder laundering controls remains a challenge across some of our I am pleased to present this years directors and corporate businesses and so we will continue to focus on the delivery of governance report.
We are reporting this year against the the cultural change across Rank that is required to ensure the April 2016 version of the UK Corporate Governance Code effective delivery of consumer protection.
We have been in compliance with the Code Lord Kilmorey continues to chair our board-level responsible throughout the year under review.
gambling committee and his report can be found on page 68.
Our responsibilities as a board include setting the Companys Diversity strategic aims, providing the leadership to put them into effect During the year, the board and or its committees have received and supervising the management of the business.
The aim of briefings on several diversity-related issues, including: this report is to explain how we have done that.
the Hampton-Alexander Review on improving gender balance Culture and consumer protection in FTSE-company leadership: Corporate culture has continued to be an area of focus for the board this year, as has oversight of improvements to Ranks the Parker Report into ethnic diversity on UK boards: and social responsibility and  controls across the McGregor-Smith Review into race in the workplace.
We continue to aim for the highest standards, in keeping with our commitment to upholding the licensing We welcome the findings of the Hampton-Alexander Review objectives laid down in the Gambling Act 2005.
During the and the Parker Report and we intend to put in place actions to year, the chairman, chief executive and social responsibility implement the recommendations.
We have a target of 33% of policy manager of the UK Gambling Commission UKGC women on our board and we have set a target of 33% of women joined a Rank board meeting for a discussion in order that: on the executive committee and of direct reports to the executive committee by 2020.
We also aim to have at least one director the Rank board might deepen its understanding of what of colour on our board by 2024.
As at 30 June 2017, our data the UKGC was trying to achieve and for the UKGC to stood at: understand the issues that Rank was trying to address: 1 Rank in June 2017 Female BAME the board should understand how Rank might contribute Plc board 12.5% 0% to the UKGCs strategy: and Executive committee inc. executive Plc directors 22.2% 0% the UKGC might understand how the board was using Direct reports to executive committee heads of function 22.9% 3.6% the UKGCs new regulatory tool, the annual assurance statement process, to assist and deepen its understanding 1 Black, Asian and minority ethnic.
52 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Board succession Leadership and effectiveness In anticipation of Owen ODonnell, the chair of our During the period under review, the leadership of our two audit committee, completing nine years of service on retail businesses underwent change and, following on from 11 September 2017 and therefore no longer being independent, last years evaluation, the board has been more engaged with the board and its nominations committee have been focusing the development of the leadership and strategies of those on succession planning.
The report of the nominations businesses.
In June 2017, the contribution and effectiveness of committee can be found on page 65. our directors, both individually and collectively, underwent an internal evaluation.
Areas for development included identifying On 28 June 2017, we announced the appointment of opportunities to help management drive more value from the AlexThursby as a non-executive director with effect from more challenged retail elements of the Groups businesses, 1 August 2017.
Mr Thursby serves on the boards audit, and improved depth of sector knowledge.
remuneration and nominations committees and will chair Governance key features the boards audit committee with effect from the conclusion of the forthcoming annual general meeting when Mr ODonnell In the table below I summarise the key features of governance at Rank and indicate where more information can be found in will retire.
Mr Thursby has had a long career in banking and has extensive experience in compliance and risk governance as well the report.
as experience of developing new, and transforming existing, Conclusion businesses with the use of technology platforms.
As a board, we recognise that it is imperative to have in place a strong governance framework which supports the Groups I would like to take this opportunity to extend my gratitude strategic objectives and promotes the development of corporate to all my board colleagues for their contributions this year.
culture and diversity across the business.
I would like to take In particular, I would like to thank Owen ODonnell for his this opportunity to thank our colleagues for their commitment valuable contribution as a director during his nine-year tenure to the business during the year.
on the board and his excellent chairmanship of the audit committee over the last three years.
Ian Burke Chairman 16 August 2017 Page n Independence Over half of our board is made up of independent non-executive directors.
56 Senior independent Our senior independent director is Chris Bell.
56 director Composition, The composition of the board and all its committees complies with the Code.
In particular, the Codes 67 competence requirements for recent and relevant financial experience and sector experience and the DTRs requirement and experience for competence in accounting or auditing and sector competence are complied with.
Responsibilities There are clear terms of reference for the board and its committees and there is a clear separation of duties 54 and election between the chairman and chief executive roles.
We require all directors to stand for re-election annually.
Attendance The directors have all attended an acceptable number of board and committee meetings.
55 Evaluation An internal performance evaluation of the board and its committees was undertaken during the year.
57 The last external evaluation was undertaken in 2015 and another will be undertaken in 2018.
Internal audit We have an internal audit function, details of which can be found in the audit committee report.
59 External audit Ranks external audit was most recently tendered during 2009, resulting in a change of external auditors 64 and the appointment of EY at the Companys annual general meeting on 22 April 2010.
In June 2017, the audit committee agreed that it would not be appropriate to decide on the timing of the audit tender until the committee chairmans successor was in place.
Non-audit work policy We have a policy for the award of non-audit work performed by our external auditor and we have disclosed 113 the non-audit work undertaken.
Remuneration During the year, the board and its remuneration committee have received briefings on external factors 70-84 influencing executive pay and are mindful of the need to curb excessive remuneration, to align incentives with the long-term interests of the Company and shareholders and to increase transparency.
com | 53 Governance Corporate governance continued Remuneration committee Corporate governance statement Steven Esom chairman, Susan Hooper, Owen ODonnell and Introduction Alex Thursby.
The principal governance rules applying to UK companies Responsible gambling committee listed on the London Stock Exchange are contained in the UK Lord Kilmorey chairman, Chris Bell, Henry Birch, Ian Burke Corporate Governance Code, revised by the Financial Reporting and Susan Hooper.
Council in April 2016 the Code.
Finance committee This corporate governance statement covers the following areas: Ian Burke chairman, Henry Birch and Clive Jennings.
structure and role of the board and its committees: board effectiveness: Code main principles audit committee: Leadership nominations committee: The role of the board Board composition finance committee: and As at the date of this report, the board consists of: responsible gambling committee.
a non-executive chairman: The directors have assessed the prospects of the Company over six independent non-executive directors: a three-year period.
Further details of the viability assessment are provided on page 41. two executive directors the chief executive and the finance director.
The report of the remuneration committee is set out separately in the directors remuneration report on pages 70 to 84.
The names and biographies of all directors are published on pages 50 to 51.
Compliance with the Code The board confirms that it has complied with the provisions of Key board responsibilities the Code throughout the year ended 30 June 2017.
The board is responsible for: This corporate governance statement forms part of the Group strategy, objectives and policies: directors report and accordingly is approved by the board and internal controls and risk management: signed on its behalf by the company secretary.
Certain parts of general and long-term progress of the Group within this corporate governance statement have been reviewed by the political, economic, environmental and social the Companys auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, for compliance setting of the day: with the Code, to the extent required.
sound governance, health and safety, and In this corporate governance statement the following environmental policies: abbreviations are used: financial performance, annual budgets and business plans: FCA Financial Conduct Authority board and company secretary appointments: Guoco Guoco Group Limited major capital expenditure, acquisitions and divestments: Hong Leong Hong Leong Company Malaysia Berhad.
senior management structure, remuneration and succession: annual and half-year financial results and interim Structure and role of the board and its committees management statements: The board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
The boards main responsibilities and the key responsible gambling and ethical behaviour: actions carried out during the year are set out below.
The board board committees and their terms of reference: and delegates certain matters to committees and delegates the investor relations.
detailed implementation of matters approved by the board and the day-to-day operational aspects of the business to Specific responsibilities are delegated to our five board the executive directors.
committees audit, remuneration, nominations, finance and responsible gambling.
They report to the board and Composition of the board committees operate within defined terms of reference, which can be Audit committee obtained from our website at www.
com en investors Owen ODonnell chairman, Chris Bell, Steven Esom and corporate-governance terms-of-reference.
html, or by writing Alex Thursby.
Nominations committee The executive directors conduct the Companys business within Ian Burke chairman, Chris Bell, Steven Esom, Susan Hooper, clearly defined limits delegated by the board and subject to Lord Kilmorey, Owen ODonnell and Alex Thursby.
those matters reserved to the board.
54 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Board meetings Insurance and indemnity Board meetings allow for regular and frank discussion of The Company has arranged insurance cover and indemnifies strategy, trading, financial performance, regulatory affairs, directors in respect of legal action against them to the extent responsible gambling and risk management.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity applies in situations where a director has acted fraudulently During the period under review, the boards committees also or dishonestly.
met regularly to discharge their duties.
Conflicts of interest In exceptional circumstances when a director is unable to The directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts of interest.
attend a meeting, his or her comments on briefing papers are In accordance with the Companys articles of association, it has given in advance to the relevant chairman.
adopted a policy and procedure for managing and, if appropriate, authorising actual or potential conflicts of interest.
2016 17 activity The graphic below provides an overview of the boards allocation Directors are required to disclose any other new appointments of agenda time during the year, based on key areas of review at before agreeing to take them on, so that any conflicts of interest the meetings convened.
can be identified and addressed.
The board also assesses conflicts of interest before making any Board activity in 2016 17 new appointments.
Projects 24% Division of responsibilities Strategy and There is a clear division of responsibilities between the corporate development 20% chairman and chief executive.
Upholding licensing objectives 8% Digital business 6% Chairman Grosvenor retail 5% The chairman is charged to: Business performance 5% UK retail bingo 4% manage the business of the board, preside over meetings and Risk, cyber security, health and seek prompt and appropriate decisions: safety and utilities hedging 4% work with the company secretary to ensure directors receive Board succession planning 3% accurate and clear information for the proper execution of Dividend and capital structure and capital expenditure their duties: eectiveness 3% oversee effective communication with shareholders: External reporting 3% Estate management 3% keep the Groups progress and development under review: Culture, values, people and ensure the chief executives Group objectives, policies and remuneration 2% strategies are consistent with lasting shareholder value: Corporate restructuring 2% evaluate the board and its committees: and Other 8% ensure the Groups governance is effective and in line with best practice.
Board and committee meeting attendance The directors attendance at board meetings during the year is recorded in the table below.
It shows the number of board meetings attended by each director against the number of board meetings that director was eligible to attend.
Responsible Nominations Finance Remuneration gambling Name Full board Audit committee committee committee committee committee Chris Bell 17 17 4 4 2 2 n a n a 4 4 Henry Birch 17 17 n a 2 2 10 10 n a 4 4 Ian Burke 17 17 n a 2 2 10 10 n a 4 4 Steven Esom 17 17 4 4 2 2 n a 5 5 n a 5 Susan Hooper 17 17 n a 2 2 n a 5 5 0 0 Clive Jennings 17 17 n a n a 10 10 n a n a 2 4 Lord Kilmorey 15 17 n a 1 2 n a n a 4 4 3 Owen ODonnell 16 17 4 4 2 2 n a 5 5 n a 1 Alex Thursby 0 0 0 0 0 0 n a 0 0 n a 1 Alex Thursby joined the board on 1 August 2017.
2 Unable to attend two meetings: one due to unavoidable personal circumstances and one due to one meeting being called at short notice.
3 Unable to attend due to meeting being called at short notice.
4 Unable to attend due to another unavoidable commitment.
5 Susan Hooper joined the responsible gambling committee on 1 July 2017. www.
com | 55 Governance Corporate governance continued Chief executive Effectiveness The chief executives role is to: The composition of the board Size and structure manage and promote the Groups long-term profitable The nominations committee keeps the boards size and development: structure under review.
The nominations committee is of the view that the board is well balanced, providing a collective exercise stewardship of intellectual property, human and financial resources and ensure that the relevant policies competence to suit the Groups developing needs and an appropriate blend of executive and non-executive skill.
are implemented: We believe that all our directors are suitably qualified plan strategy and prepare objectives and policies for to help steer and challenge Group strategy.
board approval: More than half of our board excluding the chairman ensure action is taken to achieve strategies, objectives and policies, as approved by the board: are independent.
Name Independent Appointed ensure objectives, policies and strategies are adopted for each Group business, that appropriate budgets are set for them Chairman 1 Ian Burke n a March 2006 individually, that their performance is monitored, and that guidance is given when needed: Executive Henry Birch no May 2014 take responsibility for Group health and safety policies: Clive Jennings no July 2011 make sure the Group complies with all relevant legislation: and Non-executive lead ongoing communication with employees.
Chris Bell yes June 2015 Steven Esom yes March 2016 Non-executive directors Susan Hooper yes September 2015 The directors are satisfied that there are proper procedures in Lord Kilmorey yes May 2012 place to ensure that: Owen ODonnell yes September 2008 they are receiving accurate and clear information for the Alex Thursby yes August 2017 proper execution of their duties: 1 Ian Burke was originally appointed to the board on 6 March 2006.
He resigned the Groups objectives, policies and strategies are consistent from the board on 28 June 2011 and was reappointed on 3 July 2011.
On 15 July 2011 he became executive chairman.
On 6 May 2014 he resigned his role as with enhancing shareholder value: chief executive and became non-executive chairman with effect from that date.
they are able to keep the Groups progress and development Committees under review: The composition and chairmanship of our board committees they have an opportunity to challenge constructively, and are considered annually and have been considered during the help develop, proposals on strategy: period under review.
there are effective communications with all shareholders: and the Groups governance is effective.
Senior independent director As senior independent director since 1 June 2015, Chris Bell is available to talk with shareholders who have questions or concerns.
Led by the senior independent director, during the year the non-executive directors also met and reviewed the chairmans performance without him being present.
56 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Commitment We operate an open-door policy between the board and the The principal terms and conditions of appointment for each management team.
Members of the management team also director are set out on pages 75 and 76, and their interests in make regular board presentations to ensure a flow of operational Rank shares are detailed on page 82.
All non-executive directors information reaches the directors in a timely way.
are required to disclose their other significant commitments, All directors have access to the advice and services of the company both before appointment and following subsequent changes, secretary and, if required, may take independent advice and or so that the board can satisfy itself that each of the directors professional development at the Companys expense.
has sufficient time to allocate to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Evaluation This year the evaluation of the board and its committees During the year the chairman became chairman of the FTSE consisted of: SmallCap multi-channel retailer, Findel plc.
Henry Birch is a trustee of GambleAware formerly Responsible Gambling Trust individual private meetings between the chairman and board and Clive Jennings does not currently hold any directorships members at which feedback was given: outside the Group.
Executive Directors are not permitted to a private meeting of the non-executive directors to review the take up non-executive directorships outside the Group.
performance of the chairman: Development a private meeting between the senior independent director and Induction the chairman at which feedback on the performance of the During the period under review, no new non-executive chairman was given: directors were appointed to the board.
Alex Thursby was an evaluation of the performance and effectiveness of the appointed to the board as a non-executive director effective audit committee using Ernst & Young LLPs practical guide from 1 August 2017.
As part of the comprehensive induction and toolkit and identification of actions for the forthcoming programme delivered to all non-executive directors, Mr Thursby year: and met with senior management from across the business and an evaluation of the performance and effectiveness of visited the casino and bingo businesses accompanied by the the boards other committees using questionnaires and respective managing directors of Mecca and Grosvenor.
identification of actions for the forthcoming year.
Skills and knowledge In addition, the chairman together with two non-executive All directors are given regular written briefings with regard to directors evaluated the performance of the chief executive matters affecting the Groups businesses, such as the political by means of a questionnaire and meeting.
The outcome was and regulatory environment and corporate governance reform.
discussed and then fed back to the other non-executive directors.
Additionally, at the boards request, the Groups auditor keeps the board abreast of key impact items such as political and Actions identified from the above activities included: regulatory initiatives with regard to narrative reporting, executive remuneration, going concern and the role of audit committee implementation of a formal process for the audit committee.
the committee to review the effectiveness of internal audits activities and identification of a method for assessing the Directors are invited to identify to the company secretary financial literacy of committee members, of gaps in skills, or human resources director any desired skills and knowledge knowledge and experience of committee members and, enhancements that they require so that appropriate training where necessary, of training and knowledge needs: can be arranged.
nominations committee closer monitoring of executive team Additionally, once a year, the directors have an opportunity succession, talent and resource, implementation of a plan to to review and agree their respective training and development achieve board-level diversity targets, and review of the Group needs during their one-on-one meetings with the chairman.
human resources directors plan to achieve diversity targets for executive committee and direct reports to executive committee: Information and support Assisted by the company secretary, the chairman is responsible remuneration committee a further review of the committees for ensuring that directors receive accurate and timely terms of reference, and implementation of a process for aligning information on all relevant matters.
pay and conditions where acquisitions have been made: responsible gambling committee redefinition of the The directors receive a monthly report of current and forecast committees purpose and goals and review of its terms of trading results and treasury positions, as well as updates on reference: and shareholder views.
finance committee review of its terms of reference.
A rolling programme of items sets the agenda for board discussion.
This is regularly reviewed and updated to cover The board met to discuss the effectiveness of itself and its topical issues and developments.
committees during the year and concluded that, overall, it had functioned effectively during the period under review and that Comprehensive briefing papers on substantive agenda items its committees continued to discharge their duties in line with are circulated at least five working days before meetings where their respective terms of reference.
These contain detailed background information, thus freeing time for informed debate.
com | 57 Governance Corporate governance continued Election and re-election Formal briefings on shareholder opinion are circulated to All new directors must stand for election at the first annual the board after presentation of the Companys interim and general meeting after their appointment and, thereafter, at annual results.
intervals of no more than three years.
Non-executive directors The principal method of communicating with all our are engaged for an initial period of three years and must stand shareholders is via our corporate website, www.
for election and re-election in the same way.
The Companys Information can be provided in paper format, but only articles of association require one-third of serving directors to when shareholders specifically request this.
Constructive use of the annual general meeting Alex Thursby was appointed to the board after the last annual All shareholders are welcome to attend our annual general general meeting and is therefore required to submit himself meeting.
Private investors are encouraged to ask questions.
for election at the forthcoming annual general meeting on The chairman and chairmen of the audit and remuneration 19 October 2017. committees are all present.
The Company complies with the Codes requirement for annual Shareholders are invited to vote on the formal resolutions re-election of directors of FTSE 350 companies.
All directors will contained in the notice of meeting, which is published at least be submitting themselves for re-election at the forthcoming 20 working days beforehand.
The business presentation, voting annual general meeting with the exception of Mr ODonnell results and a summary of the questions and answers are made who has taken the decision to stand down from the board available at www.
com, or in printed format on request.
with effect from the conclusion of the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Shareholders may also use electronic means to vote or appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf at the annual and other Relations with shareholders general meetings of the Company.
Dialogue with shareholders The board as a whole takes responsibility for ensuring that Next annual general meeting satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
As at The 2017 annual general meeting will be held on 30 June 2017, 56.16% of our shares were held by our majority 19 October 2017 and the full text of the notice of meeting, shareholder, Hong Leong, and a further 38.08% were held by together with explanatory notes, is set out in a separate 20 institutional shareholders.
com en investors shareholder-centre shareholder-meetings.
Given that Rank is a 56.16% subsidiary of Guoco, the chief executive and other members of Ranks executive management If you have elected for paper information, this will be enclosed team meet with representatives of Guoco four times a year to with your hard copy of this annual report.
Shareholders wishing discuss business performance and other issues that could to change that election may do so at any time by contacting the impact their financial statements.
Companys registrar, details of which can be found on page 146 and on our website at www.
com en investors shareholderWe speak with our institutional shareholders and city analysts centre contacts.
through a programme of investor relations and regular meetings with principal shareholders conducted by our chief executive, finance director and director of investor relations.
All directors receive reports to keep them in touch with shareholder opinion.
During the period under review, a total of 52 meetings with 35 shareholders were attended by one or more of the chief executive and finance director.
58 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 AUDIT COMMITTEE Owen ODonnell Chairman Other committee members Audit committee membership and meetings Chris Bell, Steven Esom, Alex Thursby All members of the Committee are non-executive directors and have maintained independence throughout the period under Role of the audit committee review.
Pursuant to Code provision C. 3.1, the composition of All members of the audit committee the Committee are the Committee provides a high level of financial experience and independent, assisting the board in reviewing and maintaining competence within the gaming sector.
Chris Bell has extensive internal controls, the management of risk and compliance with experience within the betting and gaming industry and Owen the law and regulation, namely by: ODonnell has held roles within the online gaming industry as well as being a chartered accountant.
taking responsibility for monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: Mr ODonnell will be stepping down at the conclusion of the assessing the integrity of all public financial statements before forthcoming annual general meeting, having served nine years their submission to the board, ensuring that a fair, balanced on the board and thus no longer being considered independent.
and understandable assessment of the Groups ongoing Following the appointment of Alex Thursby to the board as position and prospects is presented: a non-executive director with effect from 1 August 2017, it is proposed that Mr Thursby serve as the chairman of the authorising any changes in accounting policies and reviewing Committee, with effect from the conclusion of the annual the objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditor every general meeting.
Mr Thursby has considerable experience year: and within compliance and risk governance, having held senior overseeing the Companys internal code of conduct and executive and non-executive director roles within the monitoring the Companys whistleblowing procedures through banking sector.
which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about any possible improprieties in areas of financial reporting, financial control or ethical matters.
The Committees terms of reference are available from the Companys website at: www.
com en investors corporategovernance terms-of-reference.
html, or by writing to the company secretary.
com | 59 Governance Corporate governance continued Committee meeting attendance Committee Attendance Name member since eligibility to attend Notes Current committee members Chris Bell June 2015 4 4 Steven Esom March 2016 4 4 Owen ODonnell September 2008 4 4 Mr ODonnell has been Committee chairman since 22 April 2014 and proposes to step down as Committee chairman with effect from the conclusion of the annual general meeting on 19 October 2017.
Alex Thursby August 2017 0 0 Mr Thursby has been a Committee member since 1 August 2017.
A rolling agenda and topical items determine the Committees Whilst responsibility remains with the board, a key part of discussions.
The Committee met formally four times in the oversight of the risk management process is executed through period under review.
Members of the Committee also met the Groups risk committee, which reports monthly to the board separately to discuss matters without the presence of and provides oversight in relation to the Groups risk exposure.
The external auditor was also provided the The risk committee met 10 times during the year and comprises opportunity to discuss any issues with the Committee the chief executive, finance director, company secretary, chief without the presence of executive management.
information officer and director of internal audit.
At the invitation of the Committee chairman, the chief executive, Role of the risk committee: finance director, company secretary, head of reporting and director of internal audit normally attend Committee meetings, as does the external auditor.
Other board directors are encouraged to attend at least one Committee meeting a year at which the external auditor is present.
Perform 2016 17 activity deep-dive reviews into Review the corporate The graphic below provides an overview of the Committees specific departments risk register allocation of agenda time during the year, based on key areas of and functions Audit committee activity in 2016 2017 review at the quarterly meetings.
risk registers Financial reporting 32% Internal controls and risk management 22% Compliance 15% Information security and cyber risk 14% Internal audit 9% External audit 5% Provide a forum to Report in a timely Other 3% ensure the adequate and and comprehensive timely progress of agreed manner to the risk mitigation actions audit committee Risk management The Committee has four scheduled meetings per year, and by invitation welcomes specialist employees from various departments and functions of the Group to support detailed 0 discussions of specific operational risks.
The Committee supports the successful execution of the Groups strategy, The principal risks and uncertainties section on page 42 of which requires a thorough and critical approach to identifying, the strategic report details the key areas of focus of the risk accepting and mitigating existing and emergent risk: to that committee during the year.
end both the board and the Committee take an active role The Committee reviews managements biannual reports in ensuring that a culture of risk awareness and risk-adjusted on , internal and external fraud, decision-making is embedded throughout the Group.
whistleblowing, internal code of conduct and inadvertent The Committee and the board monitor the effectiveness of breaches of legislation, as well as reviewing the Groups the risk management process and regularly review the principal corporate risk register.
risks together with the controls and risk-mitigation actions put in place to manage them.
60 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Standard agenda risk reporting Corporate risk register and methodology The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the methodology for the risk register, ensuring that it remains in line with the requirements of the business.
Assurance regarding anti-money laundering AML, The Committee regularly reviews Meccas and Grosvenors management of controls counter-terrorist financing CTF and anti-proceeds in both retail and digital with regard to AML, CTF, PoC and legislative requirements.
of crime PoC policies and procedures Information security improvement plan Regular assessments are undertaken to review the progress achieved against managements information security improvement plan and updated cyber security risks.
Pursuant to Code provision C. 2.2, in taking account of the Compliance control: across the Group we have teams Companys current position and principal risks the board has whose responsibility it is to ensure day-to-day adherence to adopted a period of three years for assessing the viability of the all legislation to which our operations are subject, including Company.
The board agreed the proposed process to support gambling,  and health and safety.
the viability statement and has delegated to the Committee Senior executives and the internal audit team are responsible responsibility for overseeing this.
The viability statement for monitoring overall compliance.
They report to the can be found on page 41.
Internal control framework The executive directors and senior management meet regularly Our system of internal control is designed to manage rather than with representatives from the businesses to address financial, eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and human resource, risk management and other control issues.
provides reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material At its meetings during the year and up to the date of approval misstatement or loss.
It controls, rather than eliminates, any of this annual report and financial statements, the Committee human error, deliberate misconduct or uncertain events.
examined the effectiveness of the Groups approach to internal To maintain control and direction over strategic, financial, control by reviewing changes to controls made during the year operational and compliance issues, the board has put in and reviewing the adequacy and progress of action plans to place formally defined lines of responsibility and delegation address failings or weaknesses identified in the Groups system of authority.
Established procedures are geared to identifying, of internal control.
This process has been reviewed by the evaluating and managing significant risks and to monitoring board and meets the standards of Financial Reporting the Groups businesses and performance.
Councils internal control guidance to directors.
This framework is reviewed annually and is designed to Internal audit The Committee has responsibility for the internal audit safeguard shareholders investments and the Groups assets, while ensuring that proper accounting records are maintained.
function and the director of internal audit reports directly to the chairman of the Committee.
Our internal audit team Senior management is responsible for making sure that controls and procedures are enforced and that the board is informed of provides an objective and regular stream of analysis and opinion on risk management and control.
To avoid bias, any risks and control issues that arise.
it is entirely independent of the business operations under Financial control: there is a comprehensive system for audit and maintains strict management of any conflicts of reporting financial results to the board, a budgeting process interest arising.
incorporating an approved budget and biannual re-forecasts.
The chief executive and finance director hold monthly review The scope of the audit coverage is approved by the Committee meetings with managing directors and their respective directors and covers all systems, procedures and activities of all operations, of finance.
departments and functions within the Group, including projects, policy developments, and financial and nonFinancial reporting control: detailed policies and procedures financial processes.
are in place to ensure the accuracy and reliability of financial reporting.
The Committee also agrees the annual audit plan, which covers operational, corporate and IT audits: reviews the level Strategic control: the board reviews the Groups strategic plans and nature of internal audit resource: and reviews the audit annually and regularly reviews strategic progress.
reports produced by the internal audit team.
Operational control: procedures are laid down in detailed manuals and reinforced by employee training.
Each business unit carries out a monthly self-audit to test key controls and report weaknesses to operational management.
com | 61 Governance Corporate governance continued The internal audit team seeks to determine whether the system Financial reporting and significant financial issues of risk management, control and governance processes, as The Committee assesses whether suitable accounting policies designed and operated by management, is adequate and have been adopted and whether management has made functioning in such a manner as to ensure that: appropriate estimates and judgements.
The Committee reviews accounting papers prepared by management which provide risks are appropriately identified and managed in line with the details of the main financial reporting judgements and estimates.
Companys risk appetite: The Committee also reviews reports by the external auditor on operations are run with sufficient and adequate controls and in the full-year and half-year results which highlight any issues an efficient and effective manner: with respect to the work undertaken.
significant financial, managerial and operating information is Significant accounting issues considered by the Committee accurate, reliable and timely: during the year included: employee actions are in compliance with policies, standards, treatment of exceptional items: procedures, and applicable laws and regulations: and impairment review of intangible assets and property, plant relevant laws, rules and regulations are complied with in the and equipment: operation of the business.
review of provisions, including those in relation to property To embed control further, the scores used by internal audit to leases, restructuring and indirect tax: monitor each business units controls performance also affect review of the costs recognised as part of the Group operational management bonuses.
restructuring undertaken: The director of internal audit makes regular presentations to recoverability of the convertible loan note: and the Committee and reporting includes comparative and trend contingent assets and liabilities.
During the period under review the Committee had three closed sessions with the director of internal audit without Exceptional items The Committee reviewed the accounting executive management being present.
treatment of exceptional items and members were in agreement that the items listed in note 4 are exceptional in size or nature Code of conduct in relation to the Group and therefore it is appropriate to Rank has an employee code of conduct that sets out our values disclose these separately.
and principles and guides everyones behaviour.
Adherence to the code is important as it upholds our reputation and Impairments For goodwill and indefinite-life assets relationships, inside and outside the Group.
not subject to amortisation, the Group performs an annual impairment review.
In addition, the Group also reviews assets The Committee is responsible for monitoring management that are subject to amortisation or depreciation for events or reports on employee conduct, including our changes in circumstances that indicate that the carrying amount whistleblowing procedures.
of an asset or cash-generating unit may not be recoverable.
Whistleblowing If a definite-life asset has been previously impaired the Group Rank considers it important to maintain a culture of openness, considers whether there has been a change in circumstance or honesty and opposition to fraud, corruption and unethical event that may indicate the impairment is no longer required.
It is Ranks policy to implement and maintain The Group considers each venue to be a cash-generating unit procedures that promote ethical business conduct and reduce and therefore the review covers in excess of 150 individual the risk of fraud and other irregularities, enabling early detection, cash-generating units.
To support this, Rank has a fraud The Committee reviewed managements impairment review and unethical business conduct whistleblowing policy which process including, where applicable, the potential indicators sets out the ways in which employees can voice their concerns of impairment and or reversal, cash flow projections and about suspected fraud, corruption or unethical business conduct.
discount rates used to derive a value in use, and the sensitivity Culture to assumptions made.
During the year, the Committee reviewed The Committee has reviewed the effective monitoring of total exceptional impairment charges of 6.7m in respect of Company culture and how this may be incorporated within four venues where performance has been below expectations, the risk framework and assessed through the internal audit including a 4.1m impairment of Grosvenors Southend casino.
There has been a strong focus on the launch of the The Committee also considered the exceptional reversal of Groups STARS values, details of which can be found on page 29 previous impairment charges of 2.5m at three venues following of this report.
Anonymous employee questionnaires have been a period of sustained performance recovery due to a competitor used to gain further insight into employee satisfaction and closure, and two reversals in Spain due to improvements in the there has been engagement in monitoring corporate culture local economic environment.
The Committee was of the view that the net impairment charge recognised of 4.2m was appropriate.
Further details of the impairment charges and reversals are disclosed in note 4.
62 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Property leases At both the half and the full year, the Convertible loan note The Committee considered Committee considered the Groups approach to property managements paper in respect of the recoverability of the lease provisions, the discount rates applied and managements convertible loan note due from the Groups digital platform recommendations, in order to satisfy itself how management provider and recognised the significant level of judgement came to its best estimate of property lease obligations.
The and estimation made by management in ascertaining its Committee noted that the Group has a number of property recoverability.
It was noted that the estimation of fair value leasehold contracts and was of the view that appropriate remains uncertain but that, based on the information presented provision had been made against those property leases where by management, the committee is satisfied that the loan remains recoverable through conversion.
The Committee will continue the unavoidable costs exceed the expected economic benefit expected to be derived from the property.
During the year, the to monitor the appropriateness of the judgements and estimates made in respect of the recoverability of the convertible loan Committee reviewed the exceptional net credit from property leases of 14.7m, including a 10.7m credit in relation to the note during 2017 18. successful surrender of the Bradford onerous lease following Contingent assets and liabilities In determining the the venues closure, and it was of the view that the net credit accounting treatment of potential assets and liabilities released was appropriate.
Further details of the property lease management has applied judgement in assessing the probability provision held are disclosed in note 21 and the exceptional of occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain adjustments made in the current year are disclosed in note 4. future events not wholly within the control of the Company.
In addition, the Committee was also updated in respect of certain The Committee receives triannual updates from management, property leasehold contracts where the rights and obligations but incorporating legal advice as appropriate, on the accounting not the legal titles have been transferred to third parties such treatment for potential assets and liabilities in relation to that the Group remains potentially liable in the event of default disclosure or recognition.
The Committee is of the view by the third party.
Should default occur then the Group would that management has appropriately treated such items in have recourse to one or more guarantor entities.
These leasehold the financial statements.
Details of the liabilities are included contracts include eight remaining property leases, with lease in note 30. durations of between 21 months and 96 years and a current annual obligation net of sub-let income of approximately In addition to the above, the Committee has been updated 0.8m, that were transferred concurrent to the 211m sale and on progress in respect of the ongoing project to assess the leaseback in 2006.
The Committee noted the risk associated impact of, and prepare for the transition to, IFRS 16 Leases.
with the transfer of such property leasehold contracts but The Committee understands the impact of IFRS 16 on the that the Group has not to date been notified of any default, Group will be material and as such will continue to request or intention to default, in respect of the transferred leases.
progress updates from management during 2017 18.
Further details of this contingent liability are disclosed The Committee also receives and considers an update paper in note 30. covering the Groups ongoing direct tax issues at both the half Restructuring The Committee received an update at both half and full year.
These issues cover both discontinued operations and full year in respect of the Group restructuring undertaken with historic tax audits and continuing operations where tax during the year.
The Committee considered the appropriateness returns submitted have been, or are likely to be, challenged by of items included in the exceptional cost of 8.8m, together the relevant tax authority.
The Committee was of the view that with the recognition criteria and measurement bases for the managements best estimate of the liability for the remaining element provided for at the balance sheet date.
See note 17 for details of the direct tax liability recognised.
The Committee was satisfied that items included in the Group restructuring cost and the related provision were appropriate.
Financial Reporting Council review of interim accounts Further details of the exceptional cost and related provision In April 2017, the Company was notified that the Conduct are disclosed in notes 4 and 21 respectively.
Committee of the Financial Reporting Council had carried out a review of the Groups interim report for the six months ended Indirect tax The Committee receives and considers an 31 December 2016.
The review raised no questions or queries update paper covering the Groups indirect tax issues, including on the interim report.
the Groups VAT claims, at both the half and the full year.
The Committee noted the decision of the Supreme Court in favour Principal risks and uncertainties Details of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties, and of HMRC regarding claims for overpaid VAT on certain types of amusement machines between 2002 and 2005, but that a the controls in place to mitigate them, can be found on pages 42 to 44 of the strategic report.
Additionally, details of the full provision has been made for amounts not yet repaid.
financial risks that the Group faces can be found in note 19 The Committee was of the view that managements best estimate to the financial statements.
of the liability for the issues that remained outstanding was appropriate.
Details of the indirect tax liability recognised are disclosed in note 21. www.
com | 63 Governance Corporate governance continued Committee evaluation External auditor The Committees performance during the period under review Our auditor is employed to express an opinion on the financial was assessed via confidential questionnaires with Committee statements.
It reviews the systems of internal financial control members and other individuals who support its work.
The and the data contained in the financial statements to the extent results were then reviewed by the Committee chairman and necessary to express its opinion.
The board agreed that the Committee It discusses with management the reporting of operational continued to perform effectively.
Further details of the results and the financial position of the Group, and presents evaluation process can be found on page 57. findings to the Committee.
Assessment of effectiveness of external audit process Information Agreement on how best to assess the effectiveness of the The directors in office at the date of this report are not aware external audit process was discussed between the Committee of any relevant information that has not been made available chairman, the finance director and the company secretary and a to the auditor and each director has taken steps to be aware proposal agreed.
That proposal was put to the other Committee of all such information and to ensure it is available to the members for agreement.
Part of the effectiveness of the external Companys auditor.
audit process was assessed by the use of a questionnaire which posed questions in relation to different aspects of the external Non-audit work audit process.
Those individuals employed by Rank most actively The Committee oversees the nature and amount of any involved with the day-to-day aspects of the audit provided non-audit work undertaken by the auditor to ensure it remains responses to certain questions asked of them.
The views of Rank independent.
Consequently, the Committee is required to employees involved with the audit were considered, discussed approve in advance all non-audit services priced above 25,000. and summarised and provided to audit committee members When seeking external accountancy advice in relation to for discussion amongst themselves.
non-audit matters, the Groups policy is to invite competitive In addition to a private meeting between the Committee tenders where appropriate.
It is also the Groups policy to chair and the external audit partner, the Committee met with balance the need to maintain audit independence with the the auditor on three occasions following Committee meetings desirability of taking advice from the leading firm in the area in closed sessions without executive directors to assess the of advice being sought and the desirability of being efficient.
objectivity and accuracy of financial reporting and to hear Details of the fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP throughout the any other observations that the auditor had to make.
period under review can be found in note 3.
Audit tendering Rank has used the services of other accounting firms for The Committee has noted the requirements regarding non-audit work during the period under review.
audit tender and rotation of the audit engagement partner.
Rank is satisfied that the objectivity and independence of the The Companys external audit was most recently tendered audit partner and the audit engagement team have not been during 2009, resulting in a change of external auditors and compromised by the fees paid for the non-audit work the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP at the Companys undertaken by Ernst & Young LLP.
annual general meeting on 22 April 2010.
There was a change of external audit partner following completion of the 31 December Assurance 2015 interim review.
The Committee has continued to give The internal audit function and the external auditor presented consideration to the timing of the next formal tender and has their findings to the Committee in August and November 2016 considered that it is not appropriate to define the timing of the and in January and June 2017.
We confirm that action plans to tender until the successor to the current Committee chairman remedy identified weaknesses in internal control have been in formally takes his seat.
The Committee does not anticipate that place throughout the period.
a tender will be undertaken during the 2017 18 financial year Ernst & Young LLPs audit report is published on page 90. and there are no contractual obligations that restrict the choice of external auditors.
Owen ODonnell Chairman of the Audit Committee Auditor 16 August 2017 Having reviewed their performance throughout the period, our conclusion that Ernst & Young LLPs effectiveness is satisfactory enables us to recommend their reappointment for 2017 18.
The auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, is willing to continue in office and a resolution that they be reappointed at a remuneration to be agreed by the Committee will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
64 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE Ian Burke Chairman Other committee members Appointment of non-executive director Chris Bell, Steven Esom, Susan Hooper, Lord Kilmorey, Alex Thursby was appointed to the board with effect from Owen ODonnell, Alex Thursby 1 August 2017 for an initial term of three years subject to election at the forthcoming annual general meeting and Introduction thereafter subject to re-election at subsequent annual The nominations committee the Committee comprises general meetings.
the chairman and all independent non-executive directors.
The key criteria applied in screening candidates for this The Committee is responsible for identifying relevant talent appointment were that the successful individual would: and nominating all board appointments with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the board, including gender bring a high level of commercial experience and expertise and ethnicity.
to the board to assist in its deliberations to create value for shareholders: 2016 17 activity be able to chair the audit committee, having the relevant During the year under review the Committee met formally on two occasions.
levels of financial and accounting experience to do so: and have a good cultural fit with the current board and The main issues which the Committee discussed during the majority shareholder.
year under review were: It was recognised that the individuals diversity in outlook preparations for the retirement of the audit and attitude would be important and that ideally the successful committee chairman: candidate would also bring gender and or ethnic diversity to review of board appointments process: the board.
board diversity: A sub-committee of the board comprising the chairman, governance: strengthening the employee, customer and wider senior independent director and Susan Hooper was formed stakeholder voice: to conduct the search process.
The board together with the chairman succession planning: majority shareholder and several advisers were requested to put forward the names of potential candidates who satisfied the review of committee terms of reference: above criteria.
Given the quantity and quality of candidates put review of board skills: and forward, it was determined that it was not necessary to appoint board and committee composition.
an external search firm or use open advertising to assist in identifying further candidates.
Four candidates were short-listed for interview and all three sub-committee members met two of the short-listed candidates.
The sub-committee met to review the four short-listed candidates and discuss who to put forward to the remaining members of the nominations committee for interview.
The sub-committee agreed to put forward Mr Thursby as it felt that he best met the selection criteria.
com | 65 Governance Corporate governance continued All other board members then each met Mr Thursby and their Governance: strengthening the employee, customer and feedback was given to the Committee.
Mr Thursby was already wider stakeholder voice During the year, the Committee received briefings on corporate known to the majority shareholder due to Mr Thursbys previous professional banking experience in Asia.
governance reform and specifically the UK Governments Green Paper on corporate governance: strengthening the employee, Following a meeting of the Committee, Mr Thursby was customer and wider stakeholder voice.
The Committee discussed recommended to the board for appointment.
At its meeting the benefits that could be obtained from having a worker on 28 June 2017 the board unanimously resolved to appoint representative on the board and whether there were other Mr Thursby to the board and to serve on its audit, remuneration ways of obtaining those benefits without formal appointment.
and nominations committees and succeed to the chair of its The Committee will continue to explore this.
audit committee upon the resignation of Mr ODonnell at the Chairman succession planning conclusion of the 2017 annual general meeting.
Led by the senior independent director, the Committee has The board is satisfied that Mr Thursby is independent by had two discussions about chairman succession planning reference to the criteria set out in provision B.
and the process and length of time that would be required Details of Mr Thursbys experience, current and former roles to identify and recruit a successor.
The Committee has also can be found on page 51. discussed contingency succession planning in the event of unforeseen circumstances.
Board appointments process The Committee reviewed its process for board appointments Committee terms of reference that had last been reviewed in March 2015.
That review resulted During the year, the Committee reviewed its terms of in the secretary being requested to amend the process so that it reference and agreed to recommend changes to the board so that specifically referred to ethnic diversity and so that any search certain matters would be expressly stated.
The recommended firm engaged would speak to the brand managing directors amendments were approved by the board on 31 March 2017. in order to gain an understanding of the corporate culture.
The formal terms of reference of the Committee are available on our website at www.
com en investors corporateBoard diversity governance terms-of-reference.
html, or by written request During the period under review, the Committee has continued to the company secretary.
to consider the issue of diversity including gender and ethnic diversity in the context of the board and is mindful of the Board and committee composition and succession planning benefits that diversity brings to the board.
The Committee The Committee keeps the boards size and structure under has received briefings on: review.
The Committee is of the view that the board is well balanced, providing a collective competence to suit the Groups the Hampton-Alexander Review on improving gender balance developing needs and an appropriate blend of executive and in FTSE-company leadership: non-executive skill.
We believe that all our directors are suitably the Parker Report into ethnic diversity on UK boards: and qualified to help steer and challenge Group strategy.
the McGregor-Smith Review into race in the workplace.
The composition and chairmanship of our board committees The board welcomes these reports.
are considered annually and have been considered once during the period under review.
Additionally, details of skills and The boards diversity policy is to recruit the best candidate length of tenure can be found on page 67. having regard to the skills and experience required, but with a mind to diversity, including gender and ethnic diversity.
The The Committee considered the comments of the Institute of board continues to aim to achieve 33% female representation Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on a chief executives on Ranks board.
The Committee has also agreed to set a target membership of a boards nominations committee and agreed of 33% women on Ranks executive committee and of direct that Henry Birch would step down as a formal member of the reports to the executive committee by 2020.
Additionally, the Committee although he would still attend meetings of the board aims to have at least one director of colour by 2024 as Committee at the invitation of the Committee chairman.
recommended by the Parker Report.
It was agreed that Susan Hooper would join the responsible As far as the recent appointment of a new non-executive gambling committee with effect from 1 July 2017. director is concerned, the Committee did consider and discuss The Committee also recommended that Alex Thursby join the the selection of Mr Thursby as the preferred candidate in audit, remuneration and nominations committees with effect the context of gender and ethnic diversity.
Given that his from 1 August 2017 and that he chair the audit committee appointment did not advance the boards gender and diversity with effect from the conclusion of the 2017 annual general aspirations, the Committee was of the view that it would be meeting upon the retirement of Owen ODonnell.
beneficial to start a process to look for a further non-executive director and has requested that sub-committee to progress this.
Further details of the gender breakdown of directors, senior management and the Group can be found on page 30 of the strategic report.
66 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Committee meeting attendance Committee Attendance Name member since eligibility to attend Notes Chris Bell Jul 15 2 2 Henry Birch Jul 14 2 2 Mr Birch stood down from the Committee on 21 June 2017.
Ian Burke Jun 14 2 2 Mr Burke has been Committee chairman since 25 June 2014.
Steven Esom Mar 16 2 2 Susan Hooper Sep 15 2 2 Lord Kilmorey Feb 14 1 2 Lord Kilmorey was unable to attend one meeting due to another unavoidable commitment.
Owen ODonnell Feb 14 2 2 Mr ODonnell will step down from the Committee on 11 September 2017 Alex Thursby Aug 17 0 0 Mr Thursby joined the Committee on 1 August 2017 The charts below illustrate the diversity, skills, experience and tenure of the board as at 30 June 2017.
Gender The age of executive and non-executive directors Non-executive directors 40-49 years 5 1 6 1 Executive directors 50-59 years 2 2 5 60 years Male female 2 Skills and experience of non-executive directors Tenure of executive and non-executive directors Stock Exchange listed company 1-3 years 5 3 People remuneration 3-6 years 5 3 government relations 6-9 years 3 1 digital media social media 9 years 4 1 marketing brands 5 international 4 Mobile any business 4 finance accounting 2 Gambling retail or remote 3 broader leisure 2 online any business 5 www.
com | 67 Governance Corporate governance continued RESPONSIBLE GAMBLING COMMITTEE More information Responsible gambling 26 Lord Kilmorey Chairman Other committee members The review reinforces that every gambling service provider must Chris Bell, Henry Birch, Ian Burke, Susan Hooper be actively involved and investing in developing our collective understanding of gambling-related harm.
We must achieve The responsible gambling committee the Committee has continual improvement.
now completed its first full year, having been formed in the second half of 2015 16.
We welcome the Gambling Commissions insistence that customer welfare and fairness come first.
We understand The Committee met on four occasions during the year.
the requirement to make demonstrable progress and we are The Committee exists to assist in the formulation and determined to meet that objective.
The Annual Assurance Statement process has led to positive discussion and debate monitoring of the Groups responsible gambling strategy.
The formal terms of reference for the committee are available and given focus to the Groups activities.
The Committee will continue to monitor and support this process.
com en investors corporate-governance terms-ofreference.
html or by written request to the company secretary.
During the year, we have increased responsible gambling resources, not least through two appointments dedicated to During the year, the Committee benefited from the insight this area: a head of responsible gambling and a data scientist.
and thoughts of Dr Simon Tanner of the Responsible Gambling We have created a two-year plan of activity which we will Strategy Board and separately Professor Ian McHale from Salford be discussing at the first meeting of 2017 18 and will be University who, along with his colleague Professor David Forrest, monitoring thereafter.
undertook an extensive examination of machine play and losschasing behaviour using data from Grosvenor Casinos.
We shall The Groups commitment to the welfare of its customers is clear continue to invite guests to attend Committee meetings so as to and the Groups culture supports this.
This is a complex and expand and renew our understanding in the fields of problem challenging subject everyone in Rank understands, as we gambling research, education and treatment.
continue to invest in the wellbeing of customers.
The Committee has contributed to the close examination of a Lord Kilmorey number of key matters.
We have considered and contributed to Chairman of the Responsible Gambling Committee Ranks response to a call for evidence issued by the Department 16 August 2017 for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport: the review of gaming machines and social responsibility.
Committee meeting attendance Committee Attendance Name member since eligibility to attend Notes Chris Bell Mar 16 4 4 Henry Birch Mar 16 4 4 Ian Burke Mar 16 4 4 Susan Hooper Jul 17 0 0 Ms Hooper joined the committee on 1 July 2017 Lord Kilmorey Mar 16 4 4 Lord Kilmorey has been Committee chairman since 22 March 2016 68 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 FINANCE COMMITTEE Ian Burke Chairman Other committee members 2016 17 activity Henry Birch, Clive Jennings The Committee met on 10 occasions during the year and the issues it discussed included: The board has established a finance committee the Committee which comprises the chairman, chief executive and finance trading: director.
The Committee is authorised to approve capital financial reporting: expenditure and make financing decisions for the Group up to estate management issues: certain limits.
The Committee also acts as the boards disclosure progress in relation to an inter-company balance reduction committee for the purposes of the Market Abuse Regulation and Group simplification project: MAR that came into force on 3 July 2016. insurance cover and uninsured risks: The Committees terms of reference are available from the review of non-executive director fees: Companys website at www.
html, or by writing to the payment of dividends by the Groups two Belgian subsidiaries: company secretary.
the Companys loan to and call option over shares in its digital platform software provider Bede Gaming : decisions to delay public disclosure of discussions regarding M&A activity: and commercial agreements within its delegated authority.
Committee meeting attendance Committee Attendance Name member since eligibility to attend Notes Current committee members Henry Birch May 14 10 10 Ian Burke Mar 06 10 10 Mr Burke has been Committee chairman since 15 July 2011.
