Governance Corporate governance The Group has been in compliance with Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment The Board meets a minimum of six the UK Corporate Governance Code and Process: times during the year to review financial its predecessor versions since Admission performance and strategy and to follow the significant capital expenditure: and to listing on the London Stock Exchange formal schedule of matters reserved for its the effectiveness of risk management and on 17 October 2006, except where the decision.
Comprehensive Board papers, internal control systems.
Directors consider that, in particular limited comprising an agenda and formal reports circumstances, departure may be justified The roles of the Chairman and Chief and briefing papers, are sent to Directors in and explained.
No departures from the Executive Officer are separate, clearly advance of each meeting.
Throughout their Code occurred during the year under review.
defined and have been approved by the period in office, Directors are continually References herein to the Code are to the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the updated by means of written and verbal April 2016 version of the UK Corporate effective conduct of the Board, while the reports from senior executives and external Governance Code.
This report describes the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for advisers on the Groups business, and the Groups corporate governance arrangements, execution of strategy and for the day-to-day competitive and regulatory environments explaining how it has applied the principles of management of the Group.
in which it operates, as well as on legal, the Code.
compliance, corporate governance, In considering Non-executive Director corporate social responsibility and other Directors independence, the Board has taken into relevant matters.
The Board of Directors comprises two consideration the guidance provided by In addition to its formal business, the Executive Directors andfive independent theCode.
The Board considers Peter Board received a number of briefings and Non-executive Directors.
The two Executive Gibbs, Simon Fraser, Dame Anne Pringle, presentations from members of executive Directors are Mark Coombs, the Chief David Bennett and Clive Adamson to be management during the year covering a Executive Officer, and Tom Shippey, the independent.
Simon Fraser is the Senior wide range of topics across the range of Group Finance Director.
All Directors have Non-executive Directors are Peter Gibbs, During the year under review,.
the Group access to independent professional advice, Chairman: Simon Fraser, Senior independent complied with the Code requirement that at if required, at the Companys expense, Director:Dame Anne Pringle, David Bennett least half of the Board consist of independent as well as to the advice and services of and Clive Adamson.
Nick Land retired from Directors excluding the Chairman.
New Directors the Board on 21 October 2016.
All other appointed to the Board will receive advice as Directors served throughout the year.
The Board confirms that the Company and to the legal and other duties and obligations Mark Coombs entered into a relationship The Board has a schedule of matters arising from the role of a director of a UK agreement on 1 July 2014 as required specifically reserved to it for decision listed company within a full, formal and under UK Listing Rule 9.2.
2AR 2 a : and and approval, which include, but are not tailored induction.
that: i the Company has complied with limited to: the independence provisions included in The Company Secretary, under the the Groups long-term commercial that agreement: ii so far as the Company direction of the Chairman, is responsible objectives and strategy: is aware, Mark Coombs has complied with for maintaining an adequate continuing the independence provisions included in that major acquisitions, disposals and education programme, reminding the agreement: and iii so far as the Company investments: Directors of their duties and obligations on is aware, Mark Coombs has complied a regular basis, ensuring good information the Groups annual and interim reports and with the procurement obligation included flows between the Board, its committees financial statements: in that agreement pursuant to UK Listing and management and assisting with the interim dividend and recommendation Rule 9.2.
2BR 2 a, in each case during Directors continuing professional of final dividend: the financial reporting period ending on development needs.
The Companys annual budgets and forecast updates: 30 June2017.
Nominations Committee considers the appointment and replacement of Directors Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 47 Corporate governance continued subject to the rules set out in the Articles, a Annual performance evaluation summary of which is set out opposite.
The Code recommends that the Board Year 1 should undertake a formal annual evaluation Under the Articles, the minimum number Externally facilitated of its own performance and that of its of Directors shall be two and the maximum Board evaluation committees and individual Directors and shall be nine.
Directors may be appointed that an externally facilitated evaluation by the Company by ordinary resolution or Year 2 should be undertaken at least once every by the Board.
A Director appointed by the One to one interviews with three years.
An independent externally Board must offer himself herself for election Chairman focusing on issues facilitated evaluation was undertaken at the next Annual General Meeting of the raised in year 1 and any by Independent Audit which has no Company following his appointment but he other issues connection with the Company for the is not taken into account in determining the reporting year ended 30 June 2015.
The Year 3 Directors or the number of Directors who are nextindependently facilitated review will One to one interviews with to retire by rotation at that meeting.
be undertaken for the reporting year ending Chairman focusing on progress The Directors to retire by rotation must be 30 June 2018.
For the year under review those who held office at the time of the individual meetings were held between two preceding Annual General Meetings each Director and the Chairman in which and did not retire at either of them or those issues and developments over the year were who have held office with the Company for discussed and performance was considered The Board believes that, following the a continuous period of nine years or more by reference to the objectives of the Board completion of the performance evaluation, at the date of the Annual General Meeting.
The Senior Independent the performance of the Chairman and the The office of Director shall be vacated in Director, Simon Fraser, led a review of Directors continues to be effective and that other circumstances, including where i Peter Gibbs performance as Chairman.
The they continue to demonstrate commitment that Director resigns or is asked to resign: Chairman presented a report to the Board to their roles.
ii they are or have been suffering from and highlighted the following key points Board committees mental ill-health: iii they are absent without arising from his interviews with the Directors The Board has appointed Audit and Risk, permission of the Board from meetings and from the Senior Independent Director: Remuneration and Nominations Committees of the Board for six consecutive months: to assist in the execution of its duties.
The Board believes that the existing iv they become bankrupt or compound compact structure is effective and that with their creditors generally: or v they are All of these committees operate within therelationships around the Boardroom prohibited by law from being a Director.
written terms of reference, which are work well.
reviewed annually consistent with changes Notwithstanding these provisions, the The size and balance of skills on the Board inlegislation and best practice.
7.1 of the isappropriate at the present time.
Code and all Directors will retire and seek The chairman of each committee reports The Board is mindful of the need for re-election at the Annual General Meeting on regularly to the Board.
greater diversity and when a suitable time 20 October 2017.
The Listing Rules require Each of the committees is authorised, at arises to add further members to the that the election re-election of independent the Companys expense, to obtain external Board, will aim to increase the balance directors be by a majority of votes cast by legal or other professional advice to assist offemale representation.
independent shareholders as well as by a in carrying out its duties.
Only the members There is a constructive, professional and majority of votes cast by all shareholders.
of each committee are entitled to attend open environment and the Board is well Powers of the Directors its meetings but others, such as senior supported by the senior executives and by Subject to the Companys Articles, the management and external advisers, may the senior management team supporting Companies Act 2006 and any directions beinvited to attend as appropriate.
given by the Company by special resolution, The Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Current membership of the committees the business of the Company is managed Nominations Committees are considered is shown in the relevant sections below.
by the Board, which may exercise all to be operating effectively.
The composition of these committees powers of the Company, whether relating is reviewed at least annually, taking into The Board strategy sessions and to the management of the business of the consideration the recommendations of subsequent discussions have improved Company or not.
Biographical details of the Directors are given The Board confirmed its continuing on page 45. support of Peter Gibbs as Chairman.
48 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Board and committee attendance The table below sets out the number of meetings of the Board and its committees and individual attendance by the Directors.
Directors whoare not members of any Board committees are also invited to attend meetings of all such committees.
Board and committee attendanceis described in the table below andincludes attendancefor Directors who have served on the Board or itscommittees through part of the year under review.
Nominations Audit and Risk Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings scheduled between1 July 2016 and 30 June 2017 6 2 4 6 Peter Gibbs 100% 100% 100% Mark Coombs 100% Tom Shippey 100% Simon Fraser 100% 100% 100% 100% Dame Anne Pringle 100% 100% 100% David Bennett 100% 100% 100% 100% Clive Adamson 100% 100% 1.
Nick Land retired from the Board on 21 October 2016.
Members of executive management are invited to attend Board committee meetings as required but do not attend as members of those committees.
The Group Finance Director attends all meetings of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Corporate Governance Framework plc Board of Directors plc Remuneration Committee Responsible for overall strategy, management and control Determines compensation for Code Staff and reviews compensation for Control Staff plc Executive Directors plc Audit and Risk Committee Separate detailed terms of reference in line with corporate governance best practice Management Committees Responsible for overseeing business, investments and internal controls Auditors External: Investment Committees Pricing Oversight Committee Systems and Controls Independent assurance via audit of Group Review Committee Foreign Exchange Financial Statements and audit of internal control Management Committee procedures under ISAE 3402 Pricing Methodology and Valuation Committee IT Steering Group Product Committee Best Execution Committee Internal: Global Investment Performance Standards Awards Committee Independent assurance via audit directed at Committee Disclosure Committee specific departmental control procedures Operating Committee Risk and Compliance Committee Senior Management Responsible for day-to-day management Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 49
