Audit and risk committee report considering and approving the remit of the compliance, internal audit and risk Audit and risk committee management functions and ensuring thatthey have adequate independence: Activities I am pleased to submit the monitoring and reviewing the scope, The Audit and Risk Committee held report on the activities of the extent and effectiveness of the activities four pre-scheduled meetings during the of the Internal audit function in the context Audit and Risk Committee year.
The activities of the Audit and Risk of the Companys overall risk management for the financial year ended Committee are described on pages 50 and control systems: to 53.
30June 2017. reviewing, assessing and approving the During the year under review the David Bennett internal audit plan: following Non-executive Directors Chairman reviewing the external auditors plan served on the Audit and Risk for the audit of the Groups financial Committee, the membership of which statements, receiving and reviewing was compliant with the Code: confirmations of auditor independence David Bennett Chairman andapproving the terms of engagement and proposed fees for the audit: Clive Adamson reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness Simon Fraser and quality of the external audit: Dame Anne Pringle reviewing the level and amount of external Allmembers of the Audit and Risk auditor non-audit services: Committee served throughout the year.
making recommendations to the Board fora resolution to be put to shareholders toapprove the reappointment of the external auditor: reviewing the Companys whistleblowing arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters and reviewing the Companys systems and controls for detecting fraud and the prevention of bribery: The Board is satisfied that for the year under The terms of reference for the Audit and Risk reviewing the Audit and Risk Committees review, and thereafter, David Bennett, Simon Committee include: terms of reference and carrying out an Fraser, and Clive Adamson had, and have, annual performance evaluation exercise: monitoring and challenging the integrity of recent and relevant commercial and financial andreporting to the Board on how it has the financial statements of the Company, knowledge and experience.
The Board is discharged its responsibilities.
any formal announcements relating to further satisfied that the Audit and Risk the Companys financial statements or Key judgements Committee as a whole has competence performance and any significant financial In assessing the various key matters relevant to the sector in which the issues and judgements contained in them: relative to its terms of reference, and company operates.
to satisfy itself that the sources of reviewing the contents of the Annual David Bennett has served as Group Finance assurance and information the Audit and Report and Accounts and advising the Director and the Group Chief Executive of Risk Committee has used to carry out Board on whether, taken as a whole, they Alliance and Leicester plc, Simon Fraser has its role to review, monitor and provide are fair, balanced and understandable and previously served as Global Chief Investment assurance or recommendations to the provide the information necessary for Officer with Fidelity International, Dame Board, are sufficient and objective, the shareholders to assess the Companys Anne Pringle was a diplomat with the Audit and Risk Committee has adopted performance, business model and strategy: Foreign and Commonwealth Office for over an integrated assurance approach.
This reviewing the effectiveness of 30 years with extensive experience of Russia approach relies not only on the work of theGroupsinternal control and risk and Eastern Europe and Clive Adamson was the external auditor but also management management systems: formerly Head of Supervision and Executive assurances received from various reports overseeing and challenging the dayDirector of the Board of the Financial including from the Group Finance Director, to-day risk management and oversight Conduct Authority and a Senior Advisor in Group Head of Risk Management, Group arrangements of the executive: Banking Supervision at the Bank of England.
Head of Complianceand also via the overseeing and challenging the design and existing Ashmore governance framework A report on the activities of the Audit and execution of stress and scenario testing: such as specialised internal management Risk Committee is set out below.
50 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance committees.
Other independent assurance Financial statements Management fee rebates is received from the Compliance Monitoring The Audit and Risk Committee reviewed the A report from the external auditor Programme and Internal Audit and from the FY2016 17 annual report, interim results and regarding the processing of fee rebates externally audited ISAE 3402 report on the reports from the external auditor, KPMG LLP, and its treatment on revenue recognition control environment.
The Group Finance on the outcome of its reviews and audits wasreceived and reviewed.
The method Director, Group Head of Risk Management in 2017. of accounting for revenue recognition is and Group Head of Internal Audit attend each described more fully on page 98.
The Audit Significant accounting matters pre-scheduled meeting of the Audit and Risk and Risk Committee is satisfied that controls During the year the Audit and Risk Committee as a matter of practice and the are in place to ensure that revenue rebates Committee considered key accounting Group Head of Compliance attends meetings are recorded accurately and completely.
issues, matters and judgements in relation of the Committee from the financial year Future IFRS and UK GAAP developments to the Groups financial statements and commencing 1 July 2017.
The Audit and Risk Committee has disclosures relating to: The Audit and Risk Committee also has received a report from management Share-based payments responsibility for reviewing the Companys and the external auditor and discussed It is the responsibility of the Remuneration arrangements on whistleblowing, ensuring future accounting developments likely Committee to address, and report upon, that appropriate arrangements are in to affect the presentation of the Groups compensation matters including share-based place for employees to be able to raise, in financial statements.
payments made to employees of the Group.
confidence, matters of possible impropriety, Other accounting matters The Audit and Risk Committee considers with suitable subsequent follow-up action.
During the year, the Audit and Risk these in its review of the financial statements The Audit and Risk Committee has the Committee received communications and receives a report from the external authority to seek any information it requires from management and from the external auditor on the quantification and accounting to perform its duties from any employee auditor on other accounting matters.
The treatment related to such payments, which of the Company and to obtain outside legal Committee has also reviewed the adoption are explained in note 10 tothe financial or other independent professional advice of the going concern basis in preparing the statements.
interim and year end consolidated accounts Classification of seed capital investments and considered the longer term viability The principal activities of the Audit and Risk Ashmore makes seed capital investments statement for the Group which is described Committee through the year, and the manner in funds that are managed by Group in more detail on page 34. in which it discharged its responsibilities, are subsidiaries in order to support future thirddescribed below.
These investments can UK Corporate Governance Code result in Ashmore becoming a controlling A further version of the Code the 2016 Meetings party in the funds.
If at the time of investing Code was issued effective for accounting The number of Audit and Risk Committee in these funds Ashmore expects the period periods commencing on or after meetings and their attendance by the of control to be less than 12 months, the 17 June 2016, which Ashmore has adopted Directors are set out in the table on page investments are classified as held-for-sale for the financial year ended 30 June 2017.
The Audit and Risk Committee metfour HFS and consolidated as HFS assets times in relation to the current financial External auditor and liabilities rather than on a line-by-line reporting year as part of its standard process.
In determining whether the Group Scheduled meetings of the Committee take the KPMG audit partner.
The FRC Ethical controls these funds, there are three factors place on the day prior to a Board meeting to Standards for Auditors require that KPMG which are taken into consideration, namely maximise the efficiency of interaction with rotate the audit partners every five years for 1 whether Ashmore has power over the the Board.
The Chairman of the Audit and a listed entity.
relevant activities of the funds: 2 whether Risk Committee reports to the Board, as part Ashmore is exposed to variability of returns The external auditor attends all meetings of a separate agenda item, on the activities of through fees and or co-investments: and of the Audit and Risk Committee.
All Non-executive Directors 3 the strength of the linkage between the responsibility of the Committee to are invited to attend meetings of the Audit the power and the variable returns.
The monitor the performance, objectivity and and Risk Committee.
third factor is one of the key judgemental independence of the external auditor.
The The Chairman of the Audit and Risk areas that KPMG focuses upon in its audit Audit and Risk Committee discusses and Committee also meets on a regular basis, due to the potential risk that Ashmore agrees the scope of the audit plan for the outside of scheduled committee meetings, has incorrectly assessed the strength of full year and the review plan for the interim with the Group Head of Internal Audit, the linkage between the power and the statement with the auditor.
the Group Head of Risk Management and variable returns.
The external auditor provides reports at Control, the Group Head of Compliance, The accounting treatment for seed capital each committee meeting on topics such the Group Finance Director and the investments is addressed more fully in note as the control environment, key accounting external auditors.
The Audit and Risk Committee also received Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 51 Audit and risk committee report continued a comprehensive presentation from the The provision of tax advisory services, due In order to assess the effectiveness of auditor demonstrating, to the Committees diligence transaction services and litigation the external audit process the Audit and satisfaction, how its independence and services may be permitted with the Audit Risk Committee asked detailed questions objectivity is maintained when providing and Risk Committees prior approval.
The of key members of management as well non-audit services.
provision of internal audit services, valuation as considering the firm-wide audit quality work and any other activity that may give inspection report issued by the FRC inJune External auditor independence rise to any possibility of self-review are not 2017 and KPMGs response to the findings The Audit and Risk Committee has agreed permitted under any circumstance.
Based on this review the the types of permitted and non-permitted the year there were no circumstances Committee concurred with managements non-audit services and those which require where KPMG LLP was engaged to provide view that there had been appropriate focus explicit prior approval.
All contracts for nonservices which might have led to a conflict and challenge of the primary areas of audit services in excess of 25,000 must be of interests.
audit risk and assessed the quality of the notified to the Chairman of the Audit and Risk audit to be satisfactory.
Accordingly, the Committee and approved by him.
The Audit and Risk Committee has assessed Audit and Risk Committee continues to be and notedthe impact on the Company of EU satisfied with the work of KPMG LLP and During the year the value of non-audit legislation introduced in June 2014 which that it continues to remain objective and services provided by KPMG LLP amounted serves to reform the audit market within the independent.
The Committee has therefore to 0.2 million FY2015 16: 0.4 million.
The areas addressed are: recommended to the Board that a resolution Non-audit services as a proportion of be put to shareholders for the reappointment total fees paid to the auditor have fallen to Mandatory audit firm rotation is required of the auditor, and its remuneration and approximately 33% FY2015 16: 50%.
The after 20 years and a re-tender process terms of engagement, at the Annual General overall quantum of non-audit services is every 10years.
The Committee undertook Meeting of the Company.
not considered to be significant given that a comprehensive tender process in March Ashmore operates within a highly-regulated 2016 for the audit in relation to the year Internal controls and risk market and that a significant proportion of ending 30 June 2017. management systems the non-audit services provided relate to the Restrictions on non-audit services: The The Group Head of Risk Management and following matters: legislation restricts the non-audit services Control attends each meeting of the Audit which can be provided by the auditor.
In reporting on the half-year and Risk Committee and provides reports compliance with this requirement Deloitte financialstatements: to each.
These reports have addressed provide independent tax advice services to a number of risk-related topics and have providing regular mandatory assurance the Group.
demonstrated how the output of the reports to the FCA as the regulator of Non-audit service fee limits: The legislation different Investment, Risk and Compliance Ashmore Investment Management also imposes a fee cap of 70% of the and Pricing and Valuation Methodology Limited and Ashmore Investment average statutory audit fees paid in the Committees discussions throughout the AdvisorsLimited : last three consecutive years.
This cap period have been effective in highlighting, reporting on the internal control will not restrict KPMG from continuing tracking and contributing towards managing systemsapplicable to Ashmores offices to undertake assurance, verification and key market, liquidity, credit, counterparty in London, New York and Singapore reporting work in other required areas and operational risks.
In particular, in as required under the international described above such as to the FCA, relation to operational risk, the Audit and standardISAE 3402, pursuant to Global Investment Performance Standards Risk Committee has also reviewed and investment management industry and ISAE 3402. discussed the Groups Principal Risk Matrix standards: and which continues to serve as an effective tool At the end of each Audit and Risk Committee auditing the controls and procedures to highlight and monitor the principal risks meeting the Non-executive Directors meet employed by the Company relating to the facing the Group and its continued evolution, with the external and internal auditors production of investment performance and reflects changes in the business profile without the Executive Directors being figures over one, three and five-year of the Group and the corresponding impact present so as to provide a forum to raise any periods to conform to the investment on internal controls and related processes.
matters of concern in confidence.
management industrys Global Investment The Audit and Risk Committee also received Performance Standards.
KPMG LLP and its prior entity KPMG an annual report on, and conducted a review Audit plc have acted as the auditor to the The assurance provided by the Groups and evaluation of, the system of internal Company since the IPO in October 2006 and external auditor on the items listed above is controls and risk management operated the lead audit partner rotates every five years considered by the Audit and Risk Committee within the Company pursuant to the Financial to assure independence.
to be strictly necessary in the interests of the Reporting Council guidance, Guidance on business and, by their nature, these services Risk Management, Internal Control and could not easily be provided by a separate Related Financial and Business Reporting, professional auditing firm.
prior to final review by the Board.
52 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance A detailed description of the risk The Global Institute of Internal Auditors Information security management framework and the manner in International Professional Practices Information security including cyber which risks are identified and managed is set Framework IPPF and theFinancial Services security is identified as a key principal risk to out on pages 32 to 37.
Code guidancehave a requirement for the business which is subject to Ashmores regular independent evaluations of the governance, policies and procedures and risk Internal audit Internal Audit function, and the Audit and assessment.
The Audit and Risk Committee The Head of Internal Audit has regular Risk Committee will consider with the receives annual updates from the Ashmore meetings with the Chairman of the Audit and Internal Auditor the scope and timing of IT Department on potential cyber security Risk Committee and attends all meetings suchan external quality assessment.
threats and how Ashmore would respond of the Committee to present reports on the toa significant event.
internal audit findings and on the proposed Internal Audit alsoprovides annual programme of reviews.
The Audit and confirmations to the Audit and Risk Whistleblowing and fraud Risk Committee continues to monitor the Committee on four areas: internal The Committee is responsible for reviewing internal audit plan on an ongoing basis to independence, internal audit skills and the arrangements in place for employees to ensure that it remains relevant to the needs continuing professional development, any raise concerns in confidence about possible of the business and to ensure that it can be potential conflicts of interest and theongoing wrongdoing in financial reporting and adapted or changed if a particular focus area suitability of the internal audit terms of other matters and for ensuring that these necessitates this.
After due consideration, and in arrangements allow for proportionate and accordance with the Financial Services Code independent investigation.
During the year, the Audit and Risk guidance, the Audit and Risk Committee Committee received presentations from Public funds audits is satisfied that the quality, experience and Internal Audit on a number of topics including The Audit and Risk Committee met with expertise of the Internal Audit function is the Internal Audit plan for the year and the and received reports from the independent appropriate for the business and that it has outcomes of any internal audits conducted auditors of Ashmores SICAV, US 40-Act adequate resources to fulfilits remit.
during the period under review.
The and Guernsey public funds on the conduct Committee also received presentations from Compliance ofthose audits and outcomes from them.
Internal Audit on the implementation of the In order to ensure a co-ordinated reporting Audit and Risk Committee assurance framework and the results of the process with the Risk Management and effectiveness assurance review over the effectiveness Internal Audit functions, the Group Head A review of the effectiveness of the of the controls and mitigants in place for of Compliance will attend and present to Board, its committees and the Directors the principal risks rated as having a high the Audit and Risk Committee, rather than was conducted during the year.
Based on the work described, to the Board, from the financial reporting the review the Board has concluded and in accordance with the requirements of period commencing 1 July 2017.
Reports that the Audit and Risk Committee is the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors will include details of the Groups relations working effectively.
Financial Services Code guidance, Internal withregulators: the Compliance monitoring Audit has provided the Audit and Risk programme: material breaches, errors Committee with its assessment of the and complaints: retail conduct risk, antioverall effectiveness of the governance money laundering controls and sanctions and risk and control framework of compliance.
The Audit and Risk Committee David Bennett the organisation.
will also approve the Compliance monitoring Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee plan and review the Groups procedures for ensuring compliance with regulatory 6 September 2017 reporting requirements.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 53
