Audit Committee Report continued External Auditor External Audit Engagement Partner Rotation Following a competitive tender in 2015, PwC were appointed as the In line with the ethical standards of the Audit Practices Board, the Lead Companys external auditor for the 2016 audit.
Audit Partner will be rotated every five years.
The current Lead Audit partner was appointed during the 2016 financial year and consequently The Company complies with the Competition and Market Authority will stand down at the latest after the completion of the audit of the Order 2014 relating to audit tendering and the provision of non-audit 2020 financial year.
Non-Audit Assignments Audit Plan With respect to non-audit assignments undertaken by the external PwC agreed their audit plan with the Committee, which included auditor, the Company has a policy of ensuring that the provision of such their audit scope, key audit risk areas and materiality.
The Committee services does not impair their independence or objectivity.
discussed the audit plan with PwC and approved it, together with the fees proposed.
Prior approval of the Committee, or the Committee Chairman for smaller pieces of work, is required before the external auditor is Independence, Effectiveness and Objectivity of the appointed to carry out non-audit work and the rationale for doing so Audit Process is provided to the Committee, who assess the qualification, expertise, The Committee conducted a review of the external auditors independence and objectivity of the external auditor prior to granting independence, effectiveness and objectivity based on: approval.
As such, non-audit fee spend is a standing item on the agenda for every Committee meeting.
the Committees own assessment of the quality of the audit plan, the rigour of the audit findings and conclusions, the extent to The Committee firmly believes that there are certain non-audit services which the Lead Audit Partner understands the business and where it is appropriate for the Group to engage the external auditor.
In constructively challenges management and the quality and clarity of such cases safeguards are in place to ensure continued external auditor the technical and governance advice provided: independence, including the use of separate teams to undertake the non-audit work separately from the audit work.
The external auditor the results of a questionnaire on external auditor effectiveness and assisted with the preparation of the FRC letter.
The Committee did efficiency further detail on which is provided below : not consider that the performance of this non-audit work affected or a report prepared by PwC setting out its processes to ensure impaired the external auditors integrity.
This is consistent with the independence and its confirmation of compliance with them: and ethical standard published by the Accounting Practices Board.
the level of non-audit fees as a percentage of the audit and The results of this policy are that: half-yearly review fees paid to the external auditor, which were 8.5% Deloitte undertake global tax compliance work: 2016: 3.9% in relation to services rendered by PwC.
KPMG support internal audit: and Responses to the questionnaire have been received from all finance directors across the Group who provided information and assistance during the course of the year Deloitte, Ernst & Young LLP, KPMG, to the external auditor.
The questionnaire covered a number of areas, Smith & Williamson LLP and Grant Thornton UK LLP have provided including: advice on global mobility matters, related tax advice, company reorganisation, acquisition valuation support and due diligence.
quality of the audit team: A summary of audit and non-audit fees in relation to the year is knowledge and understanding of the Group: provided in note 7 to the Groups financial statements.
This shows that appropriateness of the areas of audit focus: non-audit work carried out by the external auditor represented 8.5% 2016: 3.9% of the annual audit fee and half-yearly review fee, and interaction with audit specialists: and reflects the policy set out above.
timeliness and adequacy of communication by the external auditor.
Julian Heslop The results of the questionnaire were reported to the Committee at the Audit Committee Chairman meeting on 29 August 2017.
4 September 2017 Based on the review set out above, the Committee is satisfied with the external auditors independence, effectiveness and objectivity.
Re-Appointment of External Auditor At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, a resolution to re-appoint PwC as the external auditor and to authorise the Audit Committee to set their remuneration will be proposed.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Committees capacity to recommend a particular firm as external auditor and the Company does not provide an indemnity to the external auditor.
78 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
com slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Middle.
indd 78 04 09 2017 14:00:23 Governance Nomination Committee Report Tony Rice Nomination Committee Chairman Principal activities of the Committee during the year included: Dear Shareholder Recruitment of Non-Executive Director On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present my first report of the The Committee had a number of unscheduled meetings during the Nomination Committee the Committee having succeeded Michael 2017 financial year due to the recruitment process for a Redmond as Chairman in October 2016.
Non-Executive Director, which commenced in the 2016 financial year.
An independent recruitment consultancy, Odgers Berndtson Odgers, During the year the Committee focused on the recruitment of a was retained to assist and was provided with a role description Non-Executive Director, Senior Executive Team SET succession detailing the skills and experience required for the position of a planning and the leadership needs of the Group.
As a result of this the Non-Executive Director.
To assist Odgers with the understanding Committee believes that the Company has a stable and experienced of the requirements of the role, they met with the Chief Executive SET to lead the development and implementation of this strategy and Officer, the Managing Director of DVP EU and the Chairman during that the Board continues to have the appropriate skills, knowledge and the previous financial year resulting in a long list of candidates being experience to oversee the effective delivery of our strategy.
One of the criteria was that the candidates The following report provides an overview of the work carried out during should have life-science or pharmaceutical experience to fill the the year under review.
experience gap left on the Board by Michael Redmonds retirement.
All of the candidates had a broad range of experience across the lifeDechras stance in relation to diversity is detailed in the Corporate science and pharmaceutical sectors, with 50% of them being non-UK Governance Report on page 70. residents.
Following a rigorous recruitment process, which was led by Should you have any questions in relation to this report or the Michael Redmond, our previous Chairman, Lawson Macartney was Committee, please contact me or the Company Secretary.
appointed to the Board on 1 December 2016.
Lawson is a qualified veterinarian and has over 30 years of experience gained in the global Tony Rice pharmaceutical industry which has brought a depth of knowledge, Nomination Committee Chairman and expertise of product development to the Board.
Further details 4 September 2017 relating to his background and experience can be found on page 65.
Board Experience Committee Membership and Attendance International Corporate Pharmaceutical The membership of the Committee, together with appointment dates Experience Experience and attendance at meetings during the year, is set out on page 68 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Other attendees at the meetings include the Chief Executive Officer, the Group HR Director and the Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Chairman does not chair the Committee meeting if it is dealing with the appointment of his successor.
The Senior Independent Director, Ishbel Macpherson, takes the chair when required.
Role and Responsibilities The main role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in the written terms of reference, which are available on the Company website at www.
The Committees terms of reference are reviewed on an annual basis and during the 2017 financial year this took place at Experienced 71% Experienced 86% the February meeting.
An overview of the terms of reference is detailed on page 69 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Not experienced 14% Not experienced 29% Stock Code: DPH 79 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Middle.
