Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Governance Risk Committee report Role of the Board Risk Committee The Committee is a forward looking committee of the Board of Hargreaves Lansdown plc, seeking to anticipate potential issues by assessing known or foreseeable risks and thereby enabling the Group to take action to avoid or mitigate the impact of those risks.
The responsibilities of the Committee are set out in its terms of reference, which are designed to assist the Board in discharging itsresponsibilities: Advising the Board on the Groups overall risk appetite, risk tolerance and risk strategy, taking into account the current and prospective macroeconomic and financial environment: Overseeing and advising the Board on the current risk exposures of the Group and future risk strategy: Advising the Board on the amount of surplus regulatory capital that should be held commensurate with the Groups risk profile and regulatory obligations: Overseeing the effectiveness of the risk management procedures, including AIFMD and the principal risks and uncertainties relating Dear shareholder to the Group and the steps being taken to mitigate them: On behalf of the Risk Committee I am pleased to present the Reviewing and recommending to the Board the Groups ICAAP: Committees report for 2017.
Over the period, we have had a number Identifying and assessing future potential risks which, by virtue of of challenging and valuable discussions in the Committee around their unfamiliarity, uncertainty and deemed low probability may the impacts of Brexit, the annual review and approval of the risk not have been factored adequately into review elsewhere within appetite statements, the Hargreaves Lansdown future applications the Group: and strategy including the establishment of a development hub, HL Tech, in Warsaw Poland, the continual evolution of our fraud and Continuously monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of the cyber risk control environment and the rolling consideration of the Groups internal controls and understanding how these affect the risk profile.
The Committee approved and recommended the risk profile of the business.
Hargreaves Lansdown internal capital adequacy assessment The Committee reports its findings to the Board, identifies matters process ICAAP for Board approval on 26 January 2017. for which action or improvement is needed, and recommends appropriate steps.
However, the Board retains ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the overall risk appetite of the business.
I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
79 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance Risk Committee report Board Risk Committee Main activities during the year  In discharging its responsibilities the Committee concentrated on the following areas: The Committee meets at least four times each year, there were six scheduled meetings during the financial year and additional ad hoc Risk reporting and risk profile discussions meetings where required.
The attendance by each Director is set out The Committee has received reports from the Risk department at in the table below.
I chair the Committee and its other members at each Committee meeting as well as ad hoc reports from other areas 30 June 2017 were Christopher Barling, Shirley Garrood, Stephen of the business on request.
Regular topics of discussion have Robertson and Jayne Styles.
The Director of Risk and Compliance, included dealing statistics, conduct risk through the conduct risk Chief Risk Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Executive and Head key risk indicators, escalation reports with associated learnings of Internal Audit are routinely invited to attend meetings, although and the departmental risks.
The Committee has challenged the the Committee reserves the right to request any of these individuals business where trends and data suggest further action is required.
The Committee believes the management of the risk profile is given Inbetween the formal schedule of meetings, the Chairman of the sufficient consideration and that necessary action has been taken Committee keeps in regular contact with the Chief Executive, with appropriate governance and oversight Director of Risk and Compliance, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer and the Head of Internal Audit.
Emerging risks Emerging risks have been an agenda item at each Committee The members of the Committee at 30 June 2017 and attendees at meeting during the period.
Papers have been submitted by the the six Committees held during the 12 month period were: Executive Risk Committee covering a variety of emerging risks.
These matters have been discussed and challenged and the Meetings eligible Meetings Committee has provided considered guidance on a variety of to attend attended external emerging risks.
Topics which have been discussed by the Chairman Committee include a variety of systemic, regulatory, political, Mike Evans 6 6 technological and internal change risks.
Members Christopher Barling 6 6 Fraud and cyber risk Shirley Garrood 6 6 The Committee is acutely aware of the industry exposure to both Stephen Robertson 6 6 fraud and cyber risk, and this is reflected in the frequency with Jayne Styles 6 6 which it is discussed at the Committee.
During the period an anti-fraud strategy was presented to the Committee by the Head of The Committee membership constitutes Independent NonClient Protection.
The strategy is focused on enhancing existing Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Chairman.
controls and reviewing emerging threats.
On an ongoing basis, membership of the Committee is reviewed by MLRO update the Chairman of the Committee and any recommendations for new The Committee has received a number of reports from the MLRO appointments are made to the Nomination Committee for onward providing updates to the Committee.
Updates included regulatory recommendation to the Board.
Appointments are for a period of changes regarding overseas clients and staff training requirements.
three years and are extendable for further periods of up to three years provided the Director still meets the criteria for membership Commercial update of the Committee.
The Committee has received reports from the Commercial Director at each Committee meeting.
Regular topics of discussion included competition risk, client outcomes and business volumes.
Operations update The Committee has received reports from the Head of Operations at each Committee meeting.
Regular topics of discussion included improvements to the control framework, resource planning and the culture within the operations teams.
80 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information IT update risk management across the Group as set out on page 44.
It meets The Committee has received reports from the Chief Information monthly with attendance from members of the Executive Officer at each Committee meeting.
Regular topics of discussion Committee supported by senior management and subject matter included IT security, strategic projects and the development hub experts.
A monthly CASS Committee has been formed to inWarsaw.
specifically focus on the Groups CASS risks and compliance.
ICAAP Remuneration schemes governance The Committee approved and recommended for Board approval The Committee provided support and input to the Remuneration theHargreaves Lansdown ICAAP on 26 January 2017.
Prior to the Committee by reviewing a report from the Chief Risk Officer covering Committees approval, separate ICAAP challenge and review the appropriateness of the remuneration schemes upon the Groups sessions were run with both the Board and the Executives.
Understanding of the ICAAP and using it as an element of risk management challenge to the business is integral to the Committee, Risk effectiveness with specific agenda items dedicated to the constituent elements During the year, the Committee has overseen a range of including reverse stress testing, stress and scenarios and wind improvements in both the capacity of the risk team, and the down plans.
These measures have all increased the effectiveness of risk management.
The Chairman of Risk framework and governance the Committee has been in regular contact with the Head of Internal The Committee reviewed a report from the Chief Risk Officer Audit throughout the year.
At its meeting in June 2017, the regarding the design and effectiveness of the risk management Committee received and approved the annual reports on the framework, including the introduction of a new Executive Risk adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups risk management Committee.
The Executive Risk Committee is chaired by the Group process and risk team, the effectiveness of the internal control Director of Risk & Compliance.
Its role is to oversee the day-to-day environment and the effectiveness of compliance.
Board Risk Committee agenda 2016-17 August 2016 October 2016 January 2017 April 2017 June 2017 CRO update CRO update CRO update CRO update CRO update Risk and control Data protection Cyber risk Remuneration report Risk management attestations effectiveness report considered Inherent enterprise Prevention of Prevention of Approval of risk Compliance risk updates fraud and bribery fraud andbribery appetite statement effectiveness report ICAAP update Culture discussion Inherent risk Inherent enterprise Cyber security updates risk updates andcrime update ICAAP update Approval of ICAAP Conduct risk Risk Committee allocation of time Signed on behalf of the Risk Committee Strategic & Emerging risk CRO update % Risk Framework Risk & Control attestation Risk Appetite RM Eectiveness % Mike Evans Enterprise risk % Chairman of the Risk Committee Capital adequacy % AML MLRO reports 14 August 2017 Prevention of Fraud & Bribery % Conduct risk & culture % Cyber risk Cyber-security and prevention of cyber-crime % Data Protection risk % Remuneration % Other Compliance eectiveness % 81 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017
