Governance Nomination Committee report Role of the Nomination Committee The Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board, with due regard to skills, knowledge, experience and diversity and making recommendations to the Board as to any changes.
The Committee leads the process for Board appointments, re-election and succession of Directors and the Chairman.
It is responsible for making recommendations to the Board concerning the composition and skills of the Board including proposed appointees to the Board and the membership of the committees.
We have a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
Depending on the circumstances of the appointment being made, we consider internal candidates, those proposed by either existing Board members or via searches performed by the Company or candidates identified through the use of external independent search firms.
Committee members conduct the interview and assessment process, assisted where necessary by Executive management.
Consideration is given to ensure appointees have enough time available to devote to the role and that the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on Dear shareholder the Board will be maintained and enriched.
When the Committee has found a suitable candidate, the Chairman of the Committee On behalf of the Nomination Committee, following a very busy year, makes a recommendation to the Board: however, any appointment I am pleased to present the Committees report for 2017.
Over the is the responsibility of the Board itself.
period, we have completed the appointment process for our new Chief Executive Officer CEO, Chris Hill, and our new Chief Financial The Committee is responsible for the succession planning for the Officer CFO, Philip Johnson.
We have recommended the whole Board and senior executives, taking into account the appointment of two new independent Non-Executive Directors, who challenges and opportunities facing the Group and the future skills will be appointed as soon as regulatory approval is received.
and expertise needed on the Board.
It is also required to review the Following the announcement in May 2017 that I intend to stand leadership and development needs of the organisation to allow it to down as Chairman once a suitable replacement has been compete effectively in its market.
appointed, we have commenced the search for a new Chairman.
As a key part of this work, we have reviewed the size and composition of the Board.
We have improved the quality of our succession planning within our Executive Team and endorsed the leadership and development plans.
76 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Nomination Committee Main activities during the financial year membership andattendance During the year, the Committee completed the approval and appointment process of our new CEO, Chris Hill, who had previously The Committee meets at least twice a year, there were five held the position of CFO, having joined us in February 2016.
The scheduled meetings during the financial year and additional ad hoc Committee undertook a full assessment of Chriss abilities, meetings where required.
I chair the comittee and its other including a comparison against the experience and skills required members at 30 June 2017 were Christopher Barling, Shirley Garrood, for the CEO role, and commissioned an externally facilitated Stephen Robertson and Jayne Styles.
The Chief Executive and the psychometric profile.
The Committee concluded that Chris was the Chief People Officer have been routinely invited to attend meetings right person to lead the Group in the delivery of the next phase of as required.
A sub-committee of the Nomination Committee has its growth and recommended to the Board that he be promoted to been established to undertake the Chairman recruitment process, Deputy CEO in September 2016 with a view to becoming CEO after and this sub-committee has met twice during the year.
asuitable handover process from the outgoing CEO, Ian Gorham.
The members of the Nomination Committee at 30 June 2017 and Following regulatory approval, Chris was appointed CEO in attendance at the five Committees held during the 12 month April2017.
periodwere: The Committee commenced and completed the search for a replacement CFO, using the services of Spencer Stuart & Associates Meetings eligible Meetings Limited, an independent executive search agency.
The search was to attend attended focused on individuals with appropriate experience in the financial Chairman services sector, with an evaluation of skills, experience and Mike Evans 5 5 knowledge required for the role, and with due regard to the benefits Members of a diverse Board.
The Committee oversaw a rigorous assessment Christopher Barling 5 5 process and was pleased to recommend the appointment of Philip Shirley Garrood 5 5 Johnson to the Board.
Philip joined the Company in February 2017 Stephen Robertson 5 5 and following regulatory approval was appointed to the Board as Jayne Styles 5 5 CFO in April 2017.
One of the recommendations of the Board review of 2016 was to appoint at least one additional Non-Executive Director.
Given the Diversity need to prioritise the Executive changes, the Committee When assessing new appointments to our Board, we review commenced a search mid-year, also using Spencer Stuart & carefully the combined skills and experience of the existing Board Associates Limited for two new Non-Executive Directors.
The members to determine what characteristics we are looking for from Nomination Committee considered the combination of skills and a new Director.
Each member of the Board must have the skills, experience required to fulfil the Boards purpose and to provide experience and character that will enable each Director to appropriate challenge.
There was a well-defined specification for contribute both individually, and as part of the team, to the these appointments with a clear understanding of the attributes effectiveness of the Board and the success of the Group.
We believe and values required to help the effective functioning of the whole that diversity amongst Board members is of great value but that Board with appropriate acknowledgement of the need for diversity diversity is a far wider subject than just gender.
We will give careful in the composition of the Board.
In June 2017 the Committee consideration to issues of overall Board balance and diversity in recommended to the Board the appointment of two new making new appointments to the Board.
independent Non-Executive Directors, who will be appointed as soon as regulatory approval is received.
As at 30 June 2017, the Board numbers seven in total, of which two are Executive and five independent including the Chairman.
Female Directors constitute 29% of the Board and 10% of the Executive Committee.
Subject to the requirements set out above, we will aim to maintain female representation on the Board at least at the current level and give due consideration to increasing the level if, and when, appropriate candidates are available when Board vacancies arise.
We are committed to maintaining a diverse workforce at all levels across the Group and more information on how we do this can be found in the Our People section.
A copy of our full statement on Board Diversity can be found at www.
77 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance Nomination Committee report Having agreed a role definition defining the skills and experience required for a new Chairman, in May 2017, the Committee commenced a broad search using Zygos Limited, an independent executive search agency.
This search is being led by a subcommittee of the Nomination Committee, chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
During the year, the Committee has also overseen the assessment process for Heather Cooper, who was appointed to the Executive Committee in February 2017 as Chief People Officer.
In June 2017, the Committee received and discussed a detailed review of succession planning for the Executive Directors and senior management within the Group.
Nomination Committee allocation of time  Routine % Executive succession planning % NED recruitment % Chairman recruitment % Director assessment % E ectiveness %  Other % Signed on behalf of the Nomination Committee.
Mike Evans Chairman of the Nomination Committee 14 August 2017 78 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017
