Governance Viability Statement Relations with Shareholders In accordance with the Code, the Board has determined that a three year Dialogue with Institutional Shareholders period to 30 June 2020 is an appropriate period over which to provide Relationships with shareholders receive high priority and a rolling its viability statement.
This is supported by the Groups budget process programme of meetings between institutional shareholders and which includes detailed projections for the next two financial years and Executive Directors is held throughout the year.
The Chief Executive broader projections from the third year of the five year strategic planning Officer and Chief Financial Officer give annual and half-yearly results process.
The Board believes this provides a sound framework for providing presentations to institutional shareholders, analysts and the media in reasonable assurance on the Groups viability given the inherent uncertainty the UK.
These meetings are in addition to the Annual General Meeting associated with longer term forecasts.
and seek to foster a mutual understanding of the Companys and shareholders objectives.
Such meetings are conducted in a format The Boards assessment has been made with due regard to the to protect price sensitive information that has not already been made Groups current position, its future prospects, the strategic plan and the generally available to all the Companys shareholders.
Similar guidelines management of the Groups principal risks as detailed on pages 58 to 61 also apply to other communications between the Company and other of the Strategic Report.
parties such as financial analysts, brokers and the media.
The Board reviews the budget and strategic plan annually and the Richard Cotton attended the 2016 Annual General Meeting in London.
Groups principal risks on a rolling basis throughout the year.
The planning This provided a number of Dechras shareholders with the chance to process considers risks to sales and cost forecasts for each part of the meet Richard prior to his appointment as an Executive Director.
Group and the Groups consolidated income and cash flow forecasts.
In May and December, the Company hosted an investor site day at Stress testing of the Groups projected cash flows has been carried out the Skipton manufacturing facility and will continue to offer site visits by considering those principal risks that could have a material impact on a periodic basis.
The Chief Executive Officer also met US investors on viability.
The impact of these principal risks can be summarised into in August 2016.
Feedback is collated by the Companys brokers three categories, namely loss of profits on key products, pipeline delays, after such presentations.
The feedback is circulated to the Board and loss of third party manufacturing customers.
A number of severe for review and consideration.
In addition, the Board is provided with but plausible stress tests have been conducted on these areas, both market summary reports which detail share price and share register individually and in combination, together with an overall reverse stress movements.
Where material changes in respect of remuneration or test on the Groups borrowing facilities and covenant commitments.
governance are proposed, the Board seeks to consult with its major The Board believes that the Group has adequate resilience due to its shareholders before implementing such changes.
diversified product portfolio, its geographic footprint, a strong balance The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available to meet sheet, healthy cash generation and access to external financing, which shareholders upon request.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting Based on the results of this analysis, the Board has a reasonable All members of the Board are scheduled to attend the Annual General expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet Meeting the Meeting and the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period from 30 June 2017. and Nomination Committees will be available to answer shareholders Internal Control and Risk Management questions at the Meeting.
Notice of the Meeting is dispatched to The Board retains overall responsibility for determining the nature and shareholders at least 20 working days before the Meeting.
The extent of the risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
information sent to shareholders includes a summary of the business to be covered, with a separate resolution prepared for each substantive In accordance with the Code, the Board is responsible for reviewing matter.
When a vote is taken on a show of hands, the level of proxies the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control received for and against the resolution and any abstentions are systems, and confirms that: disclosed at the Meeting.
The results of votes lodged for and against each resolution are announced to the London Stock Exchange and there is an ongoing process for identifying, assessing, managing displayed on the Companys website.
At the Meeting there will be an and monitoring the Groups principal risks: opportunity, following the formal business, for informal communications the SETs assessment of the principal risks is considered to be between shareholders and Directors.
robust and those risks that have the potential to impact liquidity Tony Rice have been considered in the assessment of the Groups viability: Non-Executive Chairman the principal risks and internal control processes have been 4 September 2017 monitored by the SET throughout the year and reviewed by the Board on a rolling programme throughout the year: and no significant failings or weaknesses in internal control processes have been identified.
Based on its review throughout the year, the Board is satisfied that the risk management and internal control systems in place remain effective and provide reasonable but not absolute assurance that the Group will be successful in delivering its objectives.
Further information on how the business manages risk can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 56 and 57.
Stock Code: DPH 73 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Middle.
indd 73 04 09 2017 14:00:22 Letter from the Audit Committee Chairman Julian Heslop Audit Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder Annual Report 2017 The judgements and factors that the Committee considered in reviewing the Annual Report for 2017 are set out in its report on On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present this years Audit page 76.
During the year we focused on the major issues in relation to the Groups financial reporting, including key accounting The report also outlines significant accounting matters which received judgements and the ongoing quality of related disclosures.
We also particular focus during the period.
It explains why the issues were reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal considered significant and explains how the Committee satisfied itself controls and processes.
on the validity of the judgements made.
Richard Cotton was appointed as Chief Financial Officer in January Finally, we specifically reviewed, at the request of the Board, whether 2017, replacing Anne-Francoise Nesmes who resigned in July 2016. the 2017 Annual Report was fair, balanced and understandable and He has a wealth of experience in senior financial roles in life sciences concluded that it was.
The basis supporting our conclusion is set out and other sectors and I look forward to working with him over the on page 77. forthcoming years.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Septima I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any Maguire, our Group Financial Controller, for her excellent work as acting questions about our work.
Chief Financial Officer in the intervening period.
Julian Heslop Committee Membership Audit Committee Chairman We welcomed Lawson Macartney to the Committee and look 4 September 2017 forward to the fresh perspective he will bring given his strong product development, veterinary and business experience.
As disclosed in the 2016 Annual Report, Tony Rice resigned as a Committee member on his appointment as Chairman of the Company.
Financial Reporting Council During the year the Company received a letter from the Financial Reporting Council FRC in relation to its review of the Companys Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2016.
The Committee reviewed the responses from the Company and discussed this matter with the external auditor, further details of which can be found on page 76.
The FRC was satisfied with the Companys responses and our agreement to enhance certain disclosures.
74 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
com slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Middle.
indd 74 04 09 2017 14:00:23 Governance Audit Committee Report Other members of the Board normally attend each meeting together with The Purpose and Function of the Audit Committee the  LLP PwC Lead Audit Partner, the Group the Committee Financial Controller and the Head of Internal Audit and Risk Assurance.
Purpose The Committees key role is to review and report to the Board on The Committee has discussions at least twice a year with the external financial reporting, internal financial control effectiveness and to oversee auditor without management being present, including the meetings where the relationship with the external auditor.
The main responsibilities are the annual and interim results are reviewed and endorsed.
summarised on page 69 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Neither the Company nor its Directors have any relationships that impair Membership, Meetings and Attendance the external auditors independence.
The membership of the Committee, together with appointment dates Role and Responsibilities and attendance at meetings, are detailed on page 68 of the Corporate The main role and responsibilities of the Committee are set out in the Governance Report.
The Committee is pleased to welcome Lawson written terms of reference which are available on the Company website Macartney as its most recent member.
Tony Rice resigned from the at www.
The Board reviewed the Committees terms of Committee on his appointment as Chairman of the Company at the reference at the December 2016 meeting and amended them following 2016 Annual General Meeting.
recent legislative changes in relation to its membership and the The Board considers that all members of the Committee are independent.
Julian Heslop has recent and relevant financial experience as a result of his financial background and qualification.
Ishbel Macpherson and Lawson Major Activities of the Committee during the Year Macartney provide different but relevant skills and experience which The Committee met five times since the last Annual Report was issued.
support the Committee in meeting its objectives.
The biographies of all The meetings are generally timed to coincide with the financial reporting Committee members are detailed on pages 64 and 65. timetable of the Company.
The Committee Chairman and the Company Secretary have developed an annual programme of business.
This The Company Secretary attends each meeting and acts as its secretary allows the Committee to ensure that standing items of business are assisting the Chairman in ensuring that all Committee papers are provided appropriately considered alongside any exceptional matters that may prior to each meeting in a timely manner and providing advice to the arise during the course of the year.
Committee on all governance related matters.
The table below provides an overview of the main matters discussed at the meetings: Meeting Date Main Activities 1 December 2016 Review and approval of the annual internal audit plan Review of the internal audit progress and assurance report Review and approval of PwC Half-Yearly review plan Review of the Committees terms of reference Review of Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption and Whistleblowing Policies Review of status of statutory audits, global tax management and compliance support Review of non-audit fees including actual and projected spend 19 December 2016 Review and approval of FRC response letter 22 February 2017 Review of the Groups Half-Yearly Report and supporting papers Consideration of the Half-Year Review Memorandum prepared by the external auditor Half year review of internal financial controls Half-Yearly Accounts and Report disclosure enhancement following FRC feedback Review of the internal audit progress and assurance report Review of the dividend policy and interim dividend proposal Meeting with the external auditor without management present Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption and Sanctions progress update 11 May 2017 Review and approval of the year end external audit strategy including timetable, scope and fees Discussion in relation to the Companys expectations of the external auditor and audit process Review of year end accounting treatment for acquisitions, accounting for associates and segmental analysis Review of the internal audit progress and assurance report Review of non-audit fees including actual and projected spend Review of tax strategy and policy framework Meeting with the external auditor without management present 29 August 2017 Review of the Groups preliminary statement, draft Annual Report including the Audit Committee Report for the year ended 30 June 2017 and supporting papers, and the proposed final dividend Consideration of the Audit Memorandum prepared by the external auditor, including: review of accounting treatment of non-underlying items assessment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill commentary on the general control environment across the Group Review and approval of the going concern and viability statements Review and approval of the internal control and risk management statements Review of the internal audit progress and assurance report Full year review of internal financial controls for the period ended 30 June 2017 Review of the external audit effectiveness, external auditors independence and level of non-audit fees Meeting with the external auditor without management present Fair, balanced and understandable recommendation of the Annual Report Stock Code: DPH 75 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Middle.
indd 75 04 09 2017 14:00:23 Audit Committee Report continued During the year the Financial Reporting Councils FRC Corporate The Committee gave particular attention to significant matters where Reporting Review Team carried out a review of the Companys Annual judgement was involved, which were complex in nature, or where Report for the year ended 30 June 2016.
The Committee discussed the additional performance measures APMs were provided to enhance Companys response with the full involvement of the external auditors, investors understanding of the underlying performance.
The PwC, and Tony Rice, Chairman, prior to responding to the FRC.
The Group uses various non-GAAP APMs within internal management FRC have closed their enquiries with no requirement to restate any reporting, the Half-Yearly Report and the Annual Report.
However, undertakings were given to enhance certain objective of these APMs is to isolate the impact of exceptional, disclosures in the future in response to the FRC review.
The Committee one-off or non-trading related items to allow the Board and investors is satisfied that the enhancements proposed to, and agreed with, the to understand better the underlying performance of the business.
FRC have been appropriately incorporated in the 2017 Annual Report.
The Group also uses constant exchange rate growth percentages to eliminate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations and show the All significant matters under consideration by the Committee during the underlying business growth.
year were supported by relevant justification papers and fully discussed in order to ensure that due and appropriate consideration was given These matters were well supported by briefing papers provided before any decision was approved.
Further detail in relation to a number by management and were specifically reviewed and agreed by the of the matters is provided below: external auditor in their reports to the Committee and in related discussions.
Financial Judgements The Committee reviewed both the half-year and the annual financial The key matters reviewed are shown in the table below: statements.
This process included an analysis by management of key judgements made in determining the results.
The Committee reviewed this in detail and endorsed managements judgements.
Significant risks considered by the Committee in relation Corresponding actions taken by the Committee to to the financial statements address the issues Review of the carrying value of acquired intangible assets and goodwill The Committee reviewed managements process for reviewing and of 377.8 million, which represents 125.0% of Group net assets.
testing goodwill and other intangible assets for potential impairment.
Valuation of the acquired intangible assets and goodwill acquired during The Committee reviewed the calculations and assumptions provided business combinations in the year, which total 31.3 million.
by management and third party experts which support the valuation of these acquired assets and these valuations were assessed for Valuation and accounting for the acquired commercial licensing completeness.
The Committee reviewed the useful economic lives of agreement intangible with Animal Ethics Pty Ltd of 30.1 million the identifiable intangible assets and the future growth rate assumptions together with the related deferred consideration applied in the valuations.
Significant judgements considered by the Committee in relation Corresponding actions taken by the Committee to to the financial statements address the issues Review of the corporate tax rate for the year of 8.6% 21.9% on The Committee discussed the key risks in respect of corporate tax and underlying operations.
reviewed that appropriate controls were in place to ensure that taxation calculations are not materially misstated.
Areas where significant judgements such as uncertain tax positions have been applied are reviewed and challenged and external audit work and conclusions are considered.
Review the accounting treatment of related disclosures for associates The Committee reviewed the basis for accounting for the associate acquired in the period of 10.9 million.
company and the related disclosures.
In order to assist investors with a better understanding of the underlying The Committee reviewed the basis for calculating the underlying performance of the business, management present within the financial figures and its consistency with previous years figures.
It also sought statements figures for underlying profit and earnings.
confirmation from the external auditor, PwC, that they were satisfied that the application of the accounting policy was appropriate.
This is reconciled to the figures provided in the financial statements The Committee also reviewed material one-off income and costs within and excludes matters such as impairment and amortisation of acquired the underlying results, if any, and ensured these were clearly disclosed intangible assets and related deferred consideration, acquisition cost, within the financial statements and notes.
restructuring costs, and the fair value uplift on inventory acquired through business combinations.
76 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
indd 76 04 09 2017 14:00:23 Governance Going Concern and Viability Statements Internal Controls and Risk Management The Committee reviewed the Groups going concern and The Board retains overall responsibility for the management of the viability statements set out on pages 72 and 73 of the Corporate Groups risk management and internal control framework.
In considering the viability statement the Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups Committee paid particular attention to the robustness of the stress internal financial controls.
The external auditor reviewed managements The Committee has also reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk assessment and discussed this review with the Committee.
management and internal control processes.
This includes: Fair, Balanced and Understandable Assessment confirmation that the rolling programme of risk and control reviews of the Annual Report by the Board has been completed: At the request of the Board, the Committee considered whether the 2017 Annual Report was fair, balanced and understandable a review of the SETs assessment of material internal control and whether it provided the necessary information for shareholders effectiveness: and to assess the Companys performance pages 21 to 27, business a review of the going concern and viability statements together with model page 8 and strategy pages 13 to 15. the financial stress testing conducted to support these statements.
The Committee based its assessment on a review of the processes Further details in respect of the Groups risk management and internal and controls put in place by management.
This included the control processes are provided on pages 56 and 57 of the Strategic relevant senior management providing information on their own Report and the Boards statements on the effectiveness of these business units and their confirmation that it was fair, balanced and processes are provided on page 73 of the Corporate Governance understandable.
In addition, the final draft document was reviewed Report.
by all members of the Senior Executive Team SET who also concluded that it met the fair, balanced and understandable test.
Internal Audit The Head of Internal Audit and Risk Assurance provides objective An integral part of the process was the Committees final review: assurance and advice on the management of the Groups risks and other Board members and the external auditor were invited to its systems of internal control.
Internal Audit is supported by a comment so that issues could be debated and a final assessment co-sourcing arrangement with KPMG LLP KPMG to provide a flexible made.
resource model and access to specialist expertise and language skills The external auditor confirmed that in their opinion the Annual in geographies.
Report 2017 was fair, balanced and understandable, which can Internal Audit has a three year plan which seeks to provide balanced be found on pages 108 to 114. assurance coverage of the Groups material financial, operational This assessment was carried out by the Committee on and compliance control processes.
It sets out a rolling programme 29 August 2017, following which the Committee reported to of core assurance activities together with a significant focus on the the Board that it was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the implementation of the Oracle ERP system.
The annual delivery plan, Annual Report 2017 is fair, balanced and understandable.
which defines the specific assurance projects to be delivered each calendar year, is developed from the three year plan.
The annual plan Review of Policies and Procedures for the year to December 2017 was approved by the Committee in During the year the Committee reviewed the following policies: December 2016.
Accounting Policies Internal Audit recommendations are communicated to relevant business The Committee undertook the annual review of the tax policy.
leaders and appropriate control improvements are agreed with them.
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption and Whistleblowing Policies Audit reports are provided to the Audit Committee together with The Head of Internal Audit and Risk Assurance provides regular regular progress reports on managements implementation of control updates on the third party due diligence procedures and their improvements.
Dividend The dividend policy was reviewed by the Committee and amended to take account of the underlying financial position of the organisation.
The amended dividend policy was recommended to the Board for approval.
Stock Code: DPH 77 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Middle.
