STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 68 Redrow plc Annual Report 2017 69 GOVERNANCE REPORT Audit Committee Report The Committee also annually reviews the internal controls that are in place and reviews the findings of PwCs testing of The Committees principal responsibilities lie in reviewing the Groups controls and processes for estimating as well as the adequacy of disclosures that management propose to be made in financial statements.
financial reporting, overseeing the appointment and work of the external DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION SCHEME VALUATION Auditors and reviewing Redrows internal control processes.
The Committee receives details of the IAS 19R Employee Benefits valuations carried out at each reporting date for management by the actuary who advises the Company and the underlying assumptions.
A sensitivity analysis is also provided for its consideration.
The Committee also receives details of the triennial independent scheme valuation report prepared by the COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS RESPONSIBILITIES AND TERMS Scheme Actuary and reviews key judgement areas made including relevant actuarial advice that has been received.
In addition OF REFERENCE The four Members of the Committee are Independent the Committee also reviews the findings of PwCs testing of pension scheme assets and liabilities.
Nick Hewson is Chairman The key responsibilities of the Committee are: MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR of the Committee and is a Fellow of the Institute of monitoring the integrity of the financial statements Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The Committee followed a programme which is structured around the annual reporting cycle and received reports from Internal of the accompanying reports to the shareholders Biographies of the Members of the Committee Audit, the external Audit and management.
and Corporate Governance Statements including can be found on pages 62 to 63. reviewing the findings of external Auditors: The principal activities undertaken were as follows: The Board believes that Nick Hewson has the NICK HEWSON reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of requisite financial qualifications and experience September 2016 A review of the full year 2016 results including the Annual Report and a report from the external Auditors: and Chairman of the systems for internal control, financial reporting to chair the Committee and the balance of the Consideration of the Group risk assessment process, viability statement and a going concern review.
Audit Committee and risk management: Committee has the appropriate level of experience reviewing and overseeing the effectiveness of February 2017 A review of the 2017 half-yearly accounts and going concern including a report from the external Auditors: to fulfil its Terms of Reference and the requirements Internal Audit: of the Corporate Governance Code.
A review of the Terms of Reference of the Committee: making recommendations to the Board in relation A review of the proposed external Audit strategy for 2017 and associated fees: The Group Finance Director and Finance Director to the appointment and removal of external A review of the effectiveness of the external Audit process: Group Services attend meetings by invitation and Auditors and approving the remuneration and both were present at all the meetings in the year A review of the independence and objectivity of the external Auditors: and terms of engagement: ended 30 June 2017.
The external Auditors, A review of the Committees effectiveness.
reviewing and monitoring the external Audit  LLP PwC, and the process and independent activity of the Auditors Finance Director Operations who has the June 2017 A review of the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies: as well as the nature and scope of the external responsibility for Internal Audit of the Company, A review of the Risk Register: Audit and its effectiveness: were also in attendance at all meetings.
A review of the Groups Whistleblowing Policy: reviewing the Companys procedures for A review of the Groups Anti-Bribery Policy: Table of Attendance detecting fraud and the adequacy of its systems and controls for the prevention of bribery: and A review of internal controls across the whole business: Attendance Name Role at Meetings An update on Internal Audit, its strategy and a review of the Internal Audit timetable for 2018: and reviewing the Companys procedures for raising concerns.
Nick Hewson Chairman 3 3 Further discussions regarding the future tendering of the external Audit in compliance with the Order of the Competition and Markets Authority.
Debbie Hewitt Member 3 3 The Committees Terms of Reference are available Undertook a Performance Evaluation of the Committee.
Liz Peace Member 3 3 on the Companys website redrowplc.
Sir Michael Lyons Member 2 3 September 2017 A review of the full year 2017 results, including the Annual Report and a report from the external Auditors: and AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORTING ON SIGNIFICANT ISSUES Consideration of the Group risk assessment process, viability statement and a going concern review.
The Committee met three times in the year ended The primary areas of judgement which were 30 June 2017 and a summary of the principal AUDIT INDEPENDENCE considered by the Committee and how these were activities of the Committee are listed below.
addressed is set out below.
PwC were appointed Auditors in 1999 having succeeded Coopers & Lybrand who were appointed in 1987.
The current Audit Partner from PwC commenced his tenure following the conclusion of the year ended 30June 2015 audit.
Detailed papers and information were circulated VALUATION OF INVENTORY sufficiently in advance of meetings to allow proper At its meeting in February 2017 the committee considered whether to retain PwC as auditor and concluded that, in view of the The Committee receives a paper prepared by consideration of the matters for discussion.
The quality of service provided and the cost effectiveness of the work carried out, it would be appropriate to retain them.
The management at each reporting date outlining the Committee has also had the opportunity to meet Committee confirms that there were no contractual obligations that acted to restrict the Committees choice of external Auditors.
approach taken by management to assess the net separately with the external Auditors and Internal realisable value of inventories together with details Audit following the final audit and the review of the Following the Order of the Competition and Markets Authority in relation to FTSE 350 companies which will require the Company to of sites with significant areas of judgement and any year ended 30 June 2017 financial statements.
No change its statutory auditor for the June 2021 audit at the latest, the Committee has had further discussions regarding its future forward land against which provisions have been matters of concern were raised within these policy, strategy and timing for tendering of the external Audit.
The Committee will keep the performance of the Auditors under made.
The Group Finance Director and Finance discussions.
The Committee Chairman has also met review and will have completed a tender to have new auditors in place for the year ending 30 June 2021, or earlier.
Director Group Services attend meetings by with the Engagement Partner of the external Auditors invitation to answer any questions the Committee and the Finance Director Operations to discuss The Committee has a formal policy in respect of the work of the external Auditors.
The purpose of this policy is to ensure that the may have.
The Group Company Auditors objectivity and independence is maintained by ensuring both that the nature of any non-audit work undertaken and the Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
level of fees paid does not compromise the Auditors position.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 70 Redrow plc Annual Report 2017 71 GOVERNANCE REPORT Audit Committee Report continued Appointments in respect of non-audit work require information in respect of sales and production and The Committee therefore confirms that it is satisfied The Company has introduced a new business the prior approval of the Committee within an the content of these weekly reports is regularly that the system of controls has been in operation planning process whereby each land transaction, established budget.
In addition, no work can be reviewed to ensure it remains appropriate: throughout the financial year and up to the date of following completion of the development, is tested undertaken by the external Auditors in any area this report.
against its original appraisal to ascertain its Redrow has an in-house Health and Safety where there is any identifiable risk that the work of performance and to improve cash flow forecasting.
Department and places great emphasis on the RISK REGISTER an individual within the external Audit firm or the These Post Completion Reports are provided to the importance of health and safety and environment external Audit firm generally could conflict or Committee and are discussed at each meeting.
The Group formally reviews its prioritised Risk management.
The department works closely with compromise the quality, objectivity or Register every year.
The updated and reviewed Risk the Divisions to ensure that training is provided to WHISTLEBLOWING independence of any audit or compliance Register is then discussed and approved by the employees and subcontractors.
Best practice is work undertaken for the Group.
In addition, the Executive Board, The Group has a widely publicised Whistleblowing shared and appropriate actions are taken to through its regular meetings, reviews key areas of Policy which enables employees and other comply with health and safety best practice and The external Auditors are not indemnified by the risk on an ongoing basis and considers whether the stakeholders to raise concerns in confidence.
The legislation throughout the organisation: Company nor has the Company purchased liability internal controls identified in relation to those risks Committee has arranged to receive reports on all insurance for them.
the Board requires each Director in its operating remain appropriate.
occasions when such issues are raised under this divisions to complete an annual statement on policy.
The Whistleblowing Policy is formally Details of fees paid to PwC are disclosed on page 123.
Corporate Governance and related party INSURANCE reviewed and approved each year by the Committee.
The statement is designed to The Board has appointed an experienced broker to INTERNAL CONTROLS provide assurance that Group policies and BRIBERY ACT advise on and co-ordinate all insurance matters The Board of Directors recognises its overall procedures are being implemented and complied across the Group and they liaise closely with Following the introduction of the Bribery Act 2010 responsibility for the Groups system of internal with in all material respects: appropriate Redrow personnel at Head Office and the Company put in place a policy on bribery and control and for monitoring its effectiveness.
There is in addition, key functional Directors complete a within the Divisions and report directly to the Group corruption for all employees to strictly adhere to.
an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and Principal Controls Self-Assessment Questionnaire Finance Director.
The Company Secretary ensures that the policy is managing significant risks.
However, in reviewing the which is reviewed by the Board to assist in complied with, updates the policy, procedures and effectiveness of internal control, any internal control RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL AUDIT improvements in the control framework: company code of practice as and when required system can only provide reasonable but not absolute The Groups Risk Register defines controls as prevent and provides regular reports to the Committee.
a weekly business report WBR comprising sales assurance against material misstatement or loss.
or detect and identifies owners for each high level The Bribery Act policy is formally reviewed and funnel information, gross margins and order book risk.
Feedback on the risks and controls is actively approved each year by the Committee.
Key business activities, including finance, land is produced for the Group, each Division and each encouraged and is facilitated by links on the Groups acquisition, product design, and procurement and site and circulated across the Group: Training is given to all staff to highlight the various intranet to ensure the risks listed remain relevant and information technology are controlled by the a monthly reporting pack is circulated in advance forms of bribery and all new staff attend an accurate.
The Register itself is regularly maintained Executive Directors.
All activity is organised within a and reviewed at each of the Main, Executive and induction course at the commencement of their and is reviewed by the Committee annually.
defined structure with formal lines of responsibility, Divisional Board meetings.
Annual budgets are employment which includes a section relating to designated authority levels and a structured set, with actual performance compared against bribery and the implication on individuals and the The Internal Audit strategy is discussed with PwC reporting framework.
A formalised reporting the annual budget: company of an act of bribery either given or and discussed and agreed with the Committee.
structure is established within Redrow.
Every year, through its new internal Suggested control improvements and any control preparation and regular updates of Strategic Plans: Executive Directors, the Company Secretary, e-learning facility, each employee will be required weaknesses identified are followed up as Regional Chief Executives, Group Human Resources a policy and procedures manual which covers all to complete a mandatory compliance test which appropriate.
The cornerstone of the Internal Audit Director, Group Sales and Marketing Director, Group the significant aspects of the Groups operations reminds each employee of their obligations.
work undertaken is the Business Process Reviews.
Communications Director and Group Development and describes the systems and controls that are A risk-based programme was designed based on Director the Executive Management Team meet to be applied: and PERFORMANCE EVALUATION the Risk Register.
The Business Process Review monthly to discuss the Groups key issues, risks and programme looks to provide assurance to the The Committee completed a performance daily statements of a reconciled cash position opportunities.
The Divisions also hold monthly Group, by testing internal controls and reviewing evaluation during the financial year by the members identifying significant payments are prepared, board meetings which are attended on a rotational specific risks, as well as seeking out best practice of the Committee and those who regularly attend rolling cash flow forecasts are prepared and basis by the Executive Directors.
and sharing it across the Group and identifying by invitation, including the External Auditor, forecast banking covenant compliance are tested.
Committee completing a self-assessment questionnaire and a The key features of the Groups internal controls are Throughout the year, the Committee has carried out Members receive an Executive Summary of each report compiled by the Group Company Secretary as follows: assessments of internal control by considering Business Process Review report and these reports from the results was presented to the Committee documentation from the Executive Directors and the defined authorisation levels exist over key areas are then discussed at the next Committee meeting.
The Committee was found to be internal audit function as well as taking into such as land purchase, the placing of orders and In addition the Committee at its meetings reviews effective and it was concluded that the Committee consideration events since the year end.
The contracts and staff recruitment: the progress made by the relevant Division, had fulfilled its remit and had in place appropriate internal controls extended to the financial reporting following the completion of a Business Process Terms of Reference.
a comprehensive prioritised Risk Register which process and the preparation of consolidated Review, against the internal audit process.
is regularly reviewed and presented to the accounts.
The basis for the preparation of Audit Committee: consolidated accounts has been undertaken in NICK HEWSON the Groups management information systems accordance with the Companys Accounting policies Chairman of the Audit Committee provide weekly updates on key statistics and as set out on pages 118 to 122.
