Governance Corporate governance report The Board has also established the Executive Committee which is The Boards role is to set the Groups responsible to the Chief Executive Officer for developing and monitoring every aspect of the Groups business on a continuing strategy, ensure it has the right basis, for developing and implementing business strategy as leadership, oversee its risk management agreed by the Board and ensuring that day-to-day operations are conducted in accordance with the relevant regulatory and statutory structure and monitor the performance requirements.
The Executive Committee has established three of the business.
reporting committees to assist it with managing the Groups business.
The Executive Risk Committee is an executive committee seeking to ensure risks are identified, assessed, managed and The Board has established five standing Board committees to assist reported on.
It is also responsible for overseeing compliance with it with carrying out its functions and to ensure independent the regulatory capital requirements under the ICAAP regime.
The oversight of internal control and risk management.
The five principal CASS Committee is responsible for overseeing our processes and Board committees Audit, Remuneration, Risk, Nomination and controls over segregating client monies and safeguarding custody Investment all have formal terms of reference that have been assets.
The Treasury Committees role is to define and oversee the approved by the Board, and performance of the committees is management of client and Hargreaves Lansdowns own cash assessed annually.
Each committees terms of reference sets out balances within the regulatory framework and Groups risk appetite.
the specific matters for which delegated authority has been given Each of these committees operates under defined terms of by the Board.
These terms of reference are reviewed annually and reference with clear responsibilities.
This clear governance are available on the Groups website www.
co. uk investor-relations framework is shown below.
Corporate governance framework as at 30 June 2017 Appoint the Auditors Independent External Auditors Shareholders Elect the Board Hargreaves Lansdown Group plc Board Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and four Independent Non-Executive Directors Executive Committee Board Committees Executive Committees Senior Management Team Audit Committee Executive Risk Committee Risk Committee CASS Committee Remuneration Committee Treasury Committee Nomination Committee Investment Committee 38 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Non-Executive Directors Matters reserved to the Board The Non-Executive Directors are independent of management and There is a documented schedule of matters which are reserved for are considered by the Board to be free from any business or other Board decision and approval.
These matters are significant to the relationships which could compromise their independence.
Their role Group as a whole due to their strategic, financial or reputational is to effectively advise and constructively challenge management, implications, and include, but are not limited to, the agreement of along with monitoring managements success in delivering the strategies, recommendation of dividends, approval of acquisitions agreed strategy within the risk appetite and control framework set by and major capital expenditure.
In addition only the Board can the Board.
They are also responsible for determining appropriate appoint and remove Directors and the Company Secretary.
The levels of remuneration for the Executive Directors.
Board also has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal controls and risk management.
Senior Independent Director The Senior Independent Directors role is to provide a sounding Except for the schedule of matters reserved for decision by the board for the Chairman and support him in the delivery of his Board, the Board has delegated the day-to-day management of the objectives.
He serves as a trusted intermediary for the other Group to the Chief Executive Officer who is supported by the Directors when necessary and is also available to shareholders if Executive Committee and senior management.
they have concerns which communication via the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or other Executive Directors has Board structure failed to resolve, or when shareholders prefer to speak directly to him.
He is responsible for evaluating the performance of the The Board is made up of the Chairman, Executive Directors, being Chairman on behalf of the other Directors.
the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, and independent Non-Executive Directors.
The roles of the Chairman Company Secretary and Chief Executive are clearly defined, separate and approved by the Board.
The Company Secretary supports and works closely with the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Board committee Chairman chairmen in setting agenda items for meetings of the Board and its The Chairman is responsible for the operation, leadership and committees.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for governance of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its ensuring Board procedures are followed, applicable rules and agenda.
In conjunction with the Chief Executive Officer and regulations are complied with and that the Board is advised on Company Secretary, the Chairman plans agenda items and timings governance and relevant regulatory matters.
In addition, the for Board meetings.
The Chairman ensures that the membership of Company Secretary supports the Chairman in the design and the Board is appropriate to the needs of the business and that delivery of Non-Executive Director induction programmes.
All Board committees carry out their duties, including reporting back to Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary.
The Chairman is also responsible for ensuring there is effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders, Operation of the Board and that the rest of the Board is aware of and maintains an The Board has a rolling agenda which ensures that the key strategic, understanding of their views.
The Chairman works closely with the financial, operational, risk, corporate governance and compliance Chief Executive Officer to ensure that the strategies and actions items are appropriately covered at its meetings.
It meets at least agreed by the Board are effectively implemented.
four times each financial year, meeting seven times in the last financial year with two additional strategy sessions.
One of these Chief Executive Officer was held as an off-site strategy day, and the second, six months The Chief Executive Officer has executive responsibilities for the later, as a follow up session.
To ensure that Directors are as fully operations, results and day-to-day management of the Group.
He informed as possible, minutes are circulated from each committee, also recommends strategic developments to the Board for including the Executive Committee, and each Board meeting consideration.
He is then responsible for the delivery of the strategy includes a report from the committee chairmen as appropriate.
The and leads the executive management team.
The Board has Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet in the absence of the delegated these responsibilities to him, and he is accountable to Executive Directors at least once a year.
39 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance Corporate governance report Each Director committed an appropriate amount of time to their duties Board composition and experience during the financial year, and the Non-Executive Directors at least met As at 30 June 2017, there were seven Directors on the Board: the the time commitment specified in their letters of appointment.
Chairman, four independent Non-Executive Directors, and two Executive Directors.
The size and composition of the Board is Board allocation of time regularly reviewed by the Board and the Nomination Committee toensure that there is an appropriate and diverse mix of skills Routine % Conflicts % andexperience.
CEO update % Report from Committee % Number of Directors CFO update Executive and Non-Executive including CF A % Experience and Non-Executive Chairman Risk & Compliance including controls % Company knowledge 7 Equity fund % Industry knowledge 7 HL Savings % Audit and Risk management 7 Digital and IT advice % Investment management 5 Marketing % Client experience % Strategy and business development 6 Board eectiveness % Operational management 5 Chairmans report % Technology and digital focus 6 Culture and people % People changes % Approval of announcement and ARA % Dividend and FRC issues with dividend % There is an appropriate combination of Executive Directors and Director duties % Non-Executive Directors such that no individual or small group of Other % individuals can dominate the Boards decision making.
There were the following changes in Board composition during theyear: Attendance at the Board meetings Ian Gorham resigned from the Board as Chief Executive Officer on The number of full Board meetings attended by each Director during 9 February 2017: the year is set out below.
Chris Hill was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 13 April 2017 Meetings having previously held the positions of Deputy Chief Executive eligible Meetings to attend attended Officer and Chief Financial Officer: and Chairman Philip Johnson joined the Board as Chief Financial Officer on Mike Evans 7 7 7 April 2017.
Non-Executive Directors Christopher Barling 7 7 Composition of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors on Shirley Garrood 7 7 the Board Stephen Robertson 7 7 Jayne Styles 7 7 Independent Non-Executive Chairman Executive Directors Executive Directors Ian Gorham Independent Non-Executive stood down February 2017 5 5 Directors Chris Hill 7 7 Philip Johnson appointed April 2017 2 2 40 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Length of tenure of Non-Executive Directors andChairman Succession planning - years The Board uses succession planning to ensure that it has the - years - years necessary skills, knowledge and expertise in place to deliver the - years Groups strategy, and that it has the right balance of individuals to be able to discharge its responsibilities.
The Board regularly reviews its composition to enable it to maintain its balance of skills and experience.
Any searches for Board candidates, and appointments made, are based upon merit against objective criteria.
The Nomination Committee has specific responsibility for the appointment of Non-Executive and Executive Directors and it recommends new appointments to the Board.
It regularly reviews the structure, size and composition required of the Board and makes recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
More information on the work of the Nomination Committee can be found in the Nomination Committee report.
Director independence Induction The Group is fully compliant with the Code, which requires that at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Our Chairman, with support from the Company Secretary, is Non-Executive Directors who are determined by the Board to be responsible for preparing and implementing a personalised independent.
The Code sets out the circumstances that should be induction programme for all new Directors, to include guidance as relevant to the Board in determining whether each Non-Executive to their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a Director of the Director is independent and the Board has given due regard to Company.
We believe that the best way to learn about a business is provision B.
The Board has considered factors such to spend time within it, and we encourage new Directors to spend as the length of tenure and relationships or circumstances which time with our senior managers and executives in a number of are likely to affect or appear to affect the Directors judgement in business areas and to receive demonstrations of key operations determining whether they remain independent.
This review is and systems where relevant.
The Board has concluded that Stephen Robertson, Christopher Ongoing professional development Barling, Shirley Garrood and Jayne Styles remained independent in Every Director has access to appropriate training throughout their character and judgement throughout the financial year and, subject appointment as Director and we regularly assess the requirement to any disclosed and approved or authorised potential conflicts of for Director training as part of each Directors annual appraisal.
interest, are free from any business or other relationships which could materially affect the exercise of their judgement.
Mike Evans Our overall objective is to maintain and enhance professional was independent on appointment as Chairman.
Christopher Barling standards for all our employees.
We believe that these standards is the Senior Independent Director.
are particularly important for all staff who fall under the scope of the FCA Training and Competence rules.
All staff under the scope of Conflicts of interest these rules are required to perform certain training annually.
Given the rapidly changing environment in which the Group Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they operates, all Directors are given regular updates on changes and may have interests that conflict with those of the Group, unless that developments in the business.
The Board is regularly updated on conflict is first authorised by the Board.
Directors are required to relevant legislative, regulatory or governance changes.
Training disclose both the nature and extent of any potential conflict or opportunities are provided through internal meetings, actual conflicts with the interests of the Group.
presentations and briefings by external advisers.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Companys articles of association allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts that may arise, and to impose such conditions or limitations as it sees fit.
During the year, any potential conflicts were considered and assessed by the Board and approved where appropriate.
41 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance Corporate governance report Each Director is subject to an individual appraisal annually.
The Information provided to the Board Chairman reviewed the performance of the Chief Executive Officer The Board has full and timely access to all relevant information to and the Non-Executive Directors, and the Chief Executive Officer enable it to perform its duties effectively.
The Company Secretary reviewed the Chief Financial Officer.
The Non-Executive Directors, works closely with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Board led by the Senior Independent Director, carried out an appraisal of committee chairmen to ensure appropriate and timely information the Chairman.
All the appraisals concluded that the Board continues flows within and to the Board and its committees, enabling the to perform effectively and individually, with all the Non-Executive Board to exercise its judgement and make fully informed decisions Directors continuing to have sufficient time availability to meet their when discharging its duties.
The Company Secretary supports the Chairman in setting the Engagement with shareholders Boardagenda, and papers are distributed to all Directors in advance of Board meetings via a secure electronic system.
Directors The Board recognises the importance of maintaining good receive financial information on the Group on a monthly basis and communication with the Companys shareholders and has a now receive monthly briefings from the Chief Executive Officer in programme of communication with shareholders based on the between meetings.
financial reporting calendar which includes the interim and annual reports, trading updates, the AGM and the Investor Relations Director election and re-election section of the corporate website at www.
Our Annual Report is an important medium for communicating with All Directors appointed by the Board are required by the Companys shareholders, setting out detailed reviews of the business and its Articles of Association and the Code to be elected by shareholders future developments in the Chairmans statement, the Chief at the first AGM following their appointment.
Accordingly, Philip Executive Officers review and the Strategic report.
In addition to this, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial The Code also requires that all other serving Directors will seek Officer meet with institutional investors after results re-election at the 2017 AGM.
The Board confirms that all individual announcements, upon request or on an ad hoc basis during the performance reviews demonstrated that the Directors continue to year.
They, together with the Company Secretary and Head of perform effectively andare committed to their roles.
Investor Relations, also provide a point of contact for investors who wish to raise questions, queries or concerns.
During the year, the Board evaluation Chairman and Christopher Barling, our Senior Independent The Code and the Financial Reporting Councils guidance on Board Non-Executive Director, met with a number of our larger shareholders and key investors.
effectiveness recommend that the annual performance review of the Board should be externally facilitated every three years.
Following dialogue with individual institutional shareholders, the Independent Audit were engaged by the Board to perform an Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer all externally facilitated review in 2015, and the subsequent reviews in ensure that the Board is fully briefed on shareholders views such 2016 and 2017 were led by the Chairman.
that any issues or concerns are fully understood and considered.
Following the 2016 review the Board has made good progress Analyst and broker briefings are regularly provided to the Board.
against its agreed actions, and all actions are either achieved in Inaddition, the Groups brokers sought feedback from investors full, are ongoing requirements or, for one action, would not be following the 2016 final and 2017 interim results, and this feedback proceeded with.
was reported to the Board.
Shareholders have also been fully engaged in the changes to the Remuneration policy, further details The 2017 review was presented, discussed and approved by the of which are contained within the Remuneration Committee report, Board in June 2017, following individual one-to-one discussions and which is being put to the shareholder vote at our AGM on between each Director and the Chairman.
The key theme emerging 11 October 2017. from the review was that whilst good progress had continued to be made, there is still further work to be done to ensure that information received by the Board is of the highest quality and so prompts the appropriate levels of discussion and challenge.
The detailed strategy and implementation plan was approved by the Board in August 2017 following a well structured strategy day in June.
This plan is the backbone around which performance can be measured and agendas framed, with a follow up session planned for December 2017.
42 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information AGM The AGM provides the Board with the opportunity to communicate with shareholders and we welcome and encourage their participation at the meeting.
All Directors make themselves available to meet shareholders at our AGM and they value the opportunity of welcoming individual shareholders and other investors to communicate directly and address their questions.
The Company sends the Report and Financial Statements and notice of the AGM to shareholders, or makes them available on the Groups website, at least 20 days before the date of the meeting.
The Notice of AGM sets out a clear explanation of each separate resolution on each discrete subject.
Resolutions are proposed on each subject and all resolutions are put to a poll.
The number of proxy votes for, against and withheld for each resolution are displayed at the meeting.
Where the resolutions were to appoint or re-appoint Directors, the votes were shown with and without the votes of the controlling shareholder Peter Hargreaves.
Votes received at the AGM are added to the proxy votes and the final results are published through the Regulatory Information Service.
There is a Relationship Agreement in place between Peter Hargreaves and the Company to ensure that the independence provisions as set out in the Listing Rules are complied with.
The terms of the agreement have been fully complied with during the year.
Following the AGM, the results of voting are published through a Regulatory Information Service and on our website.
Other information Certain additional information in relation to the Companys share capital, the powers of Directors and amendments to its Articles of Association that is required to be disclosed pursuant to DTR 7.2.
6 may be found in the Directors report.
43 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017
