STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 72 Redrow plc Annual Report 2017 73 GOVERNANCE REPORT Nomination Committee Report SUCCESSION DIVERSITY The Committee reviews the size, structure, balance and composition of the The Board considers that succession planning of the The principle of boardroom diversity is strongly Board, oversees Board and Senior Executive succession planning and Board and its Committees is extremely important supported and recognised by the Board.
It is the and believes that it currently has a good balance Boards policy that appointments to the Board will identifies and nominates for approval candidates to fill Board vacancies.
and diversity among its Non-Executive Directors always be based on merit, so that the Board has the with each of them having relevant skills derived right individuals in place, and recognises that diversity from serving in a range of executive and is seen as an important consideration as part of the non-executive positions over many years.
selective criteria used to assess candidates to achieve making recommendations to the Board, including COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS a balanced Board.
Current female representation on on appointment of Executive and Non-Executive All Members of the Committee are Independent The Committee decided that it needed to plan the Board is 43%.
Directors to the Board, the re-appointment of Non-Executive Directors with Debbie Hewitt, the for the long term succession of Non-Executive Directors, the re-election of Directors at the Senior Independent Director being Chair of the Directors, recognising best practice which advises The Board believes in the benefits of cognitive Annual General Meeting and the membership Committee.
The other Members of the Committee that Non-Executive Directors should ideally hold a diversity, from a wide range of complementary skills.
of the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and during the period ending 30 June 2017 were Nick Board position for no longer than nine years and The Committee will continue to aspire to maintain a Sustainability Committees: Hewson, Liz Peace and Sir Michael Lyons.
The also to plan for the succession of the Chair of the diverse Board with recruitment and selection of biographies of the Members of the Committee ensuring that a formal structured and tailored Remuneration Committee where best practice talented individuals and with a broad range of can be found at pages 62 to 63. induction programme is undertaken by any requires the Chair of this Committee to sit on the appropriate skills, irrespective of gender.
DEBBIE HEWITT newly appointed member of the Board: Committee for a year prior to taking up the Chair role.
Chairman of the The Group Human Resources Director attends the Nomination reviewing annually the time required from the Table of Attendance During the year, the Committee appointed Stark monthly Executive Management Team meetings and Committee Non-Executive Directors: Brooks Associates Limited, an executive search provides a monthly people report which provides key Attendance satisfying itself with regard to succession consultancy, to assist in the recruitment of a new statistics on Group employees as well as providing Name Role at Meetings planning for the Board and senior management, Non-Executive Director.
Stark Brooks knows the updates on employee engagement and recruitment.
Debbie Hewitt Chairman 2 2 taking into account the challenges and Company well, having over the years assisted the She reports to the Nomination Committee at least opportunities facing the Company and future Company in a limited number of appointments at twice a year to update on progress.
Nick Hewson Member 2 2 skills and expertise needed on the Board senior level in the business, below Board level.
The Liz Peace Member 0 2 PERFORMANCE EVALUATION including development and training: and Committee notes that Stark Brooks is a related party Sir Michael Lyons Member 2 2 to the Company as the Chairmans wife holds more The Committee members completed a performance ensuring suitable candidates for the Board are than ten per cent of Stark Brooks shares and she is evaluation during the financial year and a report was identified through an appropriate recruitment the Executive Chair of the group.
The setting of presented by the Secretary to the Committee and process, giving due regard to the benefits of The Committee met two times during the year ended fees, which were externally benchmarked, was discussed.
The Committee was found to be diversity, including gender and ethnicity, and 30 June 2017.
For all meetings, papers were circulated handled independently by the Committee.
effective and it was concluded that the Committee recommended for appointment.
sufficiently in advance to allow proper consideration of had fulfilled its remit and had in place appropriate all matters for discussion.
The Group Company Following an extensive due diligence process, Terms of Reference.
The Committees Terms of Reference are published Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Liz the Board appointed Vanda Murray with effect from on the Groups website redrowplc.
Peace did not attend the Committee meetings due 1 August 2017.
Vanda Murray has substantial The 2017 Board evaluation recognised that further to her conflict of interest, as a new Non-Executive Non-Executive Director and Remuneration work was required for long term succession MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR Director was being discussed, but her apologies Committee experience.
She is Chairman of Fenner planning of the Board and senior management.
In During the year to 30 June 2017 the Committee were noted.
plc and holds non-executive roles with Bunzl plc, addition to the changes that have already been undertook the following activities: Manchester Airports Group and Just Childcare Ltd. undertaken the priorities for the coming year are to RESPONSIBILITIES AND TERMS She is also Pro-Chancellor at Manchester oversee the Executive development of the next a review of the structure, size and composition OF REFERENCE Metropolitan University and a Board member of line of reports to the Group Chief Executive, of the Board: The key responsibilities of the Committee are: The Manchester Growth Company.
She has also ensuring that there is robust executive succession a review of executive succession.
The Committee previously held non-executive directorships at planning in place and also to oversee the change concluded that the present Board balance and reviewing the structure, size and composition Carillion plc, Exova plc and Microgen plc.
in Non-Executive Directors, ensuring the composition remains appropriate but that it will of the Board including skills, knowledge and Chairmanship and membership of the various be kept under review: experience and making recommendations for Debbie Hewitt will complete nine years as a Committees are properly constituted.
further recruitment to the Board or proposing Non-Executive Director of the Company on undertook the recruitment process for the changes to the existing Board: 19 August 2018 and will retire from the Board appointment of a new Non-Executive Director: during 2018.
The Company will seek to appoint reviewing the leadership needs of the Company, recommended that the Directors stand for DEBBIE HEWITT a new Non-Executive Director during the course both executive and non-executive, ensuring re-election at the 2017 Annual General Meeting Chairman of the Nomination Committee of the financial year to replace her.
appropriate succession planning for directors in accordance with UK Corporate Governance and other senior executives within the business: Code: and 4 September 2017 leading the process for Board appointments reviewed the Committees Terms of Reference.
ensuring they are conducted on merit and against The Directors were not present and did not vote objective criteria: when their individual proposals were discussed.
