Governance Audit Committee report Role of the Audit Committee The Committees responsibilities are set out in its Terms of Reference, which are designed to help the Board in discharging its responsibilities for: Monitoring the financial reporting process including the integrity of the Groups Report and Financial Statements, interim financial statements, trading updates and any other formal announcements relating to financial performance: Reviewing the consistency and continuing appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies: Ensuring that the Groups Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced, understandable and provides shareholders with the information necessary to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: Reviewing and making recommendations to the Board regarding the Groups viability statement: Reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and the Groups internal control systems: Dear shareholder Reviewing the statements to be included in the Report and It has been a busy year for the Audit Committee during which we Financial Statements concerning internal controls: have worked closely with the Risk Committee to ensure the Group Reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence maintains a robust control environment.
In particular, we have and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking focused on preparation for the FRCs new CASS audit standard, into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory overseen the Groups rationalisation plans, the integrity of the requirements: financial reporting process and reviewed the work of both external and internal audit.
The Committee also devoted considerable Making recomendations to the Board, for a resolution to be put to attention to the findings of the FRCs review of the 2016 the shareholders for their approval in general meetings in relation AnnualReport.
to the appointment or removal of the external auditor and the approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the The Committee has been actively engaged through the year external auditor: withanumber of important personnel changes in the executive leadership, Finance and Internal Audit teams.
I am encouraged by Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups Internal the additional financial services and public company experience Audit function: and which we have brought into the business, and the positive tone Overseeing the Groups procedures for public interest disclosure from the top that they are communicating and embedding in whistleblowing.
I am also pleased with the progress made in this years Report andFinancial Statements to improve the quality of the document, its look and feel, and particularly the evolution of the financial statements to align with more modern practice and improve theiraccessibility.
As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present this report and I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about our work through the year.
48 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Audit Committee Overview of activities during the membership and attendance financialyear The Audit Committee meets at least four times each year, there were The chart below outlines how the Committee has spent its time five scheduled meetings during the financial year and additional ad thisyear: hoc meetings where required.
The attendance by each Director is Financial reporting % set out in the table below.
I chair the Committee and its other External audit % members at 30 June 2017 were Christopher Barling, Stephen Internal audit % Internal controls % Robertson and Jayne Styles.
Other % The FRC has recently updated the Corporate Governance Code to place a requirement upon audit committees to have relevant industry experience and expertise.
The Committee has considered this point and can confirm that it does meet the requirement asboth Shirley Garrood and Jayne Styles have significant experience of the asset management sector and wider financial services industry.
The Corporate Governance Code also requires at least one member to have recent and relevant financial experience: this requirement is fulfilled by the Committee Chairman.
Membership of the Committee The table below details the key topics addressed at each meeting: is regularly reviewed by the Committee Chairman with any recommendations for appointment being made to the Nomination Topic Aug Nov Jan Apr Jun Committee to present to the Board.
Appointments are made for a CASS three-year period and can be extended for no more than two Internal audit additional three-year periods.
No new appointments were made to Internal controls the Committee during the year.
Tax strategy The Chairman, Head of Internal Audit and Chief Financial Officer are External audit Review of results routinely invited to, and attend, the majority of meetings.
However, Whistleblowing the Committee reserves the right to ask any of these individuals to withdraw.
The external auditor also attended all meetings.
The Committee also meets privately with the Head of Internal Audit and Financial reporting the external audit team through the year.
On behalf of the Board, the Committee, with support and input from the external auditor, has examined the Report and Financial The members of the Audit Committee at 30 June 2017 and attendees Statements, interim financial statements and the trading updates, at the five Committees held during the 12 month period were: together with the related disclosures, application and consistency Meetings of accounting policies and the financial reporting process.
This eligible Meetings examination has included the review, consideration and approval of to attend attended the Report and Financial Statements, the viability statement and the Chairman going concern statement.
There has been an emphasis on ensuring Shirley Garrood 5 5 that these are fair, balanced and understandable.
Members Christopher Barling 5 5 The integrity of the Report and Financial Statements is underpinned Stephen Robertson 5 5 by the control environment.
The review of risk management systems Jayne Styles 5 5 is conducted by the Risk Committee as outlined in its Terms of Reference.
However, the Audit Committee continues to review those key controls where a failure could impact the integrity of In addition to the formal schedule of meetings, the Committee financial record-keeping, reporting and disclosure.
In this regard, Chairman maintains regular contact with the CEO, CFO, Head of the Committee has considered risk and control reports from the Internal Audit, Group Director of Risk and Compliance and the Head of Internal Audit, the Chief Risk Officer and the Group Director external auditors senior engagement partner.
of Risk and Compliance and satisfied itself that the integrity of the Ongoing training is provided to help committee members perform control environment supporting the financial reporting and their duties, this may include attendance at formal conferences, disclosure process is appropriate.
briefings by specialist Hargreaves Lansdown staff and briefings by external accountancy firms.
49 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance Audit Committee report During the year, the Group received correspondence from the Share-based payments FRCsCorporate Governance & Reporting division in relation to a The Committee reviewed the key assumptions used for the review of the 2016 Annual Report.
The FRC made four observations valuation of options relevant to the Companys share-based as to how the Group could improve future reporting and these incentive schemes and the performance period over which fair havebeen considered in the drafting of the 2017 Report and values are amortised.
It also ensured these were all appropriately Financial Statements.
accounted for in the 2017 Report and Financial Statements.
TheCommittee has also discussed the likely vesting outcomes As a result, minor changes to the presentation of earnings per forthe 2014 and 2015 Directors LTIP based upon the performance share, share-based payments, disclosure of material balances criteria set.
separately and interests in unconsolidated structured entities have been incorporated.
No matters contained within the letter remained Segmental reporting open at 30 June 2017.
In the current period, consideration has been given to the nature of the operating segments previously disclosed and it is the view of Significant financial judgements and financial reporting for the Committee that there is in fact only one segment reported to the 2017 Chief Operating Decision Maker, being the Group a direct-toIn reviewing the Report and Financial Statements, the Committee investor investment service administering investments in ISA, SIPP has concluded that there are no significant financial judgements.
and Fund & Share accounts, providing services for individuals and Aspart of its review the Committee has considered the following corporates.
It was considered that segmental reporting, as key areas: previously presented, did not provide a clearer or more accurate view of the reporting within the Group and hence the business has Revenue been reported as one unit in the 2017 Annual Report.
Hargreaves Lansdowns revenue stream continues to be noncomplex, mainly consisting of high-volume, low-value transactions.
Review of the Report and Financial Statements The Committee is provided with a range of management The Board has asked the Committee to review the Report and information and details regarding reconciliations carried out on Financial Statements prior to publication.
This was undertaken prior cash, stock, client money and client assets which provide to and at the August 2017 meeting by satisfying ourselves that confidence in the revenue calculation.
Further confidence is there was a robust process of challenge, examining reports from provided by the external auditor from their approach of fully both management and the external auditor relating to the Report recalculating the Groups significant revenue streams.
Sampleand Financial Statements, and reviewing consistency with internal based testing is also conducted for those revenue streams not fully reports presented to the Board by management, the CFO, Head of recalculated.
The Committee has also received reports from Internal Internal Audit, Group Director of Risk and Compliance and Chief Risk Audit on the client charging process.
After challenge, debate and consideration of all relevant information, the Committee concluded that it could Capitalisation of intangible assets recommend to the Board that the 2017 Report and Financial The Group continues to invest in the Active Savings proposition.
Statements is fair, balanced and understandable and provides Once developed, the Group expects there to be a long-term benefit shareholders with the information necessary to assess the Groups and, as such, the Committee has reviewed and agreed the position and performance, business model and strategy in an appropriate accounting treatment for capitalising development understandable manner.
For the year to 30 June 2017, 3.7 million has been capitalised in respect of the Active Savings platform.
The Viability statement Committee also reviewed and agreed the 1.2 million impairment of The Committee has assessed the viability of the Group over the previously capitalised intangible assets relating to the peer-to-peer three year period to June 2020 on behalf of the Board.
It has also development following the Groups decision to cease this activity in reviewed the statements made in the Report and Financial June 2017.
Statements to ensure they comply with disclosure requirements.
Goodwill External audit The statement of financial position shows 1.3 million of goodwill The Committee has primary responsibility for the Groups relating to the acquisition of shares in HL Pensions Direct now relationship with the external auditor and for monitoring their called HL Advisory Services.
In accordance with IAS 36, an annual independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical and test of impairment of goodwill was undertaken and the Committee regulatory requirements.
was presented with the results which demonstrated that no impairment was required.
During the year, the Committee reviewed and approved an updated policy regarding the use of the external auditor for non-audit services.
The policy ensures that external auditor independence is maintained when considering whether it is appropriate for the 50 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information external auditor to be appointed by the Company to undertake work Internal Audit are currently implementing a set of standard culture outside of the scope of their usual and specific annual audit.
tests as part of each audit, that will specifically assess client focus, ethics and integrity, risk awareness and employee engagement.
The The proportion of non-audit to audit fees during the year was 54% assessments will be shown in the executive summary of each audit 2016: 25% which remains within the limits set by the EU Audit report and on an annual basis each assessment will be pooled and Reform Directive.
The Committee also considered performance used by Internal Audit to provide an independent view on the against the 2016 audit plan and approved modest overruns.
Both culture of the Group.
the Finance team and the external auditor have taken actions to avoid repetition in 2017.
The Institute of Internal Auditors recommends that an external review of the Internal Audit function is carried out no less than There were 241,000 of non-audit fees during 2017 2016: every five years.
To this end, in September 2016 the Audit 153,000.
160,000 of this amount related to the FCA-mandated Committee engaged Protiviti to conduct an assessment of the assurance reporting of subsidiaries regulated under the CASS rules Internal Audit function.
The review, confirmed that the Internal Audit 2016: 100,000, 33,000 related to the profit-verification work team are generally conforming to the standards laid out by the toenable payment of dividends in line with the established Institute of Internal Auditors.
This is the highest rating in the timetable 2016: 39,000, 25,000 related to the interim review standard, but also highlighted areas where minor enhancements 2016: 14,000 and 23,000 related to additional assurance could be made.
The Committee are pleased to report that these services.
Fees for the statutory audit for 2017 were 150,000 improvements have been made.
During the year, the Audit Committee has been involved in the PwC is the Groups auditor having been appointed following a selection of a new Head of Internal Audit with the appointment formal tender in 2013.
Alex Bertolotti was the lead audit partner being made in July 2017.
This was as a result of the former Head of throughout the financial year, having been appointed during the Internal Audit moving to a senior, controls-focused role within the prior year.
In line with the EU audit regulation requirements, Groups operations team.
The Committee welcome this additional Hargreaves Lansdown will be required to undertake a formal tender resource being applied to a vital area of the business.
process at least every ten years and hence this will be required by 2023.
In addition, the Senior Engagement Partner is required to be Internal controls replaced every five years in accordance with the regulation.
The The Committee received a report from the Risk Committee with its Group has complied with the provisions of the Competition Markets conclusions on the design and effectiveness of the Groups risk Authority Order 2014 throughout the year under review and as at management systems.
The Committee considered this alongside the date of this report.
areport from the Head of Internal Audit on the effectiveness of The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the external internal controls and demonstrating management responsiveness auditor by means of a questionnaire and an assessment of in addressing issues identified.
The Committee has also reviewed performance against relevant external guidance.
We continue to an assessment of the effectiveness of the Groups fraud believe PwC conducts its audit work to a high standard, remains riskcontrols.
independent and objective as demonstrated by consideration of The Committee receives reports at each meeting from Finance, the thequality, experience, continuity and training of the audit team.
CASS Oversight team and Internal Audit.
The Committee challenged The Committee has therefore recommended to the Board that the key executives on the content and veracity of those reports.
aresolution is put to shareholders recommending PwCs Overall, the Committee is satisfied that there are appropriate reappointment and their terms of engagement and remuneration arrangements, actions or mitigating controls in place.
This will continue to be assessed on anannual basis.
The year ended 30 June 2017 is the first year for which the Group will need to be audited under the FRCs new standard regarding The external auditor will be asked to attend the AGM and will be CASS assurance reports.
The FRC has introduced this new standard available to answer shareholders questions about the audit and to improve the quality and consistency of reporting and assurance their report.
around client assets across the financial services industry.
The Committee has also devoted time to reviewing the Groups Internal Audit rationalisation plans, intended to achieve increased efficiency The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities across the Group in relation to shared client money protection through its oversight of the adequacy of resourcing and plans of the controls and activities.
The Committee has discussed the substance Internal Audit department.
Historically, Internal Audit presented its and the impact of these changes and approved the way in which risk-based audit plans to the Audit Committee twice a year for they have been dealt with.
Following discussions with the Audit Committee, the Internal Audit team now present their plan to the Audit Committee for approval on a quarterly basis allowing greater flexibility and the ability to respond to perceived risks as they arise.
51 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance Audit Committee report Audit Committee effectiveness Following last years review the following steps have been taken to improve the effectiveness of the Committee further: Drafts of the front half of the Report and Financial Statements were provided to the Committee in more advanced form, to allow review, challenge and input.
This was in response to a wider move to bring forward the Groups reporting date: and The Committee has continued to oversee and provide challenge to the Groups control framework.
The Committee has chosen to review its effectiveness by means ofa self assessment questionnaire this year.
The results show that the Committee believes it is operating effectively and working asexpected.
Signed on behalf of the Audit Committee.
Shirley Garrood Chairman of the Audit Committee 14 August 2017 52 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information I love the freedom I have with my HL drawdown account.
Why I chose drawdown I can do almost everything online, which is a great convenience.
Being able to take a flexible income allows me to make the most of my tax allowances.
I tally up how much I receive from other from Hargreaves Lansdown income sources and decide how much to withdraw.
Mrs Hines from Gloucestershire Keeping control of my pension means I can take advantage of investment opportunities as they arise.
The plentiful research and expert comment available through the HL website is a great help with this, plus its really easy to monitor my investment performance online.
Im very pleased I chose Hargreaves Lansdown to provide my drawdown pension.
I would not hesitate to recommend them to anyone who wishes to move their investments to a professional, innovative and value for money service.
53 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017
