Governance Risk governance Internal controls and risk management Internal controls The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The internal control environment is designed to mitigate, not eliminate risk and is reviewed during the course of the year by Internal Audit.
The methods for reviewing the effectiveness of the control environment provide the Group with assurance against losses and material errors.
Figure 1: Three lines of defence model First Line of Defence Operational teams Second Line of Defence Compliance & Risk Hargreaves Lansdown manages riskataconsolidated level, ensuring allcategories of risk are covered.
The Third Line Groups risk framework and the internal of Defence Internal Audit controls framework are designed to manage risk within agreed appetite levels and aligned to delivering both theGroup strategy and fair outcomes The Internal Control Framework is the three lines of defence model.
Risk management is the responsibility of the operational teams which constitute the first line.
Oversight and guidance is provided by the second line through the Risk and Compliance functions as well as from HR, Financial Promotions, Compliance Monitoring, Client Protection, Financial Crime and Data Protection teams.
Independent oversight of the internal controls of the business is the responsibility of the third line, the Internal Audit function.
The Internal Audit function reports to the Audit Committee, to ensure its independence from the business and is subject to an external effectiveness review on a periodic basis.
Both the Internal Audit function and the Compliance Monitoring team perform a number of audits during the year covering the adequacy of controls and compliance with regulation.
Results from these assurance activities are reported to the Executive Committee and the Board and are shared for action with the relevant operational teams.
The progress against these actions is monitored and reported on by Compliance Monitoring and Internal Audit respectively.
44 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information The Board considers acceptance of appropriate risks to be an Figure 2: Board and Executive Committees integral part of business and unacceptable levels of risk are avoided Plc Board Executive or reduced and, in some cases, transferred to third parties.
Internal controls are used to identify and manage, rather than eliminate, the committee risk of failure to achieve our business objectives.
The Board carries out a review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management Audit Committee Executive Risk Committee and internal control environment and these reviews are supported on an ongoing basis by the work of the Audit and Risk Committees.
Risk Committee CASS Committee The Chief Risk Officer also prepares a report on the design and operating effectiveness of the system of risk management and internal controls and this is presented to the Risk Committee.
Remuneration Committee Treasury Committee The Board believes that the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing principal risks to achieving the Groups Nomination Committee strategic objectives works effectively.
The process was in place for the year ended 30 June 2017 and up to the date of approval of the Investment Committee Report and Financial Statements.
In this context the review, in the opinion of the Board, indicates that the system of internal controls did not indicate that the system was ineffective or unsatisfactory and the Board is not aware of any change to this status up to the Risk framework date of approval of this Report and Financial Statements.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups risk management, risk strategy and determining an appropriate risk Governance of the risk and control framework appetite, as well as setting the tolerance levels for which the Group Risk management is acknowledged to be a core responsibility of all must operate.
To assist the Board in discharging its responsibilities, colleagues at Hargreaves Lansdown.
The oversight of risk and the Group has a comprehensive approach to identifying, mitigating, controls management is provided by Board Committees and the managing and monitoring risk which is described below.
Group Risk and Compliance functions.
The Hargreaves Lansdown risk framework comprises a number Key governance committees relating specifically to the maintenance ofelements.
The Group has an ongoing process for identifying, and oversight of the risk and control environment are the Executive evaluating and managing the principal risks that it faces across the Committee, the Executive Risk Committee ERC, CASS Committee, risk universe based upon risk appetites and monitoring via the risk the Risk Committee, the Audit Committee and the Investment reporting process.
It is understood by the Chairs of all committees, both Board and Executive, that risk is a core theme which is evident in all Risk management process committee discussions.
The departmental risk register process is the foundation of the Groups risk framework.
Each functional business area completes arisk assessment in the form of a risk register and this is reviewed alongside the ongoing control performance assessment to ensure the adequate capture of ongoing and emerging risks to the business.
The departmental risk assessments are facilitated by the Groups risk team and involve all risk materials being reviewed with risk owners against key risk indicators KRIs and tolerances.
The risk owners also have to consider any relevant operational losses that have occurred, as well as any current system, people or process changes within the department.
Where controls are seen to be insufficient, management is required to define improvements to the control environment to ensure they pose an acceptable level of risk to the Group.
Identified risks that have a sufficiently high likelihood of potential impact on the Group are reflected in the Risk Dashboard to ensure they receive a suitably high level of Executive and Board attention.
The Board takes action where the risks are outside of tolerance levels or may become so.
45 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance Risk governance Risk universe Risk reporting process Hargreaves Lansdown has a comprehensive risk framework see Risk universe data is reported on a monthly basis at the ERC and at Figure 3, capturing both forward-looking risks executive risks and every Risk Committee by the risk team, ensuring that there are current business as usual risks departmental risk.
The executive appropriate levels of transparency, discussion and challenge of risks are made up of two risk sets: strategic and emerging.
The risk data reported is based on the departmental risks are the consolidated view of the risks to which management information provided by departments as well as the business area is currently exposed and would impact business crossdepartment functions such as second line Compliance and as usual and are managed in the course of normal business Risk functions.
Risk materials are reviewed by the Board and executive The first line of defence owns and is responsible for managing risk.
management teams on a rolling basis with support from the second There are also teams with areas of specific focus to support the line business functions.
maintenance of a strong control framework: CASS Oversight, The Group has an agreed and documented risk universe, which sets Operational Control and Revenue Recognition and IT Security.
In the out the high level risk categories to which the business is exposed second line, the Compliance and Risk function includes teams and to which all risks are linked.
Risks are captured both top-down focussed on anti-money laundering, fraud, compliance advice, data and bottom-up with clear ownership.
The risk universe ensures that protection, compliance monitoring and risk.
This means risks can be there is completeness in the capture of risks and that there is viewed from a departmental view, as well as by themes across the consistency of treatment across all risk categories.
Risk appetite Risk dashboard The Board has agreed risk appetite statements and risk tolerance A risk dashboard is produced monthly by the risk team.
The appetite statements cover all areas of the risk universe dashboard is central to the agendas at both the Board Risk and KRIs are agreed accordingly.
The Board monitors and manages Committee and the Executive Risk Committee and reports on the principal risks within the risk and control framework.
Through allthecore elements of risk management, including: risks, risk the use of the risk framework, the business balances risk and appetite and risk events.
Risk data is also reviewed in local reward within the capital adequacy levels agreed within the risk management meetings.
andcontrol governance framework by the Board under the ICAAPregime.
Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP The primary purpose of the ICAAP is to ensure that there is a clear, For each risk appetite statement, the Board has agreed inner and accurate and transparent link between the risk profile of the outer limits, which set out the levels for formal escalation.
A breach business and the capital held by the firm.
ICAAP compliance is of the inner level requires escalation to the ERC or the Treasury overseen by the Risk Committee, with day-to-day management of Committee if applicable.
A breach of the outer level requires compliance overseen by the second line risk team.
escalation to the Risk Committee.
A further layer of risk appetite management is in place through the operational risk limits and The key elements of the ICAAP are reviewed on a cyclical basis by KRIs agreed for the risks captured under the Operational Risk the ERC prior to discussion, challenge and approval by the Risk category.
These limits are managed by the risk team, with oversight Committee.
The ICAAP activity is integrated into the wider risk and approval from the ERC.
framework, ensuring consistency in risk reporting, and a clear link between the detailed departmental risk registers and the capital held by the business.
46 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Figure 3: Risk Framework and reporting schematic Hargreaves Lansdown Risk Strategy Risk Cycle Governance Strategic Capital Emerging ICAAP Operational Board Risk Committee Credit Executive Risks Risk Appetite Departmental Risks Market Strategic Risks Financial Risks Emerging Risks Operational Risks Risk Appetite Statements Risk Dashboard Liquidity Functional and Thematic Risk Assessments Executive Risk Committee Risk Dashboard Identify Assess Manage MonitorReport Team Management Risk Control KPIs Risk Attestations Risk Dashboard Registers Testing Events Group Risk Framework Components Risk Universe Risk Events & Risk Risk Maturity Risk Based Risk Risk Self Levels, , Escalations Appetite Model Decision Making Acceptance Assessment 47 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Hargreaves Lansdown risk universe
