Governance Ishbel Macpherson: Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Committee Membership: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Chairman.
Skills and Experience: Ishbel has a broad range of PLC Board experience in a variety of roles, including Chairman, Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee Chairman.
She has knowledge and understanding of City matters gained over 20 years experience as an investment banker, specialising in UK mid-market corporate finance.
Background: Ishbel joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director in February 2013.
Prior to this she was Head of UK Emerging Companies Corporate Finance at Dresdner Kleinwort Benson from 1999 to 2005, having previously worked at Hoare Govett and Barclays fide Zoete Wedd.
External Appointments: Ishbel is a Non-Executive Director at Galliford Try plc appointed February 2014, Senior Independent Director at Bonmarche Holdings plc appointed October 2013 and Non-Executive Director of Fidessa plc appointed May 2017.
Ishbel Macpherson Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Julian Heslop: Non-Executive Director Committee Membership: Audit Chairman, Nomination, Remuneration.
Skills and Experience: Julian has considerable financial experience as a result of the senior finance roles he has held in the pharmaceutical, food, property and brewing sectors over the last 30 years.
Background: Julian joined the Board in January 2013.
He served as Chief Financial Officer of GlaxoSmithKline PLC between 2005 and 2011, having previously been appointed its Senior Vice President, Operations Controller between 2001 and 2005 and as Financial Controller of Glaxo Wellcome PLC between 1998 and 2000.
Prior to this, Julian held senior finance roles at Grand Metropolitan PLC and Imperial Brewing and Leisure.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
External Appointments: Julian is a Non-Executive Director at Itaconix PLC appointed July 2012 and is their Audit Committee Chairman.
He is also a Director and Chairman of the Audit Julian Heslop Non-Executive Director Committee of the Royal Academy of Arts appointed October 2012.
Dr Lawson Macartney: Non-Executive Director Committee Membership: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration.
Skills and Experience: Lawson is a veterinarian and, in addition to spending several years in veterinary practice, has held a range of senior roles in pharmaceutical R&D, sales and marketing over the past 30 years.
Background: Lawson joined the Board in December 2016.
He served as Chief Executive Officer of Ambrx Inc. between 2013 and 2015, and prior to that led emerging business for Shire PLC.
Before joining Shire in 2011, he was with GlaxoSmithKline PLC GSK from 1999 to 2011 in positions of increasing seniority.
His final role at GSK was to lead the strategic marketing, outcomes and reimbursement, project management and portfolio teams.
In addition to his veterinary degree, Lawson has a PhD in viral pathobiology and is a pathologist, holding Fellowship of the Royal College of Pathologists as well as Membership of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons.
External Appointments: Lawson has been the Chairman of Viking Therapeutics Inc. since Dr Lawson Macartney Non-Executive Director 2015, as well as the Chairman of the Nomination and Corporate Governance and a member of the Audit Committee.
He is also a strategic adviser to several investment and private equity groups in both Europe and USA.
Stock Code: DPH 65 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Middle.
indd 65 04 09 2017 14:00:19 Letter from the Chairman on Governance Tony Rice Non-Executive Chairman Dear Shareholder Board Effectiveness As Chairman, I am responsible for the leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
During the 2017 On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present Dechras Corporate financial year we undertook an internal evaluation of the Board, its Governance Report for the year ended 30 June 2017. committees and individual Directors.
I am delighted to report that Managing Governance the overall outcome from the evaluation was that the Board and its The Board recognises that excellence in corporate governance is individual Directors are performing effectively, and that the Board is well essential in order to generate and protect value for our investors.
supported and presents an open forum for debate.
The findings from Our governance structure is designed to maintain effective control this evaluation can be found on page 72. and oversight of our business whilst at the same time promoting the Accountability entrepreneurial spirit that has underpinned Dechras success to date.
We are required by the Code to include an assessment of the viability In our Corporate Governance Report we aim to provide a clear of the Company.
This is covered on page 73. and meaningful explanation of how the Board leads the Group and discharges its governance duties, including how we apply the Relations with Shareholders provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Annual General Meeting will be held in Knutsford on 20 October 2017 and I would like to invite our shareholders to attend.
It will provide Leadership you with an opportunity to meet the Board and ask any questions that We have a strong and balanced Board with a range of complementary you may have in respect of the Groups activities.
skills to support the strategic and operational direction of the Group.
Finally, should you have any questions in relation to the report, please There were several changes to the composition of the Board during feel free to contact me or the Company Secretary.
As disclosed in last years Annual Report, Richard Cotton was appointed as Chief Financial Officer, replacing Anne-Francoise Tony Rice Nesmes who resigned in July 2016.
Richard joined the Company in Non-Executive Chairman January 2017.
We also welcomed Lawson Macartney to the Board 4 September 2017 as an independent Non-Executive Director.
Lawson brings a depth of knowledge and expertise of product development to the Board.
His biographical details can be found on page 65.
Michael Redmond retired at the Annual General Meeting in October 2016, following which I was appointed as Chairman of the Company and the Nomination Committee.
Michael played an instrumental part in the evolution and growth of Dechra and on behalf of the Board I would like to thank him for the huge contribution and guidance he has provided to the business throughout his tenure.
66 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
com slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Middle.
indd 66 04 09 2017 14:00:21 Governance Corporate Governance Compliance with the Code Board Membership and Responsibilities The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code establishes the Details of the Directors together with their biographical details can be principles of good governance for companies: the following report found on pages 64 and 65. describes how the Company has applied these principles to its Non-Executive Directors activities.
The Board remains committed to maintaining high standards It is considered that each of the Non-Executive Directors is independent of corporate governance.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company and is free of any business or other relationship which could materially has complied with the Code throughout the period.
The Code can be interfere with, or compromise, their ability to exercise independent found at www.
Each brings with them a breadth of experience which adds Leadership value to the decision making of the Board as well as the formulation The Role of the Board and progression of the Dechra strategy.
The Boards primary responsibility is to promote the long term success In line with the Code, at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, of the Company by the creation and delivery of sustainable shareholder is determined by the Company to be independent.
The Boards strategy has four drivers to promote growth: Senior Independent Director Pipeline Delivery: Ishbel Macpherson has held the position of Senior Independent Director Portfolio Focus: since October 2013.
She provides a sounding board for the Chairman and is available to shareholders if they have concerns that have failed Geographical Expansion: and to be resolved through the normal channels.
Director also carries out the annual evaluation of the performance of the Chairman and chairs the Nomination Committee when it is considering KPIs have been designed to measure progress and delivery of the the succession of that role.
strategic plan and our four growth drivers.
Further details are provided on pages 30 and 31.
Role Responsibilities Chairman Lead the Board in the determination of its strategy and achievement of its objectives.
Ensure the effectiveness of the Board in all aspects of its role.
Facilitate the effective contribution of the Non-Executive Directors, ensuring that all decisions are subject to constructive debate and supported by sound decision making processes.
Ensure shareholder views are brought to the attention of the Board.
Chief Executive Officer Day-to-day management of the Group operations and leading the Senior Executive Team SET.
Performance and results of the Group.
Execute strategy agreed by the Board.
Chief Financial Officer Responsible for financial planning and reporting for the Group.
Develop and execute the strategic plan in conjunction with the Chief Executive Officer.
Managing Director DVP EU Management of the segment which contributes the majority of Group revenue.
Nominated Director for health, safety and environmental matters.
Development and execution of strategy in the EU.
Non-Executive Directors Provide independent and constructive challenge.
Represent a broad range of commercial and industry experience and independent judgement.
Stock Code: DPH 67 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Middle.
indd 67 04 09 2017 14:00:21 Corporate Governance continued Board Responsibilities The Board is responsible for the long term success of the Company.
The main responsibilities and key actions carried out are set out below: Responsibilities Actions Strategy and performance Annual strategy review.
Strategic decisions are made after reports and recommendations are received from management on markets, potential growth areas including acquisitions, product development and risk analysis, including execution risks.
Risk management and Ongoing review of key risks and material internal control processes.
Review of stress tests on the internal controls Groups forecasts to support the viability statement.
Receipt of Audit Committee reports on risk management process and internal controls.
Oversight of the Groups Approval of the annual budget and capital expenditure projects.
Site visits to factories and offices in the operations UK and abroad.
Review progress through business unit reports and detailed financial result reports.
Governance Receive governance reviews from external advisers, the Company Secretary and internal audit.
Review of Board skills, performance, composition and succession planning.
Matters Reserved for the Board There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
The schedule of matters covers a number of areas, including the following: Strategy and Management Approval and monitoring of long term objectives and strategy.
Approval of the Groups operating and capital expenditure budgets.
Regular reviews of business performance.
Approval of acquisitions and business development proposals.
Financial Reporting Approval of the Annual and Half-Yearly Reports and dividend policy.
Approval of treasury policy, and tax strategy and policy.
Interaction with the external auditor.
Internal Controls Maintain a sound system of internal control and risk management.
Corporate Governance Board and Committee composition.
Approval of Group policies including Health and Safety, Sanctions and the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption.
Board Meetings The Board is scheduled to meet nine times per year.
During the year two additional meetings were held: one in relation to the acquisition of the trade and assets of Apex Laboratories Pty Ltd and one in relation to the appointment of Lawson Macartney as a Non-Executive Director.
Attendance at the Board and Committee meetings during the year to 30 June 2017 is set out in the table below: AnneMike Tony Ian Richard Tony Julian Lawson Ishbel Francoise Redmond Rice# Page Cotton Griffin Heslop Macartney Macpherson Nesmes Appointment Date 19 April 5 May 13 June 3 January 1 November 1 January 1 December 1 February 22 April 2001 2016 1997 2017 2012 2013 2016 2013 2013 Board 4 11 11 5 11 11 6 11 1 Met 11 times Audit Committee n a 1 n a n a n a 5 4 5 n a Met 5 times Nomination Committee 4 4 n a n a n a 5 1 5 n a Met 5 times Remuneration Committee 6 6 n a n a n a 8 2 8 n a Met 8 times Meetings attended Mike Redmond retired on 21 October 2016.
He attended all meetings prior to his retirement.
Richard Cotton has attended all meetings since his appointment.
Lawson Macartney has attended all meetings since his appointment.
Anne-Francoise Nesmes resigned on 31 July 2016.
She attended all meetings prior to her resignation.
# Tony Rice did not attend one ad hoc Nomination Committee meeting and two ad hoc Remuneration Committee meetings since his appointment.
68 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
indd 68 04 09 2017 14:00:21 Governance Where Directors cannot attend a meeting, the Board papers are still provided allowing the Director to raise any queries or discussion points through the Chairman.
Should Directors have concerns of any nature which cannot be resolved within the Board meeting, they have the right to ensure their view is recorded in the minutes.
During the year, in addition to its routine business, presentations by senior management, and strategic development, some of the other matters considered by the Board included: Acquisition of the trade and assets of Apex Laboratories Pty Ltd: Licensing Agreement with Animal Ethics Pty Ltd and Share Acquisition of Medical Ethics Pty Ltd: Debt Strategy and Narrative: Vaccines Strategy: Implementation of Oracle: Impact of Brexit: and Appointment of the Chief Financial Officer.
Board Committees The Board has formally delegated specific responsibilities to Committees, namely the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The full terms of reference for each of these Committees are available on the Companys website www.
com or on request from the Company Secretary.
Committee Report on Committee Role and Terms of Reference Pages Audit The main responsibilities are: 74 to 78 to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, and assist the Board in ensuring that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable: to review the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial control systems as described on page 77: to oversee the relationship with and review the effectiveness of the external auditor, monitor their independence and objectivity, and set the policy for non-audit work: and to review and approve the significant accounting policies.
Remuneration The main responsibilities are: 81 to 101 to determine the remuneration, bonuses, long term incentive arrangements, contract terms and other benefits in respect of the Executive Directors and the Chairman: to oversee any major changes in employee benefit structures: and to approve the design of any employee share schemes.
Nomination The main responsibilities are: 79 and 80 to oversee the plans for management succession: to recommend appointments to the Board: to evaluate the effectiveness of the Non-Executive Directors: and to consider the structure, size and composition of the Board.
The Board also appoints Committees on an ad hoc basis to approve specific projects or delegated Board matters as deemed necessary.
Director Insurance and Indemnities The Company maintains an appropriate level of Directors and Officers insurance in respect of legal action against Directors as permitted under the Companys Articles of Association and the Companies Act 2006.
The Company also indemnifies the Directors under an indemnity deed with each Director in respect of legal action to the extent allowed under the Companys Articles of Association and the Companies Act 2006.
As at the date of this report, qualifying third party indemnity provisions are in force.
A copy of the indemnity provisions will be available for inspection at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Stock Code: DPH 69 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Middle.
indd 69 04 09 2017 14:00:21 Corporate Governance continued Board Composition and Gender Diversity Effectiveness The Board seeks to ensure that the Board and the Committees have The Board and its Committees are annually assessed to help ensure an appropriate composition to manage their duties effectively and to their effectiveness is maintained and that they remain fit for purpose.
The Board supports diversity in its broadest The Chairman manages the Board and oversees the operation of its sense and considers it an essential driver of Board effectiveness.
The Committees with the aim of ensuring that they operate effectively by Board recognises it is important that its composition is sufficiently utilising the diverse range of skills and experience of the various Board diverse and reflects a wide range of knowledge, skills and experience.
Board Balance and Independence Board Composition The Board understands the importance of balance and refreshment in terms of its composition and keeps these matters under review.
Non-Executive Chairman 14% There have been the following changes at Board level over the past Non-Executive Directors 43% 12 months: Executive Directors 43% Anne-Francoise Nesmes Executive Director resigned on 31 July 2016: Michael Redmond Non-Executive Chairman retired at the 2016 Annual General Meeting: Tony Rice Non-Executive Director was appointed as Chairman after the 2016 Annual General Meeting: Lawson Macartney Non-Executive Director joined the Board on 1 December 2016: and The Board does not have a formal diversity policy and is generally Richard Cotton Executive Director joined the Board on 3 January opposed to the idea of stated gender quotas.
The Board believes that 2017. appointments should be made solely on merit, the key criterion being As disclosed in the 2016 Annual Report, the Nomination Committee whether or not the appointee can add to or complement the existing retained an independent recruitment consultancy, Odgers Berndtson, range of skills and experience on the Board.
The Board has 14% to assist in the appointment of Lawson Macartney.
Further detail relating female representation.
Female representation below Board level was to the recruitment process and appointment can be found in the 27% of the SET and 53% of the overall workforce.
Nomination Committee Report on page 79.
Gender Diversity The Nomination Committee Report on pages 79 and 80 provides further information on succession planning measures taken by the Company 6 together with how we are developing the talent pool internally.
Female 6 Male 5 Length of Tenure of Chairman and Non-Executive Directors 4 4 3 3 3 3 2 1 1 1 2 2 2 0 Entire Executive Non-Executive Board Directors Directors 1 0 0 to 3 3 to 6 6 to 9 9 years years years years 70 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
indd 70 04 09 2017 14:00:22 Governance Regular briefings are provided to the Directors, which cover a number Senior Executive Team Overall Workforce of legal and regulatory changes and developments relevant to each as at 30 June 2017 as at 30 June 2017 Directors areas of responsibility.
In addition, the Company Secretary informs the Directors of any external training courses which may be of relevance.
Each Director is entitled, on request, to receive information to enable him or her to make informed judgements in order to discharge their duties adequately.
In addition, all Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and senior managers, and may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in connection with their duties.
Board Evaluation and Effectiveness The effectiveness of the Board is important to the success of the Group and the Board undertakes an annual evaluation of its performance and that of its Committees, focusing on the following areas: Female 27% Female 53% i Board composition: ii strategy review and delivery process: iii Male 33% Male 47% the format of Board meetings and the decision process: iv training and development: v the performance of the Board and the individual Directors: vi Corporate Governance: vii leadership and culture: and Conflicts of Interest and External Board Appointments viii risk assessment.
Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, all Directors have a duty to The 2016 Internal Board Evaluation avoid a situation in which they have, or could have, a direct or indirect The findings of the internal evaluation were discussed at the July conflict of interest with the Company.
The Articles of Association of the 2016 Board meeting.
Overall, the review indicated that the Board Company enable the Directors to consider and, if appropriate, authorise operated effectively but noted some areas for improvement.
The any actual or potential conflict of interest which could arise.
There are actions which were taken are shown in the table below: safeguards which will apply when Directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
Firstly, only independent Directors i. e. Action Progress those who have no interest in the matter being considered will be Acquisition integration An update on the integration of able to take the relevant decision: secondly, in taking the decision the Apex was provided and discussed in Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most December 2016 likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors will also be Bi-annual strategy review The strategy review occurred in May able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they 2017: this was deferred due to the deem this to be appropriate.
During the financial year under review no appointment of Chief Financial Officer actual or potential conflicts have arisen.
The interim strategy review will be held prior to the end of the Ian Page is the Non-Executive Chairman of Sanford DeLand Asset 2017 calendar year Management Limited Sanford.
The Board fully considered, at the time Succession planning Succession planning is discussed at of his appointment, whether this would materially impact on his current least annually with the Nomination time commitment as Chief Executive Officer and whether it could give Committee.
Emergency succession rise to any conflict.
As he is not involved in any investment decision planning has also been discussed made by Sanford it was not considered that any conflict would arise, during this financial year nor that there would be any material impact on his time commitment.
Induction and Training In order to ensure that the Board maintains its knowledge and familiarity with the Groups operations, at least one Board meeting per year is held at one of the Groups operational sites.
This year, Board meetings were held at Dechra Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing in Croatia, and at Dechra Veterinary Products EU in Den Bosch, the Netherlands.
These meetings provided the Board with an informal opportunity to meet with senior management based at these sites.
Any newly appointed Directors are provided with comprehensive documentation in relation to the remit and obligations of the role, current areas under consideration for the Board and the latest equity research reports.
New Directors visit the various business units in order to allow them to meet with the management teams and to be shown around the operations.
Lawson Macartney has visited the Companys facilities and had meetings with the management teams at Kansas, USA, which included the Business Development and Regulatory Affairs Director and the Product Development Director.
In addition, meetings were arranged with the Group HR Director, Company Secretary, and Head of Internal Audit and Risk Assurance.
Richard Cotton completed a rigorous induction of the Company and has visited sites in Australia, Croatia, Denmark, the Netherlands, US and the UK.
Stock Code: DPH 71 slugline Dechra Annual Report 2017 - Middle.
indd 71 04 09 2017 14:00:22 Corporate Governance continued The 2017 Internal Board Evaluation Accountability The last external evaluation was done in 2014.
A discussion took Financial Reporting place at the April 2017 Board meeting as to whether or not an The Board seeks to present a fair, balanced and understandable external evaluation should be commenced during the 2017 financial assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
year given the recent changes in the Board as detailed above.
It was The responsibilities of the Directors and the external auditor in connection agreed that given these changes an internal evaluation would again with the Financial Statements are explained in the Statement of Directors be carried out.
Responsibilities and the Independent Auditors Report on pages 105 and The internal evaluation took the format of a questionnaire which was 108 to 114 respectively.
distributed to all of the Board, with the survey results presented on Preservation of Value an anonymous basis.
Following an initial review of the responses, The basis on which the Group generates and preserves value over the the Chairman discussed with the Executive and Non-Executive longer term and the strategy for delivering the objectives of the Group Directors at the July 2017 Board meeting the general themes raised are to be found in the Strategic Report.
by the survey and any other survey-related points they wished to discuss.
In addition the Senior Independent Director discussed the Going Concern performance of the Chairman with the Directors and the Chairman.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Overall, the review once again indicated that the Board operates foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going effectively but noted the following focus areas: concern basis of accounting in preparing these annual financial Executive Director succession planning: statements.
Non-Executive Director Induction: and In reaching this conclusion the Directors have given due regard to the following: Concise Board papers.
the Groups business activities together with factors likely to impact The Board has agreed that an external evaluation will be undertaken the future growth and operating performance: during the 2018 financial year.
The results of the 2018 evaluation will be reported in next years Annual Report.
the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, available debt facilities and compliance with the financial covenants associated Appointment and Re-election of Directors with the Groups borrowings, which are described in the financial On appointment, Directors are required to seek election at their first statements: and Annual General Meeting following appointment.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, Lawson Macartney and Richard Cotton, who the cash generated from operations, available cash resources were appointed to the Board on 1 December 2016 and 3 January and committed bank facilities and their maturities, which taken 2017 respectively, will offer themselves for election.
All of the remaining together provide confidence that the Group will be able to meet its Directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election.
Each of the obligations as they fall due.
Directors has been subject to a formal evaluation by the Nomination As at 30 June 2017 the Group had cash balances of 61.2 million and Committee and it is considered that each Director continues to perform net borrowings of 120.0 million 2016: cash balances of 39.1 million effectively and demonstrate commitment, not only in respect of their roles and net borrowings of 116.6 million.
Further information on available and responsibilities, but also in relation to the Group and its shareholders.
resources and committed bank facilities is provided in notes 18 and 21 The Board therefore recommends that shareholders vote in favour of to the financial statements.
their respective re-elections and the election of Lawson Macartney and Richard Cotton.
In order to ensure that the ongoing funding requirements of the Group are aligned to its strategic objectives, the Group has completed a refinancing and entered into a facilities agreement in July 2017 the Facility Agreement with a group of banks comprising Bank of Ireland UK plc, BNP Paribas, Fifth Third Bank, HSBC Bank plc, Lloyds Bank plc, Raiffeisen Bank International AG and Santander UK plc the Banks under which a facility of 360.0 million was made available.
The Facility Agreement includes a committed revolving credit facility of 235.0 million, together with an Accordion facility of 125.0 million.
The facility is committed for five years until July 2022 with two optional one year extensions.
72 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017 www.
