Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Governance Audit Committee report The Audit Committee has a vital role to play in ensuring the integrity of our financial statements, the effectiveness of our risk management processes and internal controls, and in evaluating the performance of the external audit process.
During 2017 we also monitored the various changes to the Code, agreed the content of the viability statement and monitored the transition activities of the new external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP.
Carol Chesney Non-executive director Chair of the Audit Committee Audit Committee role and composition The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the non-executive directors of the Company.
The Audit Committees terms of reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Code.
The terms of reference are considered annually by the Audit Committee and any changes are recommended to the Board for approval.
The Audit Committee reviews the Groups accounting policies and procedures, its annual and interim financial statements before submission to the Board and its compliance with statutory requirements.
The committee monitors the integrity of the Groups financial statements and announcements relating to financial performance and reviews the significant reporting judgements contained therein.
It also reviews the scope, remit and effectiveness of the internal control systems and internal audit function.
The Audit Committee comprises three non-executive directors, Carol Chesney Chair, Sir David Grant and John Jeans.
The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the committee has recent and relevant financial experience, being Carol Chesney.
The members of the Audit Committee have competence in the sectors in which the Company operates as set out below.
The terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
Sector experience Member Financial experience Company and position Sector Chartered accountant Carol Company Secretary at Halma plc Technology Chesney Worked at Arthur Andersen for 7 years Previously Group Financial Controller at Halma plc Sir David Senior Independent Director of IQE plc Technology Grant Director of Dstl Technology Chair of NPL Metrology Previously worked for Dowty Group Manufacturing Previously Group Technical Director of GEC plc Engineering Previously Vice-President of the Royal Academy of Engineering Engineering Chair of Imanova Imaging services John Jeans Chair of UK Biocentre Healthcare Chair of Edinburgh Molecular Imaging Biotechnology Non-executive director of ProMetic SMT Biopharmaceuticals Member of the Ministerial Committee on Medical Technologies Biotechnology Advisor to the Prime Minister at the Office of Life Sciences Medical technology Previously worked for Smith & Nephew Medical equipment Previously President of Dravon Medical Smith & Nephew Medical equipment Previously Senior Vice President of Zimmer Bristol-Myers Squibb Healthcare Previously President at Ortho Clinical Diagnostics International Johnson & Johnson Medical diagnostics Previously Chairman at GE Healthcare Ltd Healthcare Governance The committee meets at least three times a year with the Group Finance Director, the Head of Group Finance, the Group Financial Controller, the Group Audit Manager, the Company Secretary and the external auditor in attendance.
After each meeting, the committee holds discussions with the external auditor without the executives present.
These executives work closely with the chair of the committee to ensure that transparency is maintained in both meeting papers and communications between meetings with the other committee members, providing additional practical industry experience to aid discussions in and around meetings.
79 Governance Audit Committee report continued Key issues and activities In addition to reviewing the financial reporting of the Company, the committee also spends a significant amount of time reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control processes and its internal and external audit activities.
The principal activities in the year were: Financial statements External auditor and and reports Risk management Internal audit non-audit work reviewed the effectiveness of the reviewed the output from the evaluated the scope of monitored the transition Groups risk management and Groups risk review process work to be undertaken activities of the new external internal controls and disclosures to identify, evaluate and by the internal audit auditor, Ernst & Young LLP: made in the 2017 Annual report: mitigate risks and considered function: reviewed, considered and whether changes in risk reviewed the 2017 Annual report, reviewed progress agreed the scope and profile were complete and the 2017 Interim report and all other on recommendations methodology of the 2017 adequately addressed: trading updates issued during the brought forward audit work to be undertaken year.
The committee received a reviewed and agreed the and considered by the external auditor: report from the external auditor on content of the viability recommendations evaluated the independence the audit of the 2017 Annual report: statement and the process arising during the year: and objectivity of the undertaken to approve both and external auditor: reviewed critical accounting it and the going concern considered the resource judgements and estimation agreed the terms of statement see pages 75 levels available to the uncertainties in the accounts, being engagement and the fees to76 : internal audit function the carrying value of goodwill, to be paid to the external received updates on and approved the capitalisation of internally generated auditor for the audit of the compliance with the Groups appointment of the new development costs, the carrying 2017 financial statements: anti-bribery and corruption dedicated Group Audit value of inventory, amortisation and reviewed the level and policy: and Manager.
impairment of intangible assets, nature of non-audit services the classification of discontinued reviewed the Companys provided by the external activities and the assumptions used new global whistle-blowing auditor: to determine the defined benefit and serious misconduct undertook an effectiveness pension scheme liabilities: policy which was approved review of the external audit reviewed the accounting and by the Board during the year.
process: and disclosures in relation to the reviewed the non-audit Groups defined benefit pension services policy.
schemes: reviewed the effective tax rate in the accounts and provision for uncertain tax positions: reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups hedging policy and its application: reviewed the approach the external auditor took in respect of management override of controls: and evaluated the controls in place to ensure the Companys revenue recognition policy has been consistently applied.
80 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Significant issues in relation to Approach to auditor Independence of the financial statements appointment and audit quality external auditor As part of the reporting and review The committee has primary In order to safeguard the independence process, the committee has regular responsibility for making the and objectivity of the external auditor, discussions with management recommendation on the appointment, the committee reviews the nature and the external auditor relating to reappointment and removal of the and extent of the non-audit services significant issues.
For the current external auditor, which the Board supplied, receiving reports on the year the committee concluded that puts to shareholders for approval at balance of audit to non-audit fees.
the carrying value of goodwill and the AGM.
The non-audit services policy reflects the treatment of forward exchange As reported last year, a tender process the extended list of prohibited contracts for hedging purposes were for the appointment of the external services as set out in the latest the two significant issues relating to the auditor was undertaken in 2016.
There are also financial statements Following a recommendation from the specified services which require the The committee first focused on committee to the Board, Ernst & Young prior approval of the Group Finance the impairment testing by the LLP were formally appointed at the Director and chair of the Audit Company of the carrying value of AGM in October 2016.
The committee Committee before the auditor may be goodwill.
By applying knowledge has monitored the transition activities appointed to provide such services.
and making enquiries of the relevant and audit approach undertaken by In addition, thereare specified levels of cash-generating units, reviewing Ernst & Young LLP by way of updates authorisation to be obtained before the the forecasts and the sensitivity provided at Audit Committee meetings auditor may be permitted to tender for analysis, the committee agreed with and further routine discussions non-audit services.
the conclusion reached that the only between the committee chair, company For 2017, the external auditor has impairment provisions required were for finance representatives and the senior provided 20,000 of non-audit work the goodwill arising on consolidation representatives of Ernst & Young LLP.
including a piece of work linked of Renishaw Diagnostics Limited and When the committee assesses the to the Audit Committees review Measurement Devices Limited relating effectiveness of the external audit of banking payments referred to to the spatial measurement business, process and the quality of the audit below, and a piece of assurance both of which have been classified work throughout the year it considers: work in India required under that as discontinued operations and the countrys legislation.
goodwill provided for in full.
any issues arising from the prior year audit conducted by KPMG LLP : An analysis of fees paid to Ernst & The committee then examined the Young LLP is included in note 5 to the the proposed audit plan including Groups technical compliance with group financial statements.
the identification of risks specific IAS 39 given the hedging instruments to the Group, audit scope and utilised.
A thorough assessment of the Risk management and materiality thresholds: opening and closing positions indicated internal controls that certain of the Groups open the delivery of the audit in line with The committee monitors the contracts did not qualify for hedge the plan: effectiveness of the Groups internal accounting.
The committee satisfied the communication of matters arising controls and risk management itself that the fair values of the hedging during the audit to the committee: processes which allows it to maintain instruments were not misstated in meetings with the external auditor a good understanding of the business terms of the opening and closing without management being present: performance and key areas of Consolidated balance sheets, however judgement and decision making within the independence and objectivity of a restatement of the prior year profit, the Group.
the auditor: and with a corresponding increase to other comprehensive income was required to feedback from executive management.
During the year a new Group Audit ensure compliance with IAS 39.
Manager was appointed, with The contract for external audit will the incumbent transferring to the be put out to tender at least every As the Group originally intended that role of Head of Group Finance.
these contracts be qualifying hedging The reorganisation allows for the instruments, the committee considered internal audit function to be fully the adoption of an alternative independent of the day to day performance measure for profit which operations of the finance function.
excludes the profit loss arising on this Internal audit is planning to expand its restatement and the unwinding of the use of data analytical tools to enhance open contracts in this and future years.
The Committee As such, the adjusted profit before tax determined the effectiveness of the disclosure has been adopted to provide internal audit function as detailed in the stakeholders with a better measure of key issues and activities section above.
The committee discussed these issues with the external auditor and was satisfied that its conclusions were consistent with those of the external auditor.
81 Governance Audit Committee report continued Following a period of strong growth, at the committees first meeting in Fair, balanced and the committee commissioned a review July 2017, the committee reviewed understandable report of the Group Internal Control manual to an initial draft of the Annual report, and accounts ensure that Renishaws policies exceed during which it probed and tested One of the key governance best practice for an organisation of certain disclosures: requirements is for the Annual report to Renishaws size and structure: this at the committees second meeting be fair, balanced and understandable review will also reflect the management in July 2017, the committee and that it provides the shareholders comments that the new external challenged the fair, balanced and with sufficient information to assess auditors raise.
The review will be understandable assessment and the Companys performance, business completed during 2017 18. examined whether appropriate model and strategy.
Ensuring that this balance and equal prominence Like many public and private sector standard is met requires continuous had been given to favourable and organisations, the Company is a assessment of the financial reporting unfavourable events: and potential target for external bankingissues affecting the Group on a yearfollowing review and comment by related frauds, similar to those widely round basis in addition to a number both the committee and the Board, reported in the press.
Consequently, of focused exercises that take place the Annual report was subject to final the committee reviewed the controls during the accounts production approval by the Board.
applied to electronic and manual process within a strict timeframe.
payments during the year to ensure The committee was satisfied with the The processes adopted in relation they were sufficiently robust.
process undertaken in preparing the to the Annual report included The committee is satisfied that Annual report.
Following discussions at the following: increased awareness of such frauds, its July 2017 meetings, the committee internal audits focus on this area and specific ownership and responsibility advised the Board that the Annual the controls around bank payments for the individual sections was report, taken as a whole, is fair, are adequate to detect such a fraud allocated and documented: balanced and understandable and although the Company recognises provides the information necessary during the compilation period, the increasing sophistication of such for shareholders to assess the regular meetings were held with attempts and is directing additional performance, strategy and business members of Group Finance, Group resources to support its efforts in the model of the Company.
Secretariat, CSR and Corporate wider cyber arena.
Communications, all primary authors The directors statement on a fair, In the previous year, the committee of the Annual report.
These meetings balanced and understandable Annual reviewed the policy by which ensured that there was appropriate report is set out on page 75. employees of the Company may, in linkage between the various sections confidence, raise matters of concern, of the report and that reporting including possible improprieties was balanced: in financial reporting or other an extensive review was undertaken matters.
In line with the committees to ensure factual accuracy: Carol Chesney recommendation, the Board enhanced Chair of the Audit Committee a qualitative review of the entire the policy in February 2017 by Annual report was undertaken to 27th July 2017 implementing an external reporting line.
ensure that it promotes consistency The committee also monitors the and balance between the effectiveness of the Companys component elements: procedures to avoid any bribery related to the activities of the Group.
Details of risk management and internal controls are set out on pages 50 to 51 and 76.
82 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017
