Governance Directors corporate governance report Board Executive Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee International Sales and Marketing Board, risk committee, divisions and subsidiary undertakings and marketing committee known as The Board meets as often as is A.
Leadership the International Sales and Marketing necessary to discharge its duties The role of the Board Board which meets quarterly to effectively.
In the financial year ended The Board comprises four executive determine the Groups sales and 30th June 2017, the Board met for and four independent non-executive marketing policies and strategies nine scheduled meetings and the directors in addition to the executive and review its sales and marketing directors attendance record at board Chairman.
The directors holding office activities.
This committee is chaired and committee meetings is set out at the date of this report and short by the Deputy Chairman and includes at the end of this report.
In addition, biographical details are given on pages the Group Finance Director, the the non-executive directors met a 68 to 69 Ben Taylor retired on 31st Group Sales and Marketing Director, number of times without executive July 2016.
Full biographical details the directors of the five largest sales directors present.
regions and the Head of Global A high-level summary of subject areas Will Lee was appointed by the Board Additive Manufacturing.
discussed during the year is set out on as a director with effect from 1st page 73.
A framework of delegated authorities August 2016, and along with all other is in place that maps out the structure directors, will be retiring and putting The Board has three formally constituted of delegation below the Board and himself up for election at the AGM.
committees, the Audit Committee, includes the matters reserved to The Company maintains liability the Remuneration Committee and the the Executive Board and the level of insurance for its directors and officers, Nomination Committee.
authorities given to management below as disclosed in the Other statutory and the Executive Board.
There is an executive management regulatory disclosures.
committee known as the Executive An executive risk committee meets There is a formal schedule of matters Board that is responsible for the regularly to review risks which may specifically reserved for its decision.
executive management of the Groups impact on the Groups business and These include the approval of annual businesses.
It is chaired by the to implement mitigation actions.
and half-year results and trading Chairman and includes the executive The framework for managing risk is set statements, company and business directors and senior managers as out on pages 50 to 51. acquisitions and disposals, major noted on page 70.
The Executive capital expenditure, borrowings, The Board has adopted a conflict Board usually meets for two days on material agreements, director and of interests policy, putting in place a monthly basis and considers the company secretary appointments and procedures for the disclosure performance and strategic direction removals, patent-related disputes and and review of any conflicts and of the metrology and healthcare other material litigation, forecasts and potential conflicts, and authorisation businesses and other matters of major product development projects.
by the Board if felt appropriate.
general importance to the Group.
Authorisations granted and the terms In addition, there is an executive sales of such are reviewed on an annual basis.
New disclosures are made where applicable.
72 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Scheduled Board and committee High-level summary of subjects meetings inthe period discussed by the Board during the year: July 2016 August 2016 Strategy Business strategy and organisation Reviewing potential acquisitions disposals Closure of Renishaw Diagnostics Limited and sale of assets Cessation of spatial measurement business September 2016 October 2016 and sale of assets Review of investment in Hieta Technologies Limited Products and technology Key business relationships Risk November 2016 December 2016 Groups risk analysis Patent litigation Tax risk register and updates Group quality Cyber security Governance Legal updates January 2017 February 2017 Market Abuse Regulation Board evaluation Committee terms of reference Controlling shareholder agreement Export control Appointment of new auditor March 2017 April 2017 Appointment of new director Whistleblowing policy Review of internal controls Government proposals on corporate governance changes Finance May 2017 June 2017 Forecasts and targets Oversight of the preparation and management of the financial statements Dividend policy Trading statements Stakeholder engagement AGM and other shareholder feedback Investor day HR Key Succession planning executive Audit Committee 3 management structure Remuneration Committee 7 Pensions Remuneration policy Nomination Committee 3 Salary reviews Board 9 Bonus Health and safety system and updates Changes to maternity benefits 73 R A A B R B R B N R B B A B N B N R B R B R A R N B Governance Division of responsibilities B.
Effectiveness theChairman Composition of the Board Directors corporate The role of Chairman and Chief All the non-executive directors Executive is a combined role and thus governance report are considered by the Board contrary to the recommendations to be independent in character continued of the Governance Code.
Sir David and judgement and there are no McMurtry has held this position since relationships or circumstances that the Company listed in 1983 and he are likely to affect a non-executive and John Deer hold the majority of the directors judgement.
voting interests in the Company.
Sir David Grant is currently the Senior There has been a voting agreement Independent Director of IQE plc having in place between Sir David and John been appointed in September 2012, Deer since 1983, further details of chair of STEMNET appointed in which are set out in the Other statutory December 2011 which at the date of and regulatory disclosures on page 94. this report is in the process of merging The Board considers that there is still a with STEM Learning, chair of the clear division of responsibilities at board National Physical Laboratory appointed level to ensure an appropriate balance in May 2015 and on the board of of power and authority so that there is the Defence Science and Technology no one person with unfettered powers Laboratory Dstl appointed in June of decision.
The Company has dealings Board meet on a sufficiently regular with these organisations from time to basis to make decisions of significance time, such as grant-funded research to the metrology and healthcare projects, or research, collaboration business segments and review or supply agreements.
It is intended that confirms that Sir David Grant has taken this combined role will continue for so no part in decisions relating to any of long as Sir David McMurtry remains the dealings between the Company on the Board and he and John Deer and these organisations.
hold a majority of the voting interests in The dealings referred to above are not the Company.
material i. e. in aggregate they are less The Chairman has no other significant than 0.5% of the Companys revenue commitments as regards employment for the financial year ended 30th or directorships of other companies.
Non-executive directors John Jeans was chair of the Council Sir David Grant is the Senior of Cardiff University from December Independent Director and is available 2011 until December 2015, is chair to discuss material concerns with of Innovate UKs Stratified Medicine shareholders should the normal Steering Group having been appointed channels of the Chairman and Chief in February 2014 and was chair of Executive or the Group Finance MRC Technology from December Director fail to resolve such concerns.
John was The non-executive directors meet also from March 2016 to May 2017, without the executive directors interim Chair of the Scottish Medical present to discuss performance and Device Hub and, since May 2017, other matters.
is the Chair of the Scottish Digital Health & Care Institute at Strathclyde University.
The Company has dealings with these organisations from time to time, such as grant-funded research projects, or research, collaboration or supply agreements.
The Company confirms that John Jeans has taken no part in decisions relating to any of the dealings between the Company and these organisations.
The dealings referred to above are not material i. e. in aggregate they are less than 0.5% of the Companys revenue for the financial year ended 30th June 2017.
74 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The Governance Code recommends Information and support Going concern that at least half the Board, excluding The Board receives appropriate The Groups strategy for delivering the Chairman, should comprise documentation, management its objectives and business model, independent non-executive directors.
accounts, forecasts and commentaries together with the factors likely to The Board has complied with this thereon in advance of each board affect its future development and requirement during the period.
meeting to enable its members to performance are set out in the review the financial performance of Strategic report, where details of Appointments to the Board the Group, current trading and key the financial and liquidity positions A description of the structure and business initiatives.
Regular financial are also given.
In addition, note 20 activities of the Nomination Committee updates are also provided between to the financial statements includes are set out in the Nomination meetings.
The Company Secretary the Groups objectives and policies Committee report on page 78. advises the Board on all governance for managing its capital, details of its Commitment matters.
All directors have access financial instruments and hedging to the Company Secretary and to activities and its exposures to credit The terms of appointment of the nonindependent professional advice at the risk and liquidity risk.
executive directors, which includes Companys expense where necessary the expected time commitment and The Group has considerable financial to discharge their responsibilities requirement to discuss any changes resources at its disposal and the as directors.
The appointment and to other significant commitments with directors have considered the removal of the Company Secretary is a the Chairman and Chief Executive in current financial projections.
As a matter reserved for the Board.
advance, are available for inspection at consequence, the directors believe that the AGM and the registered office upon Evaluation the Group is well placed to manage its written request.
The Board and its committees None of the executive directors hold a undertake an annual evaluation of After making enquiries, the directors directorship in a FTSE 100 company.
The format of the have a reasonable expectation that evaluation varies each year.
both the Company and the Group Development have adequate resources to continue For 2016, Equity Communications Directors are offered the opportunity in operation for a period of at least Limited which assisted with the last to attend formal training courses 12 months from the date of approval of externally facilitated evaluation in to update their knowledge of their the financial statements.
Accordingly, 2013 undertook interviews with the duties as directors.
Guidance notes, they continue to adopt the going directors, discussing a list of subjects papers and presentations on changes concern basis in preparing the Annual agreed by the Board.
The feedback to law and regulations are provided report and accounts.
report was discussed early in this as appropriate.
During the year, financial year, focussing on effective specific training was given to the Viability statement board presentations, succession Board by Herbert Smith Freehills The Board undertakes an annual planning and people development.
on the directors and controlling review of the corporate strategy, Equity Communications Limited has no shareholders obligations in case of which includes medium term financial other connection with the Company.
Non-executive forecasts and an assessment of For 2017, an internal evaluation directors are invited to attend the major risks facing the business.
process was undertaken and the internal conferences, which provide In addition, current financial year results will be discussed early in the information to the Group on new forecasts are reviewed regularly by 2018 financial year.
product development and marketing the Board, underpinned by regular initiatives, as well as our investor days.
Re-election briefings from its business sectors and Business presentations are given at subsidiaries on progress.
The corporate In accordance with the Governance board meetings to provide updates on, strategy provides the foundations for Code all the directors will retire from and opportunities to discuss, products monitoring of performance, budgets, the Board at the next AGM and will and business strategies.
risk and strategic actions by the Board.
offer themselves up for re-election This year, non-executive directors or election as the case may be at The Board confirms that its met with regional management at the AGM.
assessment during the year of the Renishaw, Inc. in the USA.
This has principal risks facing the Group, C. Accountability facilitated a deeper understanding including those that would threaten its of the Group, leadership team and Financial and business reporting business model, future performance, Renishaws products and markets.
The respective responsibilities of the solvency and or liquidity, and which are directors and auditor in connection with set out in the Groups Principal risks An induction pack is provided to new the financial statements are explained and uncertainties on pages 52 to 53, appointees to the Board, and the in Directors responsibilities on page 97 was robust.
In making the assessment, induction programme together with the and the Independent auditors report severe but plausible scenarios have continuing development programme on pages 98 to 105. been considered that estimate the includes site visits and briefings by potential impact of the principal risks senior managers, attendance at internal Fair, balanced and on the financial forecasts over the senior management conferences and understandable assessment period.
external trade shows, as well as foreign The directors consider that the Annual subsidiary visits, as applicable.
report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
75 Governance In accordance with provision C. 2.2 The Group internal audit function of the Governance Code, whilst the provides independent and objective Directors corporate Board has no reason to believe the assurance that the control procedures Group will not be viable over a longer are appropriate and effectively governance report period, the period over which the applied.
The Group Audit Manager Board considers it possible to form attends Audit Committee meetings continued a reasonable expectation as to the to present annual internal audit plans Groups longer-term viability, based and the results of such internal audits.
on the risk and sensitivity analysis Actions are monitored by the Audit undertaken, is the three-year period Committee on an ongoing basis.
to 30th June 2020, taking account of There is an established process for the Groups current position, financial thereview of business risks throughout forecasts, future prospects and the the Group including an executive risk potential impact of the Principal risks committee as explained on pages and uncertainties documented in the 50to 51.
The Board believes that a three-year viability assessment The Board ensures that there are period is appropriate as the timeframe effective internal controls over the is covered by the Groups corporate financial reporting and consolidation strategy, takes account of the Groups processes.
Monthly accounts and short order book and, together with forecasts are presented to the Board the planning process set out above, for review.
The Group internal audit it gives management and the Board function undertakes a review of sufficient, realistic visibility on the future subsidiaries accounting processes in the context of the industry and world and performance to provide assurance economic environment.
to the Board on the integrity of the information supplied by each On the basis of the above and other company forming part of the Groups matters considered and reviewed by consolidated results.
the Board during the year, the Board has a reasonable expectation that The Board undertakes an annual the Group will be able to continue in formal review of the effectiveness of operation and meet its liabilities as the Groups system of internal controls they fall due over the period to 30th and an updated risk and controls June 2020.
In assessing the Groups analysis.
The review covers all material viability over the next three years, it is controls, including financial, operational recognised that all future assessments and compliance controls and risk are subject to a level of uncertainty management systems.
that increases for the later part of the The Board has conducted a robust assessment period and that future assessment of the principal risks facing outcomes cannot be guaranteed or the Group, including those that would predicted with any certainty.
threaten its business model, future Risk management and performance, solvency or liquidity.
internalcontrol The Board is satisfied that there is an ongoing process for identifying, The Board is responsible for evaluating and managing the significant the Companys systems of risk risks facing the Group, that has been management and internal control, in place during the year, is regularly and for reviewing their effectiveness.
reviewed and accords with the FRC Any system of internal control is guidance on risk management and designed to manage rather than control.
The Board confirms that eliminate the risk of failure to necessary action has been or is achieve business objectives and being taken to remedy any significant can only provide reasonable, but not failings or weaknesses identified from absolute assurance against material its review.
Audit Committee and auditor There are defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authorities.
A description of the structure and Established and centrally documented activities of the Audit Committee are control procedures also exist, set out in the Audit Committee report including, for example, capital and on pages 79 to 82. other expenditure, information and D. Remuneration technology security and legal and regulatory compliance.
These are The Directors remuneration report applied throughout the Group.
explains how the Company applies the Governance Code principles relating to remuneration.
76 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information group strategy, business segments and E. Relations with shareholders Disclosure rule DTR 7.2.
6 R product lines will be given by members Dialogue with shareholders The information regarding share capital of the Board and senior management, required to be disclosed by this rule is The Board announced a new policy as well as tours covering the Groups contained in the Other statutory and in the 2013 Annual report.
This year, 97 visitors attended regulatory disclosures.
meetings will be held other than the Companys investor day, which shareholder meetings with the Board and committee meeting included various Q&A sessions with Chairman, Senior Independent Director attendance record the Board during the day as well as an and or any other non-executive opportunity to ask questions during Shown against each directors name director where a shareholder has tours, lunch and refreshment breaks.
in the table below is the number of material issues, concerns or questions.
scheduled meetings of the Board and Constructive use of the AGM The director attending such a meeting its committees at which the director will communicate the shareholders The AGM takes place at the was present, and, in brackets, the issues, concerns or questions to the Companys headquarters or one of number of meetings that the director Board.
The Boards response will be the Companys other sites and formal was eligible to attend during the year.
published on the Renishaw website notification is sent to the shareholders for the benefit of all shareholders Compliance statement at least 20 working days before the where appropriate.
A business presentation is The Board considers that it has given and all directors are available complied with the requirements of The interim and annual results and for questions during and after the the Governance Code throughout the presentations are posted on the meeting, including the chairs of the year except in relation to the following website promptly after announcement Audit, Remuneration and Nomination matter the reasons for non-compliance of the results to the UK Listing Authority Committees.
Tours of the Companys are stated in the report above : via an RIS.
the combined role of Chairman and Open webcasts of presentations on Separate resolutions are proposed Chief Executive Governance Code annual and half-year results are held for each substantially separate issue, provision A.
2.1. and recordings of the presentations and all resolutions are taken on a poll.
and the subsequent question and The Company reports on the number answer sessions made available of votes lodged on each resolution, the after the webcast on the Companys balance for and against each resolution website.
Analysts and brokers Sir David Grant and the number of votes withheld.
reports will be circulated to the Board.
Senior Independent Director This information is published via an The Board intends to hold open RIS and on the Companys website 27th July 2017 discussions with any shareholder following the meeting.
who wishes to share views with the directors at the AGM or the annual investor day at which presentations on Board attendance record Meetings The following table sets out attendance at the scheduled meetings of the Board and committees during the year.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Director Board Committee Committee Committee Sir David McMurtry 9 9 3 3 D J Deer 9 9 2 B R Taylor 1 1 A C G Roberts 9 9 1 G McFarland 8 9 W E Lee 8 8 C T Chesney 9 9 3 3 7 7 3 3 K L Durrant 9 9 7 7 3 3 Sir David Grant 9 9 3 3 7 7 3 3 D J Jeans 9 9 3 3 7 7 3 3 1 Geoff McFarland was absent for the meeting on 28th September 2016 due to illness.
2 Ben Taylor attended his last Board meeting on 25th July 2016 before retirement.
