Governance Nomination Committee report The Nomination Committee has an important role in leading the process for Board appointments and ensuring that the Board has the correct balance of experience, diversity and skills to support our business model and strategy.
Sir David McMurtry Chairman and Chief Executive Chair of the Nomination Committee Activities during the year Boardroom diversity Nomination Committee role The committee met three times The Board has considered the andcomposition during the year to discuss executive recommendations of the Women on The Nomination Committee, which management succession planning and Boards report issued by Lord Davies meets on an ad hoc basis as to decide the recruitment process for of Abersoch, and his subsequent required, is responsible for reviewing the replacement of Norma Tang as annual reviews, as regards setting the size, structure and composition Company Secretary, who gave notice out aspirations for the appointment of of the Board, including its balance of resignation in March.
A recruitment women to boards, and has decided of skills, knowledge and experience consultant, Demeter Limited, was that it is inappropriate to set out and for nominating candidates for engaged to seek appropriate any levels that may require positive appointment to the Board and the candidates for appointment to the dual discrimination in this respect, as the role of Company Secretary.
role of general counsel and company overriding requirement is to appoint secretary.
The recruitment process is directors with the necessary skills and The members of the Nomination continuing.
Demeter Limited has no experience for the role.
Committee are Sir David McMurtry other connection with the Company.
Chair, Carol Chesney, Kath However, as an international company, Durrant, Sir David Grant and It was agreed that Will Lee will take the Board acknowledges that diversity John Jeans.
The majority of over responsibility for chairing the of all types is a benefit and should be the members of this committee International Sales and Marketing borne in mind when recruiting to all are independent non-executive Board from the start of the 2018 roles within the Company, and has a directors.
The terms of reference of financial year.
policy to provide equal opportunities this committee are published on the to all.
The Boards policy is to request, In relation to non-executive positions, Companys website.
where recruitment consultants are the four non-executive directors appointed for board appointment, that were all appointed within the last five a proportion of female candidates are years and the Board considers that included in their shortlist.
they are working effectively together in supporting the Board and the Company.
Consequently there were no further appointments or changes considered necessary during the year.
Sir David McMurtry Chair of the Nomination Committee 27th July 2017 78 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017
