60 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report Letter from the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Company Secretary Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board, we present the corporate governance report for the year ended 30 June 2017.
This report describes Diageos corporate governance structures and procedures and the work of the Board, its committees and the Executive Committee, to give a sense of how all these things are carried out.
The Board is ultimately responsible for corporate governance the way in which companies are directed and controlled and its responsibilities include: setting strategic aims and values: providing the leadership to put them into effect: supervising and constructively challenging management who are responsible for the day to day operational running of the business : and reporting to shareholders on their stewardship.
We continue to believe that Diageos Board has a balance of qualities that enables it to discharge its responsibilities effectively.
Recent debate around corporate governance has continued to focus on diversity in various forms.
At Diageo, we have long believed that supporting and respecting all aspects of the diversity of our people is an important contributor to business performance as well as being the right thing to do.
We believe also that reputation is critical to commercial success and can only be enhanced by behaviours of which we are proud.
The principal corporate governance rules applying to Diageo as a UK company listed on the London Stock Exchange LSE for the year ended 30 June 2017 are contained in The UK Corporate Governance Code as updated and published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in April 2016 the Code and the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA Listing Rules, which require us to describe, in our Annual Report, our corporate governance from two points of view: the first dealing generally with our application of the Codes main principles and the second dealing specifically with non-compliance with any of the Codes provisions.
The two descriptions together are designed to give shareholders a picture of governance arrangements in relation to the Code as a criterion of good practice.
Throughout the year, Diageo has complied with all relevant provisions set out in the Code, which is publicly available under the heading Corporate Governance at the website of the FRC, www.
save that there was no performance evaluation of Franz Humer given his retirement as Chairman during the year.
Diageo must also comply with corporate governance rules contained in the FCA Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules as well as certain related provisions in the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
As well as being subject to UK legislation and practice, as a company listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, Diageo is subject to the listing requirements of the NYSE and the rules of the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
Compliance with the provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 SOX, as it applies to foreign private issuers, is continually monitored.
As Diageo follows UK corporate governance practice, differences from the NYSE corporate governance standards are summarised in Diageos 20-F filing and on our website at www.
com en-row ourbusiness aboutus corporategovernance.
J Ferrn D Harlock Chairman Company Secretary Governance Corporate governance report DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 61 date on relevant legal developments or changes and best practice Board of directors and changing commercial and other risks.
Performance evaluation Membership of the Board and Board Committees During the year an evaluation of the Boards effectiveness, including The Chairman, Senior Non-Executive Director and other members the effectiveness of the Audit Committee, the Nomination of the Board, Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and Committee and the Remuneration Committee was undertaken Remuneration Committee are as set out in this Annual Report in the internally by way of written questionnaire followed by the Chairman biographies of Directors and members of the Executive Committee.
of the Board meeting individually with all Directors.
There is a clear separation of the roles of the Chairman and the The results were presented to and discussed by the Board which Chief Executive.
The Chairman, Javier Ferrn who was appointed to agreed that the Board and its Committees continued to operate the Board on 22 July 2016 and succeeded Dr Humer as Chairman on effectively, meeting the requirements and spirit of the Code.
The 1 January 2017, is responsible for the running of the Board and for culture, capability and diversity of the Board contributed to the ensuring all Directors are fully informed of matters, sufficient to Boards effectiveness.
As Chief Executive, Ivan Menezes has The Board agreed to take various actions the planning of future responsibility for implementing the strategy agreed by the Board Non-Executive Director succession over the short and medium term, and for managing the company and the group.
He is supported the selection of appropriate Board agenda items flowing from the in this role by the Executive Committee.
Annual Strategy Conference, understanding in more depth the The Non-Executive Directors, all of whom the Board has challenges to Diageos business coming from volatility in emerging determined are independent, are experienced and influential markets, ensuring the right balance between discussion and decision individuals from a range of industries, backgrounds and in Board meetings and continued focus on risk and the companys countries.
No individual or group dominates the Boards risk appetite through the Audit Committee.
It is the Boards intention decision-making processes.
to continue to review annually its performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
The evaluation later in 2017 will A summary of the terms and conditions of appointment of the Nonbe externally facilitated.
Executive Directors is available at www.
com en-row ourbusiness The Chairman has confirmed that the Non-Executive Directors aboutus corporategovernance.
standing for re-election at this years AGM continue to perform Activities and duties of the Board effectively, both individually and collectively as a board, and that The Board manages overall control of the companys affairs with each demonstrate commitment to their roles.
It was agreed that a reference to the formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board for performance evaluation of the former Chairman by the Senior decision.
The schedule was last reviewed in July 2015 and is available Non-Executive Director was not necessary given the changeover in at www.
com en-row ourbusiness aboutus January 2017.
An evaluation of the current Chairman will be included corporategovernance.
as part of the 2017 evaluation.
The Board has agreed an approach and adopted guidelines for Nomination Committee dealing with conflicts of interest and responsibility for authorising Role of the Nomination Committee conflicts of interest is included in the schedule of matters reserved The Nomination Committee is responsible for keeping under review for the Board.
The Board confirmed that it was aware of no situations the composition of the Board and succession to it, and succession that may or did give rise to conflicts with the interests of the planning for senior leadership positions.
It makes recommendations company other than those that may arise from Directors other to the Board concerning appointments to the Board.
appointments as disclosed in their biographies.
Any new Directors are appointed by the Board and, in accordance In order to fulfil their duties, procedures are in place for Directors with the companys articles of association, they must be elected at to seek both independent advice and the advice and services of the the next AGM to continue in office.
All existing Directors retire by Company Secretary who is responsible for advising the Board, rotation every year.
through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
The Non-Executive Directors meet without the Chairman present, and also meet with Activities of the Nomination Committee the Chairman without management present, on a regular basis.
The principal activities of the Nomination Committee during the year were: the consideration of potential new Non-Executive Directors: The terms of reference of Board Committees are available at www.
the review of individual Director performance: a review of the Executive Committee membership and succession planning for it Induction, training and business engagement and for senior leadership positions, in addition to a review of diversity There is a formal induction programme for new Directors, which within the group.
includes meeting with Executive Committee members and other The recruitment process for Non-Executive Directors typically senior executives individually and visiting a number of operations includes the development of a candidate profile and the and sites around the group.
engagement of a professional search agency which has no other Following the initial induction for Non-Executive Directors, a connection with the company specialising in the recruitment of high continuing understanding of the business is developed through calibre Non-Executive Directors.
Reports on potential appointees are appropriate business engagements.
Visits to customers, provided to the committee, which, after careful consideration, makes engagements with employees, and brand events were arranged a recommendation to the Board.
In respect of the appointment of Javier Ferrn a focussed search In addition, Executive Committee members and other senior was undertaken with professional search agency JCA Group which executives are invited, as appropriate, to Board and strategy meetings has no other connection with the company.
This search resulted to make presentations on their areas of responsibility.
in the Nomination Committee meeting on a number of separate All Directors are also provided with the opportunity, and occasions before making a recommendation to the Board that encouraged, to attend regular training to ensure they are kept up to Mr Ferrn be appointed as the designated successor to the Chairman.
62 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Corporate governance report In respect of the appointment of Ursula Burns the recruitment Additional information process included the development of a candidate profile and the Internal control and risk management engagement of a professional search agency JCA Group, which has An ongoing process has been established for identifying, evaluating no other connection with the company specialising in the and managing risks faced by the group.
This process, which complies recruitment of high calibre Non-Executive Directors.
Reports on with the requirements of the Code, has been in place for the full potential appointees were provided to the committee, which, after financial year and up to the date the financial statements were careful consideration, made a recommendation to the Board.
The approved and accords with the guidance issued by the FRC in Board approved her appointment.
September 2014, Guidance on Risk management, Internal Control and related Financial and Business Reporting.
The Board confirms that, Diversity through the activities of the Audit Committee described below, a Diageo supports diversity within its Board of Directors, including robust assessment of the principal risks facing the company, gender diversity.
Further information is given in the section of this including those that would threaten its business model, future Annual Report on sustainability & responsibility, our people.
performance, solvency or liquidity has been carried out.
These risks and mitigations are set out above in the section of this Annual Report Remuneration Committee dealing with principal risks.
Role of the Remuneration Committee The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the companys The role of the Remuneration Committee and details of how the systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing company applies the principles of the Code in respect of Directors their effectiveness.
The Board confirms that, through the activities remuneration are set out in the directors remuneration report.
of the Audit Committee described below, it has reviewed the The Chairman and the Chief Executive may, by invitation, attend effectiveness of the companys systems of internal control and Remuneration Committee meetings, except when their own risk management.
No Director is involved in determining his During the year, in line with the Code, the Board considered the or her own remuneration.
nature and extent of the risks it was willing to take to achieve its strategic goals and reviewed the existing internal statement of risk appetite which was considered and recommended to the Board by both the Audit & Risk Committee and the Audit Committee.
In Executive direction accordance with the Code, the Board has also considered the companys longer term viability, based on a robust assessment of and control its principal risks.
This was done through the work of the Audit Committee which recommended the Viability Statement as set out above to the Board.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee, appointed and chaired by the Chief The company has in place internal control and risk management systems in relation to the companys financial reporting process and Executive, supports him in discharging his responsibility for the groups process for preparation of consolidated accounts.
Further, implementing the strategy agreed by the Board and for managing the company and the group.
a review of the consolidated financial statements is completed by It consists of the individuals responsible for the key components management to ensure that the financial position and results of the group are appropriately reflected therein.
of the business: North America, Europe, Africa, Latin America and Caribbean, Asia Pacific, International Supply Centre and Corporate.
Compliance and ethics programme The Executive Committee focuses its time and agenda to align Diageo is committed to conducting its business responsibly and with the Performance Ambition and how to achieve Diageos in accordance with all laws and regulations to which its business financial and non-financial performance objectives.
We hold ourselves to the principles in our Code metrics have been developed to measure progress.
There is also of Business Conduct, which is embedded through a comprehensive focus on the companys reputation.
In support, monthly performance training and education programme for all employees.
delivery calls, involving the senior leadership group, focus on progress against the six performance drivers.
Our Code of Business Conduct and other Diageo global policies To support the market visits made by the presidents in the are available at www.
com en-row ourbusiness aboutus ordinary course of their business, a small group led by the Chief corporategovernance.
Executive makes regular market visits focused on the execution of In accordance with the requirements of SOX and related SEC rules, strategy and designed to assist in continuing the development of Diageo has adopted a code of ethics covering its Chief Executive, strategy and in the delivery of performance against the Chief Financial Officer, presidents and other identifiable persons in Performance Ambition.
the group, including those performing senior accounting and Committees appointed by the Chief Executive and intended to have an controller functions.
No amendments to, or waivers in respect of, ongoing remit, including the Audit & Risk Committee, Finance Committee the code of ethics were made during the year.
and Filings Assurance Committee are shown with their remits at www.
Governance Corporate governance report DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 63 Managements report on internal control over financial reporting The full text of the code of ethics is available at www.
Management, under the supervision of the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, is responsible for establishing and maintaining Both the Audit & Risk Committee and the Audit Committee regularly adequate control over the groups financial reporting.
review the strategy and operation of the compliance and ethics Management has assessed the effectiveness of Diageos internal programme through the year.
control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13 a -13 f and Further information is given in the section of this Annual Report 15 d -15 f under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 based on on sustainability & responsibility, governance and ethics.
the framework in Internal Control Integrated Framework, issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Relations with shareholders Commission COSO in 2013.
Based on this assessment, management The Boards primary contact with institutional shareholders is through concluded that, as at 30 June 2017, internal control over financial the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
The Chief Executive reporting was effective.
and Chief Financial Officer are supported by the investor relations During the period covered by this report, there were no changes department, who are in regular contact with institutional in internal control over financial reporting that have materially shareholders and sell-side analysts.
A monthly investor relations affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the effectiveness report, including coverage of the company by sell-side analysts, is of internal control over financial reporting.
 LLP PwC, an independent registered The Board also ensures that all Directors develop an public accounting firm, who also audit the groups consolidated understanding of the views of major institutional shareholders financial statements, has audited the effectiveness of the groups through an independent survey of shareholder opinion.
In addition, internal control over financial reporting, and has issued an unqualified major shareholders are invited to raise any company matters of report thereon, which is included in PwCs integrated audit report interest to them at meetings with the chairman of the Board and the below and which will be included in the companys Form 20-F to be chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Reports on any meetings filed with the SEC.
Private shareholders are invited to write to the Chairman or any Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and other Director and express their views on any issues of concern at any financial statements time and the AGM provides an opportunity for private shareholders The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the to put their questions in person.
information filed with the SEC on Form 20-F and the group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable Political donations law and regulations.
The group has not given any money for political purposes in the United Kingdom and made no donations to EU political organisations Responsibility statement and incurred no EU political expenditure during the year.
Each of the Directors, whose names are set out in the Board of The group made contributions to non-EU political parties totalling Directors and Executive Committee section of this Annual Report, 0.4 million during the year 2016 0.4 million.
These contributions confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge: were made exclusively to federal and state candidates and the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017, committees in North America consistent with applicable laws, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and where it is common practice to make political contributions.
No provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the particular political persuasion was supported and contributions were groups position and performance, business model and strategy: made with the aim of promoting a better understanding of the the consolidated financial statements contained in the Annual group and its views on commercial matters, as well as a generally Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2017, which have improved business environment.
been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and Going concern as adopted for use in the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, The Directors confirm that, after making appropriate enquiries, they liabilities, financial position and profit of the group: and have reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources the management report represented by the Directors Report to continue in operational existence.
Accordingly, they continue to contained in the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
30 June 2017 includes a fair review of the development and Further information on going concern is given in this Annual Report performance of the business and the position of the group, under note 1 Accounting information and policies going concern.
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Although not assessed over the same period as the going concern, that the group faces.
the viability of the group has been assessed above.
The responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 26 July 2017.
64 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Corporate governance report Directors attendance record at the AGM, scheduled Board meetings and Board committee meetings, for the year ended 30 June 2017 was as set out in the table below.
For Board and Board committee meetings, attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the number that each Director was eligible to attend.
Annual Audit Nomination Remuneration General Meeting Board Committee Committee Committee iv iv iv 2016 maximum 6 maximum 4 maximum 5 maximum 5 i i Dr Franz B Humer 4 4 2 2 3 3 2 2 i i Javier Ferrn 6 6 4 4 5 5 5 5 ii i i Ivan Menezes 6 6 2 2 3 3 5 5 i ii Kathryn Mikells 6 6 4 4 1 1 n a Lord Davies 5 6 3 4 4 5 4 5 Peggy Bruzelius 6 6 4 4 5 5 4 5 Betsy Holden 6 6 4 4 5 5 5 5 Ho KwonPing 6 6 4 4 5 5 5 5 iii Nicola Mendelsohn 5 6 4 4 4 5 4 5 Philip Scott 6 6 4 4 5 5 5 5 Alan Stewart 6 6 4 4 4 5 5 5 Emma Walmsley 2 2 1 1 2 2 1 1 i Attended by invitation.
Javier Ferrn attended by invitation after his appointment as Chairman.
ii Attended by invitation, for part only.
iii Nicola Mendelsohn attended the Annual General Meeting by telephone.
iv Where Non-Executive Directors were unable to attend a meeting they gave their views to the chairman of the respective meetings ahead of the meetings being held.
A Sub-Committee meeting of the Audit Committee was also held involving Mr Stewart and Mr Scott.
