Company overview Company overview Strategic r Strategic report eport Corporate Gover Corporate Governance r finance report eport Financial statements Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT What we have audited REPORT ON THE Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus IG Group Holdings plcs Financial Statements comprise: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We focused firstly on testing the control environment in which revenue Revenue recognition the Group and Company Statements of Financial Position as at is recorded.
In particular we tested controls directly associated The Group provides its clients access to a broad range of 31 May 2017: Our opinion with revenue transaction reporting, and the valuation of year-end financial markets predominantly through spreadbetting and the Group Income Statement and Group Statement of positions held by clients with the Group.
We also tested controls In our opinion:  CFD activities.
Comprehensive Income for the year then ended: associated with cash reconciliations and reconciliations with external The Groups trading revenue predominantly comprises net IG Group Holdings plcs Group Financial Statements and counterparties through the year.
We agreed cash accounts to external the Group and Company Cash Flow Statements for the year revenues from these spreadbetting and CFD transactions Company Financial Statements the Financial Statements then ended: third party evidence at year-end through a combination of independent placed by clients, and the net gains or losses from the give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the confirmations and examination of bank statements, and amounts Companys affairs as at 31 May 2017 and of the Groups profit hedging trades that the Group places with external the Group and Company Statements of Changes in Equity for and positions held with hedging counterparties to external third and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year counterparties to manage its risk.
the year then ended: and party evidence.
then ended: the notes to the Financial Statements, which include a Finally, to address the risk that improper adjustments or transactions the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared summary of significant accounting policies and other had been entered into the trading systems, we reviewed client activity in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards explanatory information.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: reports and read a sample of customer complaints, as well as testing Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the a sample of accounts for authenticity to identify any instances where the Company Financial Statements have been properly prepared Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the Financial Statements.
revenue might have been improperly recognised.
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and These are cross-referenced from the Financial Statements and We identified a number of exceptions in our testing of the control as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies identified as audited.
Act 2006: and environment, but have performed sufficient additional procedures to conclude that they do not have a material impact on revenue.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with preparation of the Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the We understood and tested key controls in place over the financial Risk of management override of internal controls as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the company Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
incorporating super user access to the Universe reporting process.
Specifically, in relation to information technology, Financial Statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK we performed testing of the IT general controls related to Universe, of the Companies Act 2006, and applicable law.
& Ireland require that we consider this as a significant risk including access rights.
Additionally we tested the controls mitigating Our audit approach as management is in a unique position to perpetrate fraud the risks relating to Universe super-user access including controls that because of their ability to manipulate accounting records would identify unexpected changes to data which could impact the Overview and prepare fraudulent Financial Statements by overriding Financial Statements, and reconciliations of Universe reports to external We present below an overview of our audit approach, the details of which are considered within our audit report: controls that otherwise appear to be operating effectively.
third party sources including broker and bank reconciliations.
We did not identify any material exceptions.
Although management is responsible for safeguarding the assets of the business, we planned our audit so that we had a We tested the fraud risk assessment performed by management reasonable expectation of detecting material misstatements and the preventative and detective controls in place in the Group Overall Group materiality: 10.7 million which represents 5% of profit before tax.
to the Financial Statements and accounting records.
with no material exceptions noted from our testing.
We tested the Materiality appropriateness and authorisation of journal entries that we identified as Specifically in relation to information technology, the risk unusual and no issues arose from this work.
The Group consists of a UK holding company with a number of subsidiary entities and branches relates to super-user access to Universe, the main client containing the operating businesses of both the UK and overseas territories.
The accounting records ledger system, by certain individuals in order to perform their We examined significant one-off transactions and considered their for both the UK and overseas businesses are primarily maintained and controlled by the Groups role.
Those individuals have an opportunity to commit and accounting treatment with no exceptions arising.
We also incorporated finance teams in London.
an element of unpredictability into our testing approach.
Audit scope We have determined the appropriate work to perform based on the consolidated balances of the Group.
As a result, the audit work was performed by the Group audit team in London, reflecting the How we tailored the audit scope centralised nature of the business.
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
focus The Group consists of a UK holding company with a number of subsidiary entities and branches containing the UK and overseas operating Risk of management override of internal controls, incorporating super user access to IT systems businesses.
The accounting records for the UK and overseas businesses are primarily maintained by the Group finance team in London.
As a relevant to the financial reporting process.
result, the audit work was performed by the Group audit team in London.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, The scope of our audit and our areas of focus together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the Financial Statements as a whole.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the Financial Statements.
In particular, Based on our professional judgment, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of Overall group materiality 10.7 million 2016: 10.2 million.
management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are Rationale for benchmark applied Consistent with last year, we applied this benchmark, a generally accepted auditing practice, as it is identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to the most relevant metric against which the performance of the Group is measured.
provide an opinion on the Financial Statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 534,000 2016: 508,000 as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
| | 96 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 97
