Company overview Company overview Strategic r Strategic report eport Corporate Gover Corporate Governance r finance report eport Financial statements Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the viability of Going concern the Group Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 94, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the to in relation to: directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
the directors confirmation on page 42 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, We have nothing We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that material to add or to As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed We have nothing and that the directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the Financial Statements were signed.
As part of our audit or mitigated.
material to add or to we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions draw attention to.
can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
the directors explanation on page 42 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, We have nothing as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they material to add or to OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation draw attention to.
that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications Companies Act 2006 reporting or assumptions.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors Other Companies Act 2006 reporting prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group, the company and their environment obtained in the course of the specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have arising from this responsibility.
making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting nothing to report in this respect.
their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with Corporate governance statement the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: provisions of the Code.
Information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report arising from Adequacy of accounting records and materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Financial Statements: or this responsibility.
RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE information and explanations received apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND in our opinion: the statement given by the directors on page 95, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate We have no exceptions we have not received all the information and explanations we THE AUDIT Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced to report arising from require for our audit: or and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and this responsibility.
Our responsibilities and those of the directors adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit.
Responsibilities set out on page 95, the directors are responsible for received from branches not visited by us: or the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being satisfied the Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors the section of the Annual Report on pages 84 to 88, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing We have no exceptions that they give a true and fair view.
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the to report arising from the accounting records and returns.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Audit Committee.
Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Directors remuneration This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only Directors remuneration report - for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter Companies Act 2006 opinion 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report Companies Act 2006. is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
| | 98 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 99 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS What an audit of financial statements involves PRIMARY STATEMENTS An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Consolidated Income Statement 102 Statements of Changes in Equity 104 assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Cash Flow Statements 105 Consolidated Statement of 102 assessment of: ComprehensiveIncome whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Statements of Financial Position 103 and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the overall presentation of the financial statements.
P resentation, critical accounting estimates We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors andjudgments 106 19.
Financial investments 116 judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Trade payables 116 We test and examine information, using sampling and other 3.
Other payables 117 auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide 4.
Contingent liabilities and provisions 117 a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive 5.
Redeemable preference shares 117 procedures or a combination of both.
Share capital and share premium 117 In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information 7.
Other reserves 118 in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is 8.
Employee share plans 119 apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent 9.
Capital commitments 122 with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements 10.
Obligations under leases 123 or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Related parties and transactions with Directors 123 respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable 12.
Authorisation of Financial Statements and Darren Meek Senior Statutory Auditor statement of compliance with IFRS 131 for and on behalf of  LLP 16.
Trade receivables 115 Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors 34.
Cash and cash equivalents 115 London 35.
List of investments in subsidiaries 138 18.
Cash generated from operations 116 18 July 2017 OTHER INFORMATION a Balance sheet 140 b Client funds and assets 140 c Own funds 141 d Liquidity 141 e Regulatory capital 142 f Segmental tax information 142 g Five-year summary 143 | | 100 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 101
