Governance Report Corporate Governance Report The Board is committed to achieving and demonstrating high Appointments to the Board standards of Corporate Governance.
This statement outlines how Appointments to the Board are made on merit with due regard for the principles of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the the benefits of diversity, including gender.
The priority in Code which can be found at www.
uk, and the relevant appointing new Directors is to identify the candidate with the best principles of the Association of Investment Companies AIC Code range of skills and experience to complement existing Directors.
of Corporate Governance were applied throughout the financial The Board therefore does not consider it appropriate to set year.
The AIC Code provides a framework of best practice for diversity targets or apply a diversity policy.
investment companies and can be found at www.
Having considered the balance of skills on the Board and having regard to the present and future needs of the Company, the Compliance Directors appointed Ms Belinda Richards and Professor Sir Nigel The Company has complied throughout the year under review Shadbolt to the Board during the year.
Information about both of with the relevant provisions of the Code and the the new Directors can be found on page 18.
As the Board had recommendations of the AIC Code except as follows: identified candidates who met its requirements it was not a Nomination Committee has not been established.
As the considered necessary to use a recruitment agency on this Board comprises seven non-executive Directors all of whom occasion.
are considered to be independent, a Nomination Committee The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out is considered unnecessary.
The appointment of new Directors in formal letters of appointment which are available for inspection is considered by the Board as a whole.
The Board conducts on request.
an annual review of its composition having regard to the present and future needs of the Company: A Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
Mr JGD Ferguson, Chairman of the Board, was a member of In accordance with the Code, all Directors offer themselves for the Audit Committee until he stood down from the Committee re-election annually.
The Board believes it was appropriate for Mr Ferguson to be a member of the Audit Committee as he is Independence of Directors considered to be independent and there are no conflicts of All the Directors are considered by the Board to be independent interest: and of the Managers and free of any business or other relationship the evaluation of the Board has not been externally facilitated.
which could interfere with the exercise of their independent The Board is of the opinion that the use of external judgement.
consultants to assist with the evaluation is unlikely to bring The Directors recognise the importance of succession planning any meaningful benefit to the process, though the option to for company boards and the Boards composition is reviewed do so is kept under review.
The Board is of the view that length of service will not necessarily compromise the independence or contribution of The Board directors of an investment trust company, where continuity and The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs.
experience can be a benefit to the Board.
The Board concurs with It has a number of matters reserved for its approval including the view expressed in the AIC Code that long serving directors strategy, investment policy, currency hedging, borrowings, should not be prevented from being considered independent.
gearing, treasury matters, dividend and corporate governance policy.
A separate strategy session is held annually.
The Board Mr McDougall is a director of Pacific Horizon Investment Trust also reviews the Financial Statements, investment transactions, PLC which is also managed by Baillie Gifford.
Mr McDougall and revenue budgets and performance.
Full and timely information is Mr Ferguson are both directors of The Independent Investment provided to the Board to enable it to function effectively and to Trust PLC.
Mr Ferguson, Mr Harley and Mr McDougall have allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
served for more than nine years.
Following a formal performance evaluation the Board has concluded that, not withstanding the The Board currently comprises seven Directors all of whom are above, Mr McDougall, Mr Ferguson and Mr Harley continue to non-executive.
demonstrate independence of character and judgement.
Their The Chairman is responsible for organising the business of the skills and experience add significantly to the strength of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
executive responsibility for investment management has been delegated to the Companys Alternative Investment Fund Meetings Manager AIFM, Baillie Gifford & Co Limited, and, in the context There is an annual cycle of Board meetings which is designed of a Board comprising only non-executive Directors, there is no to address, in a systematic way, overall strategy, review of chief executive officer.
The Senior Independent Director is Mr DCP investment policy, investment performance, marketing, revenue McDougall.
budgets, dividend policy and communication with shareholders.
The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to The Directors believe that the Board has a balance of skills and discharge its duties effectively.
The table on page 23 shows the experience that enables it to provide effective strategic leadership attendance record for the core Board and Audit Committee and proper governance of the Company.
Information about the meetings held during the year, excluding ancillary and subDirectors, including their relevant experience, can be found on committee meetings.
The Annual General Meeting was attended page 18. by all the Directors.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to seek independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
22 Annual Report 2017 Governance Report Directors Attendance at Meetings Internal Controls and Risk Management The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Companys Audit risk management and internal control systems and for reviewing Board Committee their effectiveness.
The systems are designed to manage rather Number of meetings 4 2 than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance JGD Ferguson 4 2 against material misstatement or loss.
CC Ferguson retired 3 August 2016 The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by EM Harley 4 2 the Company in accordance with the FRC guidance Guidance on DCP McDougall 4 Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and BJ Richards Business Reporting issued in September 2014. appointed 28 September 2016 3 1 Professor Sir Nigel Shadbolt The practical measures in relation to the design, implementation appointed 9 March 2017 1 and maintenance of control policies and procedures to safeguard the Companys assets and to manage its affairs properly, KS Sternberg 4 2 including the maintenance of effective operational and compliance JJ Tigue 4 2 controls have been delegated to the Managers and Secretaries.
Mr JGD Ferguson stood down from the Audit Committee on The Board oversees the functions delegated to the Managers 11 April 2017. and Secretaries and the controls managed by the AIFM in Mr DCP McDougall is not a member of the Audit Committee.
accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive as detailed below.
Baillie Gifford & Cos Internal Audit Performance Evaluation and Compliance Departments and the AIFMs permanent risk An appraisal of the Chairman, each Director and a performance function provide the Audit Committee with regular reports on evaluation and review of the Board as a whole and the Audit their monitoring programmes.
The reporting procedures for these Committee was carried out during the year.
After considering and departments are defined and formalised within a service level responding to an evaluation questionnaire each Director had an agreement.
Baillie Gifford & Co conducts an annual review of its interview with the Chairman.
The Chairmans appraisal was led by system of internal controls which is documented within an internal Mr DCP McDougall, the Senior Independent Director.
The controls report which complies with ISAE 3402 and Technical appraisals and evaluations considered, amongst other criteria, the Release AAF 01 06 Assurance Reports on Internal Controls of balance of skills of the Board, training and development Service Organisations made available to Third Parties.
This report requirements, the contribution of individual Directors and the is independently reviewed by Baillie Gifford & Cos Auditors and a overall effectiveness of the Board and the Audit Committee.
copy is submitted to the Audit Committee.
Following this process it was concluded that the performance of each Director, the Chairman, the Board and the Audit Committee A report identifying the material risks faced by the Company and continues to be effective and that each Director and the Chairman the key controls employed to manage these risks is reviewed by remain committed to the Company.
The Board is of the opinion the Audit Committee.
that the use of external consultants to assist with the evaluation is These procedures ensure that consideration is given regularly unlikely to bring any meaningful benefit to the process, though the to the nature and extent of risks facing the Company and that option to do so is kept under review.
they are being actively monitored.
Where changes in risk have A review of the Chairmans and other Directors commitments been identified during the year they also provide a mechanism to was carried out and the Board is satisfied that they are capable of assess whether further action is required to manage these risks.
devoting sufficient time to the Company.
There were no significant The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of changes to the Chairmans other commitments during the year.
the Companys risk management and internal controls systems, which accord with the FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Induction and Training Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting New Directors are provided with an induction programme which issued in September 2014, and they have procedures in place is tailored to the particular circumstances of the appointee.
to review their effectiveness on a regular basis.
No significant Briefings were provided during the year on industry and regulatory weaknesses were identified in the year under review and up to the matters.
Directors receive other relevant training as necessary.
Remuneration The Board confirms that these procedures have been in place As all the Directors are non-executive there is no requirement for a throughout the Companys financial year and continue to be in separate Remuneration Committee.
Directors fees are considered place up to the date of approval of this Report.
by the Board as a whole within the limits approved by shareholders.
To comply with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers The Companys policy on remuneration is set out in the Directors Directive, the Company appointed BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary Remuneration Report on pages 27 and 28.
UK Limited as its Depositary and Baillie Gifford & Co Limited as its AIFM.
Audit Committee The report of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 25 and 26.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 23 Governance Report The Depositarys responsibilities include cash monitoring, The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a forum for safe keeping of the Companys financial instruments, verifying communication with all shareholders.
The level of proxies lodged ownership and maintaining a record of other assets and for each resolution is announced at the meeting and is published monitoring the Companys compliance with investment limits and at www.
co. uk subsequent to the leverage requirements.
The Depositary is liable for the loss of meeting.
The notice period for the Annual General Meeting is at financial instruments held in custody.
The Depositary will ensure least twenty working days.
that any delegate segregates the assets of the Company.
The Shareholders and potential investors may obtain up-to-date Depositary has delegated the custody function to The Bank of information on the Company at New York Mellon SA NV London Branch the Custodian.
Custodian prepares a report on its key controls and safeguards which is independently reviewed by KPMG LLP.
Corporate Governance and Stewardship The Company has given discretionary voting powers to Baillie The Depositary provides the Audit Committee with a report on its Gifford & Co.
The Managers vote against resolutions they monitoring activities.
consider may damage shareholders rights or economic interests The AIFM has established a permanent risk management function and report their actions to the Board.
to ensure that effective risk management policies and procedures The Company believes that it is in the shareholders interests to are in place and to monitor compliance with risk limits.
The AIFM consider environmental, social and governance ESG factors has a risk management policy which covers the risks associated when selecting and retaining investments and have asked the with the management of the portfolio, and the adequacy and Managers to take these issues into account.
The Managers do effectiveness of this policy is reviewed and approved at least not exclude companies from their investment universe purely on annually.
This review includes the risk management processes the grounds of ESG factors but adopt a positive engagement and systems and limits for each risk area.
approach whereby matters are discussed with management with The risk limits, which are set by the AIFM and approved by the the aim of improving the relevant policies and management Board, take into account the objectives, strategy and risk profile systems and enabling the Managers to consider how ESG factors of the portfolio.
These limits, including leverage see page 56, could impact long-term investment returns.
The Managers are monitored and the sensitivity of the portfolio to key risks is statement of compliance with the UK Stewardship Code can be undertaken periodically as appropriate to ascertain the impact of found on the Managers website at www.
The changes in key variables in the portfolio.
Exceptions from limits Managers policy has been reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
monitoring and stress testing undertaken by Baillie Giffords The Managers are signatories to the United Nations Principles for Business Risk Department are escalated to the AIFM and Responsible Investment and the Carbon Disclosure Project.
reported to the Board along with remedial measures being taken.
Going Concern On behalf of the Board Having assessed the principal risks and other matters set out in JGD Ferguson the Viability Statement on page 16, the Directors consider it Chairman appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in 27 June 2017 preparing these Financial Statements and confirm that they are not aware of any material uncertainties which may effect the Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of these Financial Statements.
Relations with Shareholders The Board places great importance on communication with shareholders.
The Companys Managers meet regularly with shareholders and report shareholders views to the Board.
The Chairman has maintained open lines of communication with market participants and investors in the Company, separate of Manager involvement, in order to ascertain views on corporate matters.
The Chairman is available to meet with shareholders as appropriate.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with any members of the Board may do so by writing to them at the Secretaries address or through the Companys Broker, Canaccord Genuity Limited see contact details on the back cover.
