Governance Report Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee consists of all the Directors except Internal Audit Mr JGD Ferguson, who stood down from the Committee on The Committee continues to believe that the compliance and 11 April 2017, and Mr DCP McDougall.
Mr JJ Tigue is Chairman internal control systems and the internal audit function in place of the Committee.
The members of the Committee consider within the Investment Managers provide sufficient assurance that that they have the requisite financial skills and experience to fulfil a sound system of internal control, which safeguards shareholders the responsibilities of the Committee.
The Board believes it was investment and the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal appropriate for Mr Ferguson to be a member of the Committee audit function, specific to the Company, is therefore considered as he is considered to be independent and there are no conflicts unnecessary.
The Committees authority and duties are clearly Financial Reporting defined within its written terms of reference which are available on request from the Company Secretary and at The Committee considers that the most significant issues likely to impact the Financial Statements are the existence and valuation www.
The terms of reference are reviewed annually.
of investments, as they represent 99.1% of total assets and the accuracy and completeness of income from investments.
The Committees effectiveness is reviewed on an annual basis as part of the Boards performance evaluation process.
The majority of the investments are in quoted securities and market prices are readily available from independent external At least once a year the Committee meets with the external pricing sources.
The Committee reviewed the Managers Report Auditors without any representative of the Managers being on Internal Controls which details the controls in place regarding present.
recording and pricing of investments and the reconciliation of investment holdings to third party data.
Main Activities of the Committee The Committee met twice during the year and The value of all the listed investments as at 30 April 2017 were  LLP, the external Auditors, attended agreed to external price sources.
The Committee considered the one of these meetings.
Baillie Gifford & Cos Internal Audit and value of all unquoted investments at 30 April 2017, which are Compliance Departments and the AIFMs permanent risk function determined using valuation techniques based upon latest dealing provided reports on their monitoring programmes for these prices, stockbroker valuation, net assets values and other meetings.
information as appropriate, and assessed the appropriateness of the judgements and assumptions used in valuing such The matters considered, monitored and reviewed by the investments.
The portfolio holdings were agreed to confirmations Committee during the course of the year included the following: from the Companys custodian.
the preliminary results announcement and the Annual and The Committee reviewed the Managers Report on Internal Interim Reports: Controls which details the controls in place regarding the Companys accounting policies and practices: completeness and accurate recording of investment income.
The the regulatory changes impacting the Company: accounting treatment of each special dividend received or receivable during the year was reviewed by the Managers.
the fairness, balance and understandability of the Annual Report and Financial Statements and whether it provided the The Managers confirmed to the Committee that they were not information necessary for shareholders to assess the aware of any material misstatements in the context of the Financial Companys performance, business model and strategy: Statements as a whole and that the Financial Statements are in accordance with applicable law and accounting standards.
the effectiveness of the Companys internal control environment: Internal Controls and Risk Management reappointment, remuneration and terms of engagement of the The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys risk external Auditors: management and internal controls systems as described on pages 23 and 24.
No significant weaknesses were identified in the whether the audit services contract should be put out to year under review.
tender: the policy on the engagement of the external Auditors to External Auditors supply non-audit services: To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence and objectivity of the external Auditors, the Committee reviewed the the independence and objectivity of the external Auditors and Auditors audit plan, which includes a description of their effectiveness of the external audit process: arrangements to manage independence, a report from the the need for the Company to have its own internal audit function: Auditors on the conclusion of the audit setting out why they internal controls reports received from the Managers and remain independent and the extent of non-audit services provided custodians: and by the Auditors.
Non-audit fees for the year to 30 April 2017 were 1,150 and related to the certification of financial information to the arrangements in place within Baillie Gifford & Co whereby the debenture trustee.
The Committee does not believe that this their staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible has impaired the Auditors independence.
improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 25 Governance Report To assess the effectiveness of the Auditors and the external audit During its tenure as Auditors,  LLP has process, the Committee reviewed and considered the audit plan, provided a quality service and has demonstrated a high level of the fulfilment by the Auditors of the agreed audit plan, a report professionalism and the Committee would like to express its from the Auditors on the conclusion of the audit, feedback from thanks to  LLP for its services to the the Secretaries on the performance of the audit team and the Company.
A statutory statement from  Audit Quality Inspection Report on  LLP LLP confirming the reasons connected with its ceasing to hold issued by the FRCs Audit Quality Review Team AQRT.
office as Auditors is included on page 57.
 LLP, or its predecessor firms, have Accountability and Audit been engaged as the Companys Auditors for over 28 years.
The The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditors audit partners responsible for the audit are rotated at least every in connection with the Financial Statements are set out on pages five years in accordance with professional and regulatory 29 to 33. standards in order to protect independence and objectivity and to provide fresh challenge to the business.
 LLP have confirmed that they believe they are independent within On behalf of the Board the meaning of regulatory and professional requirements and that JJ Tigue the objectivity of the audit partner and staff is not impaired.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Having carried out the review described above, the Committee is 27 June 2017 satisfied that the Auditors remain independent and effective for the purpose of this years audit.
Audit Tender As noted on page 21, the Committee conducted a tender of the Companys audit services during the year under review to coincide with the end of the five year rotation cycle of the current Audit Partner of  LLP, Ms Thomas.
Invitations to tender were issued to three audit firms, resulting in three comprehensive proposals of a very high standard being submitted, with all three firms being invited to present their approach in more detail to the Audit Committee.
In evaluating the firms, the primary focus was on audit quality, giving specific consideration to: audit approach and delivery: investment trust audit experience of the firm and the audit engagement team: breadth of knowledge and experience within the firm: insight into future developments likely to affect the Company: and independence.
Following a robust and transparent review process where the firms were subjected to scrutiny and appropriate challenge, the Board proposes a resolution at the Annual General Meeting seeking shareholder approval to appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys Auditors for the financial year commencing 1 May 2017.
The Committee is satisfied that Ernst & Young LLP is independent and that sufficient controls are in place to deal with any conflict of interest, should it arise.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Committees choice of external auditors.
