Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Group is committed to high standards of Corporate The Board has reviewed the Companys corporate governance Governance.
The following section will detail how the UK Corporate processes and policies, and has concluded that during the 53 Governance Code has been applied during the year.
weeks ended 30 April 2017 the Company complied with the provisions of the Code.
CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION THE BOARD I am pleased to introduce the Corporate Governance Report, which confirms that for the year ended 30 April 2017, the Group has The Board consists of the Non-Executive Chairman, Keith complied with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Hellawell, the Chief Executive, Mike Ashley, and three further NonExecutive Directors.
The names, skills and short profiles of each We announced in January our decision to undertake a further 360 member of the Board are set out on page 72. review of the Company to include working practices and corporate governance, which would be led by RPC legal advisors to the The size and composition of the Board is regularly reviewed by Company.
In FY17 this process primarily focused on our people.
the Board to ensure that there is the appropriate balance of skills During this ongoing work, the Board and management team, as and experience.
The Board is seeking to appoint a Chief Financial well as RPC, have identified both strengths and areas requiring Officer following the departure of Acting Chief Financial Officer, improvement in the Companys approach to managing its people.
A number of existing practices have been strengthened and new ROLE OF THE BOARD practices have been introduced which have benefitted our people and the Company.
The role of the Board is to ensure the overall long-term success of the Group.
This is achieved through the review, development and It is important to ensure the Company has the right mix of implementation of the Groups strategy.
The Board also maintains experience and knowledge and skills on the Board.
We have responsibility for corporate responsibility, accountability and taken steps to strengthen the Board and have appointed David to ensure effective leadership is delegated to management for Brayshaw as a Non-Executive Director and recently announced the day to day running of the Group and ensures an appropriate that David Daly will also be joining the Board as a Non-Executive strategy is in place for succession planning.
In our search for Non-Executive Directors, we are encouraging applications from women.
We are The Board has a programme in place to enable it to discharge its actively seeking a Chief Financial Officer following the departure responsibility of providing effective and entrepreneurial leadership of the Acting Chief Financial Officer, Matt Pearson.
The Company to the Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls.
has been supported by Herbert Monteith who was appointed to the role of Interim Head of Finance in place of Matt, and we The Board plans to meet on a formal basis five times during the strengthened the Finance team to build further support whilst the year with up to four additional strategy meetings at convenient search for a permanent replacement continues.
times throughout the year when broader issues concerning the strategic future of the Group will be discussed.
The Board will During the year, and in accordance with its Engagement meet on other occasions as and when the business demands.
Statement, which can be viewed on the Investor Relations Section During FY17 the Board formally met on 13 occasions.
of our website, the Company has undertaken collective face-toface briefings for analysts and investors on announcement of A detailed agenda is established for each scheduled meeting, and the half year and annual results.
In addition to the briefings at appropriate documentation is provided to Directors in advance these times, the Company also hosted a collective meeting for the of the meeting.
Regular board meetings provide an agenda that Companys major shareholders to provide shareholders with an will include reports from the Chief Executive, reports on the extended opportunity to engage with management.
Additionally in performance of the business and current trading, reports on September 2016 the Company hosted an open day which included meetings with investors, reports from Committees of the Board a site tour, presentation on the companys strategic initiatives and and specific proposals where the approval of the Board is sought.
people strategy, and a question and answer session.
The Board will monitor and question monthly performance and review anticipated results.
Areas discussed include investor Throughout the year one-to-one meetings have been held relations, human resources and health and safety.
The Board between Executive and Non-Executive Board members in also receives updates on areas including risk management and order that Non-Executive Board members can gain a fuller internal control systems.
understanding of what is taking place in the Group.
Presentations are also given on business or strategic issues COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE where appropriate, and the Board will consider at least annually the strategy for the Group.
Minutes of the meetings of The overall responsibility for the Groups risk management Committees of the Board are circulated to all members of the and internal controls systems sits with the Board.
This is an Board, unless a conflict of interest arises, to enable all Directors ongoing process which relates to the identification, evaluation, to have oversight of those matters delegated to Committees, management and monitoring of significant risks.
This complies and copies of analysts reports and brokers notes are provided with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The In an effort to secure the long-term future of the Group, the main principles of the Code are: Board has created a high performance culture within the Group by LEADERSHIP devising stretching share schemes as well as a share scheme for EFFECTIVENESS senior members of management.
ACCOUNTABILITY REMUNERATION RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS 77 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT It is the responsibility of the Directors to ensure that the accounts The Chief Executive is responsible for the running of the Groups are prepared and submitted.
Having assessed the current Annual business for the delivery of the strategy for the Group, leading Report, along with the accounts, the Directors confirm that, the management team and implementing specific decisions taken as a whole, they are fair, balanced and understandable.
made by the Board to help meet shareholder expectations.
The Directors also confirm that these documents provide the He also takes the lead in the strategic development of the necessary information in order for shareholders to assess the Company, formulating the vision and strategy for the Group.
The Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Chief Executive reports to each Board meeting on all material matters affecting the Groups performance.
No one individual has KEY ACTIVITIES unfettered power of decision.
Ensuring the long-term success of the Group Given the structure of the Board, the fact that the Chairman and Considering the obligations to shareholders and other Chief Executive roles are fulfilled by two separate individuals and stakeholders the terms of the Relationship Agreement with Mike Ashley, the Considering the effect the Groups activities have on the Board believes that no individual or small group of individuals can environment and community in which it operates disproportionately influence the Boards decision making.
Maintaining a high business reputation THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Maintaining relationships with suppliers, customers and the The rest of the Board consists of three Non-Executive Directors.
wider community The role of the Non-Executive Directors is to understand the Group in its entirety and constructively challenge strategy and There is a formal schedule of matters that require Board approval: management performance, set Executive remuneration levels they are matters that could have significant strategic, financial or and ensure an appropriate succession planning strategy is in reputational effects on the Group as a whole.
They must also ensure they are satisfied with the accuracy MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD of financial information and that thorough risk management processes are in place.
Setting of budgets Monitoring and review of strategy and business performance The Non-Executive Directors have excellent experience from a wide range of sectors.
The Non-Executive Directors assist Approval of acquisitions, expansions into other regions countries above materiality level the Board with issues such as governance, internal control, remuneration and risk management.
Appointments and removal of Board members Succession planning Simon Bentley is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
He supports the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors and is Overall responsibility for internal control and risk management as described on pages 66 to 70 available to shareholders if they have concerns.
Although Simon has served on the Board for longer than the recommended THE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE nine years, the Board maintains the view that Simon continues to be independent, that there are no issues likely to affect his The division of responsibilities between the Non-Executive independent judgement and that he is not financially dependent Chairman and the Chief Executive is in writing and has been upon the fee he receives from the Company.
However, they work closely together to ensure effective decision making and the successful delivery of THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS - EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS the Groups strategy.
Non-Executive Directors are required to disclose prior The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring appointments and other significant commitments to the Board its effectiveness and that all Directors are able to play a full part and are required to inform the Board of any changes to or in the activities of the Company.
He ensures that the Directors additional commitments.
Details of the Non-Executive Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
external appointments can be found on page 72.
The Chairman officiates effective communication with Before accepting new appointments, Non-Executive Directors are shareholders and ensures that the Board understands the views required to obtain approval from the Chairman, and the Chairman of major investors, and is available to provide advice and support requires the approval of the whole Board.
It is essential that no to members of the Executive team.
appointment causes a conflict of interest or jeopardises the NonExecutive Directors commitment and time spent with the Group The Company has entered into a Relationship Agreement with in their existing appointment.
Chief Executive Mike Ashley, the former Executive Deputy Chairman, whose wholly-owned companies, MASH Holdings Limited and MASH Beta Limited, currently hold approximately 4.98% and 57.08% respectively of the issued share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at 13 July 2017.
This agreement is described in the Directors Report on page 73.
78 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENCE BOARD COMMITTEES The Group considers the Non-Executive Directors to be To assist the Board with their duties, there are three principal independent in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Board Committees, being the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Code.
Each year the Board evaluations consider the independence Committee and the Nomination Committee.
The Committees are of each Board member.
The most recent evaluations did not governed by terms of reference which provide detail of matters highlight any Directors who lacked independence.
The Board delegated to each Committee and the authority they have to make continues to support our longest serving Non-Executive Director, decisions.
Full terms of reference are available on request and on Simon Bentley, who has been a Board member since 2007.
Board greatly values Simons independent experience and his Attendance by Directors at Board and Committee meetings during strong contribution to debate.
In supporting Simon the Board the year and the total number of meetings that they could have has taken full account of the Codes requirements to consider attended are set out in the table below.
All Directors attended carefully a Non-Executive Directors independence where that all meetings of the Board and of Committees of the Board of director has served on the Board for more than nine years from which they were members unless prevented from doing so by the date of their first election.
The Board is of the view that Simon prior commitments.
The Board is satisfied that currently no one continues to be independent, that there are no issues likely to Director exercises a disproportionate influence.
affect his independent judgement and that he is not financially dependent upon the fee he receives from the Company.
Board Board Audit Remuneration Nomination  Committee Committee EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS - RE-ELECTION Scheduled Unscheduled Meetings Meetings Meetings The Group complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code and Keith all Directors offer themselves for re-election every year.
4 4 9 9 - 3 3 2 2 Hellawell The Board has determined that all Directors must put Mike 4 4 9 9 - - - themselves forward for re-election at the 2017 AGM to comply Ashley with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Retiring Directors Simon may seek reappointment if willing and eligible to do so and if 4 4 9 9 5 5 3 3 2 2 Bentley so recommended by the Nomination Committee.
All Directors appointed by the Board are appointed after consideration of the Dave 2 2 4 4 - - - 1 recommendations of the Nomination Committee, and those so Forsey appointed must stand for reappointment at the following AGM.
Dave 4 4 9 9 5 5 3 3 2 2 Singleton Details of Executive Directors service contracts, and of the Chairmans and the Non-Executive Directors appointment Claire 4 4 9 9 5 5 3 3 2 2 letters, are given on page 88.
Copies of service contracts and of Jenkins appointment letters are available for inspection at the Companys Matt registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM.
3 3 9 9 - - - 2 Pearson EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE - TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT David Brayshaw 1 1 1 1 2 2 - - All newly appointed Directors are provided with an induction 3 programme which is tailored to their existing skills and experience.
The Board is informed of any material changes to laws 1 Meetings attended by Dave Forsey up to his resignation date of 22 September 2016 and regulations affecting the Groups business.
2 Meetings attended by Matt Pearson up to his resignation date of 31 December 2016 3 Meetings attended by David Brayshaw following his appointment on 8 December All Directors have access to the advice and services of the 2016 Company Secretary, and each Director and each Board Committee Note: A number of Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination may take independent professional advice at the Companys Committee meetings were attended by Board members who were not members of the expense, subject to prior notification to the other Non-Executive Committees.
The Board members concerned attended these meetings at the invitation of the Committee members.
Directors and the Company Secretary.
Appropriate Directors and Officers Insurance is maintained by the Company.
The meetings which took place throughout the year were a EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS - PERFORMANCE mixture of both scheduled meetings, for general matters, and unscheduled meetings, for more urgent matters.
All meetings EVALUATION were attended by all Board members.
The practices and processes of the Board are evaluated on a yearly basis, with the most recent evaluation being led externally.
There were a number of meetings throughout the year which were Following evaluations the feedback obtained is considered and solely for Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
Meetings the Board act on the learnings which have come to light.
also took place which were attended by Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman.
These meetings enabled the Non-Executive The most recent Board evaluation was conducted externally in Directors to discuss matters which they perhaps could not FY17 by NJMD Corporate Services Limited NJMD.
NJMD are discuss with the Executive Directors and or the Non-Executive an independent consultancy specialising in board performance Chairman present.
evaluation and have no other connection to the Company other than undertaking the external board evaluation in 2014.
NJMD made a number of recommendations which the Board will address.
79 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE THE MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE INCLUDE: AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 2017 Assisting the Board with the discharge of its responsibilities in relation to internal and external audits and controls: Dear Shareholder, Considering and making recommendations to the Board on the I am pleased to present the Audit Committee Report for the 53 reappointment of the external auditors: weeks ended 30 April 2017.
Agreeing the nature and scope of the external audit and the internal audit plan and monitoring the same: The Committee has an important role to play in effective reporting Monitoring the external audit, including reviewing the results to our stakeholders and ensuring high standards of quality and of the external audit and its independence, objectivity, effectiveness in the external audit process.
It is also responsible effectiveness and reviewing and agreeing the external for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of internal control auditors fee: and risk management policies and systems.
This report provides an overview of: Agreeing and monitoring the extent of the non-audit work that may be undertaken by the external auditors: The membership of the Committee and how often it has met Monitoring and making judgements and recommendations on during the year: the Groups financial reporting processes and the integrity and The main responsibilities of the Committee: clarity of the Groups financial statements as well as any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance What the Committee has done during the year: and reviewing significant financial reporting judgments How the Committee has assessed the effectiveness of the contained in them: external auditors, including ensuring their independence: Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups The Committees opinion on the Annual Report when viewed as internal financial control systems and internal control and risk a whole: and management systems, including a review of the activities of The Boards view of the Committees own effectiveness and the internal audit function and the effectiveness of our external what is planned for 2018. advisers on internal audit: Reviewing arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, MEMBERSHIP raise concerns about any improprieties in matters of financial I am Chairman of the Committee and the other members are Dave reporting: Singleton and David Brayshaw.
Prior to stepping down from the Informing the Board of the outcome of the audit and explaining Board on 3 May 2017, Claire Jenkins was also a member of the how the audit contributed to the integrity of the financial report Committee.
Biographical details of each Committee member are and what the role of the committee was in that process: and set out in the Directors profiles on page 72 of this Annual Report.
Reporting to the Board on how the Committee has discharged As Chairman of the Committee and Senior Independent its responsibilities during the year.
Non-Executive Director I am satisfied that the Committees membership includes directors with recent and relevant WHAT HAS THE COMMITTEE DONE DURING THE YEAR?
financial experience and competence in accounting and that During the year, and as further described below, the the Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the retail Committee has: sector in which the Group operates.
Monitored the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, MEETINGS particularly in light of the current macroeconomic climate and The Committee met five times during the year.
Non-Committee its likely impact on the Group: members of the Board and the management team, including Mike Assessed the effectiveness of the external audit process and Ashley, have attended Committee meetings during the year at considered the reappointment of Grant Thornton as external my invitation so that they can keep the Committee informed of auditors for 2018: important developments in the business and the risk and control Reviewed Group accounting policies, presentations and the environment.
The attendance of members of the management financial statements: team at these meetings also helps to reinforce a strong culture of risk management within the business.
Advised the Board on its interactions with the Financial Reporting Councils Corporate Reporting Review Team, as Our external auditors, Grant Thornton UK LLP, attended four further described below: and Committee meetings during the year and our internal audit Together with the Board, considered the Committees advisers, BDO LLP, attended one meeting.
After the Committee own effectiveness.
meetings at which Grant Thornton were present, the Committee members met with Grant Thornton without any of the NonINTERNAL CONTROLS Committee members of the Board or management team present.
As one of the fastest-growing retailers with rapidly expanding In my capacity as Chairman of the Committee, I also met with overseas and online operations, the Group has many complex Philip Westerman, the lead audit partner at Grant Thornton, operational risks to manage.
Information on the Groups approach on four additional occasions during the year as part of the to internal control and risk management is set out in the Committees assessment of Grant Thorntons effectiveness as our Corporate Governance Report on pages 77 to 85 of this external auditors.
Further details of this assessment are set Annual Report.
80 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 Central to the Groups system of internal controls has been the In addition to its assessment of the effectiveness of the Groups work undertaken by its Retail Support Unit.
The Retail Support internal controls, the Committee has delegated responsibility Unit conducts internal audits across the Groups retail operations from the Board for considering operational, financial and each year, providing internal assurance in relation to the efficacy compliance risks on a regular basis, which it has done throughout of the Groups controls over the operational procedures and the year and will continue to do in 2018. systems which generate and report trading data for the purposes EXTERNAL AUDITORS of compiling the Groups financial statements.
Our current external auditors, Grant Thornton, have been in place BDO, our external advisors on internal audit, performed an initial since the listing in February 2007.
Following a competitive tender audit needs assessment in 2015, shortly after their appointment, process, overseen by the Committee, a recommendation to based on their understanding of the retail sector and potential reappoint Grant Thornton was approved by shareholders at the risks facing the Group.
In consultation with the Committee, BDO Companys annual general meeting in 2016. developed a programme of targeted internal audits to provide assurance to the Committee regarding the management of To maintain the objectivity of the audit process, the external specific priority areas.
This programme of audits was approved auditors are required to rotate audit partners for the Group audit by the Committee in 2015 and has informed the specific internal every five years.
The current lead audit partner at Grant Thornton, audit plans approved by the Committee in each subsequent year.
Philip Westerman, has been in place for four years.
The internal audit plan is reviewed and revised each year by On an annual basis, the Committee considers the appointment or the Committee, in conjunction with management, and its reappointment as applicable of the external auditors and their effectiveness and appropriateness is then monitored by the remuneration and makes recommendations to the Board.
The Committee throughout the year in order to ensure that it is auditors are then proposed for appointment or reappointment as aligned to the key risks of the business.
applicable each year at the AGM.
This year has been one of significant change in the In making its recommendations to the Board, the Committee macroeconomic environment in which the Group operates, considers a number of factors relating to the level of service particularly following the result of the UKs referendum on provided by the external auditors and their independence.
membership of the European Union.
In addition, there have been a These include: number of changes in the Groups senior management, including the departure of Dave Forsey as Group Chief Executive and of The quality and scope of the planning of the external audit in Matthew Pearson as Acting Chief Financial Officer.
As a result, assessing risks and how the external auditors have planned to BDOs internal audit programme was put on hold and no internal evolve the audit plan to respond to changes in the business: audit work was undertaken during the year by BDO.
Nevertheless, The quality and timeliness of reports provided to the Committee the Committee focused on a number of significant areas of and the Board by the external auditors during the year: internal control during the year, including: The level of understanding that the external auditors have demonstrated in relation to the Groups businesses and the Stock valuation and the calculation of associated provisions: retail sector: External banking arrangements: The objectivity of the external auditors views on the internal The preparation and review of management accounts: controls around the Group and the robustness of challenge and Monitoring and reporting procedures in relation to budget findings on areas which require management judgement: variance: The contents of any external reports or regulatory statements Ledger entry processes: published in respect of the external auditor: and Accounts payable entry processes and the ageing of ledgers: The nature and scope of non-audit services provided by the external auditors and the level of fees charged for these Accounts receivable entry processes, petty cash and expenses: services.
Staff search procedures, including a review of progress in the implementation of agreed changes: This year, the Committee has given particular consideration Policies and procedures in relation to health and safety, to the results of the FRCs Audit Quality Inspection into Grant including a review of progress in the implementation of a Major Thornton, published in May 2016.
I have discussed these with Emergency Policy: and Philip Westerman with a particular focus on the FRCs key findings requiring action by Grant Thornton.
The Committee has also The implementation of a third party-administered confidential given due consideration to the FRCs ongoing investigation into employee hotline.
to the preparation, approval and audit of the Groups financial Whilst the Committee remains of the view that the Groups statements for the 52 weeks ended 24 April 2016, as internal controls continue to be effective, it will be reviewing mentioned below.
and revising its 2018 internal audit plan, having regard to the evolving needs of the Group and the changing risk environment.
In particular, the Committee will be considering the 2018 internal audit plan in the light of the Working Practices Report that was completed in September 2016.
81 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Group engaged Grant Thornton and member firms of Grant The Committee anticipates a significant reduction in the level of Thornton International to provide a number of non-audit services non-audit services provided by Grant Thornton during 2018 as a to the Group during the year.
The nature of these services were result of the introduction of the Revised Ethical Standard.
as follows: Overall, following its detailed assessment and discussions with Transactions advisory services: Grant Thornton, the Committee believes that Grant Thorntons independence, the objectivity of the external audit and the Taxation compliance services: and effectiveness of the audit process is safeguarded and remains Taxation advisory services.
strong and that high standards for external audit have been maintained.
This is evident to the Committee in Grant Thorntons Non-audit fees charged by Grant Thornton for its UK services robust internal processes, their continuing challenge, their during the year were 3.4m.
This compares to UK audit fees of focused reporting and their discussions with both management 0.8m and other assurance fees of 0.1m.
A significant component of these non-audit services related The Committee has therefore concluded that Grant Thornton to a specific and non-recurring transaction advisory services remain effective as external auditors and has recommended to engagement in respect of the Groups disposal of the Dunlop the Board that Grant Thornton be reappointed as the Groups business.
Non-audit fees for this engagement amounted to external auditors for the 2018 financial year.
The remainder of these non-audit services related to tax advisory and compliance services.
REVIEWED ACCOUNTING POLICIES, PRESENTATIONS AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In addition, member firms of Grant Thorntons international The Board has asked the Committee to advise it on whether the network provided audit and non-audit services to the Group with Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced fees for non-audit services totalling 0.7m.
These non-audit and understandable and provide the information necessary services related primarily to tax compliance and advisory services.
for shareholders to assess the Groups position, performance, Fees for international audit services were 0.6m.
More detail on fees charged by Grant Thornton is included in The Committee has reviewed the process for preparing this note 7 to the financial statements contained on page 113 of this Annual Report in order to assess whether other information Annual Report.
contained in this Annual Report is consistent with the Groups During the year, the Committee has regularly reviewed and financial statements for the 53 weeks ended 30 April 2017.
This process has included the following key elements: challenged the non-audit services being provided by Grant Thornton to the Group.
In particular, Grant Thornton met with the Review of new regulations and reporting requirements with Board and the Committee in February 2017 to provide a detailed external advisers to identify additional information and update on the level of non-audit fees compared to audit fees disclosures that may be appropriate for example, in relation to expected during the year, to outline the nature of the services the FRCs Revised Ethical Standard, referred to above : provided and to explain the safeguards implemented to ensure that objectivity and independence was maintained in relation to Preparation of a detailed timetable and allocation of drafting the external audit.
responsibility to relevant internal teams with review by an appropriate senior manager: As a result of its review of the provision of non-audit services from Provision of an explanation of the requirement for the Annual Grant Thornton, the Committee concluded that, due to the nature Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and of the work and the safeguards in place, this did not compromise understandable to those with drafting responsibility: the independence or objectivity of Grant Thornton as the Groups Monitoring of the integrity of the financial statements and external auditors.
The Committee was also satisfied that it was in other information provided to shareholders to ensure they the interests of the Group to purchase these non-audit services represented a clear and accurate assessment of the Groups from the external auditors because of Grant Thorntons deep financial position and performance: understanding of the business and expertise in the relevant areas.
Review of significant financial reporting issues and judgements The FRCs Revised Ethical Standard for audit engagements contained in the financial statements: came into effect on 17 June 2016.
It is applicable for accounting Review of all sections of the Annual Report by relevant periods commencing on or after this date.
For Sports Direct, this external advisers: is therefore applicable for the first time from 1 May 2017. Review by the senior manager working group responsible for the Annual Report process: A number of services historically provided to the Group by Grant Thornton are now prohibited under the Revised Ethical Standard, Interim progress review of process and Annual Report content including any tax-related work.
The Committee carefully reviewed with the Committee: and the Revised Ethical Standard in conjunction with Grant Thornton Overall review the contents of the Annual Report and and the provision of all services that are now prohibited ceased substantiation of why it provides a fair, balanced and with effect from 1 May 2017. understandable view of the year under review.
The Committee has agreed that, in the future, any proposed non-audit services by the external auditors will continue to require express pre-approval by the Committee to ensure that the requirements of the Revised Ethical Standard are complied with.
82 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 The Committee has reviewed this Annual Report and Accounts and REVIEW OF THE COMMITTEES EFFECTIVENESS has advised the Board that it considers them, taken as a whole, to During the year, the Board commissioned a performance be fair, balanced and understandable.
evaluation, externally facilitated by NJMD Corporate Services, in relation to the effectiveness of the Board and its committees, INTERACTIONS WITH THE FRC including the Audit Committee.
The Board has concluded that the During the year, the Board engaged with the FRC in relation to Committee continued to discharge its responsibilities effectively matters concerning its annual report and accounts for the 52 for the year but recognises the need to make plans for orderly weeks ended 26 April 2015.
The principal issue arising related succession and to maintain an appropriate balance of skills to whether, in the FRCs view, the 2015 strategic report complied and experience.
with the Companies Act 2006 requirements to be balanced and comprehensive.
Accordingly, in the year ahead, in addition to its main responsibilities as set out above the Committee intends to focus The Audit Committee worked closely with the Board, the finance on succession planning both in relation to its own membership team and with management to formulate its responses to the and also those members of the Board and management team FRCs enquiries and the Group now includes specific commentary with responsibility for the quality and effectiveness of the Groups concerning its international operations in its narrative reporting, financial reporting and external audit process as well as its including the strategic report, and has presented separately internal controls and risk management.
Recognising the length of segmental information about these stores in the Groups financial my service as a Director of Sports Direct International plc, that will statements.
This information is contained on pages 109 to include my own succession.
The Board, with the assistance of the Committee, will continue to ensure that best practice in its Simon Bentley narrative reporting is maintained.
Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Separately, on 28 November 2016, the FRCs Conduct Committee announced an investigation in relation to the preparation, 19 July 2017 approval and audit of the Groups financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 24 April 2016 and, specifically, certain arrangements between the Group and Barlin Delivery Limited.
The Group is not a subject of the investigation.
The nature of this arrangement was disclosed in the interim results as at 8 December 2016 and again in this years financial statements and it should be noted that, subsequent to year end, this arrangement has ceased.
FINANCIAL REPORTING The Committees review of this years interim and full year financial statements focused on the following areas of significance: Adequacy of inventory provisioning and assumptions inherent in the provision calculation: Completeness of onerous lease and other material provisions and accruals: Revenue recognition accounting policies: Completeness and disclosure of related party and other commercial relationships: Acquisitions in the year, accounting, control and recoverability of any year end receivables to controlled entities and investments: Quality of systems and management override of controls: Foreign currency impact on trading and eligibility for hedge accounting of forward currency contracts, financial instruments and hedging strategy: and Capital expenditure on freehold and other property assets.
83 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Biographical details of each member are shown in the Board of In my role as Chairman of the Nomination Committee, Directors profiles on page 72.
I ensure that the Board remains competent, balanced and effective.
These goals are achieved in a number of ways, The Remuneration Committee consists solely of Non-Executive including monitoring the succession of the Board, reviewing its Directors who are considered independent.
The purpose of the performance and identifying and nominating suitable candidates Committee is to assist the Board to ensure that Executive and to fill Board vacancies.
Non-Executive Directors receive appropriate levels of pay and benefits.
A key priority is to ensure that remuneration policy Biographical details of each member are shown in the Board of is aligned with strategy to achieve the long-term success of Directors profiles on page 72. the Group.
The Committee ensures that it complies with the The aim of the Committee is to ensure that the Board remains requirements of regulatory and governance bodies including balanced, knowledgeable and diverse in order that it is able to fully the UK Corporate Governance Code while meeting stakeholder, meet the needs of the Group.
Going forward we aim to continue to shareholder and staff expectations.
manage the transition of the Board, in particular the addition of THE RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE new Non-Executive Directors, through meetings with candidates INCLUDE: both at interviews and at networking events, consulting with other Committee members regarding their views on the suitability Determining the Companys policy on Executive remuneration, of candidates, and discussing the key requirements of the Group including the design of bonus schemes and targets and with Board members.
Determining the levels of remuneration for the Chairman and The Nomination Committee will usually meet twice a year and each of the Executive Directors.
will also meet when appropriate.
The Committee met formally Monitoring the remuneration of senior management and on two occasions during FY17.
All of the Nomination Committee making recommendations in respect thereof.
members are Non-Executive Directors and are considered to be independent.
See page 78 regarding Simon Agreeing any compensation for loss of office of any Bentleys independence.
THE RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee meets at least three times a year INCLUDE: and met on three occasions during FY17.
Reviewing the leadership needs of the Group, looking at both A report on the remuneration of Directors appears on pages 86 Executives and Non-Executives.
Reviewing the composition, structure and size of the Board, and making recommendations to the Board of adjustments WHAT HAS THE COMMITTEE DONE DURING THE YEAR?
Worked on the Share Scheme, including announcements.
Giving consideration to succession planning for Directors, Reviewed the Directors Remuneration policy.
taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Group and the skills and expertise therefore needed on Received updates on the vesting of the 2011 share schemes.
Considered the introduction of a new employee share scheme.
Ensuring that Directors are aware of what is expected of them.
Agreed to guarantee minimum share price values on the final Formally documenting the appointment of Directors.
vesting under the 2011 share scheme.
Identifying potential candidates for senior posts, and making Reviewed and approved the Directors Remuneration Report recommendations to the Board as and when necessary.
The Board has established a Nomination Committee to ensure a Full details of Directors remuneration can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 86 to 91. formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
Dave Singleton The Nomination Committee also determines succession plans Chairman of the Remuneration Committee for the Chairman and the Chief Executive who are not present at 19 July 2017 meetings when the matter is discussed.
Succession plans are reviewed by the Nomination Committee at least once a year.
84 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 WHAT HAS THE COMMITTEE DONE DURING THE YEAR?
SHARE DEALING CODES Considered the appointment of a workers representative to Following the implementation of the Market Abuse Regulation on the Board and agreed the framework for appointing a workers 3 July 2016, the Group adopted a new share dealing code for its representative to attend Board meetings to facilitate a healthy persons discharging managerial responsibilities PDMRs.
This and constructive dialogue on behalf of the Sports Direct family.
code includes notification obligations for PDMRs, and prohibits them from dealing in any shares in the Company during Reviewed its terms of reference in line with current closed periods.
Facilitated the search for Non-Executive Directors and a Details concerning the share capital structure of the Company Chief Financial Officer and reviewed the steps taken towards can be found in the Directors Report on page 73. making an appointment.
Candidates met with members of the Committee in order that the Committee were able to form a RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES conclusion regarding recommendations.
The key features of the Groups system of internal control and Reviewed the top management structure in place.
Made risk management systems in relation to the financial reporting recommendations as to changes which may be required in process and the preparation of the Group accounts are set out order to strengthen the position of the Group in future.
below or cross-referred to in other parts of the Annual Report where relevant.
Considered prospective candidates to be appointed to the role of Chief Financial Officer.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for determining Met with stakeholders and reviewed the feedback given.
the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives and for maintaining sound Dr Keith Hellawell QPM risk management and internal control systems, and for reviewing Chairman of the Nomination Committee and Chairman of their effectiveness.
The risk management process and systems of the Board internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Companys objectives.
It should be recognised that such systems can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
UK BRIBERY ACT The Group has an approved policy in place which was created ASSESSMENT OF BUSINESS RISK following the introduction of the UK Bribery Act.
As a result of the A system to identify, assess, and evaluate business risk is Act, all policies and procedures were reviewed to ensure that they embedded within the management processes throughout the complied with the Act and measures are in place to prevent staff Group.
Strategic risks are regularly reviewed by the Board and being offered and or accepting bribes.
Risks relating to the key activities within the subsidiary operating units are assessed continuously.
BUSINESS MODEL Our business model, which sets out the basis on which the Further details of the risks and uncertainties relating to the Company generates or preserves value over the longer term, and Groups business, and how the Group seeks to mitigate these, can the strategy for delivering the objectives of the Company, can be be found on pages 66 to 70. found at pages 44 to 47.
By Order of the Board WHISTLE-BLOWING There is a formal whistle-blowing policy in place for staff who wish Cameron Olsen to raise issues or concerns relating to the Groups activities on a Company Secretary confidential basis.
19 July 2017 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board recognises the importance of communicating with shareholders.
This is done through the Annual Report and general meetings, and announcements.
Directors are available at, and following, the AGM when shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive regularly meet with the Companys institutional shareholders to discuss the Groups strategy and financial performance within the constraints of information already available to the public in accordance with the Companys published Engagement Statement.
All other Board members are also available to meet with shareholders, as and when required.
REMUNERATION The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining and reviewing remuneration policy and setting remuneration levels.
See Remuneration Report on pages 86 to 91.
