Directors report Going concern Share capital In considering the going concern basis for preparing the financial Details of the issued share capital and the rights and restrictions statements, the Directors have considered the Companys objectives attached to the shares, together with details of movements in the and strategy, its risks and uncertainties in achieving its objectives Companys issued share capital during the year, are shown in note and its review of business performance, which are all set out in the 23.
Pursuant to the Companys employee share option schemes, strategic report, operating review and financial review sections of 6,478,392 ordinary shares of 10 pence each were issued during this annual report and accounts.
The Groups liquidity and funding the year.
491,042 shares pursuant to the Companys employee arrangements are described in notes 19 and 20 to the financial share option schemes were issued between 1 May and statements, as well as in the capital structure and treasury 29 June 2017 inclusive.
The Company has not utilised its authority management section of the strategic report.
The Directors to make market purchases of 94,493,212 shares granted to it at consider that the Group has significant covenant and liquidity the 2016 AGM but, in line with market practice, will be seeking to headroom in its borrowing facilities for the foreseeable future.
renew such authority at this years AGM.
After reviewing the Companys expenditure commitments, Dividends current financial projections and expected future cash flows with appropriate sensitivities applied, together with the available An interim dividend for 2016 17 of 4.6 pence per ordinary share was paid on 2 May 2017 and the Directors recommend a final cash resources and undrawn committed borrowing facilities, the Directors have considered that adequate resources exist to dividend of 10.6 pence per ordinary share which, together with the interim dividend, increases the total dividend for the year continue in operational existence for a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of this report.
Accordingly, the Directors to 15.2 pence 2015 16: 12.8 pence.
Subject to approval of shareholders at the AGM to be held on 5 September 2017, the continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
final dividend will be paid on 1 November 2017 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 6 October 2017.
Acquisitions and divestments Political donations 2016 17 acquisitions and disposals No political donations were made during the year ended In the year ended 30 April 2017, the Group made various business 30 April 2017 2015 16: nil.
DS Smith has a policy of not making acquisitions, which are not considered material to the Group donations to political organisations or independent election individually or in aggregate.
These comprise the acquisition of candidates or incurring political expenditure anywhere in two businesses specialising in point of sale and display product the world, as defined in the Political Parties, Elections and and services for in-store marketing Creo in the UK, and DekuPack Referendums Act 2000. in Denmark, Parish a US manufacturer and supplier of bag-in-box systems, Gopaca a corrugated producer in Portugal and P&I Directors and officers liability insurance Display a specialist corrugated display business in Portugal for a total of 71 million net of cash and cash equivalents.
Loans and The Company has purchased and maintains appropriate borrowings acquired from these transactions were 14 million.
insurance cover in respect of Directors and Officers liabilities.
The Company has also entered into qualifying third-party indemnity arrangements for the benefit of all its Directors, 2015 16 acquisitions and disposals in a form and scope which comply with the requirements of On 31 May 2015, the Group acquired the Duropack business, the Companies Act 2006.
These indemnities were in force effected by the purchase of equity of the Duropack business for throughout the year and up to the date of this Annual Report.
305 million on a cash, debt and, to the extent legally possible and commercially practicable, pension free basis.
Risk governance On 31 July 2015, the Group acquired the corrugated activities of The Board retains accountability for establishing and maintaining Grupo Lantero, including several operations in which DS Smith the Groups systems of internal control and risk management and previously held an equity accounted minority.
That acquisition was for reviewing their effectiveness but has delegated day-to-day effected by the purchase of equity, and the total consideration, responsibility to the Audit Committee.
These systems are designed including the assumption of debt, was 190 million.
In addition to manage, and where possible eliminate, the risk of failure to to the acquisitions detailed above the Group also made various achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable, but not other business acquisitions and disposals, which are not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There considered material to the Group individually or in aggregate.
is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
58 Governance Our risk management framework and the processes we put in Internal control place last year are operating well and serve to identify, assess and The Board has an overall responsibility for the Groups system of consider the possible remedies and responses to the principal risks internal control, including financial, operational and compliance and uncertainties the Group faces.
The Group continues to improve controls.
The Board is also responsible for risk management the management of its key risks and to hold a strong position to systems and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Such a system, absorb the financial and operational impact should those risks however, can only be designed to manage rather than to eliminate materialise.
In doing so, the Board is encouraged by the continuing risk.
Therefore it can provide only reasonable and not absolute work across the Group and its Divisions, the investments being assurance against material misstatement or loss.
We have the made in risk management and the growing interest and skills of necessary procedures in place to ensure that there is an ongoing our employees in this area.
process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks to the Group.
These procedures are in line with Financial Further details on the Groups risk management approach and Reporting Council guidance and have been in place throughout its management and mitigation of each principal risk is set out in the year under review and up to the date of the approval of these the principal risks section on pages 42 to 45.
Following the new financial statements.
Our risk governance process, including how requirement of the Code to report on the Groups longer-term it is reviewed by the Board, is described in more detail on page 39. solvency and viability, the Groups viability statement is set out on page 41.
The Board determines the objectives and broad policies of the Group.
It meets regularly and there is a schedule of matters Other disclosures which are required to be brought to it for decision.
The Board is accountable for, but has delegated to the Audit Committee the This Directors governance report fulfils the requirements of the responsibility for, establishing a system of internal controls directors report for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 the appropriate to the business environments in which the Group Act.
The strategic report can be found on pages 1 to 45, and operates.
Key elements of this system include: encompasses our corporate social responsibility report.
a clearly defined divisional organisation structure for monitoring In line with the Regulations which implement the European Union the conduct and operations of individual business units: Accounting Directive SI 2015 980, a complete list of the Groups subsidiaries has been included on pages 130 to 133 to comply with clear delegation of authority throughout the Group, starting s409 of the Act.
with the matters reserved for the Board: a formal process for ensuring that key risks affecting all the We have chosen, in accordance with the Act, to include certain Groups operations are identified and assessed on a regular information in our strategic report or financial statements that basis, together with the controls in place to mitigate those risks.
would otherwise be required to be disclosed in the Directors Risk consideration is embedded in decision-making processes.
These are as follows: The most significant risks are periodically reported to the Subject matter Page Board and considered by it.
The risk process is reviewed Important events since the financial year-end 9 by the Audit Committee: Likely future developments in the business 16 the preparation and review of comprehensive annual divisional Research and development 19 and Group budgets and an annual review and approval by the Use of financial instruments 35 Board of the Corporate Plan: Waiver of dividends 57 the monthly reporting of actual results and their review against Employment of disabled persons 26 budget, forecasts including bank covenant headroom and the previous year, with explanations obtained for all Employee involvement 24 significant variances: Greenhouse gas emissions 38 an Operating Framework laying down common control The information that fulfils the requirements of the Corporate procedures and policies to apply throughout the Group.
This Governance Statement for the purposes of the Disclosure includes clearly defined policies for capital expenditure and Guidance and Transparency Rules can be found on pages 46 to 63, investment, including appropriate authorisation levels, with and forms part of the Directors report.
The 2014 and the 2016 UK larger capital projects, acquisitions and disposals requiring Corporate Governance Code can be accessed at www.
uk Board approval: regular formal meetings between the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and divisional management to discuss strategic, operational and financial issues: and communicating key corporate values through our Code of Conduct to all employees.
com 59 Directors report continued Internal audit Disclosure of information to the Auditor The Groups Internal Audit function, which is outsourced to Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of the approval of KPMGLLP, undertakes regular reviews of the individual businesses this Annual Report confirms that: operations and their systems of internal controls, makes a so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit recommendations to improve controls and follows up to ensure information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and that management implements the recommendations made.
b the Director has taken all the steps he she ought to have taken The Internal Audit plan is determined on a risk assessment basis as a Director in order to make him herself aware of any relevant and is reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee.
audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor Internal Audits findings are reported to Group and divisional is aware of that information.
business management as well as to the Audit Committee.
The This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Board can confirm that it has carried out an annual review of the with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. overall effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and risk management procedures, during the year and up to the Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office date of approval of this Annual Report.
This included a process of as Auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at self-certification by senior divisional management in which they the forthcoming AGM.
were asked to confirm that their divisions have complied with By order of the Board Group policies and procedures and to report any significant control weaknesses identified during the past year.
In addition, it involved Iain Simm reviewing the results of the work of the Groups Internal Audit Group General Counsel and Company Secretary function and the risk identification and management processes 29 June 2017 identified above.
Auditor rotation timeline 2017 2006 2013 14 2023 24 Deloitte LLP Full competitive tender Competitive tender, appointed.
following which Deloitte was unless specific re-appointed, as described circumstances on page 63. require an earlier tender.
