CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance statement Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 version The company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code which isissued by the Financial Reporting Council and which is available at www.
The Code sets out guidance in the form of principles and provisions on how companies should be directed and controlled to follow good governance practice.
Companies listed in the UK are required to disclose how they have applied the main principles and whether they have complied with its provisions throughout the financial year.
Where the provisions have not been complied with companies must provide an explanation.
The board considers that the company has complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code dated September 2014 throughout the year in all respects, save that, during the period between the retirement of Ian Durant from the board in September 2016, until Gordon Fryett joined the board on 1December 2016, there were only two independent non-executive director members of the audit committee, one less than the three required by Code provision A4.2.
Although the decision to appoint Gordon Fryett was made and announced in September 2016, his appointment only became effective on 1 December 2016 as his prior commitments meant Chairmans introduction that he was unable to attend any meetings scheduled prior to that date.
I am pleased to introduce this report on the systems of The board governance and control which the board operates to ensure that Board composition we comply with the main principles and relevant provisions of the As at the year end the board comprised the chairman, two executive UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
As a board we take directors and four non-executive directors.
The non-executive chairman corporate governance very seriously, and I will continue to ensure is Philip Yea, the chief executive is Rooney Anand and the senior that we maintain high standards throughout my tenure.
independent director is Rob Rowley.
The 2016 17 financial year was a busy one for Greene King.
The board believes that the structure and size of the board are appropriate Thebusiness focus continued to be on dealing with the integration and that no single individual or group dominates the decision-making of Spirit Pub Company and on the performance of our three main process.
During the year one non-executive director, Ian Durant, retired business units, whilst at board level we continued to ensure that from the board and he was replaced by Gordon Fryett, who joined the we have a well balanced and effective board, strong oversight board in December.
Further details are set out in the nomination ofrisk management, alignment of remuneration policies with committee report.
shareholder interests and sound shareholder relationships.
The directors biographies are on pages 44 and 45.
In accordance with the Code, we conducted a board evaluation exercise during the year.
We used an internally generated questionnaire covering a range of topics as a starting point, which was completed by all board members and the company secretary.
I then followed up on these with individual discussions with everyone who had completed the questionnaire, with a view to focusing on how to improve board effectiveness.
As a result we have implemented anumber of minor changes to our ways of working, but I am pleased to be able to report that nothing significant was raised.
Finally, I would like to thank my fellow directors for their support during my first year as chairman.
I am confident that we can continue to maintain a strong and effective governance system to enable the business to deliver its strategy, generate shareholder value I believe we can andsafeguard our shareholders long-term interests.
continue to maintain Philip Yea a strong and effective Chairman governance system.
46 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Independence of non-executive directors Operation of the board In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, more than half The board has a formal schedule of matters which are reserved for its of the board, excluding the chairman, are non-executive directors.
The consideration, including approval of the long-term objectives and strategy, board is satisfied that all of the non-executive directors were independent approval of budgets and financial statements including the annual report throughout the year, in that they satisfied the independence criteria of the and accounts, acquisitions and disposals, changes to the structure of the code on their appointment and continue to satisfy those criteria.
group and overall corporate governance issues.
It reviews trading performance and considers major capital expenditure.
Philip Yea, the chairman, was independent on appointment, having never been employed by the company and having diverse business interests The board has delegated certain responsibilities to standing committees, beyond the company, and in the opinion of the board remains independent.
details of which are set out on page 48.
By delegating key responsibilities to these committees, the board is able to ensure that adequate time is devoted Rob Rowley was the senior independent non-executive director during by board members to the oversight of key areas within their responsibility.
He too has never been employed by the company and has diverse business interests.
As well as supporting the chairman and acting as a Day-to-day management and control of the business is delegated to the sounding board for the chairman and an intermediary for other directors, executive directors, business unit managing directors and certain key functional a key responsibility for the senior independent director is to be available heads, who meet formally on a four-weekly basis together with other senior for direct contact from shareholders should they require.
Board meetings are scheduled to be held eight times a year, with main Board independence current directors meetings linked to key events in the companys financial calendar, with the Nomination Audit Remuneration annual results and dividend being approved in June or July and the interim Name Independent committee committee committee results and dividend in November or December.
Regular agenda items include an overview of the market and current trading as well as a detailed Philip Yea Yes N review of financial performance against agreed targets.
Rooney Anand No There is a two-day meeting of the board in February each year focusing Mike Coupe Yes N A R on strategy, with the business unit managing directors and heads of the Kirk Davis No main functional areas, namely trading, marketing, HR and property, attending for part thereof.
The strategy sessions include an in-depth review of Gordon Fryett Yes N A R relevant economic factors and issues affecting the sector and managements Rob Rowley Yes N A R projections for the medium term.
The board then has the opportunity to agree the strategic plans across all areas for the short and medium term.
Lynne Weedall Yes N R Following approval of the companys strategy, budgets are prepared for the next financial year, which are reviewed and approved by the board in April.
The board also has a programme to conduct more detailed reviews Leadership of different aspects of the business at each meeting, with the schedule Role of the board oftopics being regularly reviewed to ensure that it remains appropriate.
The board has collective responsibility for the long-term success of The relevant managing director or functional head attends such meetings thecompany and for its leadership, strategy, control and management.
to present and answer questions.
The offices of chairman and chief executive are separate and distinct and The board has responsibility for determining, with the assistance of the the division of responsibilities between them has been clearly established, audit committee, whether the annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced set out in writing and agreed by the board.
and understandable to enable shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
In coming to its view, the board The chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the took into account the views of the audit committee, which assisted in the board and for ensuring that each non-executive director is able to make process this year, as well as its own knowledge of the group, its strategy an effective contribution to the board through debate and discussion with and performance in the year, the guidance given to all contributors to the executive directors.
He is also responsible for setting the style and theannual report and a detailed review by senior management of the tone of board discussions.
The chief executives role is to develop the companys strategic direction and to lead senior management in executing the companys strategy and Key focus areas for the board during the year included the continuing integration of the Spirit business, focusing on both synergy capture and managing the operational requirements of the business.
the brand swap programme, where the board reviewed the returns on The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that investment and the plans for each proposed core brand: and the impact the strategies proposed by the executive directors are carefully examined ofthe Brexit vote, with the associated cost challenges and impact on and fully discussed, that the performance of the company is monitored consumer confidence, and the actions being taken by management and challenged and that the financial information provided is comprehensive toaddress theseissues.
They are also responsible for ensuring, through the relevant committees, that appropriate remuneration arrangements are in place forthe executive directors.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance statement continued GREENE KING BOARD The board is ultimately responsible for the long-term success of the company.
Its principal responsibilities are to: approve the groups long-term objectives, commercial strategy and overall funding strategy: approve the budgets and financial statements, including the report and accounts: approve acquisitions and disposals: and oversee the groups operations and review performance in light of the groups strategy, objectives, business plans and budgets.
COMMITTEES NOMINATION AUDIT REMUNERATION reviews structure, size and composition reviews and monitors full year sets remuneration policy: ofthe board: andinterimresults: sets executive director remuneration makes recommendations for monitors internal financial controls: and incentives: appointments: and oversees external audit relationship: and approves annual performance succession planning.
objectives:and oversees risk management.
approves granting of long-term incentives.
MEMBERS Philip Yea Chairman Rob Rowley Chairman Lynne Weedall Chairman Mike Coupe Mike Coupe Mike Coupe Gordon Fryett Gordon Fryett Gordon Fryett Rob Rowley Rob Rowley Lynne Weedall Nomination committee report Audit committee report Remuneration report page 50 page 51 page 54 Between meetings, as required, the board can be in frequent contact to Leadership continued progress the companys business and, if necessary, board meetings can be Operation of the board continued held at short notice.
Where possible, however, ad hoc committees of the board are appointed to deal with matters which it is known will need to Nomination Audit Remuneration Board committee committee committee be dealt with between scheduled board meetings.
It is expected that all directors attend board and relevant committee meetings, unless they are Executive directors prevented from doing so by prior commitments.
If directors are unable to Rooney Anand 8 8 attend meetings in person or by telephone they are given the opportunity to be consulted and comment in advance of the meeting.
Kirk Davis 8 8 Attendance at meetings held during the year is set out opposite.
Non-executive directors 1 Board papers are generally circulated seven days prior to each board or Mike Coupe 8 8 5 6 3 3 5 5 committee meeting to ensure that directors have sufficient time to review 2 Ian Durant 2 3 1 3 1 1 0 1 them before the meeting.
Documentation includes detailed management 3 accounts, reports on current trading, reports from each business unit and Gordon Fryett 3 3 2 2 1 1 3 3 main functional areas and full papers on matters where the board is 4 Rob Rowley 8 8 6 6 3 3 4 5 required to give its approval.
Lynne Weedall 8 8 6 6 5 5 The chairman holds regular, informal meetings with the non-executive Philip Yea 8 8 6 6 directors without the executive directors being present and the non-executives also meet with the chairman and the chief executive onaninformal basis twice each year.
Mike Coupe was unable to attend one nomination committee meeting due to prior commitments with J Sainsbury plc.
Ian Durant was unable to attend one board meeting, two nomination committee meetings and one remuneration committee meeting due to prior commitments elsewhere.
He retired from the board on 9 September 2016.
Gordon Fryett was appointed to the board on 1 December 2016.
Rob Rowley was unable to attend one remuneration committee meeting due to prior commitments elsewhere.
48 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board effectiveness Communication with shareholders The board is keen to ensure that our shareholders have a good understanding Board performance and evaluation of the business and its performance, and that the directors are aware of The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the board to conduct any issues or concerns which shareholders may have.
Communication anannual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees with shareholders takes a variety of forms.
Institutional shareholders and analysts The board evaluation exercise was carried out by Philip Yea, who conducted a questionnaire-based review followed by in-depth discussions with each There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, including director.
All material matters agreed during the previous review had been meetings after the announcement of the year-end and interim results.
Overall it was felt that the board was working well and that the Analysts are also invited to presentations at those times and separately strategy review meeting had been particularly effective.
A regular review toanalyst trips to visit our premises and hear presentations on specific of the forward agenda for board meetings has allowed effective planning divisions of the business.
The board receives regular reports and feedback of important board discussions, and a number of topics for future review on the meetings held between the executive directors and principal were identified and agreed as part of this exercise.
The companys risk shareholders, and copies of analysts reports on the company.
management process continued to evolve, both requiring and enabling a The senior independent non-executive director, Rob Rowley, is available more nuanced discussion of risk appetite.
Certain changes to the meeting to shareholders if they have concerns about governance issues which the cycle and the interaction between the audit committee dates and those of normal channels of contact fail to resolve.
the board were agreed, subject to a further review after an initial period.
A number of actions were agreed to improve the interface between the AGM remuneration committee and the company between its meetings.
The The AGM is fully utilised as a means of communicating directly with findings were recorded in a paper considered by the board at its meeting private shareholders, who receive a brief presentation on the business in April 2017.
An evaluation was also undertaken of the operation of each before the formal business of the meeting begins.
They also have the full ofthe boards committees, and of the chairman, the latter being conducted opportunity to ask questions during the meeting and to meet directors byRob Rowley, the senior independent non-executive director.
and senior management informally after the meeting.
The board aims to ensure that all members of the board, including in particular the chairmen In addition to the annual evaluation exercise there remains an ongoing of the board committees, are available to answer questions at the AGM.
dialogue within the board to ensure that it operates effectively and that any matters raised are addressed in a timely manner.
The notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
All substantive items of business at shareholders The performance of the executive directors is reviewed annually by the meetings are dealt with under separate resolutions, including a resolution remuneration committee in conjunction with their annual pay review to adopt the report and accounts.
The chairman announces the results of andthe payment of bonuses.
the proxy voting on each resolution after it has been dealt with on a show Training and support of hands.
The training needs of the board and its committees are regularly reviewed The next AGM will be held on 8 September 2017 at the Millennium and each director is responsible for ensuring their skills and knowledge of Grandstand, Rowley Mile Racecourse Conference Centre, Newmarket, the company remain up to date.
Particular emphasis is placed on ensuring Suffolk CB8 0TF.
Details can be found in the separate notice of meeting.
that directors are aware of proposed legislative changes in areas such ascorporate governance, financial reporting and sector-specific issues.
Website Alldirectors are encouraged to visit the companys pubs and restaurants The company maintains a website www.
co. uk to provide and do so throughout the year.
up-to-date, detailed information on the companys operations and brands, which includes a dedicated investor relations section.
All company Newly appointed directors, including Gordon Fryett, who joined the board announcements are available on this site, as are copies of slides used for in December, receive a tailored induction on joining the board to acquaint presentations to investment analysts.
We are happy to answer questions them with the company.
This includes meetings with other board members by telephone or email investorrelations@greeneking.
co. uk or and senior management, the provision of an induction pack containing general companysecretary@greeneking.
information on the company, its policies and procedures and financial and operational information and a briefing on directors responsibilities.
Board committees There is an agreed written procedure for directors, in the furtherance of their The board has established a nomination committee, an audit committee duties, to take independent professional advice at the companys expense.
and a remuneration committee, each of which has formal terms of reference Directors also have access to the services of the company secretary.
governing its method of operation.
Each of the terms of reference, which Thecompany has in place directors and officers liability insurance.
have been approved by the board, is available on request or to download Commitments and conflicts of interest from the companys website and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
All significant commitments which the directors have outside Greene King are disclosed prior to appointment and on an ongoing basis when there DTR disclosure are any changes.
The board is satisfied that the chairman and each of the The information required by DTR 7.2 is set out in this report, the nomination non-executive directors commits sufficient time to their duties and fulfils committee report and the audit committee report, except for information their obligations to the company.
6 which is set out in the directors report.
The board has the right, under the articles of association, to approve potential situational conflicts of interest.
A small number of such potential conflicts have been approved by the board following disclosure by certain directors, in each case with the relevant director not taking part in any decision relating to their own position.
Directors are also aware that the disclosure and authorisation of any potential conflict situation does not detract from their requirement to notify the board separately of an actual or potential conflict in relation to a proposed transaction by the company.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 49
