Governance Audit Committee report The Audit Committee continues to address its key responsibilities and to respond effectively to changes in the business and legislative environment.
Member Since Jonathan Nicholls 2009 Chris Britton 2013 Ian Griffiths 2014 Kathleen ODonovan 2012 Louise Smalley 2014 The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Details of individual Directors attendance can be found on page 55.
Jonathan Nicholls Dear shareholders Chairman of the Audit Committee Membership and operation of the Committee Key responsibilities During the year, the Audit Committee met four times and met The accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in privately with the external Auditor after each meeting.
In addition the Groups accounts.
to the Audit Committee members, the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, representatives from the External financial reporting and associated announcements.
external Auditor, Internal Audit and the Group Financial Controller Managing the appointment, independence, effectiveness attended parts of these meetings by invitation.
and remuneration of the Groups external Auditor, including the policy on the award of non-audit services.
Meetings of the Committee are scheduled close to the end of the half and full year, as well as before the publication of the Initiating and supervising a competitive tender process for associated half and full-year financial reports, so as to ensure the external audit when next required.
the Committee is informed fully, and on a timely basis, on areas The resourcing, planning and effectiveness of Internal Audit of significant risks and judgement.
performed on behalf of the Group by an accountancy firm currently KPMG LLP, which is independent from the The Board is satisfied that Jonathan Nicholls and the members Groups external Auditor.
of the Audit Committee have both current and relevant financial experience as set out on pages 50 to 51 and that therefore the The adequacy and effectiveness of the internal Audit Committee, as a whole, has competence relevant to the control environment.
sector in which the Company operates.
The Audit Committee is The Groups risk management processes and performance.
satisfied that the Groups executive compensation arrangements The establishment and oversight of fraud prevention do not prejudice robust controls and good stewardship.
arrangements and reports under the Speak Up!
The Groups compliance with the 2014 and the 2016 UK Allocation of time Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The provision of advice to the Board on whether the Annual Report and Accounts, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides all the Governance 10% necessary information for shareholders to assess the Financial Companys performance, business model and strategy.
reporting 50% Risk management 20% External audit 10% Internal audit 10% The Audit Committees Terms of Reference can be found at http: www.
com investors corporate-governance committees Annual report & accounts 2017 | dssmith.
com 61 Audit Committee report continued The Chairman of the Audit Committee also held separate private Risk management and internal controls meetings during the year with representatives from Internal Audit, the Group Finance Director and his team, and the external Auditor.
In fulfilling the Committees oversight of the risk management and control environment, a number of key activities are The Audit Committee received sufficient, reliable and undertaken during the year, as well as having regular timely information from management to enable it to fulfil meetings with senior management.
The Audit Committee considered the risk management Role of the Committee activities during the year including particular focus on specific areas of IT security and Brexit, and reviewed risk The Audit Committees role is central in bringing together the reporting to ensure that the balance between risk and Groups risk management activities and control environment to opportunity was in keeping with the Groups risk appetite.
ensure the integrity of financial reporting and maintain a strong risk focused culture.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee attends The Committee receives a separate report on any the Groups Annual General Meeting every year and makes himself matters raised through Speak Up!, the Groups confidential available for any shareholder questions on the Committees remit.
whistleblowing channel, and any related investigations.
The Committee oversees and reviews the management of risk, The Committee approved the Groups annual Internal financial results, and the Groups internal audit function.
The Audit plan, which was primarily risk-based focusing on acquisition and integration programmes continue to be a focus, the assurance of core processes, as well as overseeing responding to the Groups continuing growth during 2016 17, as internal compliance activities.
During the year, the Committee well as the transformation projects that have been undertaken received regular reports summarising findings from the to optimise the support infrastructure of the enlarged Group.
Internal Audit reviews performed, and action plans to address any areas highlighted for improvement.
In order to help the Committee continue to meet their responsibilities, training and briefing sessions are organised during the Committee meetings.
During 2016 17, sessions included a Corporate Governance developments update, and a briefing on the revised UK pensions investment strategy.
Significant matters considered In 2016 17, the Audit Committees review of other significant accounting and financial reporting issues included a focus on the key areas outlined as follows: Issue Review and conclusion Classification and The Group has continued to deliver programmes to restructure the business to evolve and optimise the operational footprint and the support infrastructure.
The costs of these programmes, together with presentation of exceptional items other elements of income and cost including acquisition and integration costs, impairments, and gains or losses on business disposals, are classified as exceptional because of their nature, incidence or size.
The Directors believe that such a classification assists in the understanding of the trading and financial results of the Group.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the appropriateness of the income and costs both included in, and excluded from, exceptional items by challenging and seeking explanations from management.
The Audit Committee reviewed reports prepared by management and the external Auditor.
This work is a recurring agenda item in all Audit Committee meetings where the Audit Committee reviews reports prepared by management.
The external Auditor reports on these matters at the half and full year.
The Audit Committee is satisfied with the resulting presentation.
Taxation The focus by the Committee on taxation during the year considered the high current level of fiscal authority activity, the upcoming country by country reporting requirements and the Groups expansion into new markets, in the context of the Groups overall tax strategy.
Taxation represents a significant cost to the business both in cash and accounting terms, and the Group is exposed to differing tax regimes and risks which affect both the carrying values of tax balances including deferred tax and the resultant income statement charges.
The Audit Committee reviewed the tax charge for the half year and the full year, including the underlying tax effect, the appropriateness of and movement in tax provisions recognised, and the risks associated with them.
62 Governance During the year the Committee reviewed the updated wording of EU regulations and other guidance mean that, with effect from the Groups longer-term viability statement, set out on page 41. the Groups 2017 18 year, the non-audit services permitted to be In order to do this, they ensured that the model used for scenario provided by the Auditor will be limited further and the ability for and sensitivity testing aligned clearly with the principal risks of the pre-approval of non-audit services will be substantially removed.
Group, challenged the underlying assumptions used, and reviewed In addition, a cap on the ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees paid the results of the detailed work performed.
The Committee was to the Auditor of 70% has been introduced which is expected to satisfied that the viability statement had been prepared on an be effective from the Groups 2020 21 year.
In response to these appropriate basis and that the statement was justified.
changes, the Audit Committee has updated its internal guidance to reflect the new requirements as they become effective.
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Board to confirm that the Annual Report presents a fair, balanced and understandable The Audit Committee receives written confirmation from the assessment of the Groups performance, business model and external Auditor as to any relationships that might have a bearing strategy.
Following a request from the Board, the Committee on their independence, whether they consider themselves undertook procedures to advise on this matter.
In particular, independent within the meaning of the UK regulatory and Committee members received an early draft of the Annual professional requirements, and on their quality control processes Report during the planning process to enable review of any areas and ethical standards.
On the basis of the Committees own review, requiring additional clarity or better balance in the messaging.
approval requirements in the non-audit services policy, and the Auditors confirmation, the Audit Committee is satisfied with Deloittes independence and effectiveness.
External Auditors Pursuant to the terms of the Statutory Audit Services for The Audit Committee is able to monitor the effectiveness of Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of the external Auditor both through direct assessment and through Competitive Tender Process and Audit Committee Responsibilities recurring activities.
The Audit Committee Chairman meets with Order 2014 Competition & Markets Authority Order, which was the lead engagement partner regularly and individual Committee introduced with effect from this year, the Audit Committee is solely members are encouraged to, and do, meet privately with Deloitte.
responsible for negotiating and agreeing the external Auditors External audit fee negotiations are approved by the Audit fee, the scope of the statutory audit and initiating and supervising Committee each year.
There are no contractual restrictions on a competitive tender process for the external audit where it is the Group with regard to Deloittes appointment.
When a tender is undertaken, the Committee will be responsible for making recommendations to the Board as Deloitte LLP were first appointed as external Auditor to the to the external Auditors appointment.
In 2013 14, the Company carried out a full competitive tender for the role of Statutory Auditor, following The Audit Committee meets with the external Auditor to which Deloitte were reappointed.
The Committees policy is that determine annually their qualifications, expertise, resources, the role of external Auditor will be put out to tender at least every independence, objectivity and effectiveness.
In addition, the 10 years in line with the applicable rules, or at other times should performance of the external and Internal Audit functions is specific circumstances require this.
evaluated as part of the annual cycle.
The Committee has the current intention to put the external audit In order to ensure the independence and objectivity of the Auditor, out to tender no later than the 2023 24 year end.
The Committee the Audit Committee maintains and regularly reviews the Auditor has the discretion to accelerate the planned audit tender timeline Independence Policy which covers services which may be provided at any time.
The timeline will be kept under review on an annual by the external Auditor, and fees permitted when they are allowed.
basis in conjunction with the assessment of the effectiveness of The policy on the supply of non-audit services by the external the external audit process and the needs of the Group, including Auditor is as follows: The Group should not employ the Auditor the benefit of stability in the independent oversight provided by to provide non-audit services where either the nature of the the external audit provision, which the Committee considers to work or the extent of such services might impair the Auditors be in the best interests of shareholders.
The external Auditor is permitted The lead audit partner rotates every five years and Ian Waller, the to undertake some non-audit services, providing it has the skill, current lead audit partner, has been in post since 2013 14 and is competence and integrity to carry out the work in the best due to rotate after the 2017 18 year end.
interests of the Group, for example, advisory services and due diligence activities associated with potential acquisitions and The Audit Committee confirms that the Company has complied disposals, and major changes in accounting regulations.
with the provisions of the Competition & Markets Authority Order in regards to external audit tendering and audit responsibilities Non-audit services and fees are reported to the Audit Committee throughout its financial year ended 30 April 2017. twice a year.
For guidance, annual non-audit fees payable to the external Auditor following the policy for 2016 17 should not exceed 75% of the annual Group audit fee without prior formal approval of the Audit Committee.
During 2016 17, total non-audit fees were 18% of the annual Group audit fee 2015 16: 25%.
In addition, 5.3 million was paid to other accounting firms for Jonathan Nicholls non-audit work, including 0.7 million for work relating to Chairman of the Audit Committee Internal Audit see note 3.
29 June 2017 Annual report & accounts 2017 | dssmith.
