CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit committee report Responsibilities A key responsibility for the audit committee is reviewing the financial reporting, controls and risk management processes across the group.
Thecommittee assesses the external audit conclusions on both the full year and interim results, in each case prior to their submission to the board.
Whilst the board retains responsibility for undertaking the required assessment that the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable, theaudit committee this year, at the request of the board, has undertaken a review of this prior to submission of the annual report to the board, asdetailed below.
The committee also reviews the companys internal control systems, advises the board on the appointment of external auditor, oversees therelationship with the external auditor, and reviews the quality and effectiveness of both the internal and the external audit.
In addition, the committee is responsible for considering the companys whistle blowing procedures and reviewing their effectiveness in practice.
In relation to risk matters, the committee reviews the groups risk management policies and procedures prior to submission to the board and receives detailed reports on the risk management processes within Following Ian Durants retirement from the the business units and key functional areas.
The committee receives board at the AGM in September 2016, I was regular updates on regulatory, accounting and reporting developments and their application to the company.
subsequently appointed as chairman of the auditcommittee, and am therefore pleased to Operation of the committee introduce our audit committee report for 2016 17.
The committee held three half-day meetings during the year.
Attendance at these meetings by the committee members is shown in the table on The committees key responsibilities include page 48.
On each occasion the external auditor, chief financial officer and monitoring the integrity of the groups financial senior members of the finance function attended, as well as the company secretary, head of risk and members of the internal audit function.
By reporting, internal controls and risk management rotation, operational managers and functional heads present risk reports procedures, overseeing the internal and external at audit committee meetings.
audit processes and a range of other corporate There is an opportunity at each meeting for the committee to discuss matters privately with the internal and external auditors without management governance activities.
Outside of scheduled meeting times, the chairman of the committee is in regular contact with the external audit partner to discuss matters During the year the committee devoted particular relevant to the company.
attention to the following key areas: the year-end The committees terms of reference are available on the companys website financial statements and interim report and associated and these are reviewed annually and updated to reflect changes in the responsibility and regulation of the committee.
In addition, the committee audit matters: the integration of the new Ernst conducts a review of its own performance on an annual basis and considers & Young audit partner to ensure delivery of a steps for future improvement taking input from the members of the committee, the external auditor and senior members of the finance robust and detailed audit of the groups financial function.
As a result of the review the audit committee has assisted the statements: and risk management processes and board in its fair, balanced and understandable review of the annual report, as explained below.
internal controls including the viability statement.
Financial statements and audit The committee reviewed and provided input into the audit scope and audit plan presented by the external auditor, taking into account the Rob Rowley comments on the prior years annual report by the Financial Reporting Chairman of the audit committee Council in its review of those accounts.
In considering the financial statements the committee reviewed the groups accounting policies toensure consistency on a year-to-year basis and the methods used to account for significant or unusual transactions.
Significant issues that the committee addressed in relation to the financial statements are set out in Membership the table below.
The committee also reviewed managements attestation The audit committee was chaired during the year by Ian Durant until paper setting out the information that had been provided to the auditor hisretirement in September 2016 when Rob Rowley was appointed as to enable it to form its opinion on the groups financial statements and chairman.
The other members of the committee were Mike Coupe and, demonstrating that it was appropriate for the directors to make the from December 2016, Gordon Fryett.
All members are considered by representations set out in the letter of representation.
The board is satisfied that Rob Rowley hasrecent and relevant financial experience, as a former finance director ofReuters Group plc.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit committee report continued Significant issues considered by the audit committee in relation to the financial statements for 2016 17 Matter considered What the committee did Uncertain tax During the period a formal agreement was reached with HMRC on a number of historical tax positions and the Court of positions and stamp Appeal issued its final decision on the Sussex case.
The only remaining historical open item with HMRC is an internal property duty land tax arrangement which management expects to resolve before the end of the 2017 18 financial year.
The committee is satisfied that an appropriate provision is in place in respect of this following discussion with the external auditor.
Impairment of The committee considered detailed reports prepared by management concerning the methodology used to determine the property, plant extent of any impairment required.
The committee reviewed the methodology and assumptions used, reviewed managements andequipment and proposals and considered the expected timetable for the disposal of non-core sites.
The committee assessed the proposed intangible assets changes to both the underlying growth rates and the discount rate used and determined them to be appropriate in the current economic environment.
Capital versus The committee reviewed the groups fixed asset accounting policy during the year and considered the allocation of costs expense accounting aseither capital or expense.
At the committees request, management undertook an additional evaluation of the business processes for the allocation of costs and reported its findings to the committee.
Following revisions to the policy and the introduction of additional controls within the business, the committee was satisfied that the risk of material error identified had been appropriately mitigated.
Accounting for The committee reviewed the groups accounting for supplier income, including listing fees, performance fees and volume supplier income and rebates, noting that such income is not recognised until it can be reliably estimated.
The auditors review of both supplier customer rebates income and customer rebates was considered.
The committee was satisfied that the current controls in place provided reasonable assurance that the risks associated with these areas are being appropriately managed.
Presentation of The treatment of exceptional items was considered following increased market scrutiny in this area, particularly in relation exceptional items tothe reporting of alternative performance measures by regulators, including the Financial Reporting Council which had reviewed the groups prior year accounts.
The committee approved the revised reporting of performance measures to address these concerns and ensure that they are properly defined.
Work estimated to cost in excess of 25,000 is put out to tender unless Fair, balanced and understandable annual report agreed otherwise by the chairman of the audit committee.
The chief financial One of the key governance requirements in relation to the annual report officer may approve specific engagements up to 50,000 in aggregate up is that it should be fair, balanced and understandable.
The audit committee to 100,000 p. a., and the chairman of the audit committee may approve undertook a review of managements processes in this regard including engagements up to 100,000 in aggregate up to 200,000 p. a., with fees the clear guidance given to contributors and the review process adopted by in excess of those limits being subject to approval of the full committee.
management and also considered in detail the draft annual report to ensure This policy was complied with during the year.
that it was fair, balanced and understandable in its view.
The committee then recommended to the board that it could make the required disclosure The audit committee has recently approved a revised policy for non-audit as set out on page 71. services in line with the recent guidance issued by the FRC, which is now in effect for the groups 2017 18 and future financial years.
In addition to Effectiveness of the external audit the above financial restrictions the audit committee is now required to pre-approve all non-audit services, except in limited circumstances relating After the 2015 16 audit was completed a review of the effectiveness of the to ad hoc accounting advice, to review any services proposed to be provided auditor and of the audit service was undertaken, supported by a questionnaire by the external auditor, to consider whether the skills and expertise of the completed by the audit committee chairman, the chief financial officer, and audit firm make it the most suitable supplier of the non-audit services, and a number of key members of the finance team involved in the preparation to ensure that the fees for non-audit services do not exceed 70% of the of the statutory accounts.
The overall quality of the service, the audit partner average audit fee over a three-year period.
and the audit team were all reviewed and matters such as the management of the audit team, the quality of its challenge, insight and communications The committee also has a policy in relation to the appointment of former and the cost effectiveness of the audit were considered.
Taking into account partners or employees of the auditor by the group to prevent any potential the internal review the committee was satisfied that the quality of the audit conflict between their undertaking of the audit and their new appointment.
service provided by Ernst & Young LLP was appropriate.
The feedback During the year the company made limited use of specialist teams within from the review was also provided to Ernst & Young LLP.
Ernst & Young LLP for non-audit work, including in relation to the LTIP target review and the restated FRS 101 accounts for Greene King Finance plc, Ensuring external auditor independence required in relation to the A6 bond issuance completed in May 2016.
The The audit committee is cognisant of the importance of auditor independence total fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP during the year amounted to 640k and objectivity and has a policy in relation to the use of the auditor for ofwhich 40k 6% related to non-audit work.
Further detail is in note 4 non-audit work.
The company will award non-audit work to the firm to the accounts.
which provides the best commercial solution for the work in question, taking into account the skills and experience of the firm, if the audit firm In order to assist the committee with its consideration of the independence is being considered the nature of the services involved, the level of fees and objectivity of the external auditor, the external auditor undertook an relative to the audit fee and whether there are safeguards in place to annual review of its services provided to the group.
In light of this review, mitigate to an acceptable level any threat to objectivity and independence and the further safeguards in place to protect such independence and in the conduct of the audit resulting from such services.
objectivity, the committee determined that the carrying out of such services by the external auditor did not, and will not going forward, impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
52 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE External auditor tendering and re-appointment Internal control and risk management The company last tendered the external audit contract in 1997 and As disclosed in the risks and uncertainties section of this report on page 33, Ernst& Young has been the auditor since then, with an annual rolling contract there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the and subject to an annual shareholder vote at the AGM.
Ernst & Young is principal risks faced by the company.
The board has overall responsibility required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the group every five for the groups risk management framework and systems of internal control years and a new audit partner was appointed for this financial year.
and for reviewing their effectiveness, whilst the audit committee monitors and reviews those internal controls and risks on a regular basis, and reports In accordance with The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies to the board on its findings.
During the course of the year the committee Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Processes and continued to review reports from a number of business units and functional AuditCommittee Responsibilities Order 2014 the Order and in light areas on their respective risk management processes and key risks and on ofthe transitional provisions on audit matters thereunder which allow the key financial internal controls and to challenge representatives of the aperiod until April 2024 before an audit tender and change is required, relevant business unit or functional area who attended those meetings andgiven the recent change of audit committee chairman, the committee andpresented the relevant reports.
recommended to the board, and the board accepted the recommendation, that Ernst & Young LLP should be retained as the groups auditor for the The risk management framework and internal control systems are designed time being.
The committee will give consideration to undertaking a full to manage to an acceptable level, and not to eliminate, the risk of failure to audit tender, in which Ernst & Young LLP will not be permitted to partake, achieve business objectives.
They can provide reasonable, but not absolute, within the next four years.
The company was in compliance with the assurance that the groups assets are safeguarded and that the financial Order during the year.
information used within the business and for external reporting is reliable.
The committee therefore recommended to the board that Ernst & Young LLP The company has in place procedures to assess the key risks to which it is should be re-appointed as the companys auditor for the forthcoming exposed and has formalised the control environment needed to address year.
This resolution will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
There are processes in place which accord with the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting, and these remained Internal audit in place up to the date of this report.
The board is satisfied that there are The companys internal audit function is responsible for reviewing the no significant weaknesses in these systems and that the groups internal effectiveness and efficiency of the systems of internal control in place to controls are operating effectively.
safeguard the assets of the company.
Under the terms of reference for the function, the internal audit team has direct access to the audit committee The key elements of the internal control framework, in addition to the risk chairman to enable it to raise any significant issues and to maintain independence.
management processes outlined in the risks and uncertainties section of Members of the internal audit team also attend the audit committee meetings this report, are: to report on the progress and actions taken by the function.
During the the schedule of matters reserved for the board: year, as well as full reviews of relevant divisions, the internal audit function reported to the committee on a number of areas where it had carried the groups defined management structure with suitable authority limits out key financial control reviews, including compliance with the Statutory and responsibilities, staffed by appropriate personnel: Code as explained below, free trade loan and customer account regular updates for the board on strategy: management, and the transition to a controls-based audit.
a comprehensive planning and financial reporting procedure including annual budgets and a three-year strategic plan, both of which are Other matters considered during the year reviewed and approved by the board: The committee considered the groups policy in relation to the valuation of its property assets, in light of the fact that Spirit Pub Company operated ongoing monitoring by both the board and senior management of with an annual revaluation policy, whereas Greene King has historically performance against budgets, through the periodic reporting of detailed adopted a policy whereby property, plant and equipment are valued at management accounts and key performance indicators: cost or deemed cost on transition to IFRS.
The committee considered ongoing monitoring by the board of compliance with financial covenants: theadvantages and disadvantages of each approach and recommended tothe board no change to Greene Kings policy in this regard.
a centralised financial reporting system and close process, with controls and reconciliation procedures designed to facilitate the production of The committee reviewed, as it does on an annual basis, the groups whistle the consolidated accounts: blowing policy and its application across the business.
All whistle blowing reports were investigated and resolved satisfactorily, with no significant clearly defined evaluation and approval processes for acquisitions and issues emerging.
disposals, capital expenditure and project control, with escalating levels of authority including board approval for major acquisitions and disposals, The committee has continued to review the subject of cyber security detailed appraisal and review procedures and post-completion reviews: andreceives regular reports from management on the issue and how it ismanaging external threats in this area.
Significant investment has been a review of retail operational compliance by the retail internal audit made in hardware, software and user awareness during the year and team responsible and other analytical and control procedures facilitated management has continued to undertake testing including by external by the EPOS till system: consultants of the companys defences against a cyber security attack.
audits conducted by the group internal audit function of business The terms of reference of the committee were also reviewed during andfunctional control environments: and theyear and updated following the introduction of The Pubs Code etc.
documented policies to cover modern slavery, bribery and whistle blowing Regulations 2016, which implemented a Statutory Code applicable to and regular updates on any incidents.
companies owning 500 or more tied tenanted pubs, to enable the audit committee to approve the compliance report which must be submitted tothe Pubs Code adjudicator within four months of the year end.
Thefirst formal compliance report is due in August 2018.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 53
