Board activities Topic Key activities and discussions in 2016 17 Key priorities in 2017 18 Strategy Reviewed and approved the Corporate Plan.
Approve the Corporate Plan and keep under review.
Reviewed and approved a number of acquisitions.
Consider acquisitions and Reviewed financial key performance indicators KPIs.
divestments as identified and Considered and approved the Groups dividend policy.
determine appropriate course Reviewed the potential impact of the EU referendum Brexit to of action.
report explains Keep financial KPIs under review.
this in more Keep the Groups dividend policy detail on page 22 under review.
Risk and risk Carried out a robust assessment of principal key risks see pages 42 Review key risks and ensure management to 45, monitored and reviewed the internal controls process, and that the Group remains at the assessed the Group risk profile by identifying where the businesss forefront of developing and key risks lay, aligning them with the businesss risk appetite and embedding best practice for highlighting how to target and mitigate those risks effectively.
Monitored compliance with the anti-bribery and anti-corruption Continue to monitor compliance policy, competition law policy, social media policy and data with the key policies, including An in-depth protection policy.
anti-bribery and anti-corruption explanation of policy, competition law policy, Reviewed Groups bid defence strategy.
our risks and risk social media policy and data process is set out on page 39 protection policy.
Governance Continued to focus on the composition, balance and effectiveness of Ensure that the Company the Board.
remains at the forefront of developing and embedding Reviewed the key operational roles and identified gaps in experience best practice in responsible needed to deliver the strategy.
Reinforced compliance with DS Smiths Code of Conduct and the Maintain and enhance DS Smiths Operating Framework, a document which sets out the Groups culture culture and values and key and values, as well as its key policies and procedures, all in accordance policies and procedures and with the principles of good corporate governance.
ensure these are rolled out to Considered the new regulations affecting the Company, signed off acquired businesses.
and published the Groups first modern slavery statement.
Continue to strengthen internal Engaged with our individual shareholders at the AGM.
Engaged with institutional shareholders, investors and other Review level of institutional stakeholders throughout the year.
holdings and consider actions Formal Audit, Governance and Remuneration Committee training to broaden the Groups took place throughout the year and the Board received Market Abuse shareholder base further.
Implementing, subject to A Disclosure Committee of the Board was set up in order to facilitate shareholder approval, the compliance with MAR and in particular to aid in the assessment of remuneration policy being when inside information existed.
presented to shareholders at the AGM in 2017.
Separate non-Executive Director sessions held with the Chairman You can find our after every Board meeting to discuss leadership and other Further understanding and Code of Conduct Board matters.
on our website planning actions in relation to at http: www.
new regulations over the period.
Reviewed and approved the 2015 16 Annual Report.
com agreed that, taken as a whole, the 2015 16 Annual Report was fair, people culture code-of-conduct balanced and understandable.
54 Governance Topic Key activities and discussions in 2016 17 Key priorities in 2017 18 Organisational Monitored health and safety performance across the Group and Continue to monitor senior capacity reviewed the lessons learned to keep our employees and others executive talent management affected by our operations safe.
Regular Board updates received and development plans to on actions improving health and safety.
provide succession for all key positions.
Held a number of meetings with people in the senior talent pipeline to further improve information flow.
Continue to increase the diversity of the Board and Reviewed the governance framework and continued training and the management team.
awareness drives for key policies.
Monitored senior executive talent management and development plans with succession planning for all key positions in mind.
You can read more about There was a major focus on engagement with the European Works the Employee Council EWC to assist in managing employee relations across Europe Charter on page 26 and improving employee communications.
Board Continued to focus on the composition, balance and effectiveness of Enhance the Boards strategic development the Board.
Reviewed Board composition and discussed and acted on understanding of geopolitical the recommendations of the Nomination Committee.
and economic risks in international markets.
Undertook an internal evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors, with the aim of becoming the best Board we Use Board visits to promote can be.
Following the evaluation an action plan was developed.
understanding of markets and the business development opportunities they offer.
Annual evaluation of Board You can read performance to be more about this on page 56 led externally.
Board and Board Committee meetings attendance Nomination Remuneration Annual General Board Committee Audit Committee Committee Meeting % attended Total number of meetings in 2016 17 8 4 4 5 1 100% Executive Directors Miles Roberts 8 N A N A N A 1 100% Adrian Marsh 8 N A N A N A 1 100% Non-Executive Directors Gareth Davis 8 4 5 1 100% Chris Britton 8 4 4 5 1 100% Ian Griffiths 8 4 4 5 1 100% 1 Jonathan Nicholls 8 3 4 5 1 95% Kathleen ODonovan 8 4 4 5 1 100% 2 Louise Smalley 8 4 4 4 1 95% 1 Jonathan Nicholls was unable to attend the Nomination Committee in December due to prior Shaftesbury board commitments.
2 Louise Smalley was unable to attend the Remuneration Committee meeting in January due to prior Whitbread board commitments.
In addition to the seven scheduled Board meetings, one ad hoc meeting was held to discuss business matters that the Chairman and Group Chief Executive decided should be considered by the Board.
All Directors received papers for all meetings, and had the opportunity to comment in advance of meetings they were unable to attend.
