Following that he Contribution: Overseeing Contribution: Provides a 1.
Gareth Davis qualified as an accountant, and the management of financial risk: strong source of advice and Chairman brings to the Board extensive and providing general support to judgement: constructively N R financial experience.
He was the Group Chief Executive, including challenges and helps develop previously Chief Executive of overseeing the operational proposals on strategy: provides McBride plc, having originally performance of the business.
significant commercial experience Appointment: Gareth was joined as its Group Finance Director.
and skills: and provides an appointed to the Board as a He served as Senior Independent international perspective given non-Executive Director on 1 June 4.
Chris Britton Director on the board of Poundland his past and current roles.
He became Chairman of Non-Executive Director Group plc until September 2016. the Board on 4 January 2012 N R A and is Chairman of the 5.
Ian Griffiths External Appointments: He has Nomination Committee.
been a non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Director Aggrekoplc since March 2017.
Appointment: Chris was appointed Skills and Experience: Gareth is a N R A to the Board as a non-Executive knowledgeable Chairman with over Contribution: Strategy and vision: Director on 6 March 2013.
20 years experience of sitting on overseeing business operations and Appointment: Appointed to the boards.
Previously he was Chief managing risk: prime responsibility Skills and Experience: He was Board as non-Executive Director Executive of Imperial Tobacco for health and safety within previously non-Executive Director on 23 June 2014.
GroupPLC from its incorporation the Group: and building and for Alliance Boots GmbH for six in 1996 until May 2010. leading an effective Group years, founder and MD of B&B Skills and Experience: Prior to his Operations Committee.
Investment Partners and CEO of the current role, he was at EMAP plc for External Appointments: Gareth is Findus Group.
He has additionally 13 years in various senior finance currently chairman of Wolseley plc held executive board positions at positions including Group Finance and William Hill PLC he is expected 3.
Adrian Marsh a number of companies.
Prior to step down from this role before Group Finance Director that he worked for Diageo for to that he was at Ernst & Young LLP, William Hills 2018 AGM.
20 years in marketing and general where he worked in the corporate G Contribution: Governance and management positions, including finance team.
leadership: agreeing and reviewing his final role as global marketing Appointment: Adrian was External Appointments: Ian was induction, training and development director of Diageo.
appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director of ITV plc needs for each Director: ensuring Group Finance Director on External Appointments: Chris is and from 3 May 2017 he became meetings are properly conducted: 24 September 2013. currently chairman of two private Chief Operating Officer and Group and managing shareholder and equity portfolio companies, Graze Finance Director.
Skills and Experience: As the and Dr Gerard.
He is an investor former head of Tax, Treasury and Contribution: Provides a director in a number of food and 2.
Miles Roberts Corporate Finance at Tesco PLC, strong source of advice and drink consumer brands.
Adrian has helped DS Smith to judgement: constructively Group Chief Executive significantly develop the finance challenges and helps develop N G function and deliver strong financial proposals on strategy: and provides results.
As a qualified accountant, significant external commercial and coming from a FTSE background, experience and a broad range of Appointment: Miles was appointed he has held senior finance positions skills for the Board to draw on.
to the Board on 4 May 2010 as at Pilkington plc, AstraZeneca plc Group Chief Executive.
2 Skills and Experience: In External Appointments: Adrian his earlier years he gained an currently has no external engineering degree at Bristol appointments.
1 9 7 50 Governance provides advice and judgement Contribution: Provides a strong significant external commercial 6.
Jonathan Nicholls to the Chairman as necessary: is source of advice and judgement: experience and a broad range of Senior Independent Director available to liaise with shareholders constructively challenges and helps skills for the Board to draw on.
N R A who have concerns that they feel develop proposals on strategy: have not been addressed through provides significant external 9.
Iain Simm the normal channels: and conducts commercial experience and a broad Appointment: Jonathan was Group General Counsel the annual performance review of range of skills for the Board to draw appointed to the Board as a and Company Secretary the Chairman.
on: and through the Remuneration non-Executive Director on Committee, takes responsibility for N R A 1 December 2009.
Kathleen ODonovan determining appropriate levels of he was appointed as the Senior Non-Executive Director remuneration for senior executives.
He is Appointment: Iain was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Louise Smalley Company Secretary on 6 June 2016.
Skills and Experience: As Non-Executive Director a Member of the Institute of Appointment: Kathleen was Skills and Experience: He was Chartered Accountants, Jonathan appointed to the Board as a N R A previously General Counsel and holds a number of non-Executive non-Executive Director on Company Secretary with BBA directorships and has extensive 5 December 2012.
She was Aviation plc and prior to that Appointment: Louise was experience of sitting on boards.
appointed Chairman of the General Counsel at P&O Ports Ltd. appointed to the Board as a He was previously Group Finance Remuneration Committee He undertook his legal training with non-Executive Director on Director of Hanson Plc and was in September 2013.
Slaughter and May LLP and worked 23 June 2014. most recently Group Finance for a number of years in their Skills and Experience: She was Director of Old Mutual Plc.
He was Skills and Experience: Louise corporate and commercial group.
previously a Senior Independent a non-Executive Director and brings strong HR experience to Director and Chair of Audit Chairman of the Audit Committee External Appointments: No the Board having held a number Committee of ARM Holdings plc and of Great Portland Estates plc and external appointments held.
of key HR roles at Whitbread.
Great Portland Estates plc, a non-Executive Director and She previously worked as a HR non-Executive Director and Chair of Contribution: Ensures a good flow Chairman of the Audit Committee professional in the oil industry, Audit Committee of Prudential plc of information to the Board and its of SIG plc.
with BP and Esso Petroleum.
and EMI Group plc, and nonCommittees and between the GOC External Appointments: He is Executive Director of O2 plc.
She and the non-Executive Directors: External Appointments: She is Chairman of Shaftesbury Plc and served as a Director and Chair of facilitates all Director inductions: Group Human Resources Director Senior Independent Director of Audit Committee on the Court advises the Board on corporate and an Executive Director of Ibstock PLC.
of the Bank of England from 1998 governance: and keeps the Board Whitbread PLC.
to 2004 and was Chief Financial up to date on all legal, regulatory Contribution: Provides a strong Contribution: Provides a Officer of BTR plc and Invensys plc and other developments.
source of advice and judgement: strong source of advice and from 1991 to 2002. constructively challenges and helps Key judgement: constructively develop proposals on strategy: External Appointments: Kathleen challenges and helps develop provides significant external currently holds no other nonNomination Committee proposals on strategy: and provides N commercial experience Executive Plc appointments.
Remuneration Committee and a broad range of skills R for the Board to draw on: General Purposes Committee G 3 5 Audit Committee A 4 6 8 Annual report & accounts 2017 | dssmith.
