CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Nomination committee report Activities during the year The committee held six meetings during the year.
Attendance at these meetings by the committee members is shown in the table on page 48.
A key activity for the committee during the year was to find a new non-executive director in place of Ian Durant, who retired from the board at the AGM in September 2016.
Given that the board had previously agreed that Rob Rowley, as the former finance director of Reuters Group plc, should assume the chairmanship of the audit committee, it was agreed that previous financial experience was not a key priority for the new director.
Instead the committee decided to focus on finding a candidate with relevant retail and property experience, given the large portfolio of assets owned by the company.
The committee chose The Zygos Partnership to assist in the recruitment process: The Zygos Partnership has no other connection with the company and has signed up to the voluntary code ofconduct on matters such as diversity for executive search firms.
Inconjunction with them, a job specification and a profile of the likely characteristics, qualifications, experience and merits required were produced before starting the search, with the aim of finding a shortlist ofcandidates suited to the role, without prejudice between male I am pleased to introduce our nomination andfemale candidates.
committee report for 2016 17, which explains A longlist of candidates was initially drawn up for the role, from which ashortlist evolved after consideration by the committee.
The continuing the committees focus and activities during the non-executive directors then interviewed the shortlisted candidates year.
As indicated last year when I took over before the committee made a formal recommendation to the board thatGordon Fryett be appointed to the board.
Gordon has many years aschairman, the focus of the committee has experience in retail and property matters, having held the position of group continued to be on succession planning and property director at Tesco plc until his retirement in November 2013. onensuring that the size, composition and In terms of committee composition, Philip Yea became chairman of the nomination committee with effect from the beginning of the current structure of the board is appropriate for the financial year, Rob Rowley took over as chairman of the audit committee delivery of the groups strategic objectives.
on the retirement of Ian Durant and Gordon Fryett was appointed as a member of the nomination, audit and remuneration committees on his Wehave also worked to ensure that all appointment to the board.
No other changes were recommended to relevantprovisions of the UK Corporate thecomposition of the board committees.
Governance Code continue to be met.
In relation to succession planning, during the year the committee received a detailed report from the group HR director on the senior management teams skills and performance and the succession plans for each of them.
The issues of succession planning and board structure will remain the ongoing focus of the committee during the course of the forthcoming year.
Philip Yea On the recommendation of the nomination committee, and taking into Chairman of the nomination committee account the continuing effective performance of the directors, the board has decided once again this year to ask all directors to stand for re-election at the forthcoming AGM, with the exception of Gordon Fryett, who will be standing for election for the first time.
Membership Other matters considered by the committee during the year included the During the year the nomination committee was chaired by Philip Yea.
board evaluation exercise, the position of chairman of the trustees of the Theother members of the committee were Mike Coupe, Ian Durant Greene King final salary pension scheme, the training requirements of the until his retirement in September 2016, Rob Rowley, Lynne Weedall directors and the committees terms of reference.
andGordon Fryett following his appointment as a director in December2016.
All members were considered by the board Diversity tobeindependent.
The board approves of the principle of trying to recruit more women intosenior management and director roles.
There is currently one female Responsibilities director on the board, Lynne Weedall, who is chairman of the remuneration The key responsibilities of the nomination committee are to identify, committee.
With a board of seven people, the board believes that the key evaluate and nominate candidates for appointment to the board, to review is to ensure a suitable range of skills, experience and knowledge across the regularly the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge board members, and that the issues of gender and diversity are just two and experience of the board and to make recommendations to the board considerations to be taken into account when filling board vacancies.
with regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary.
The committee is also responsible for considering the companys succession plans for board members and senior management, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the company, and what skills and expertise are therefore needed on the board in the future, andfor reviewing membership of the boards committees to ensure that undue reliance is not placed upon any individuals.
50 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017
