Role and responsibilities of the Board The Board is responsible Role of the Chairman for ensuring that there is leading the operation and governance of the Board as well as building and maintaining an effective Board: an effective organisational overseeing corporate governance matters and ensuring they are addressed: and reporting structure in leading the performance evaluations of the Group Chief Executive, non-Executive place with clear reporting Directors and the Board: lines across the Group ensuring Directors receive timely, accurate and clear information on Group business and well defined roles and that all Directors are fully informed of relevant matters: and and responsibilities.
communicating effectively with shareholders and stakeholders.
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures that Directors The role of the Board is to rigorously receive a full, formal and tailored induction to the Group and ongoing training challenge strategy, performance, as relevant.
responsibility and accountability to ensure that every decision we make is of the highest quality.
The roles of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive are clearly Role of the Group Chief Executive established and remain separate.
leading the development of the Groups strategic direction and implementing The Board is assisted by various the agreed strategy: Committees, whose structure is outlined communicating effectively with shareholders and other stakeholders: on the page opposite.
The Board regularly overseeing business operations and managing risks: reviews membership of these Committees.
taking prime responsibility for health and safety within the Group and its All Board Committees have written terms subsidiary operations: of reference approved by the Board and these are regularly reviewed and updated.
building and leading an effective Group Operations Committee GOC They are available on the Companys which comprises the heads of the Groups principal operations and functions website, and on request from the and management of the Groups business: and Company Secretary.
communicating matters discussed at the GOC to the Board.
The Group Chief Executive is assisted in meeting his responsibilities by the Group Finance Director, the GOC and the Group Strategy Committee.
The Board Committees Terms of Reference can be found at http: www.
com investors corporate-governance committees Role of the Board setting the long-term objectives and commercial strategy: Gender diversity oversight of the management of the DS Smith Group: setting financial key performance indicators KPIs : Female 25% Male 75% approval of major corporate transactions and commitments: approval of the Group and Company financial statements and ensuring that Tenure the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable: recommending or declaring dividends: maintaining a sound system of internal controls and risk management: 1-3 years 0% 4-6 years 88% review of the Groups overall corporate governance arrangements: 7-9 years 12% succession planning and appointments to the Board and senior management Board composition following recommendation by the Nomination Committee: reviewing the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors annually: Executive 25% Non-Executive 75% approval of any significant changes in accounting policies or practices: agreeing the remuneration policy subject to shareholder approval for the Directors, the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and other senior executives: approval of the delegation of authority between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive and the terms of reference of all Board Committees: approval of all key policies and material amendments to those policies, including the Code of Conduct, Health and Safety and Environmental polices: approval of treasury policy: and approval of major changes to the DS Smith Groups corporate structure.
52 Governance Governance framework and compliance The Board Chaired by Gareth Davis Meets a minimum of seven times a year Accountable to shareholders for the long-term sustainable success of the Group.
This is achieved through setting out the strategy, monitoring the strategic objectives and providing oversight of the implementation by the management team.
Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Chaired by Gareth Davis Chaired by Jonathan Nicholls Chaired by Kathleen ODonovan Meets a minimum of four times a year Meets a minimum of four times a year Meets a minimum of five times a year The Nomination Committee regularly The Audit Committee has responsibility for The Remuneration Committee reviews and reviews the structure, size and composition overseeing and monitoring the Groups recommends to the Board the framework of the Board and its Committees.
It identifies financial statements, accounting processes, and policy for the remuneration of the and nominates suitable candidates to be audit internal and external controls and Chairman, the Executive Directors and appointed to the Board subject to Board matters relating to fraud and other reports the Group Operating Committee.
approval and considers diversity, culture, received under the Speak Up!
The remuneration of the non-Executive talent and succession generally.
Directors is determined by the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
The Committee takes into account the business strategy of the Group and how the remuneration policy reflects and supports that strategy.
Read more about the work of the You can explore the issues considered See page 64 for more information Nomination Committee on page 48 by the Audit Committee on page 61 Disclosure Committee General Purposes Committee The Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Chairman The Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and the Chairman.
Other Directors, representatives from the To facilitate swift and efficient operational management decisionCompanys brokers, members of the Companys management and other making for the business in relation to day-to-day financing and external advisers may attend meetings in whole or in part, if invited.
The Disclosure Committee oversees the Companys compliance with its disclosure obligations.
Group Operating Committee Group Strategy Committee Chaired by Miles Roberts Chaired by Miles Roberts Meets monthly Meets monthly The Group Finance Director, divisional Chief Executives, the Head of The Group Finance Director, divisional Chief Executives, the Head of Strategy, Group Human Resources Director and Chief Procurement Strategy, the Head of Mergers & Acquisitions and the Group General Officer.
Considers Group-wide initiatives and priorities.
Reviews the Counsel and Company Secretary.
Plans the business strategy implementation of strategy and operational plans.
Reviews changes implementation through the annual Corporate Plan process.
The to policies and procedures and facilitates the discussion of the Corporate Plan is used to develop the Groups strategy, based on the set development of new projects.
The Corporate Plans focus is primarily on strategic actions, supported by high level financial information.
Our Corporate Plan covers a three-year horizon and is reviewed annually with the Board.
Corporate Functions Operating Divisions Day-to-day business delivery Day-to-day business delivery Annual report & accounts 2017 | dssmith.
