Nomination Committee report The Nomination Committee has the key role of ensuring we have the right skills on the Board to deliver the Groups strategy and deal with the changes in the business environment.
Member Since Gareth Davis 2010 Chris Britton 2013 Ian Griffiths 2014 Jonathan Nicholls 2009 Kathleen ODonovan 2012 Miles Roberts 2010 Louise Smalley 2014 The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Details of individual Directors attendance can be found on page 55.
Gareth Davis Dear shareholders Chairman The Nomination Committee and the Board as a whole are The Chairman ensures that the responsible for establishing the culture, values and ethics of the Company.
It is important that the Board sets the correct tone from Board as a whole is enabled to play the top and that our Directors lead by example and ensure that good standards of behaviour flow throughout the organisation.
a full and constructive part in the development and determination of Activities during the year the Groups strategy and strategic Board diversity The Companys diversity policy, which covers everyone from objectives.
the Board down, was adopted by the Board in 2015.
It is the responsibility of the Nomination Committee to implement and Key responsibilities monitor the objectives set out in this policy and to periodically Reinforcing the culture and diversity expertise review it.
in the Boards composition and maintaining ongoing When evaluating diversity within DS Smith we look at diversity succession plans.
of gender, age, nationality, and educational and professional Considering ways to improve diversity in the pipeline background, as well as individual characteristics such as a broad for senior management roles.
This is important for us since we believe it to Further strengthening of the senior management team.
be a key factor behind high-performing and innovative teams.
The Nomination Committee has discussed our talent Reviewing the Groups talent management process.
Allocation of time Performance evaluation 10% Succession planning 25% Talent pipeline 25% Diversity 25% The Nomination Committees Terms of Reference Governance 15% can be found at http: www.
com investors corporate-governance committees 48 Governance The Nomination Committee read with interest the Parker Report Nomination Committee areas for further development: published in November 2016.
Currently the Boards composition does not fully reflect the international nature of our business and Succession planning continued Board engagement in this is one of the matters due to be considered by the Committee talent management and succession planning, allowing in 2017 18. high-calibre internal potential candidates scope to develop.
In preparation for the first gender pay gap reporting by April 2018, Board composition developing a skills matrix to we have looked at any factors that might lead to a gender pay gap support the Boards succession planning work.
Diversity is not just gender or ethnicity: diversity of Through our internal initiatives such as the Engaging Managers outlook and approach is also important.
Diversity also Programme and the Arkwight Scholarship, we are taking steps to extends beyond the Board and we support management ensure that there are no barriers to anyone succeeding at any level in their efforts to build a more diverse organisation.
The Board remains committed to strengthening Culture continue to support the executive team in the pipeline of senior female executives within the business.
communicating a strong culture in line with Nomination Committee evaluation DS Smiths values.
The Nomination Committees performance was considered as Training assist the Chairman to consider where new part of the overall Board evaluation.
The Committees evaluation and ongoing training can be applied.
was based around the 12 questions for nomination committees posed by the EY and ICSA 2016 report, The nomination committee: was satisfied that he allocates sufficient time to DS Smith and coming out of the shadows.
The report, which was based on a performs his responsibilities effectively.
The Committee concluded series of roundtable discussions with industry leaders, focused that he remains independent in judgement and character, his on the role of the nomination committee and how boards could commitment to the Company is undiminished and his performance improve this work.
Jonathan will reach the end of his third three-year term in 2018.
Our Nomination Committees work during the year included reviewing the Committees remit and evaluating its effectiveness, Both Ian Griffiths and Louise Smalleys letters of appointment in terms of both managed and emergency succession planning.
The Nomination Committee reviewed The evaluation of the individual performance of all Directors, their commitment and contribution to the Board and is satisfied including the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, that their letters of appointment should be renewed for a further was also undertaken.
Succession plans for each of these roles three-year term.
An evaluation of my performance as Chairman during the year, Succession planning led by Jonathan Nicholls as Senior Independent Director, was Board succession planning is focused on ensuring the right mix considered in my absence.
of skills and experience for the Board.
The Board believes in the Following these evaluations by the Nomination Committee, the importance of diverse Board membership, including diversity Board recommends the re-election of all the Directors at the 2017 of gender, age, and educational and professional background.
There have been positive discussions about talent management, succession planning and the shape of the Board.
External chairmanships We have not appointed a new Director during the period Following a review by the non-Executive Directors and the Senior but enhancing a skill matrix for the overall shape of the Board Independent Director, the Board believes that my performance continues to be the focus of discussions.
Whilst we have no continues to be effective and I continue to demonstrate current plans to increase the number of Executive Directors on commitment to my role as Chairman.
the Board, we keep this possibility under review as part of our succession planning.
I also serve as chairman to two other listed companies.
The Board continues to believe that I am the most appropriate person for In line with best practice, during 2016 17 the Nomination the role of Chairman at this time, and is satisfied that I allocate Committee explored the contingency plan for unexpected sufficient time to DS Smith and perform my responsibilities departures and reviewed the Group Chief Executives succession effectively.
I will be retiring as Chairman of William Hill Plc plan.
The plan envisages the role being filled by either internal before May 2018, once a successor has been appointed.
or external candidates and this discussion will be revisited in 2017 18.
Details of all the Directors other directorships can be found in their biographies on pages 50 and 51.
Independence and re-election of Directors The Board is satisfied that all of its non-Executive Directors bring robust independent oversight and continue to remain independent.
Biographical details of each Director can be found on pages 50 to 51.
The Nomination Committee conducted a particularly rigorous Gareth Davis Chairman review of the independence of Jonathan Nicholls when considering whether to renew his letter of appointment.
It was noted that 29 June 2017 Jonathan serves as Chairman of Shaftsbury Plc.
The Committee Annual report & accounts 2017 | dssmith.
