Effectiveness The culture of the Board is open, transparent Culture in action Board evaluation and collegiate.
The Chairman demonstrates This year our Board evaluation was designed around our leadership and encourages an open and corporate values.
transparent style around the Board table.
Be challenging Allocation of time Recommendation Proposed action The Board held seven scheduled meetings and one ad hoc meeting To leverage Board experience The Board will continue to during the year.
Individual attendance is set out on page 55. to better support the support and challenge executive Sufficient time is provided at the start and end of each meeting executive team.
management, with particular for the Chairman to meet privately with the Senior Independent focus on execution of strategy.
Director and the non-Executive Directors to discuss any matters arising.
Be responsive All Directors are aware of the need to allocate sufficient time to Recommendation Proposed action the Company in order to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
To enhance Board succession The Nomination Committee will The letters of appointment for non-Executive Directors set out planning, particularly in respect develop a skills matrix to support the time commitment expected to allow them to perform their of key roles.
The Nomination Committee will continue to assess the skills and Conflicts experience needed on the Board All Directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to to ensure that Board composition is balanced.
avoid a situation in which they have, or could have, a direct or indirect conflict of interest or possible conflict of interest with the Company and the Group.
A review of conflicts which have Be tenacious been authorised is undertaken by the Board annually.
Following Recommendation Proposed action the last review, the Board concluded that any conflicts had been appropriately authorised, no circumstances existed which would To ensure the Board has access The form and content of reporting to sufficient information about to the Board will be reviewed and necessitate that any prior authorisation be revoked or amended, the international landscape in refreshed by management to and the authorisation process continued to operate effectively.
ensure that the Board receives the most appropriate information.
Directors training and induction The Chairman, supported by the Group General Counsel and Be caring Company Secretary, takes responsibility for ensuring that Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information across a wide range Recommendation Proposed action of matters relevant for the Board to operate effectively.
There are To ensure the Board has a good The Board will continue to half-yearly updates on governance matters and explanations of insight into areas that might identify opportunities for more affect the Companys reputation.
free-ranging discussion of risk, how these impact on DS Smith.
Presentations are made by internal including as part of the annual management and external advisers to provide briefings to support Board strategy session.
better awareness of issues and to facilitate decision-making.
During the period the Board received training on the new Market Be trusted Abuse Regulations MAR.
There were detailed discussions around when transactions were sufficiently likely to constitute inside Recommendation Proposed action information, along with what might be legitimate reasons to To ensure the Board has the The Board training programme delay immediate announcement.
appropriate balance of skills and for 2017 18 to be reviewed and mix of experience to enable it to refreshed to factor in tailored A comprehensive induction programme is tailored for each new discharge its duties and governance training.
Director prior to their appointment to the Board.
is designed for each individual, taking account of their existing knowledge of the business, specific areas of expertise and The Board evaluation was carried out internally, and consisted proposed Committee appointments.
of a comprehensive questionnaire sent to individual Board Directors.
One-to-one interviews were conducted with the Chairman to give Directors the chance to discuss any issues Part of the success of DS Smith has raised.
The Senior Independent Director held separate interviews to discuss the performance of the Chairman.
been the ability to build sustainable A presentation of the overall findings was discussed at the relationships with stakeholders, which Board, and individual Committee feedback was given to the Chairs to discuss at the relevant Committee meetings.
is reflected in the insights that are Following the Board discussion, a formal action plan was presented to the Board.
agreed which would be implemented over the following year.
