19653 PAT Annual Report:Layout 1 07 06 2017 14:18 Page 28 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE Further changes introduced under EU regulation prohibit a number of non-audit services that an auditor can proThe Audit Committee, chaired by Stuart Paul and comprisvide the Company.
These include tax compliance services.
ing Mr Paul, Frank Rushbrook and Jean Sharp, meets at As a result, the Company put the provision of these out to least twice yearly to coincide with the annual and interim retender and agreed to appoint Grant Thornton UK LLP.
The principal rle of the Audit Committee is to review the annual and interim financial statements, the AcINTERNAL CONTROLS counting Policies applied therein and to ensure compliance The Board is responsible for the Companys system of inwith financial and regulatory reporting requirements.
The ternal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Audit Committee discusses and agrees the scope of the audit Board has therefore established an ongoing process fideplan for the year ahead and the Auditors Report on their signed to meet the particular needs of the Company in findings at the conclusion of the audit.
The terms of refermanaging the risks to which it is exposed, consistent with ence of the Audit Committee clearly define the Committees the internal control guidance issued by the Financial Reresponsibilities.
These terms are reviewed annually and are porting Council.
The process relies principally on a riskavailable for inspection on the Companys website.
based system of internal control whereby a test matrix is The Audit Committee also reviews the system of internal created that identifies the key functions carried out by the controls, the terms of appointment of the Auditors includCompany and other service providers, the individual acing their remuneration, the objectivity of the Auditors and tivities undertaken within those functions, the risks assothe terms under which they are appointed to perform nonciated with each activity and the controls employed to audit services.
The Audit Committee also received a report minimise those risks.
A formal annual review of these profrom the Auditors identifying to its satisfaction how their incedures is carried out by the Board and includes considerdependence and objectivity is maintained when providing ation of internal control reports issued by the Investment these non-audit services.
Fees for these services amounted to Adviser and other service providers.
The Such review procedures have been in place throughout the Board considers that the provision of such services at this financial year and up to the date of approval of the Annual level is cost effective and does not impair the independence Report and Accounts, and the Board is satisfied with their of Ernst & Young LLP EY.
These procedures are designed to manage, The Audit Committee assessed the effectiveness of the rather than eliminate, risk and, by their nature, can proaudit, the quality of the team and advice received from vide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against mathem through reviewing interaction with the Auditors, reterial misstatement or loss.
At each Board meeting the ports received from them and discussion with manageBoard reviews the Companys activities since the previous ment.
The Audit Committee continues to be satisfied with Board Meeting to ensure that the Investment Adviser adthe effectiveness of the work provided by EY and that EY heres to the agreed investment policy and approved inremain objective and independent.
vestment guidelines and, if necessary, the Board approves changes to the guidelines.
At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee considered whether the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts were PATAC Limited acts as the Companys AIFM for the purfair, balanced and understandable and whether they proposes of the AIFM Directive and provides secretarial and vided the necessary information for shareholders to assess administrative services to the Company.
the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that, taken as a whole, The Company does not have an internal audit function as the Audit Committee believes that the Companys straightthe Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
The Audit Committee reached this conforward structure and small number of employees do not warrant such a function.
This is reviewed by the Commitclusion based on a detailed review of the financial statetee annually.
ments and subsequent discussion on whether the accounts are fair, balanced and understandable by all members of SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING MATTERS the Committee.
The significant issue considered by the Audit Committee AUDIT AND TAXATION TENDER during the year in relation to the financial statements of The Company confirms that it was in compliance with the Group was the existence and valuation of investments.
The AIFM regularly reconciles the portfolio holdings to the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of confirmations from the Companys Custodian and carries out testing of the prices obtained from the independent Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 during the financial year ended pricing source.
Based on confirmation from the AIFM that these procedures have operated correctly at 30 April 2017 30 April 2017. and based on conversations with and written reporting EU regulation requires a change of Auditors by 2020 and from the Depositary, the Committee is satisfied that there the Boards intention is to put the audit out for tender at is no material misstatement in the context of the Annual the next Audit Partner rotation point, after the 30 April Report and Accounts as a whole.
2018 Annual Report and Accounts are approved.
EY were appointed at the Companys launch in 1983.
The Stuart W Paul Audit Engagement Partner rotates every five years in acDirector cordance with ethical guidelines and 2017 is the fourth year 1 June 2017 for the current partner.
