REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The UK Listing Rules require all listed companies to as there are no executive Directors or employees it disclose how they have applied the principles and complied does not comply with the UK Code in respect of with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code executive Directors remuneration: and the UK Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Company does not have an internal audit function the FRC.
The UK Code can be viewed at www.
uk as it relies on the systems of control operated by third party suppliers in particular those of the Investment The Association of Investment Companies AIC published Manager.
The Board monitors these systems of in February 2015 a Code of Corporate Governance AIC internal control to provide assurance that they Code and a Corporate Governance Guide for Investment operate as intended.
Companies AIC Guide applying to accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, as explained in the UK Code, the Board considers these provisions are not The FRC has confirmed that by following the AIC Code relevant to the Company, being an externally managed and the AIC Guide, boards of investment companies will investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys meet their obligations in relation to the UK Code and day-to-day management and administrative functions are paragraph 9.8.
The AIC Code and AIC Guide address the principles The report on corporate governance describes how set out in the UK Code as well as additional principles the principles of the AIC Code have been applied.
The and recommendations on issues that are specific to Board will continue to observe the principles and investment trusts.
The AIC Code and Guide can be recommendations set out in the AIC Code in future.
co. uk Directors and Board STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE Independence and composition The Board has considered the principles and The Board is responsible to Shareholders for the overall recommendations of the AIC Code by reference to the management of the Companys affairs and currently AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, consists of six Non-executive Directors.
addresses all the principles set out in the UK Code, All the Directors, with the exception of Brian Ashfordas well as setting out additional principles and Russell, were considered independent of the Investment recommendations on issues that are of specific Manager and had no relationship or conflicts which were relevance to the Company.
likely to affect their independent judgment.
Consequently The Board considers that reporting against the principles the majority of the Board is independent of the Investment and recommendations of the AIC Code, by reference to the Manager and the Board considers that its overall AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Code, will provide composition is adequate for the effective governance better information for Shareholders.
The Board considers for the year under review that the The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Directors, Board and Company have complied with the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant role.
The Chairman works with the Company Secretary for provisions of the UK Code except as noted below: setting the Boards agenda and for balancing the issues presented to each meeting.
Open and frank debate is as all Directors are Non-executive and day-to-day encouraged at each Board meeting and the Chairman management has been contracted to third parties the keeps in touch with the Company Secretary and other Company does not have a separate role for a Chief Directors between Board meetings.
Executive from that of Chairman of the Board: The Chairman was independent on his appointment as Chairman and continued to meet the criteria for independence.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 57 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview Governance REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Each Director has different qualities and areas of Election and retirement of Directors at the AGM expertise on which they may lead where issues arise.
The The Articles of Association the Articles govern the current Directors are listed on pages 50 and 51 along with appointment, re-election and removal of a Director.
their biographical details which demonstrate the breadth The Articles permit the Board to appoint further of investment, commercial and professional experience Directors without Shareholder approval but subject to relevant to their positions as Directors of any such Directors standing for election by the Company.
Shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of All Directors are appointed for an initial term of three the corporate company secretary through its appointed years and are subject to re-election by Shareholders at representative who is responsible to the Board for a general meeting in accordance with the Articles.
ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The The Articles and the Companies Act provide for the Board and Investment Manager operate in a supportive, removal of a Director.
The Articles also state that any Director who has served for over nine years should stand for annual Succession planning and diversity re-election.
While the Board recognises the value of progressive refreshing of and succession planning for company Any Director who has served over nine years and stands boards, it is conscious of the need to maintain continuity for re-election due to length of service is carefully and and believes that retaining Directors with sufficient rigorously assessed by the Nomination Committee to experience of the Company, industry and markets is of ensure that the Director continues to make a valuable great benefit to Shareholders.
The Board is of the opinion contribution to the Board and remains independent in that long service does not necessarily compromise the character and judgement.
independence or contribution of Directors of Investment Trusts where continuity and experience can significantly Notwithstanding the provisos of the Articles, the UK Code benefit a Board, a view supported by the AIC.
requires all Directors of FTSE350 companies to retire annually.
Therefore all the Directors who were elected at The Boards policy on diversity, including gender, is to last years AGM will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, have regard to the benefits of having a Board of Directors being eligible, offer themselves for re-election with the which encompasses a balance of skills and experience exception of Michael Moule who is retiring.
which is maintained and regularly refreshed.
The Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination The Nomination Committee is responsible for the Committee, supports each of the Directors standing for composition of the Board and it considers not only the re-election.
existing Board but also if further appointments should be made.
The Nomination Committee seeks to balance the Directors interests time required, the skills, knowledge and experience of Brian Ashford-Russell is a partner of Polar Capital LLP individual Directors to form an effective and efficient Board.
and a Non-executive Director and Shareholder in Polar Capital Holdings plc, the ultimate holding company of When considering new appointments the Nomination Polar Capital LLP and as such he has an interest in the Committee seeks to have a list of candidates for the investment management contract.
He is therefore not whole Board to consider that will enhance the Board or considered to be an independent Director.
However, the replace and refresh skills lost through a Director leaving Board values the fact that Brian Ashford-Russell, the Board.
As such the Board, while it has not set although no longer actively involved in the day to day specific targets, will have regard to the benefits of management of the portfolio, serves as a Director of the diversity on the Board, including gender, when further Company and gives the Directors and Shareholders the appointments are considered.
benefit of his experience and knowledge.
The work of the Nomination Committee is described on page 61.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 58 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 No Director, except Brian Ashford-Russell, has any links Except as disclosed above in relation to Brian Ashfordwith the Investment Manager, Polar Capital LLP.
There Russells interest in the contract with Polar Capital LLP, were no other contracts during or at the end of the year there were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of in which a Director of the Company is or was materially the year in which a Director is or was interested and which interested and which is or was significant in relation to is or was significant in relation to the Companys business the Companys business.
The Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Directors professional development Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
When a new Director is appointed he or she is offered an induction course provided by the Investment Manager.
Conflicts of interests Directors are welcome to visit the Investment Manager at Directors have a duty to avoid a situation in which they any time to receive an update on any aspect of particular have or could have a conflict of interest or possible interest or a general refresher on the operations of the conflict with the interests of the Company.
Directors are also provided on a Articles contain provisions to permit the Board to regular basis with key information on the Companys authorise conflicts or potential conflicts.
policies, regulatory and statutory obligations and internal controls.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are The Board has always had in place policies to govern advised to the Board as they arise.
Directors also regularly situations where a potential conflict of interests may participate in professional and industry seminars and may arise, in particular where a Director is also a Director use the online training modules of the Investment Manager of a company in which the Company invests or may invest.
to ensure they maintain their knowledge.
Where such a situation arises, these Directors are excluded from any discussions or decisions relating The Boards Role and Responsibilities to investments in their respective companies.
The Board meets regularly and six scheduled Board meetings were held to deal with the stewardship of the Each Director has provided the Company with a statement Company and other matters.
There is a formal schedule of all conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of of matters specifically reserved for decision by the interest.
These have been approved by the Board and full Board.
The Board may impose conditions on authorising any conflict or potential conflict situations.
During the course of the year the Board has considered Directors are reminded at each Board meeting of their the setting and monitoring of investment strategy and obligations to notify any changes to their circumstances guidelines, portfolio performance, the preparation and which would impact on the notified conflicts or potential review of Financial Statements, approval of borrowing conflicts and obtain approval before entering into any limits within which the Investment Manager has discretion situation which might give rise to a conflict or potential to act, and Shareholder issues including communications conflict with the interests of the Company.
The level of share price discount or premium to Net Asset Value together with policies for No Director has declared receipt of any benefits other re-purchase or issuance of new shares including the use than his emoluments and associated expenses in his of treasury shares are kept under review along with capacity as a Director of the Company.
matters affecting the industry and the evaluation of third party service providers.
Only Directors not involved in the conflict or potential conflict participate in the authorisation process.
Directors in deciding whether to authorise a situation take into account their duty to promote the Companys success.
The Board reviews annually the register of conflicts, any conditions imposed on such conflicts or potential conflicts and the operation of the notification and authorisation process.
They conducted the annual review as part of the processes for preparing the Annual Report and concluded that the process has operated effectively since its introduction.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 59 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview Governance REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Board has also spent considerable time over the year The Board has delegated to a number of standing considering and reviewing regulatory changes that have committees specific remits for consideration and impacted the Company.
recommendation but the final responsibility in these areas remains with the Board.
A strategy Board meeting is held each year where investment ideas are discussed.
Should it be necessary, a procedure has been adopted for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take Through this process the Board supervises the independent professional advice at the expense of the management of the investment portfolio, the work of the Company.
No such advice has been sought during the Investment Manager, the risks to which the Company is past year.
exposed and their mitigation, and the quality of services received by the Company.
The number of formal meetings of the Board and its Committees held during the financial year and the If additional meetings of the Board are required these attendance of individual Directors are shown below.
1 May 2016 to 30 April 2017 Management 1 Board & Strategy Audit Engagement Nomination Remuneration 2016 AGM Number of Meetings in the year under review 6 3 1 2 1 1 2 Michael Moule 6 6 3 3 1 1 2 2 1 1 Brian Ashford-Russell 6 6 1 1 Sarah Bates 6 6 3 3 1 1 2 2 1 1 1 1 3 Tim Cruttenden 1 1 Charlotta Ginman 6 6 3 3 1 1 2 2 1 1 Peter Hames 6 6 3 3 1 1 2 2 1 1 1 1 4 Rupert Montagu 2 3 2 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 0 1 Notes 1 The remuneration Committee comprised of three independent Directors during the year under review.
With effect from 1 May 2017 all the independent Directors constituted the committee.
2 Michael Moule attends the Audit Committee by invitation.
3 Tim Cruttenden was appointed on 23 March 2017.
4 Rupert Montagu was a Director until his retirement at the conclusion of the AGM on 9 September 2016.
A number of ad hoc special purpose Board and Committee meetings were held during the year for the approval of documents and approval of regulatory announcements all of which had been previously considered by the full Board.
Senior Independent Director SID Mr Hames became the SID from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 9 September 2016.
The SID can be contacted via the Registered Office of the Company.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 60 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Review the performance of the Board as a whole and Board Committees each individual Director.
This covered: The Board has created four standing committees whose terms of reference are available on the Companys Recommending the re-election of each Director website.
The Board also creates ad hoc committees from based on the evaluation.
The Committee time to time to enact or approve policies or actions agreed acknowledges the rationale of the UK Corporate in principle by the whole Board.
The Chairman of each Governance Code for the rigorous review of committee attends the AGM to deal with questions Directors serving over six years and annual relating to the Financial Statements.
Nevertheless the Committee shares the view of the AIC that length of The report of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 65 service will not necessarily compromise the to 68.
The Remuneration Committee Report is on pages independence or contribution of Directors of 69 to 72 and the reports of the Nomination and investment trusts where continuity and experience Management Engagement Committees are set out below.
The Committee followed the recommended practice REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE of having an externally facilitated review every three Michael Moule, as Chairman of the Board, chairs the years and in 2016 appointed Lintstock to provide Nomination Committee and all the independent Nonthis.
The finding and recommendations of the review executive Directors are members.
The Committee meets were considered and shared with the Board.
The at least annually and is responsible to the Board for the Committee considered the findings of the report and size and structure of the Board as well as for succession in particular has noted that a generally favourable planning and the tenure policy for Directors.
report was received but there were a number of minor improvements in some administrative MEETINGS AND WORK UNDERTAKEN aspects that could be improved.
During the financial year ended 30 April 2017 the The Committee confirmed that the evaluation of the Committee met twice and considered the following Board, its Committees and individual Directors for matters: 2017 and 2018 should be carried by the Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
In the years when the Succession planning for the position of Chairman internal system is used The Chairman uses a system of the Board.
The Chairman did not participate in any that seeks the views of each Director by a discussion or decision on his role or questionnaire and interviews.
Appointment of a new Director to fill the is conducted by the Senior Independent Director.
skill set lost by the retirement of Rupert Montagu.
This covered: REPORT OF THE MANAGEMENT Agreement on specification and method of ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE recruitment of a new Director using the Boards The Management Engagement Committee is chaired by views on diversity and to achieve a balance of skills, the Chairman of the Board, Michael Moule, and comprises knowledge and experience on the Board.
of all the independent Non-executive Directors.
Appointment of external agency Nurole to advertise the position.
Carry out the selection process and interviews before making a final recommendation to the Board.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 61 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview Governance REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Other key suppliers to the Company MEETINGS AND WORK UNDERTAKEN The Board also monitors directly or through the During the financial year ended 30 April 2017 the Investment Manager the performance of its other Committee met once and considered the following matters: key service providers.
The relationship with the Investment Manager, The Board directly appointed HSBC Bank Plc as including the annual review of the services provided Depositary.
The Depositary reports quarterly and by the Investment Manager prior to making its makes an annual presentation to the Board.
recommendation to the Board, on the retention The share registrars are directly appointed by the of the Investment Manager being in the interests Board and their performance is monitored by the of Shareholders.
The terms of the investment management agreement Other suppliers such as corporate brokers, printers, and its appointment as AIFM.
website services and PR agents are monitored by the Performance Evaluation Process Company Secretary.
Investment Manager Accountability and Audit The Board has contractually delegated the management The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of of the portfolio to the Investment Manager.
It is the the Financial Statements is set out on pages 73 and 74 Investment Managers sole responsibility to take and the Independent Auditors Report is on pages 75 to 79. decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual investments other than unquoted investments where Internal Controls the Board is consulted.
The Investment Manager has The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys responsibility for tactical gearing, asset allocation and system of internal control, for reviewing its effectiveness sector selection within the guidelines established and and ensuring that risk management and control process regularly reviewed by the Board.
are embedded in the day to day operations which are The Investment Manager is responsible for providing or operated or overseen by the Investment Manager.
procuring accountancy services, company secretarial and The Board through the Audit Committee has established administrative services.
The Investment Manager also a process for identifying, evaluating, monitoring and ensures that all Directors receive in a timely manner reviewing, and managing any principle risks faced by the all relevant management, regulatory and financial Company.
This is documented through the use of a Risk information.
Representatives of the Investment Manager Map which is subject to regular review by the Audit attend Board meetings enabling the Directors to probe Committee and accords with the Guidance on Risk further on matters of concern or seek clarification on Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and certain issues.
Business Reporting issued in September 2014 by the The whole Board reviews the performance of the Financial Reporting Council.
As the Company has no Investment Manager at each Board meeting and the employees and its operational functions are carried out Companys performance against the market and a peer by third parties, the Audit Committee does not consider group of funds with similar investment objectives.
The it necessary for the Company to establish its own investment team provided by the Investment Manager, internal audit function.
led by Ben Rogoff, has long experience of investment in Contracts with suppliers are entered into after full technology.
In addition, the Investment Manager has other andproper consideration by the Board of the quality investment resources which support the investment team andcost of the services offered, including the control and experience in managing and administering other systems in operation in so far as they relate to the affairs investment trust companies.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 62 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 The Investment Manager has an internal control Based on the work of the Audit Committee and the framework to provide reasonable but not absolute reviews of the reports received by the Audit Committee on assurance on the effectiveness of the internal controls behalf of the Board, the Board has concluded that there operated on behalf of its clients.
The Investment Manager were no material control failures during the year and up is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct to the date of this report.
Authority and its compliance department monitors Relations with Shareholders compliance with the FCA rules.
The Board and the Investment Manager consider The Audit Committee reviews and reports to the Board on maintaining good communications with Shareholders and the operation of the controls which are embedded within engaging with larger Shareholders through meetings and the business of the Investment Manager and other third presentations a key priority.
Controls and risk management covering The Board regularly considers the share register of the the risks identified, including financial, operational, Company and receives regular reports from the compliance, safeguarding of assets, maintenance of Investment Manager and the corporate broker on proper accounting records and the publication of reliable meetings attended with Shareholders and any concerns financial information are monitored by a series of regular that are raised in such meetings.
The Board also reviews reports from the Investment Manager including risks not correspondence from Shareholders and maintains directly the responsibility of the Investment Manager.
regular contact with major Shareholders.
Operation The Chairman each year contacts the largest The process was active throughout the year and up to the Shareholders to enable them to raise any concerns direct date of approval of this Annual Report.
However, such a with the Board without using the Investment Manager or system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risks Company Secretary as a conduit.
The Chairman or other of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives Directors are available to Shareholders who wish to raise and can only provide reasonable and not absolute matters either in person or in writing.
The Chairman and assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Directors may be contacted through the registered office The Board in assessing the effectiveness of the of the Company.
Companys internal controls has through the Audit Shareholders are kept informed by the publication of Committee received formal reports on the policies and annual and interim reports which include Financial procedures in operation and tests, with details of any Statements.
These reports are supplemented by the daily known internal control failures from the Investment release of the net asset value per share to the London Manager for its financial year ended 31 March 2017.
Stock Exchange and the publication by the Investment The Investment Manager has subsequently provided Manager of a monthly factsheet.
All this information confirmation that there has been no material change together with the Investment Managers presentations tothe control environment to the signing of these is available from the Companys website at FinancialStatements.
co. uk The Board also considers reports operated by other third The Board is also keen that the AGM be a participative party suppliers and ad hoc reports from the Investment event for all Shareholders who attend.
The portfolio Manager are supplied to the Board as required.
manager makes a presentation and Shareholders are The Investment Manager has delegated the provision of encouraged to attend.
The Chairmen of the Board and accounting, portfolio valuation and trade processing to of the Committees attend the AGM and are available to HSBC Securities Services but remains responsible to the respond to queries and concerns from Shareholders.
Company for these functions and provides the Board with The Directors make themselves available after the information on these services.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 63 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview Governance REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Where the vote is decided on a show of hands, the proxy votes received are relayed to the meeting and subsequently published on the Companys website.
Proxy forms have a vote withheld option.
The Notice of Meeting sets out the business of the AGM together with the full text of any special resolutions.
The Board will engage with Shareholders on any matters where significant dissent is shown at the AGM and following the AGM acknowledge such dissent in its announcement of the results of the AGM and disclose in the next Annual Report steps it has taken or will take to resolve the issue.
The Company has made arrangements for investors through the Alliance Savings Scheme to receive all Company communications and have the ability to direct the casting of their votes.
The Company has also made arrangements with its registrar for Shareholders, who own their shares direct rather than through a nominee or share scheme, to view their account over the Internet at www.
Other services are also available via this service.
By order of the Board Neil Taylor Polar Capital Secretarial Services Limited Company Secretary 18 July 2017 Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 64 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017
