AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Charlotta Ginman, is Chairman of the Audit Committee the consideration of reports from the Investment which comprises all the independent Non-executive Manager and Auditors on the effectiveness of the Directors with the exception of the Chairman of the Board system of internal financial controls including the who attends as an observer by invitation.
The Board is Risk Map: and satisfied that at least one member of the Committee has the going concern statement, longer-term viability recent and relevant financial experience and the Audit statement and the requirement that the Annual Report Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the and Financial Statements when taken as a whole are sector in which the Company operates.
The experience fair, balanced and understandable.
of the members of the Committee can be assessed from the Directors biographies set out on pages 50 and 51.
Members of the Investment Managers Compliance and Operations Departments attend as and when requested The Committee has written terms of reference which as do the Auditors.
clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
None of the members of the Audit Committee has any involvement in the EFFICACY OF AUDIT PROCESS preparation of the Financial Statements of the Company, as The Audit Committee monitored and evaluated the this has been contracted to the Investment Manager.
effectiveness of the Auditors and any changes in the terms of their appointment based on an assessment of MEETINGS AND WORK UNDERTAKEN their performance, qualification, knowledge, expertise During the financial year ended 30 April 2017 the and resources.
The Auditors independence was also Committee met three times with all members attending considered along with other factors such as audit each meeting, and considered the following matters: planning and interpretations of accounting standards.
This evaluation has been carried out throughout the year the scope of the annual audit and agreement with by meetings held with the Auditors, by review of the audit the external Auditors of the key areas of focus: process and by comments from the Investment Manager the reports from the external Auditors concerning and others involved in the audit process.
their audit of the annual Financial Statements of theCompany: The Auditors were provided with an opportunity to address the Committee without the Investment Manager the performance of the external Auditors and the present to raise any concerns or discuss any matters level of fees charged for their services: relating to the audit work and the cooperation of the the appropriateness and any changes to the accounting Investment Manager and others in providing any policies of the Company including any judgements information and the quality of that information including required by such policies and the reasonableness the timeliness in responding to audit requests.
of such: the financial disclosures contained in the Annual As part of the year end audit the Committee considered Report and half year Report to Shareholders: the level of fees paid to the Auditors bearing in mind the nature of the audit and the quality of services the policy for non-audit services which may be previously received.
provided by the Auditors in line with the FRC guidance: the extent of the non-audit services, the quality of CONSIDERATION OF THE ANNUAL REPORT such work and the fees: AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the independence and objectivity of the external The Committee performed this role through monitoring Auditors: the integrity of the Financial Statements of the Company the selection of replacement Auditors following and the system of accounting to ensure compliance with the tendering process: relevant and appropriate accounting standards.
the Risk Map covering the identification of new risks, The scope of the audit was agreed in advance with a focus adjustments to existing risks and the mitigation and on areas of audit risk and the appropriate level of audit controls in place to manage the principle risks: materiality.
The Auditors reported on the results of the audit work to the Committee and highlighted any issue which the audit work had discovered or the Committee had previously identified as significant or material in the context of the Financial Statements.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 65 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED SIGNIFICANT MATTERS IN RELATION TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2017 In addition to the matters considered by the Committee in forming its opinions on Going Concern and longer-term viability described below and in concluding that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable, the Committee also considered the following matters in relation to the Financial Statements: Significant matter How the issue was addressed Valuation, existence and ownership The valuation is carried out in accordance with the accounting policy described of investments in Note 2.
The Depository has reported on its work and safe keeping of the companys investments.
Compliance with S1158 of the Consideration of compliance with the requirements of investment trust status Corporation Tax Act 2010 is carried out at each Board meeting throughout the year.
There were no adverse matters brought to the Audit Committees attention in respect of the 2017 audit, which were material or significant or which should be brought to Shareholders attention.
CONCLUSIONS IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL CONSIDERATION OF THE SEMIANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The production and the audit of the Companys Annual The Committee considered and reviewed the half year Report and Financial Statements is a comprehensive Report and Financial Statements which are not audited process requiring input from a number of different or reviewed by the external Auditors to ensure that they contributors.
In order to reach a conclusion that the reflected the accounting policies used in the annual Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable, Financial Statements.
the Board has requested that the Committee advise on whether it considers these criteria satisfied.
In so doing NONAUDIT WORK the Committee has given consideration to the following: The Audit Committees policy on the provision of nonaudit services by the Auditors is to ensure that there is a the comprehensive control framework around the clear separation of audit work and non-audit work and production of the Annual Report, including the that the cost of any non-audit work is justified and is not verification processes in place to deal with the disproportionate to the audit fees to the extent that the factual content: independence of the Auditors would be compromised.
extensive levels of review are undertaken in the production process, by the Investment Manager The Audit Committee has reviewed the work carried out and the Committee: and by the Auditors outside their annual audit of the Financial Statements to ensure that none of these services would the internal control environment as operated by the put the Auditors in the position of auditing their own work Investment Manager and other suppliers including or threaten their independence.
any checks and balances within those systems.
The Committee considered the non-audit services for the As a result of the work performed, the Committee has year ended 30 April 2017. concluded that the Annual Report for the year ended 30 April 2017, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and During the year under review  understandable and provides the information necessary LLP PwC had provided services as tax agents in for Shareholders to assess the Companys performance, Taiwan and for of IXBRL tagging of the Companys business model and strategy, and it has reported on these accounts for submission to HR Revenue and Customs.
These services were part of a group arrangement that Polar Capital LLP had in place for all its clients.
Polar Capital LLP is in the process of moving these services to different firms during 2017.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 66 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 The Committee also noted that the Company had OVERVIEW OF RISK previously agreed a fee with PwC which was leading The Board has ultimate responsibility for the a class action for the recovery of VAT.
Post the year management of risk throughout the Company and has end this arrangement had been concluded and the asked the Audit Committee to assist in maintaining an Company had withdrawn its claim following the effective Internal Control environment.
judgement handed down by the Supreme Court in 2017.
The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board has a risk PwC had historically lodged certain claims on behalf of management process which is used throughout the year the Company for the recovery of European withholding to monitor the risks and controls which are set out in a taxes which became available following various court Risk Map.
As part of the year end processes the Audit decisions.
All the claims have been lodged and are in Committee undertook a review of the effectiveness of the the process of being considered by relevant tax system of internal controls taking into account any issues authorities.
There is no further work being carried that had arisen during the course of the year.
out on this matter but the repayment of the withholding Representatives of the Investment Manager reported to tax may take a number of years to be completed.
the Committee on the Internal controls operated by the KPMG LLP provided tax reclaim services up to Investment Manager and it also received internal control December 2016, at which point the services were reports from other key suppliers on the quality and completed and the arrangement terminated.
No effectiveness of the services provided to the Company.
services have since been provided to the Company by KPMG LLP.
The Audit Committee uses a Risk Map which seeks to identify, monitor and control principle risks as far as The Committee does not consider the provision of this possible.
Over the year the Audit Committee has non-audit work to the Company affects the independence undertaken a review of the entire Risk Map to identify the of the Auditors.
The EU Audit legislation is applicable to principle risks facing the business and reviewed each risk the Company for the accounting year commenced on as to it likelihood and impact.
The Committee also 1 May 2017 and the Company will be fully compliant.
robustly considered the mitigating factors and controls to reduce the impact of such risks as described on pages 42 APPOINTMENT OF AUDITORS AND TENURE to 45.
As well as the annual review the Audit Committee The Committee also considers by way of meetings and has maintained an active process throughout the year to reports, the appointment, remuneration and work of monitor these risks and controls in order to provide theAuditors.
assurance that they operate as intended and the Risk Map reflect developing and new risks.
The Committee carried out a formal competitive tender for the Companys statutory audit during 2016.
Four firms There were no issues which arose during the course of were invited to tender with presentations to the Chair of the year ended 30 April 2017 and up to the date of this the audit Committee and a review of the presentations report which were considered significant.
was presented to the Committee with a recommendation and a reserve choice.
The selected firm presented to the The Audit Committee will actively continue to monitor the Committee in December 2016.
The Committee agreed to system of internal controls through the regular review of appoint KPMG LLP and approved their proposed fees.
the Risk Map and the internal control environment.
In accordance with the current legislation, the Company The Audit Committee has noted that the Investment will need to re-tender for new Auditors at least every 10 Manager has policies on whistleblowing policy, years and will have to change its auditor after 20 years.
antibribery policy and the Modern Slavery Act and has controls and monitoring to implement their policy across PwC will continue in their role as Auditors for 2017 but the main contractors which supply goods and services to will not be offering themselves for reappointment as the Investment Manager and the Company.
Auditors at the AGM on 7 September 2017.
A resolution to appoint KPMG LLP will be submitted for Shareholder The Audit Committee has also considered the policy and approval together with a separate to authorise the controls used by the Investment Manager surrounding the Directors to determine their remuneration.
use of brokerage commissions generated from transactions in the Companys portfolio.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the choice of external Auditors.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 67 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview Governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED GOING CONCERN AND LONGER-TERM VIABILITY The Audit Committee at the request of the Board has considered the ability of the Company to adopt the Going Concern Basis for the preparation of the Financial Statements.
The Committee also considered the longer-term viability requirements, so the Board may state that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment.
These assessments take account of the Companys current financial position, its cash flows and its liquidity position and the principle risks as set out on pages 43 to 45 and the Committees assessment of any material uncertainties and events that might cast significant doubt upon the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Audit Committee has considered the following assumptions in making their assessment: The ability of the The financial position of the Company and its cash flows and liquidity position are described in the Strategic Report and the Financial Statements.
Company to meet its liabilities as Note 28 to the Financial Statements includes the Companys policies and process for managing they fall due its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of financial instruments and hedging activities.
Exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk are also disclosed.
The portfolio comprises of investments traded on major international stock exchanges, there is a spread of investments by size of company.
The current portfolio could be liquidated to the extent of 99.3% within seven trading days and there is no expectation that the nature of the investments held within the portfolio will be materially different in future.
The expenses of the Company are predictable and modest in comparison with the assets and there are no capital commitments foreseen which would alter that position.
The Company has no employees except for the Non-executive Directors and consequently does not have redundancy or other employment related liabilities or responsibilities.
The Company Under the AIC SORP guidance that, where Shareholders have the opportunity to vote in favour or faces a against a company continuing in existence, it will normally be the case that Shareholders will have continuation vote to vote in favour of a liquidation before it can occur.
It follows that, even if an Investment Company at the AGM in is approaching a wind-up or continuation vote, and where Shareholders have yet to vote on the September 2020 issue, it will usually be more appropriate for the Financial Statements to be prepared on a going concern basis whilst making the material uncertainties disclosures set out in paragraph 3.9 of FRS 102: and that adoption of a non-going concern basis is expected to be a rare event.
Further It is reasonable to believe that if good performance is achieved over the period until the next continuation vote in 2020 the Company will pass the continuation vote.
Factors impacting The Strategic Review Section, comprising the Chairmans Statement, the Investment Managers the forthcoming Report and the Strategic Report provide a comprehensive review of such factors.
year Regulatory Despite the increased level of regulations and the unpredictability of future requirements it is changes considered that regulation will not increase to a level that makes the running of the Company uneconomical in comparison to other competitive products.
That the business model of being a closed ended investment fund will continue to be wanted by investors and the investment objective be desired and achievable.
In light of the information provided to the Committee and the assessment of the financial position of the Company the Committee has recommended that a Going Concern Basis should be adopted by the Board for the preparation of the Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017.
The Committee has also recommended to the Board that the Companys longer-term prospects to continue its operations and meet its expenses and liabilities as they fall due over the five years are reasonable.
Charlotta Ginman Chairman of the Audit Committee 18 July 2017 Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 68 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017
