com stock code: NTG We recognise the vital role that good governance plays in delivering the best outcomes for all stakeholders in the business.
UK Listed Companies are required by the FCA the designated UK Listing Authority, to include a statement in their annual accounts on compliance with the principles of good corporate governance and code of best practice set out in the Code.
The provisions of the Code applicable to listed companies are divided into five parts, as set out below: 1 2 Leadership Effectiveness 1.
Effectiveness The business is managed by the Board of Directors, currently Information supplied comprising two executive and five non-executive Directors, The Chairman ensures that all Directors are appropriately 5 details of whom are shown on pages 42 and 43.
The offices 3 briefed to enable them to discharge their duties.
of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate.
Management accounts are prepared and submitted to Relations with Accountability shareholders An overview of the leadership of the Group, including the the Board on a monthly basis.
Before each Board meeting responsibilities and activities of each component is outlined appropriate documentation on all items to be discussed is on pages 45 to 47. circulated.
4 Remuneration 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four Attendance Board review Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year is detailed as follows: The internal evaluation established that the Board had built on the evaluation recommendations from the previous year.
Board Audit and Risk Remuneration Nominations It highlighted areas for additional focus in FY2018, which included further market and strategic analysis.
of meetings 8 4 4 3 appointment of Kevin Bradshaw in January 2017 a refreshing 1 AJ Allner of the Groups strategy was undertaken and this will be a 2 K Bradshaw further focus of the Board throughout FY2018.
In addition, a review against new strategic objectives will be regularly J Caseberry monitored.
3 RL Contreras The inclusion of site visits for Board meetings during the P Gallagher year had a positive impact on employee engagement C Miles and enhanced the Boards first-hand experience of the Companys operations: this will continue throughout A Page FY2018.
4 B Spencer Diversity 1 Retired from all Committees in September 2016.
The Board has considered the recommendations of the 2 Appointed 11 January 2017.
Davies Review into Women on Boards in the light of the 3 Resigned 11 January 2017. provisions of both section B.
2 of the Code, with which we 4 Appointed to Board 1 June 2016 and appointed Chairman of Audit & Risk Committee 1 October 2016. are compliant, and of our existing policies and procedures.
The Board recognises the benefits of diversity at all levels All Directors in office at that time were present at the AGM roles of Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the of the business and in order to reinforce the Boards held in September 2016.
Audit and Risk Committee on 1 October 2016.
This means commitment to equality, the Board has endorsed an Equal that the Board was not compliant with section B.
1.2 of Opportunities Policy, which may be found on our website at: The external auditor and the Head of Group Internal Audit the Code more than half of the Directors, excluding the www.
com attended all Audit and Risk Committee meetings.
Chairman, should be independent from September 2016 to the date of this report.
However, we feel that maintaining a Andrew Allner completed nine years service as a nonWhilst the overriding criteria for Board appointments will Board with an appropriate mix of skills and experience serves executive Director of the Company in September 2016 and always be based on merit, so as to encourage an appropriate our stakeholders well.
therefore is no longer regarded as independent in terms of balance of skills, experience and knowledge on the Board the Code or by the ABI.
Bill Spencer, appointed to the Board at all times, for all future appointments we will only use as a non-executive Director on 1 June 2016, assumed the executive search firms who have committed to the Voluntary Code of Conduct on gender diversity.
48 Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2017 REVIEW 49 GOVERNANCE 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four Northgateplc.
com stock code: NTG CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED At the same time the Board recognises that, particularly Whistleblowing hotline 5.
Relations with shareholders given the nature of its business, the development of a pool The Board has established a confidential telephone service, Throughout the year the Company maintains a regular of suitably qualified candidates may take time to achieve and operated by an independent external organisation, which dialogue with institutional investors and market analysts, therefore does not believe it is appropriate to set targets, may be used by all staff to report any issues of concern providing them with such information on the Companys however aspirational, at the present time.
relating to dishonesty or malpractice within the Group.
All progress and future plans as is permitted within the issues reported are investigated by senior management and guidelines of the Listing Rules.
In particular, twice a year, At 30 April 2017 29% of Board members, 19% of the senior Internal Audit as appropriate.
at the time of announcing the Companys half and full management team and 31% of all employees were female.
year results, they are invited to briefings given by the CEO Information and communication Conflicts of interest and CFO.
Each reporting segment prepares monthly management Pursuant to those provisions of the Companies Act 2006 The Companys major institutional shareholders have been accounts with a comparison against their business plan relating to conflicts of interest and in accordance with the advised by the Chief Executive Officer that, in line with the and prior year, with review by management of variance authority contained in the Companys Articles of Association, provisions of the Code, the Senior Independent Director and from targeted performance levels.
These commentaries the Board has put in place procedures to deal with the other non-executives may attend these briefings and, in any are consolidated and submitted to the Board.
Year to date notification, authorisation, recording and monitoring of event, would attend if requested to do so.
actuals are used to guide forecasts, which are updated Directors conflicts of interest and these procedures have regularly and communicated to the Board.
operated effectively throughout the year and to the date of All shareholders are given the opportunity to raise matters signing of this report and accounts.
for discussion at the AGM, for which more than the Planning recommended minimum 20 working days notice is given.
Each reporting segment prepares a three year business plan 3.
Accountability on an annual basis.
This is presented to and approved by Although no system of internal controls can provide absolute Details of proxies lodged in respect of the AGM will the Board.
Performance against these plans is reviewed on a assurance against material misstatement or loss, the Groups be published on the Companys website as soon as is monthly basis.
system is designed to provide the Directors with reasonable practicable following the meeting.
assurance that, should any problems occur, these are Assurance Significant interests in shares are detailed on page 74. identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
A description of the work of the Audit and Risk Committee is Compliance with the Code given on pages 51 to 53.
Both the external auditor and Head Internal control of Internal Audit report directly to the Committee.
The Board considers that the Company complied with Confirmation that the Board has performed an assessment the provisions of the Code throughout the year, with the of the risk management and internal control systems of the 4.
1.2, as described in section 2 above.
Group, as required by the Code provision C. 2.3, is contained Details of the Companys remuneration policy and the in the Managing risk report on pages 28 to 33. remuneration of each Director are given on pages 54 to 73.
Katie Wood Company Secretary 26 June 2017 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four
