Corporate governance report The principal corporate governance guidance that applies to Key corporate governance activities companies listed with the UK Listing Authority during the year in 2016 2017 Details reported on is contained in the UK Corporate Governance Appointment of new Appointment of Amanda Brown Code 2014 the Corporate Governance Code published by non-executive director the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014, which is An internally facilitated This provided positive feedback available at www.
board review and useful suggestions, see page 58 for details Compliance statement Risk management review A renewal of the Groups overall The directors are committed to ensuring that the Company works towards risk management framework was compliance with the main principles of the Corporate Governance Code and undertaken, see pages 36 to 43 throughout the year reported on the Company has been in full compliance for details with the Corporate Governance Code.
On 15 May 2017, Darren Roos and Silke Scheiber were appointed as new non-executive directors.
Governance framework Group board Executive committee Comprises the executive directors and is chaired by Stephen Murdoch.
Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee See pages 60 to 67 for more information See pages 70 to 91 for more information See page 68 and 69 for more information The principles set out in the Corporate Governance Code cover five areas: leadership, effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and relations with shareholders.
With the exception of remuneration which is dealt with separately in the remuneration report on pages 70 to 91 the following section sets out how the board has applied these principles.
54 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Role of the board Leadership The Company is controlled by the board, which is principally responsible for promoting the long-term success of the Group and its system of corporate governance.
Although the board does delegate some matters to its committees The board such as the remuneration, nomination and audit committees, as part of its The biographies of each director can be found on pages 52 and 53. leadership and control of the Company, the board has agreed a list of items As at 17 July 2017, the board comprised nine directors: that are specically reserved for its consideration.
These include business Name Role strategy, nancing arrangements, material acquisitions and divestments, approval of the annual budget, major capital expenditure projects, risk Kevin Loosemore Executive Chairman management, treasury policies and establishing and monitoring internal Mike Phillips Chief Financial Officer controls.
At each meeting, the board reviews progress of the Group towards Stephen Murdoch CEO Micro Focus its objectives and receives papers on key subjects in advance of each board Nils Brauckmann CEO SUSE meeting.
These typically cover: Karen Slatford Senior independent non-executive director Strategy and budgets: Richard Atkins Independent non-executive director Amanda Brown Independent non-executive director Business and financial performance: Independent non-executive director Product plans and development: Darren Roos appointed 15 May 2017 Independent non-executive director Corporate activities: Silke Scheiber appointed 15 May 2017 Human resources: and In accordance with the Companys articles of association, all directors are Investor relations.
subject to election by the shareholders at the first AGM of the Company after their appointment and to re-election by the shareholders on an annual basis at While the board retains overall responsibility for, and control of the Company, each AGM.
Therefore all directors will retire, and seek election or re-election, day-to-day management of the business is conducted by the executive as applicable, at the forthcoming AGM.
This practice complies with the directors.
Review of the Groups principal business activities is the responsibility recommendations of the Corporate Governance Code.
All the proposed of the executive committee.
The executive committee comprises the executive appointees other than Silke Scheiber and Darren Roos who joined the board directors and is chaired by Stephen Murdoch, the CEO of Micro Focus.
on 15 May 2017 have been subject to a formal evaluation procedure in the last 12 months.
Following that procedure the Executive Chairman confirms the continuing commitment and effective contribution of the Directors and Powers of the directors in relation to share capital recommends their re-election.
In addition, the Directors confirm the continuing Details of the powers of the directors in relation to share capital can be found commitment and effective contribution of the Executive Chairman and on page 95 of the Directors report.
The board also believes in relation to the non-executive directors that their skills and experience enable them to Independent advice continue to provide valuable contributions to the board.
The board is satisfied The board has agreed procedures for directors to follow if they believe that the non-executive directors exercise rigorous and objective judgment.
they require independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties and these procedures allow the directors to take such advice at the Companys expense.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 55 Corporate governance report continued Board meetings For the current period, the board has scheduled meetings on a regular basis, approximately every two months with additional meetings when circumstances and business dictate.
In months in which the board does not meet, update calls are scheduled to review progress.
All directors receive an agenda and board papers in advance of meetings to help them make an effective contribution at the meetings.
The board makes full use of appropriate technology as a means of updating and informing all its members.
Board papers are circulated electronically to a tablet device, allowing directors to access documentation more easily and securely.
The executive directors ensure regular informal contact is maintained with non-executive directors who are invited to accompany the executive directors when visiting the Groups ofces.
The non-executive directors have unrestricted access to anyone in the Company.
The Executive Chairman also meets separately with the non-executive directors.
In the financial year under review the board met formally on five occasions.
The board also met on a further nine occasions to receive interim updates or consider matters arising between formal meetings.
Attendance at board and committee meetings The number of board and committee meetings attended by each director in the year ended 30 April 2017 was as follows: Board Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Kevin Loosemore 14 14 Mike Phillips 14 14 Stephen Murdoch 14 14 Nils Brauckmann 14 14 Karen Slatford 14 14 8 8 8 8 12 12 1 Tom Virden 14 13 8 6 8 8 Richard Atkins 14 14 8 8 8 8 12 12 1 Steve Schuckenbrock 14 12 8 6 2 Amanda Brown 12 12 8 8 8 8 12 12 During period of appointment.
1 Tom Virden and Steve Schuckenbrock resigned from the board on 25 April 2017.
2 Amanda Brown was appointed to the board on 1 July 2016.
Directors are normally provided with the agenda and supporting papers for board and committee meetings in the week prior to the meeting.
If unable to attend a meeting, a director will provide feedback to the Executive Chairman, the chair of the committee or the Company Secretary and their comments are then communicated to the meeting.
56 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Roles Responsibilities Executive Chairman The Executive Chairman, Kevin Loosemore, leads the board and the Company in its relationships with all stakeholders and customers.
The Executive Chairman has responsibility for setting the board agenda in conjunction with the senior independent director and the Company Secretary, the delivery of strategy and M&A activities and investor relations.
He is also responsible for chairing board and general meetings, facilitating the effective contribution of non-executive directors, ensuring effective communication with shareholders and upholding the highest standards of integrity and probity.
Senior independent director The senior independent director, Karen Slatford, chairs the nomination committee and is therefore responsible for succession planning.
Also, in her role as senior independent non-executive director, Karen Slatford leads on governance issues, including the annual review of overall board effectiveness and of the Executive Chairmans performance.
The senior independent non-executive director also acts as an intermediary, if necessary, between non-executive directors and the Executive Chairman and between the Company and its shareholders, providing a point of contact for those shareholders who wish to raise issues with the board, other than through the Executive Chairman.
Executive directors The executive directors are responsible for developing the Groups strategy and proposing the budget for board approval.
They are also responsible for the financial and operational performance of the Group and, in conjunction with the executive committee: they are collectively responsible for the day to day running of the business.
Non-executive directors The role of the non-executive directors is to ensure that independent judgment is brought to board deliberations and decisions.
They promote the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance throughout the Company.
The non-executive directors possess a wide range of skills and experience, relevant to the development of the Company, which complement those of the executive directors.
Company Secretary The Company Secretary is accountable to the board through the Executive Chairman to whom she reports.
It is the responsibility of the Company Secretary to ensure that board procedures are followed and all rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretarys responsibilities include facilitating the induction and professional development of directors and ensuring the smooth ow of information between board members, between the board and its committees and between non-executive directors and senior management.
In addition, all directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
1 1 Karen Slatford, the senior independent non-executive director, Richard Atkins, Amanda Brown, Darren Roos and Silke Scheiber each a non-executive director, are considered by the board to be independent as they are free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their judgment.
They are also considered to be independent as they have all served less than nine years on the board, they receive no additional benets from the Group and they have not previously held an executive role within the Group.
Non-executive directors are appointed for specic terms.
Full details of their appointment are on page 82 of the remuneration report.
The letters of appointment for the non-executive directors are available for inspection by any person at the Companys registered ofce during normal business hours and at the AGM during, and for 15 minutes prior to, the meeting.
Board agenda and key activities throughout the financial year The table below sets out matters that the board discussed at each meeting and the key activities that have taken place throughout this period.
Matters considered at all scheduled board meetings Key activities for the board throughout 2016 2017 Key Project status and progress Compliance with debt covenants and liquidity Strategy Risk and long-term viability review Financial reports and statements Evolution of Risk Management Framework Operational reports, issues and highlights 2017 budget review and 2018 budget approval Investor relations and capital markets Periodic updates on corporate regulatory changes and reporting requirements update Project assurance processes Key legal updates Internally facilitated board review Key transactions Execution of the HPE Software Transaction and integration planning Assurance and risk management Debt re-pricing in August 2016 Debt refinancing and new facilities in April 2017 Review and implementation of a new share dealing code following the introduction of the Market Abuse Regulation Approval of a new anti-slavery and human trafficking policy following the introduction of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and publication of the required website statement Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 57 Corporate governance report continued Stage 1 Comprehensive questionnaires This years questionnaires Management structure focused on board composition, skills, expertise and diversity as well as board A clearly dened organizational structure exists within which individual dynamics and operation, succession planning, strategic oversight and board responsibilities are identied and can be monitored.
The management of the Group support.
They also covered progress on items raised in the prior years as a whole is delegated to the Executive Chairman and the executive committee.
The executive committee, chaired by Stephen Murdoch, and comprising the Stage 2 Compilation of results a report was compiled by the Company executive directors, meets regularly to agree strategy, monitor operational Secretary which consolidated the directors responses.
performance and consider key business issues.
As part of its review, it considers the risks associated with the delivery of strategy and important Stage 3 Reporting and discussion the report was discussed with the governance issues within the Groups operating companies.
Executive Chairman and the board reviewed the report in detail at its meeting in April 2017.
There are a number of Group administrative functions such as Finance, Treasury, Human Resources, IT, Corporate Communications and Legal.
These functions report to the board through the executive committee.
Conclusions and outcomes The evaluation found the performance of each director to be effective, that A number of Group-wide policies, issued and administered centrally, have each director had demonstrated commitment to the role and that the board been set to ensure compliance with key governance standards.
These policies had provided effective leadership and control.
The evaluation established that include areas such as finance, contract approvals, data protection, share the board had a strong foundation with a positive dynamic and benefitted dealing, business conduct, ethics and anti-bribery and corruption and from significant experience.
The results of the evaluation are being used to assist the board in developing The conduct of Micro Focus individual businesses is delegated to local and its approach going forward and include recommendations for understanding regional executive management teams subject to a chart of approvals policy the culture of the HPE Software business and for maintaining the important which is communicated to all employees in the Group.
These teams are Micro Focus cultural elements, recognizing that cultures would need to evolve accountable for the conduct and performance of their businesses within for the Enlarged Group.
In particular, recognizing that the key things to the agreed business strategy.
preserve are the companys measurement and compensation system, its EBITDA targets to 2020, the leadership team and the Companys product management process.
Effectiveness Progress on previous recommendations Induction of new directors Each new director receives a comprehensive, formal and tailored induction into the Companys operations.
The directors can request that appropriate Recommendation Action taken training is available as required.
New directors inductions include briengs on the Companys business, strategy, constitution and decision making process, Ensure clarity of new structure, Chris Hsu has been appointed the roles and responsibilities of a director and the legislative framework.
New particularly the roles the as CEO of the Enlarged Group, directors also meet with the Groups senior product and other managers and Executive Chairman and subject to Completion of the with the Companys shareholders at the AGM.
A comprehensive induction executive directors will play transaction.
Other board changes pack is available to directors at all times on a tablet device.
and their interaction with and have been announced.
Board evaluation A comprehensive evaluation of the performance of the board, its committees Continuing risk management A Director of Risk and Internal and each of its directors is carried out annually.
The process is led by the senior review with a particular focus on Audit was appointed to oversee independent non-executive director and supported by the Company Secretary.
ensuring that the Company has the on-going internal process The outcome of the evaluation is discussed in detail by the board and any key appropriate senior management of identifying, evaluating and recommendations are reviewed and implemented during the following year.
talent to support the Companys managing the significant risks As previously reported the 2016 board evaluation was externally facilitated by strategy.
faced by the Group in association JCA Group.
The 2017 board evaluation was internally facilitated and took the with the work performed by the form of surveys completed by members of the board with respect to the outsourced internal audit function.
performance of the board and each of its committees, as well as individual This process is regularly reviewed director surveys.
The surveys included assessment of the effectiveness of the by the board and accords with the performance of the board and its committees and compliance with corporate FRC Guidance on Risk governance principles.
The evaluation process was conducted between March Management, Internal Control and and April 2017.
All directors have endorsed the internal evaluation process as Related Financial and Business being a valuable exercise.
Ensuring appropriate longer This was one of the key activities term succession and smooth of the nomination committee board succession.
The senior independent non-executive director meets with the non-executive and executive directors at least once a year to review the Executive Chairmans performance.
58 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Accountability and audit Shareholder relations The board is responsible for the preparation of the Annual Report and The Company values the views of shareholders and recognizes their interests Accounts.
The board considers the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a in the Groups strategy and performance.
whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and Substantial shareholdings performance, business model and strategy.
Details of the substantial shareholdings can be found on page 93 of the Directors report.
This responsibility is administered primarily by the audit committee and details of how this is done are described in the audit committee report on pages 60 to 67.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares Details of the rights and obligations attaching to shares can be found Internal Control and Risk Management on page 94 of the Directors report.
Details of the Companys internal control and risk management systems in relation to the financial reporting process can be found on pages 36 to 43.
Shareholder communications The Company currently reports formally to shareholders twice a year, in July Conicts of interest preliminary announcement of annual results and December interim In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company has put in place statement.
The annual report is made available and mailed to shareholders procedures to deal with conicts of interests, which have operated effectively.
at least 20 business days before the AGM.
Separate announcements of all The board is aware of the other commitments of its directors and is satisfied material events are made as necessary.
Regular communications are that these do not conict with their duties as directors of the Company.
maintained with institutional shareholders and presentations are given to Any changes to these commitments are reported to the board.
shareholders when the half year and full year financial results are announced and at other times.
In addition to the Executive Chairman and Chief Financial Anti-bribery and corruption officer, who have regular contact with investors, Karen Slatford the senior Following the introduction of the Bribery Act 2010 the Group revised its independent non-executive director and the other non-executive directors are Worldwide Code of Business Conduct and Ethics the Code of Conduct available to meet with the Companys shareholders as and when required in and has in place several policies covering anti-bribery and corruption.
order to develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns particularly of major shareholders.
The whole board is kept up to date at its As part of the Groups anti-bribery and corruption programme, new employees regular meetings with the views of shareholders and analysts.
External are required to familiarize themselves with the Code of Conduct and complete analysts reports are also circulated to directors.
an online anti-bribery and corruption training course.
This course has also been completed by all existing employees and is rolled out to employees of newly The Companys website www.
com provides an overview of the acquired businesses.
Additionally, certain employees in higher risk countries business including its strategy, products and objectives.
have taken part in face-to-face workshops which provides them with more focused and interactive training.
All Group announcements are available on the Companys website and new announcements are published without delay.
The terms of reference of each The Code of Conduct also includes policies on whistleblowing, gifts and of the boards three committees and other important corporate governance hospitality, charitable donations and third party due diligence and sets out the documents are available on the website and from the Company Secretary.
appropriate level of behaviour expected from all staff.
Additionally, the Executive Chairman, Chief Financial officer and Director Corporate Communications and Investor Relations provide focal points for shareholders enquiries and dialogue throughout the year.
Anti-slavery and human trafcking During the year the Group introduced a new anti-slavery and human trafcking policy following the introduction of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 the MSA Announcements which has been incorporated into the Code of Conduct and also published the All major announcements are approved by the executive directors and statement required by the MSA on its website.
circulated to the board for approval prior to issue.
The Group also has internal and external checks to guard against unauthorized release of information.
AGM The Companys AGM will be held on 4 September 2017 at 9am UK time at the Companys Headquarters at The Lawn, 22-30 Old Bath Road, Newbury, Berkshire RG14 1QN.
It will provide an opportunity for the board to meet with all shareholders and the participation of shareholders is encouraged.
At the meeting, in addition to the statutory business, the board will be available for questions from shareholders.
In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code recommendations, a resolution will be proposed for each substantive issue and the chairs of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees will be available to answer questions.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 59
