Nomination committee report Composition of the committee Diversity At the beginning of the financial year, the nomination committee the committee The board has considered diversity in broader terms than just gender and was comprised of Karen Slatford senior independent non-executive director believes it is also important to reach the correct balance of skills, experience, as chair of the committee and Richard Atkins independent non-executive independence and knowledge on the board.
All board appointments are made director.
Amanda Brown independent non-executive director was appointed to on merit with the aim of achieving a correct balance.
The board has now moved the committee on 6 July 2016.
The committee now comprises Karen Slatford to a composition where in excess of 25% of members are female while who continues to chair the committee, Richard Atkins and Amanda Brown.
maintaining the above principle of a correct balance not being compromised.
The committee met 12 times during the financial year.
The committee will The Group has formal policies in place to promote equality of opportunity meet at least twice during the coming financial year.
The number of committee across the whole organization.
meetings attended by each member of the committee in the year ended Following the resignations of Steve Schuckenbrock and Tom Virden as 30 April 2017 was as follows: non-executive directors on 25 April 2017 and the appointments of Darren Roos and Silke Scheiber as non-executive directors on 15 May 2017, the board currently comprises six men 66.67% 2016: 77.77% and three women Nomination committee 33.33% 2016: 22.23%.
The Company Secretary is also a woman.
As Number of opportunities arise the board will seek to increase the diversity on the board eligible consistent with the above policy.
meetings Number of during the meetings year attended What the committee did during the year ended Members: 30 April 2017 Karen Slatford Chair 12 12 Key activities A review of the committees membership: Richard Atkins 12 12 Amanda Brown from 1 July 2016 12 12 Board and senior executive succession planning and appointments: Review of committees terms of reference: and Role and responsibilities The committee is responsible to the board for proposing candidates to the Review of the Executive Chairmans letter of appointment.
board, having regard to the balance and structure of the board and takes into consideration the benets of diversity in terms of both gender and ethnicity.
Board changes The committee uses consultants to identify suitable candidates and diversity During the year there have been several changes to the board: is included in the criteria set for selecting appropriate candidates.
Resignations The terms of reference of the committee include, among other matters, Steve Schuckenbrock and Tom Virden resigned as independent non-executive the following responsibilities: directors on 25 April 2017.
To review the structure, size and composition including the skills, Appointments knowledge, experience and diversity required of the board and make Amanda Brown was appointed as an independent non-executive director on recommendations to the board with regard to any changes: 1 July 2016.
To identify and nominate, for the approval of the board, candidates to ll In addition, Darren Roos and Silke Scheiber were appointed as independent board vacancies as and when they arise: non-executive directors on 15 May 2017.
On Completion of the HPE Software transaction, Chris Hsu will be appointed as CEO of Micro Focus and Stephen To give full consideration to succession planning for directors and other Murdoch will then become COO and simultaneously step down from the board: senior executives: and HPE have nominated John Schultz, Executive Vice President and General Counsel of HPE, to be appointed as a non-independent non-executive director.
To keep under review the leadership needs of the Group, both executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the An additional independent non-executive director, nominated by HPE and Group to compete effectively in the marketplace: and approved by the Nomination Committee, is expected to be appointed after Completion of the acquisition of HPE Software.
To review annually the time required from non-executives, evaluating whether they are spending enough time to full their duties.
The committees terms of reference can be found on the Companys website: www.
68 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Recruitment process Succession planning The committee was responsible for the search and selection process which During the year the committee reviewed the board succession plan.
culminated in Amanda Browns appointment.
The committee also interviewed Retention of individuals within the executive committee and top talent critical the candidates nominated by HPE and recommended the appointments of employees within the Group was reviewed by the Remuneration Committee Darren Roos and Silke Scheiber.
The process for these appointments was led during the year.
A review of succession plans for the executive committee and by the senior independent non-executive director and committee chair, Karen top talent critical employees within the Group was conducted during the year Slatford and was formal, rigorous and transparent.
following the organizational changes resulting from the TAG acquisition.
In relation to the appointment of Amanda Brown, the committee appointed The committee also reviewed the role of the Executive Chairman and executive search consultancy, JCA Group and the following process was assuming the HPE Software transaction completes, Kevin Loosemore will undertaken for the appointment: continue as Executive Chairman until the publication of the Annual Report for the 18 month period ending 31 October 2018.
The Executive Chairman A job description and required capabilities brief were prepared against will have responsibility for the delivery of strategy, M&A activities, investor which potential candidates were considered: relations and executive development.
A long list of potential candidates was identied by JCA Group and presented to the committee for review: The committee considered the candidates against the objective criteria set Karen Slatford out in the job description and required capabilities brief, having due regard Chair, Nomination committee for the benets of board diversity: 17 July 2017 The committee was asked to suggest additional names that should be added to the list of potential candidates for consideration: A shortlist of preferred candidates was selected from the list of potential candidates: The shortlisted candidates were subjected to a rigorous process of interviews and comprehensive reference checks: A preferred candidate recommendation was made by the committee to the board for consideration: and The board considered and approved the appointment.
JCA Group adheres to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
Additionally, the committee also recommended the appointment of Chris Hsu as CEO of the Enlarged Group and as an executive director of the Company after the Completion of the HPE Software transaction.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 69
