Audit committee report Committee Chairmans introduction Audit committee Dear fellow shareholders, Number of meetings I am pleased to present the audit committee report for 2017.
The report details for which Number of the activities of the committee during the year ended 30 April 2017. eligible to meetings attend attended In this report I have detailed how the committee has discharged its responsibilities Members: in relation to the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code and in particular how Richard Atkins Chairman 8 8 the committee has focused on internal control and risk management.
Karen Slatford Independent 88 non-executive director Composition of the committee Tom Virden Independent 86 The committee was chaired during the year by myself, Richard Atkins, resigned 25 April 2017 non-executive director with other independent non-executive directors, Karen Slatford, Tom Virden, Steve Schuckenbrock and Amanda Brown being members of the committee, Steve Schuckenbrock Independent 86 with Jane Smithard acting as Secretary to the Committee.
Amanda Brown resigned 25 April 2017 non-executive director was appointed to the Committee on 1 July 2016 and Steve Schuckenbrock Amanda Brown Independent 88 and Tom Virden resigned from the Committee on 25 April 2017.
By virtue of appointed 1 July 2016 non-executive director my former executive and current non-executive responsibilities full details Secretary: of which are set out on page 53 the board considers that I have recent and relevant financial experience.
Jane Smithard Company Secretary 88 Attendees by invitation: All members of the committee are independent non-executive directors.
Kevin Loosemore Executive Chairman 8 8 Executive directors attend the meetings together with The Head of Tax and Treasury, the Director of Internal Audit and Risk and the Director of Finance.
Mike Phillips Chief Financial Officer 8 8 Representatives of  LLP PwC External Auditor, Rob Ebrey Head of Tax and 87 KPMG LLP KPMG Internal Auditor and Deloitte LLP Deloitte External Treasury Tax Advisors also attend the committee meetings.
Suzanne Chase Director of Internal 88 Audit and Risk A note on the change in external and internal auditor for FY18 is set out on Graham Norton Director of Finance 22 pages 64 and 65.
PwC are currently the external auditors and will remain so Micro Focus until the completion of the HPE Software transaction.
KPMG were the internal auditors until 30 April 2017.
Deloitte are acting as internal auditors until PwC Darren Fisher Director of Finance 8 8 step down as external auditors and are appointed internal auditors.
PwC External Auditors 8 8 KPMG Internal Auditors 88 Deloitte External Tax Advisors 8 8 60 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information To monitor and review the need for, and the effectiveness of, the Role and responsibilities of the committee Companys internal audit function in the context of the Companys overall The committee is responsible for: risk management system: Reviewing the Groups Annual Report and Accounts and Interim Report prior to submission to the full board for approval: To report to the board as to whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable: and Monitoring the Groups accounting policies, internal financial control systems and financial reporting procedures: To oversee the relationship with the Companys auditors, ensuring the independence and objectivity of the auditors, considering audit fees and Providing a forum through which the Groups external and internal auditors fees for non-audit work and making recommendations to the board in and external tax advisors report to the board.
The external and internal relation to the appointment, reappointment and removal of the Companys auditors together with the tax advisor attend all meetings of the committee external auditor.
and also meet privately with committee members in the absence of executive management prior to each committee meeting: The audit committees terms of reference can be found on the Companys website at: http: investors.
Overseeing the relationship with the external auditors, including the independence and objectivity of the auditors taking into account UK What the committee did during the year ended professional and regulatory requirements and the relationship with the 30 April 2017 audit rm as a whole and the consideration of audit fees and fees for The committee met eight times during the financial year ended 30 April 2017. non-audit work: and In addition to standing items on the agenda, the committee: The process for employees of the Company to raise, in confidence, Received and considered, as part of the review of interim and annual report concerns about possible impropriety in matters of financial reporting or and accounts, reports from the external auditor in respect of the auditors other matters which are contained in the committees terms of reference.
review of the interim results, the audit plan for the year and the results of the annual audit.
These reports included the scope of the interim review The written terms of reference of the committee are reviewed annually.
and annual audit, the approach to be adopted by the auditors to address The committee is satisfied that the terms of reference enable it to full its and conclude upon key estimates and other key audit areas, the basis on responsibilities.
The terms of reference include, among other things, the which the auditors assess materiality, the terms of engagement for the following responsibilities: auditors and an on-going assessment of the impact of future accounting developments for the Group: To report to the board on its proceedings, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed and make Considered the Annual Report and Accounts in the context of being fair, recommendations as to the steps to be taken: balanced and understandable and reviewed the content of a paper prepared by management with regard to this principle in relation to the 2017 Annual To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and Report and Accounts.
Further details can be found on page 64: ensure that the interests of shareholders are properly protected in relation to financial reporting and internal controls: Considered the effectiveness and independence of the external audit: To assist the board in fullling its oversight responsibilities by reviewing and Considered the effectiveness and independence of the external tax monitoring the Companys internal financial controls and internal control advisors and internal auditors: and risk management systems and at least annually carry out a review of its effectiveness: Considered and agreed the annual internal audit plan and reviewed reports of the work done by the internal auditors in respect of those plans: To ensure that a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company has been undertaken and provide advice on the management Reviewed the risk management process and put in place a new risk and mitigation of those risks: appetite statement to enhance the risk management framework RMF : To keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls Considered the review of material business risks, including reviewing and risk management systems: internal control processes used to identify and monitor principal risks and uncertainties: To review and challenge where necessary the going concern assessment and the longer term viability statement: Reviewed the proposed PwC audit strategy in relation to the 2017 audit: To review the Companys procedures for preventing and detecting fraud, Overseeing the external and internal audit tender processes set out on the Companys systems and controls for the prevention of bribery, the pages 64 and 65 : adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys anti-money laundering systems and the Companys arrangements for its employees to raise concerns about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters: Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 61 Audit committee report continued Reviewed the external specialist SOX Readiness Assessment and agreed In carrying this out, the committee considered the work and recommendations the frame work SOX implementation plan, for the requirement to be SOX of the Group finance team, executive management and their own understanding compliant mentioned on page 37. of the business.
In addition, the committee received reports from the external auditors setting out their view on the accounting treatments and judgments Reviewed and agreed the implementation plan in response to the auditors included in the annual report and accounts.
The external auditors reports are findings in respect of their review under the Public Company Accounting based on a full audit of the annual report and accounts and a review of the Oversight Board PCAOB auditing standards set out on page 66. interim financial statement.
This was performed in connection with the annual consolidated financial statements, to be included in the registration statement on the Form F-4 The Chairman of the committee has regular contact outside of the formal to be led by Micro Focus with the SEC in connection with the merger: meetings with the partners of professional rms responsible for external and internal audit and tax advice.
Reviewed the companys income statement presentation and management recommendation to reclassify both amortization of capitalized product significant issues considered in relation to the development costs and acquired technology intangibles from research annual report and accounts and development expenses to cost of sales: The annual report and accounts were assessed by the committee, together with the appropriateness and application of accounting policies and areas of Reviewed and approved the governance around the integration planning for significant judgment.
The significant issues considered by the committee were the Group following the announcement of the merger with HPE Software as follows: and the appointment of Deloitte to assist in that program of work: Revenue recognition Reviewed reports on the debt nancing: The Group has a detailed policy on revenue recognition for each category of revenue: Licence, Maintenance, Subscription and Consultancy.
This includes Reviewed and approved an updated tax strategy: the application of rules relating to the allocation of fair values between these categories in accordance with the policy and the timing of their recognition.
Reviewed and discussed reports provided by the Groups tax department It also identies the different types of commercial contracts that the Group regarding significant ongoing tax issues and projects: enters into and conrmation that the revenue recognition is in line with IFRS.
As is the case with many technology companies, the prole of sales is weighted Review and approved tax projects and associated professional fee to the end of the financial quarter.
Other than in the case of Subscription, expenditure in line with the Groups tax strategy and tax policies: Maintenance and Consultancy revenue, the impact on recognized revenue is also weighted to the end of each financial quarter.
This can lead to the risk Reviewed the reporting of tax within the interim and annual report and of misstatement of revenues from one period to the next.
accounts: The committee received a paper from management on key revenue recognition Reviewed and approved an updated treasury policy: judgments made during the year and reviewed the appropriateness of allocation of fair values between Licence, Maintenance, Subscription and Consulting as Reviewed the committees composition and confirmed that there is presented in the annual report and accounts, which concluded that no change sufficient expertise and resource for the committee to full its to the allocation of fair values was necessary.
The committee also considered responsibilities effectively: and the controls that management has in place to ensure that the fair value allocation of revenue is appropriate.
The external auditors reported that they Reviewed and approved the process and advised management of the tested in detail all larger deals above a certain threshold and had not identied information that would be required for the board to sufciently review the any exceptions.
They had also tested a sample of transactions from the Companys viability for the next three years.
Further information can be remaining population and no issues were identied.
found on page 44: A close relationship between revenue recognition and cash collection is Banking Credit Facilities Review: a good indicator of solid revenue recognition policies and the Group has a very satisfactory cash conversion ratio, low level of debtor days for which sales are Integrations: and outstanding and a low level of bad debt provisions.
Transaction Documentations and Due Diligence reports.
On the basis of the above the committee concluded that the Groups revenue recognition was appropriate.
62 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Exceptional Items and Integration Restructuring Provisions Potential impairment of goodwill and intangible assets The Group has completed four acquisitions during 2017 including Serena, Management has carried out an impairment review of its purchased intangibles GWAVA, OpenATTIC, and OpenStack and has announced its intention to and goodwill.
The net book value of the purchased intangibles is $1,031.6m merge with the HPE Software business which is in track to complete on 2016: $921.3m and goodwill is $2,828.6m 2016: $2,436.2m.
1 September 2017. significant costs have been incurred during 2017 to acquire, integrate, restructure, and prepare for integration in the case of the The committee received a report from management and having considered this HPE Software business which management have deemed to be concluded that no impairment was necessary.
Business Combinations Restructuring and integration provisions additions in the year ended There were a number of changes to the Groups structure during the year, 30 April 2017 includes severance and integration work undertaken in bringing which included four acquisitions.
As detailed in note 37, the total consideration together the base Micro Focus, TAG, Serena and GWAVA organizations into paid during the year was $299.1m, which resulted in an increase of goodwill one organization.
Restructuring and integration provisions also include $392.4m and acquired intangibles $328.1m.
provisions relating to activities in readiness for the HPE Software acquisition across all functions of the existing Micro Focus business.
The committee considered the risk that acquisitions are not accounted for correctly in line with IFRS 3 Business combinations including: The committee reviewed the classication of costs treated as exceptional items and whether such costs meet the criteria set by management.
The The recording of fair value adjustments: and committee considered the presentation of exceptional items on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement and whether this approach is line with IAS 1 The identication and valuation of acquired intangibles.
The committee determined that the approach adopted by management was both appropriate and in accordance Valuations of the acquired intangible assets of all material acquisitions were with the relevant accounting literature.
performed by external valuation experts.
Management determined this to be appropriate due to the size and complexity of these acquisitions.
For smaller The committee also received a report from management and discussed the acquisitions, management deems it appropriate for the valuation of acquired assumptions with both management and the external auditors and concluded intangibles to be performed in-house.
Valuation and accounting papers prepared that the provisions made by management were reasonable and appropriate.
by Management and external experts were reviewed and considered appropriate by the Audit Committee.
This included consideration of the following: Provision for income taxes The Groups approach to providing for uncertain tax positions is set out on Cash ows and discount rates used in business valuations: pages 17 and 18 of the Financial Review section.
Models and key inputs used in intangible asset valuations including Details of the Groups tax provisions were included in the report prepared for expected useful lives: the committee by the Groups tax department in relation to the annual report and accounts.
The provisions were reviewed by the committee and discussed Fair value adjustments made by management to arrive at the fair values with the Groups Head of Tax and Treasury, Chief Financial officer and external of the assets and liabilities acquired: and tax advisors.
The committee determined that the level of the Groups tax provisions was appropriate.
This was confirmed by the Groups external The approach taken to identify intangibles.
Development expenditure The costs incurred on development projects relating to the development of new computer software programmes and significant enhancement of existing computer software programmes are recognized as intangible assets when it is probable that the project will be a success, considering its commercial and technological feasibility, and costs can be measured reliably.
The costs are written off to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income over a period of three years from the point that the product is generally available.
This results in a significant amount of costs being capitalized each year although the overall impact on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income is currently small as the capitalization of cost in the year is similar to the amortization of previously capitalized costs.
The net book value of product development costs at the end of the year was $49.1m 2016: $43.2m.
The committee considered the method of testing for potential impairment used by management and the reasonableness of the assumptions applied.
The committee addressed this through the consideration of a report from management covering these areas and detailing both the capitalization and amortization processes applied and the new expenditure that was capitalized.
It also looked at the levels that were capitalized in relation to Licence revenue generated and capitalized costs as a percentage of the total research and product development costs of the Group in the year and also in relation to prior years.
The committee further discussed this with the external auditors and concluded that the assumptions made by management were reasonable and the carrying value of capitalized product development costs was appropriate.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 63 Audit committee report continued Fair, balanced and understandable Independence and objectivity of the external auditors The committee is satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as The committee has developed a robust policy designed to ensure that the a whole, provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the auditors objectivity and independence is not compromised by it undertaking Companys position at 30 April 2017 and the information necessary for inappropriate non-audit work.
This policy is reviewed annually and was last shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and reviewed in April 2017. strategy.
A paper prepared by management provided the committee with the supporting detail to ensure that it was in a position to report to the board that Auditor objectivity was safeguarded by the committee considering several the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts when taken as a whole were fair, factors: the standing and experience of the external audit partner: the nature balanced and understandable.
and level of services provided by the external auditors and conrmation from the external auditors that they have complied with relevant UK independence standards and fully considered any threats and safeguards in the performance The committee reached the conclusion on the basis that the description of the of non-audit work.
business agrees with its own understanding, the risks reect the issues that concern it, appropriate weight has been given to the good and bad news, the discussion of performance properly reects the performance of the year and Non-audit fees there is a clear and well-articulated link between all areas of disclosure.
The committee approves all non-audit work greater than 25,000 commissioned from the external auditors.
During the year the fees paid to the auditor were: The committee assisted the board in its assessment by considering the robustness of the processes used to prepare the Groups Annual Report $3.5m 2016: $3.5m for audit services: and Accounts 2017.
The processes used included the following: $2.6m 2016: $0.8m for audit related assurance services: Review of papers provided by the executive and senior management on all areas where significant judgments have been applied: $0.1m 2016: $0.1m for services related to taxation: and Review of the process of preparation and review by the senior $7.5m 2016: $1.8m for other non-audit services.
management, executive directors and the finance management team: and Audit related services in the year ended 30 April 2017 related primarily to the Review by the audit committee and discussions with the external auditors, additional audit procedures required to be performed in respect of the Groups senior management and executive directors on the fair, balanced and historic financial statements that are included in the US lings associated with understandable assessment.
Viability statement The majority of work of other non-audit services provided by the auditors was The committee assisted the board in relation to producing the Groups viability in respect of their role as Reporting Accountants and due diligence provider in statement.
The committee reviewed the Groups risk management process respect of the acquisition of HPE software.
Other services in the year included which had risk movement tracking and a new risk appetite statement to ad hoc tax compliance, tax advice and customer license forensic services.
enhance the RMF to ensure a robust system of identifying, assessing and The committee concluded that it was in the interests of the Group to use the managing the Groups key risks.
Further information on this can be found on auditors for this work as they were considered to be best placed to provide pages 36 to 43. these services.
At the committees meeting in July 2017, the viability statement was External audit appointment and tender considered, including a review of the risks and stress testing which had been The committee reviews and makes recommendations with regard to the carried out.
Following this review the committee recommended to the board reappointment of the external auditors.
In making these recommendations, the that the viability statement should be made for a three year period and that the committee considers auditor effectiveness and independence, partner rotation Group was viable and there was negligible risk that it would breach any and any other factors that may impact the external auditors reappointment.
covenants or exceed its borrowing facilities.
The viability statement can be The current external auditors, PwC, have been auditors since the Companys found on page 44.
IPO in 2005 and they require that the audit partner rotates every five years.
The most recent change in audit partner happened in the year ended 30 April Assessment of effectiveness of external audit 2013 when Andrew Paynter took over as the lead audit partner.
Partner The committee reviewed the performance of the external auditors taking into rotation was therefore due in the year ended 30 April 2018 which coincided account the fullment of the agreed audit plan and amendments to it, input with the period for which Micro Focus is required to go out to tender under the from management, responses to questions from the committee and audit EU Audit Directive and Regulation and the provisions of the UK Corporate findings reported to the committee.
As part of this process the committee Governance Code 2014.
The committee is confident that the effectiveness reviewed the feedback from the Public Report on the Audit Quality Inspection and independence of the external auditors was not impaired in any way.
of  LLP, issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in June 2017.
Based on this information the committee concluded that Due to the size and complexity of the acquisition of the HPE Software the external audit process was operating effectively and PwC continued to Business, the company applied for and was granted permission by the prove effective in their role as external auditor.
Competition Markets Authority and the Financial Reporting Council to defer their audit tender for a period of two years.
Subsequently, the company became aware of a Joint Business Arrangement between PwC and HPE Software which would compromise their independence from the date of completion of the acquisition, targeted for 1 September 2017.
64 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information As a result the committee undertook a competitive audit tender process for At each meeting, the committee received reports from KPMG in order to the financial period commencing on 1 May 2017 in the period from January to ascertain in completing the internal audit plan and to review results of the audits.
April 2017, with the tender outcome recommendation decision being made at the audit committee meeting in April 2017.
I led the tendering process chairing Following a tender for internal audit services, led by me in parallel with the a steering group.
The aim of the tender process was to recommend an audit external audit tender process outlined above in the period January to April rm who will provide the highest quality, most effective and efficient audits.
2017, the board will appoint PwC to provide outsourced internal audit services Critical success factors included sector experience and knowledge, cultural t, as soon as PwC are able to be released from the independence requirements geographical coverage, the audit record of the lead partner and rm as well as as external auditor for FY17.
Internal audit services in the intervening period the use of technology.
In conducting the tender process the audit committee will be provided by Deloitte.
followed the FRCs guidance Audit Tenders Notes on Best Practice February 2017 and its predecessor.
Having first formally assessed and confirmed their Effective internal control and risk management ability to be independent in the time frame required, appropriate rms were Following the annual cycle of work of the committee, it concluded that sound invited to tender in January 2017.
The tender process encompassed a range risk management and internal control systems had been maintained during the of activities including a data room, management interviews including HPE year.
With respect to risk management, under the risk management framework Software, written proposals, tender presentations and a review process the committee receives and reviews a report at each meeting on the principal incorporating the use of scorecards.
Members of the audit committee were risks across the Group which is discussed with senior management.
The involved throughout the process, provided with updates, copies of material committee was satisfied with the process and risks identied.
It was also documents, including the tender proposals and invited to attend the tender satisfied that there was a high level of assurance provided by the internal presentations.
Internal stakeholders participating in the management interviews auditors, the external review conducted by PwC at the half year and their full were invited to give feedback to the committee.
The tender process culminated year audit, together with the input of the Groups tax advisors, Deloitte.
In this in a presentation day on 28 March 2017. year Deloitte have also provided services relating to integration, IT and PMO and integration planning following the announcement of the HPE Software Each participating rm was asked to comment on the tender process.
rms expressed satisfaction with the tender process which had allowed them to understand the Groups business to prepare their proposals effectively.
The board is ultimately responsible for establishing and monitoring internal control systems throughout the Group and reviewing their effectiveness.
It Following a period of due consideration of a report and recommendation from carries out a review, at least annually, covering all material controls including the committee, the board announced on 11 April 2017 its intention to appoint financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
KPMG LLP to become Micro Focus external auditors and PwC will be stepping down as external auditors.
It recognizes that rigorous systems of internal control are critical to the Groups achievement of its business objectives, that those systems are designed to There are no contractual restrictions on the choice of external auditors and manage rather than eliminate risk and that they can only provide reasonable therefore a resolution proposing the appointment of KPMG LLP as external and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
auditors will be put to the shareholders at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The Audit Committee has reviewed and discussed this position with its auditors The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies and satisfied itself that the current control environment is effective.
Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive There is an on-going internal process under the risk management framework Tender Processes and Audit Committee for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group Responsibilities Order 2014 statement of in association with the work performed by the outsourced internal audit function.
compliance This process has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of The Company confirms that it complied with the provisions of the Competition approval of the Annual Report and Accounts and it is regularly reviewed by the and Markets Authoritys Order for the year ended 30 April 2017. board and accords with the FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting September 2014.
Internal audit An outsourced internal audit function was provided by KPMG during the year.
As part of the process that the Group has in place to review the effectiveness The Groups Director of Internal Audit and Risk provides oversight and of the internal control system, there are procedures designed to capture and co-ordination of internal audit.
In order to ensure independence, internal audit evaluate failings and weaknesses and, in the case of those categorized by the has a direct reporting line to the committee and to me its chairman.
board as significant, procedures exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to remedy any such failings.
The review covers all material controls, including The committee monitored and reviewed the scope and results of the internal financial, operational and compliance controls.
auditors activities as well as its effectiveness during the year.
The annual internal audit plan is approved by the committee at the beginning of the The committee reports on a regular basis to the board on the Groups financial year, with any subsequent changes to the plan requiring committee internal financial control procedures and makes recommendations to the approval.
The nature and scope of the internal auditors work is reviewed and board in this area.
approved and the results of the audits are assessed alongside managements responses.
Issues with the audit reports which are graded as needing The external auditors provide a supplementary, independent and autonomous improvement are considered in detail by the committee along with the perspective on those areas of the internal control system which they assess appropriateness of mitigation plans to resolve the issues identied.
in the course of their work.
Their findings are regularly reported to both the committee and the board.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 65 Audit committee report continued The key elements of the control system are: Financial reporting In addition to the general internal controls and risk management processes The Group operates a structured, objectives-driven approach to full its described above, the Group also has specic internal controls and risk core purpose and goals in respect of sustained profitability and growth: management systems to govern the financial reporting process: Systems and procedures are in place for all major transaction types with There are Group policies covering what is reported monthly to the board appropriate authorization controls: and the executive committee.
The Groups financial reporting system has been guided by the requirement to ensure consistency and visibility of All contracts are reviewed.
The level of review depends on the size and management information to enable the board and the executive team to complexity of the contracts and associated risks.
There are formal limits review the Groups worldwide operations effectively.
During the year the above which the review level is escalated: Group set up an executive Financial Reporting Group FRG to monitor, review and manage the risks associated with financial reporting across Reconciliations are performed on a timely basis for all major accounts: and the Group.
The FRG reports to the committee: Research and development and capital expenditure programmes are Cash ow forecasts are produced monthly by all operations.
These are subject to formal review and monitoring procedures.
reviewed by the Group treasury function to ensure effective cash management by the Group: The board recognizes the need to understand and control the variety of risks to which the Group is exposed.
During the year, in order to address this on Management representations covering compliance with Group policies and behalf of the board, the committee oversaw the executive managements risk the accuracy of financial information are collected on a quarterly basis: management activities under the RMF.
The executive management took responsibility for regular evaluation of generic and specic risks within the All the major trading entities completed a self-assessment on the business and the implementation of mitigation plans to address them.
effectiveness of their internal control environment: Risks are assessed with reference to the achievement of the Groups business The consolidation process entails the combining and adjusting of financial objectives and according to current market and economic issues.
The continuous information contained in the individual financial statements of the Company monitoring of strategic and operational risks is the responsibility of the board and its subsidiary undertakings in order to prepare consolidated annual and executive management respectively.
The risk process has been in place report and accounts that present financial information for the Group as a for the year under review and is up to date at the time of this report.
The Group accounting policies, sets out the basis of preparation and consolidation, including the elimination of inter-company The committee considers any significant control matters raised in reports transactions, balances and unrealized gains between Group companies: from management and by the internal and external auditors.
It then reports its findings to the board.
Where weaknesses are identied, the committee Financial information from subsidiaries is reviewed for accuracy by internal requires appropriate action to be taken by management and may request review and externally audited where required: and internal audit to perform a specic review into these areas if required.
The consolidated financial statements are completed in accordance with Micro Focus internal controls over financial reporting were for the first time International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International subject to review under the PCAOB auditing standards in connection with the Accounting Standards Board IASB and in conformity with IFRS as audit of Micro Focus annual consolidated financial statements for the three adopted by the European Union collectively IFRS, IFRS Interpretations years ended 30 April 2016 to be included in the registration statement on committee, the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Form F4 to be led by Micro Focus with the SEC in connection with the Merger.
The PCAOB auditing standards are US standards that registered There have been no significant changes in the Companys internal control over public accounting rms are required to follow in connection with the audit financial reporting during the year under review that have materially affected, of Micro Focus consolidated financial statements.
As a result of the work or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Companys control over undertaken, certain deficiencies in Micro Focus internal controls for the financial reporting.
purposes of Section 404 have been identied.
These relate to the fact that Micro Focus did not, for the financial periods under audit nor the year ended The board, with advice from the committee, is satisfied that an effective system 30 April 2017, have sufficient formally documented and implemented of internal control and risk management processes are in place which enable processes and review procedures, nor did it have sufficient formality and the Company to identify, evaluate and manage keys risks and which accord evidence of controls over key reports and spreadsheets.
Micro Focus has with the FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related already begun to implement measures to address and remediate these Financial and Business Reporting September 2014.
been in place since the start of the financial year up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Further details of the risks faced by the Whilst the Directors are satisfied that the Micro Focus Group has been and Group are set out on pages 36 to 43. will continue to be in compliance with the internal control and related financial reporting requirements under the Code and the Listing Rules, the PCAOB requirements in connection with Section 404 reporting are more detailed and evidence based.
66 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Whistleblowing The Group has a whistleblowing policy which forms part of the Groups Worldwide Code of Conduct and Business Ethics.
This allows employees to raise issues of concern in relation to dishonesty or malpractice on an entirely condential basis.
The committee receives regular reports as to whether any matters have been raised within the Group and any applicable details.
Accountability The board is responsible for the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts which, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
As set out in the Directors report, the directors consider that the Companys business is a going concern.
Richard Atkins Chairman, audit committee 17 July 2017 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 67
