INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE 2017 key activities BOARD | Appointment of new Chief Executive Officer | Implementing recommendations of external effectiveness review Executive Audit and Risk Remuneration Nominations | Strategic review Directors Committee Committee Committee | Review of the Group risk management process and reporting Executive Internal Committee Audit Responsibilities Board 2018 key focus The Board has overall responsibility for: | Execution of Group strategy | Determining the strategy and values of | Compliance with laws and regulations | IT infrastructure and cyber risk the Group and ensuring long term success and good corporate governance: | Product and market development for the benefit of all stakeholders: | Dividend policy: | Ensuring that adequate resources are | Treasury policy: available so that strategic objectives may | Insurance policy: be achieved through the annual planning | Major capital expenditure: process and ongoing monitoring: | Acquisitions and disposals: | Ensuring that the Companys internal control systems both financial and | Board structure: and operational are fit for purpose and | Remuneration policy.
operating as they should be: | Reporting to and relationships with shareholders: 44 Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2017 REVIEW 45 GOVERNANCE 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four Northgateplc.
com stock code: NTG INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Responsibilities Executive Directors Refreshed strategy Executive Directors are responsible for: With Kevin Bradshaw joining as CEO in January 2017 his focus has been on | Ensuring the Group strategy is executed effectively via the Executive Committee: performing an in-depth review of the | Monitoring Group performance: business and its markets and developing | Managing the Groups financial affairs: and the strategy, as set out on page 10.
| Implementation and review of the system of internal control.
Executive Committee Strategic focus The Executive Committee is responsible for: Contribution towards the refreshing | Executing Group strategy and policies: of Group strategy and subsequent | Considering operational business issues: implementation within the business.
| Reviewing risk reporting and taking necessary actions: and | Managing business performance.
Audit and Risk Committee Risk management The Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for: Implemented the recommendations from the prior year external review and made | Monitoring the integrity of financial reporting and reviewing the Groups risk management further improvements to the end-to-end systems on behalf of the Board, including reviewing the work of Group Internal Audit: processes of identifying and reporting | Overseeing the statutory audit process: risks.
Commissioned an external review Recommending appointments to the Board: of the work of Group Internal Audit and Monitoring independence and objectivity, including monitoring auditor rotation and implemented recommendations arising developing policy on non-audit services provided: from this.
Approving auditor remuneration and terms of engagement: and Overseeing the audit tender process, if applicable.
Further information on the work of the Audit and Risk Committee is detailed in the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee on pages 51 to 53.
25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four Responsibilities Remuneration Committee Policy review The Remuneration Committee is responsible for: Undertook a full review of remuneration | Assessing, reviewing and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy for the Board policy, which will be presented for a excluding the non-executive Directors: binding vote at this years AGM.
| Assessing and reviewing the remuneration policy and benefit structure for Group The Committee also determined the employees: and remuneration to be awarded to the newly appointed CEO.
| Monitoring the share incentive plans including participation and exceptional circumstances and amending the design of the plans in line with best practice.
The Remuneration Report can be found on pages 54 to 73.
Nominations Committee New appointment The Nominations Committee is responsible for: During the year the Nominations Committee approved the appointment of | Reviewing the structure, size, skills and experience of the Board and making a new CEO.
recommendations regarding any changes: | Considering succession planning for Directors and other senior executives: and | Making recommendations to the Board for candidates to fill Board vacancies when they arise, normally using the services of professional consultants in the search.
The full terms of reference of the Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Committees can be found on the Groups corporate website.
4 46 6 Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2017 REVIEW 47 GOVERNANCE 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four
