Board of directors Executive directors 1 2 3 4 Non-executive directors 5 6 7 8 9 52 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Board committee memberships as at 17 July 2017: 5 Karen Slatford, 60 Audit committee Senior independent non-executive director Remuneration committee Karen is Chair of Draper Esprit plc, an AIM listed venture capital rm, Nomination committee The Foundry, a leading special effects software company, and Citation Ltd, which provides HR and Health and Safety support to small and medium-sized enterprises.
Karen is also non-executive director of Intellio Ltd and Accesso 1 Kevin Loosemore, 58 Technology Group plc.
Karen began her career at ICL before spending Executive Chairman 20 years at Hewlett-Packard Company, where in 2000 she became Vice Kevin is our Executive Chairman and a member of the Micro Focus board.
President and General Manager Worldwide Sales & Marketing for the He was appointed non-executive Chairman of Micro Focus in 2005 and Business Customer Organization, responsible for sales of all Hewlett-Packard Executive Chairman in April 2011. products, services and software to business customers globally.
Karen holds a BA Honours degree in European Studies from Bath University and a Kevin was previously non-executive Chairman of Morse plc, a non-executive Diploma in Marketing.
director of Nationwide Building Society and a non-executive director of the Big Food Group plc.
His most recent executive roles were as Chief Operating 6 Richard Atkins, 65 officer of Cable & Wireless plc, President of Motorola Europe, Middle East and Africa and before that, he was Chief Executive of IBM U. K. Limited.
Independent non-executive director Richard is Chairman of Acora, an IT Services outsourcing company: Entanet He has a degree in politics and economics from Oxford University.
International, a wholesale voice and data communications company: and Miles 33, a publishing software company.
He is also a non-executive director at Aon, the U. K. s largest insurance broker.
2 Mike Phillips, 54 Chief Financial officer He has spent the majority of his career within the IT industry.
Previously, he Mike is our Chief Financial officer and a member of the Micro Focus board, was a Director at Data Sciences where he led its leveraged buyout from Thorn positions he has held since joining Micro Focus on 7 September 2010.
EMI in 1991 and then managed its successful sale to IBM in 1996.
His final role at IBM was as General Manager for IBM Global Services Northern Europe Mike was previously Chief Executive officer at Morse plc, following his initial where he was also a member of the IBM worldwide senior leadership team.
role as Group Finance Director.
Mike left Morse plc in July 2010 following the Since leaving IBM in 2005 he has acted as a non-executive director for several turnaround and successful corporate sale to 2e2 in June 2010. companies including Compel, Message Labs, Global Crossing, Morse and Easynet.
Richard qualied as a Chartered Accountant with Ernst & Young.
From 1998 to 2007, Mike was Group Finance Director at Microgen plc and played a lead role in its transformation to an international software and 7 Amanda Brown, 48 services business with sustainable and profitable growth.
Independent non-executive director Earlier roles include seven years of corporate finance work at Smith & Amanda is currently Group Human Resources Director at Hiscox Ltd, a Williamson, as well as two years at  where he led the FTSE 250 business and specialist insurer with ofces in 14 countries.
U. K. technology team, reporting to the global Head of Corporate Finance for the Technology Sector.
Mike began his career at Peat Marwick Mitchell & Co Amanda has more than 20 years of international HR experience in a variety of now KPMG.
Mike was a non-executive director of Parity Group plc from industries, including consumer goods, leisure, hospitality, and financial services.
Prior to Hiscox, Amanda held a number of leadership roles with Mars, PepsiCo, and Whitbread plc.
She has expertise in human resources, remuneration strategy, and managing organizations through periods of significant change.
3 Stephen Murdoch, 50 Chief Executive officer Micro Focus 8 Darren Roos, 42 Stephen is currently our Chief Executive officer, Micro Focus and a member of the Micro Focus board, positions he has held since 1 February 2016.
Before Independent non-executive director his appointment as CEO, Micro Focus Stephen served as General Manager Darren is a technology leader who has spent nearly 20 years building of Products and Marketing Strategy from November 2012 to April 2014 and businesses worldwide.
Darren spent nine years with Software AG and served then as Chief Operating officer from April 2014 to February 2016. on its board.
Over the past three years with SAP he has been responsible for the SAP Northern European business.
Darren is currently the President of Stephen has a 25-year track record of success in the IT industry, spanning SAPs S 4HANA ERP Cloud business, where he guides SAPs customers hardware, software, and services.
He has held senior executive positions in on their journey to innovation through digital transformation.
general management, sales, and strategy with IBM and Dell.
Most recently, he was the General Manager of Europe, Middle East, & Africa for Dells Public 9 Silke Scheiber, 44 Sector and Large Commercial Enterprise business unit.
Independent non-executive director Silke was an investment professional at Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. 4 Nils Brauckmann, 53 Partners LLP, London, UK from July 1999 and became a member in 2012.
Chief Executive officer SUSE She retired from KKR in 2015.
Prior to KKR, Silke worked at Goldman, Sachs Nils is our Chief Executive officer, SUSE and a member of the Micro Focus & Company oHG, Frankfurt, Germany from 1996 to 1999.
Nils has led SUSE since May 2011 and was appointed to the Micro Focus Austrian, graduated from the University of St. Gallen, Switzerland.
Silke is a board on 1 February 2016. director of CNH Industrial N. V. the Netherlands and Jungbunzlauer Holding AG, Basel, Switzerland.
Prior to this, Nils gained more than 20 years of management and leadership experience in the IT industry, serving in cross-functional and international management positions in companies such as WRQ acquired by the Attachmate Group in 2004, Novell, and Siemens Nixdorf, where he started his technology career.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 53
