Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Audit Committee Report Fraud and Whistleblowing monitoring the processes inplace throughout the Group to prevent and detect fraud and to enable employees to raise concerns in confidence: receive reports on fraud attempts or incidents: Internal Audit review and approve the internal audit work plan and charter: regularly review reports arising from internal audits, monitor the status of actions and consider remedial action for overdue items: monitor the structure, composition and resourcing of the internal auditfunction: review the role and effectiveness ofthe internal audit function: consider whether an independent third party review of internal audit Committee chairmans overview Role and responsibilities effectiveness and processes is The Committee is appointed by the It is a pleasure to be presenting my appropriate: firstReport as Chairman of the Audit Board and operates under written terms of reference, which were Committee, in what has been avery External Audit busy nine months in the role.
During the updated in April 2017 and are available manage the relationship with the to view at www.
The year, the Committee hascontinued Groups external auditor: tofocus on the effectiveness of the Committee's primary duties are to: at least annually, monitor and controls across our Group.
The review the independence and appointment to a newly created role Financial Reporting performance of the external review significant financial ofDirector of Riskand Internal Audit auditorand formally evaluate has not only strengthened the internal reporting judgements and the theireffectiveness: application of accounting policies, audit resource but also added review the policy on non-audit dedicated resource to help to develop including compliance with the services carried out by the external accounting standards: our approach to risk management auditor, taking account of relevant andfurther embed our risk processes ensure the integrity of the financial ethical guidance: statements and their compliance across the Group.
The evolution of our negotiate and approve the external risk management process is an area with UK company law and auditors fee, the scope of the audit accounting regulation: which the Committee will continue and the terms of their engagement: tofocus on over the coming year.
ensure the Annual Report and lead the audit tender process at Accounts are fair, balanced and least every10 years: and The Committee agreed with the understandable and recommend make recommendations to the their approval to the Board: Boardthat the external audit tender Board for the appointment or process would be brought forward monitor the integrity of reappointment of the external announcements containing and, under my leadership, a rigorous auditor.
process was successfully concluded financialinformation: inthe firstquarter of 2017, with a Composition of the Committee recommendation being proposed to Internal Controls The Committee currently comprises monitor the adequacy and shareholders at the 2017 AGM to the five independent non-executive appoint  effectiveness of the internal Directors.
The following members financial controls and processes: asauditor to the Company.
I would served on the Committee during liketo take this opportunity to thank monitor compliance with the UK theyear: Corporate Governance Code: Deloitte for the work carried out as Halma's auditor over the last14 Carole Cran Chairman Risk Management yearsand I look forward to building Jane Aikman retired 21 July 2016 asstrong a relationship with review and provide oversight, Daniela Barone Soares onbehalf of the Board, of the  over Jo Harlow appointed 3 October 2016 thecoming years.
processes by which risks are Tony Rice managed: Roy Twite This Report aims to provide an review the process undertaken and stress testing required to approve understanding the work of the Committee over the pastyear the Groups Viability Statement andGoing Concern Statement: andhow it conducted the audit tenderprocess which led to the recommendation to the Board.
83 Governance Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Audit Committee The Committee's activities during the year Financial statements and reports Report continued reviewed the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, the 2016 Half Year Report and the trading updates issued in July 2016 and March 2017.
As part of these reviews the Committee received a report from the external Auditor on the auditof the Annual Report and Accounts and a report on the ISRE 2410 Interim Review performed on the half-year results: The Chairman, Chief Executive reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal andFinance Director are also in controls anddisclosures made in the Annual Report and Accounts: attendance at Committee meetings, reviewed the process and stress testing undertaken to support the along with the Group Financial Groups Viability and Going Concern Statements: Controller and Director of Risk and considered acquisition valuation and accounting methodology: Internal Audit.
Representatives from reviewed currency exposure and the Group's treasury policies following the external Auditor also attend each theUK's decision to leave the EU: and Committee meeting.
The Committee, and separately the Risk management Committee Chairman, meet with considered the output from the Group wide risk review process toidentify, the Director of Risk and Internal Audit evaluate and mitigate risks, the Groups changing risk profile and future ona regular basis.
risk reports: reviewed the resource and requirements for risk management and internal Activities in 2016 17 controlinthe Group: and The Committee spent a considerable considered export controls and other compliance-related matters.
amount of time outside formal Committee meetings on the external External auditor and non-audit work audit tender process.
Detailsof considered the timing and process for the external Auditor tender: themain areas of review by the conducted a rigorous competitive tender process and recommended Committee throughout the year theappointment of a new Auditor to the Board: areset out in thetable opposite.
agreed the scope and methodology ofthe audit andnon-audit work to beundertaken by the external Auditor: evaluated the independence and objectivity of the external Auditor: Allocation of time agreed changes to the policy on non-audit services and independence: 5 agreed the terms of engagement and fees to be paid to theexternal Auditor fortheaudit of the 1 April 2017 financialstatements.
4 Internal audit evaluated the effectiveness and the scope of work to be undertaken by the Internal Audit function: reviewed management responses to audit reports issued duringthe year: 3 reviewed the Groups whistleblowing policy and procedures: and 1 reviewed and strengthened the resource in Internal Audit.
2 reporting requirements, regulatory telephone line or by web reporting.
and governance changes and Theservice allows employees to 1 Financial statements and business reports 33% developments around risk remain anonymous subject to local 2 Internal audit 22% management, fraud prevention & legislation and also provides a case 3 External audit 20% 4 Risk management 15% detection and cyber security.
reporting number which ensures that 5 Other 10% there is a mechanism for two-way In its advisory capacity, the communication between the reporter Committee confirmed to the Board, and the Company, even if they have Governance that based on its review of the Annual chosen to remain anonymous.
The Committee meets at least three Report and Accounts and internal Confidential reports from this service times per year and routinely meets controls that support the disclosures, are provided to the Company with the external Auditor without that the Annual Report and Accounts, Secretary for investigation and to theexecutive Directors present.
It is takenas a whole, are fair, balanced report any significant cases to the chaired by Carole Cran, independent and understandable, and provide Committee.
The Director of Risk and non-executive Director, who thenecessary information for Internal Audit investigates cases isachartered accountant with recent shareholders to assess the relating to financial matters including and relevant financial experience.
Companysposition and performance, fraud and the Company Secretary TheFinance Director and Group its business model and strategy.
Financial Controller work closely with the Committee Chairman to facilitate Whistleblowing During the year, the Committee open communication and regular The Committee has responsibility for carried out areview of the information flow.
Each Committee ensuring that arrangements are in effectiveness of the Groups member brings a wealth of place for employees to raise concerns whistleblowing arrangements.
professional and practical knowledge or suspicions they may have about and experience which is relevant to the possible wrongdoing infinancial Engagement of the external auditor Company's industry.
Such abilities reporting or other matters.
An The external Auditor is engaged to ensure that the Committee as a whole external organisation, Expolink, express an opinion on the Group and functions with competence and operates a24hour confidential Company financial statements.
The Committee receives reporting service forthe Group, which audit includes the review and testing regular updates on changes to provides employees with the choice of of the data contained in the financial financial accounting standards and making a report via a multilingual statements to the extent necessary 84 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Audit Committee Responsibilities Policy on auditor independence and services Order 2014, during the financial year Permitted audit-related services ended 1 April 2017.
Audit-related services are non-audit services, as specified in the Ethical Standard, that are largely provided by the external auditor and where Tender process thework is closely related to the work performed in the audit and where In January 2017, the Board, on the threats to auditor independence are clearly insignificant and safeguards recommendation of the Committee, need not be applied.
These audit related services include: agreed that a tender process for the reporting required by law or regulation to be provided by the auditor: appointment of the external auditor reviews of interim financial information: should be undertaken.
Under the reporting on regulatory returns: direction of Carole Cran, the following reporting to a regulator on client assets: process was carried out on behalf of reporting on government grants: the Committee: reporting on internal financial controls when required by law or regulation: and extended audit work that is authorised by those charged with governance a desktop review of external audit performed on financial information and or financial controls where this providers to the FTSE 100 was work is integrated with the audit work and is performed on the same carried out the FTSE 100 was principal terms and conditions.
considered to be the most suitable benchmark given the global reach, Prohibited non-audit services market capitalisation and growth Under this policy, the external auditor must not provide non-audit services to potential of Halma.
Based on Halma or any of its EU subsidiaries or to any of Halmas non-EU subsidiaries thereview, given their extensive with effect from 1 April 2018 which fall within the general categories of FTSE 100 experience and global services listed under the policy including tax, bookkeeping, payroll, design reach, the four biggest audit firms orimplementation of risk management procedures, valuation services, Deloitte, Ernst & Young, legalservices, internal audit services, services relating to financing capital  and structure investment promotion or dealing in shares, HR services, KPMG were invited to tender for organisational design or cost control or any of the specific services the external audit.
Deloitte assetout in the Ethical Standard and Staff Guidance Note 05 2016. indicated that they did not intend to participate in the tender process Fee cap and the tender proceeded with the The external auditor can be engaged to perform audit-related services without three firms: the requirement for a separate tender process unless the anticipated fees a Request for Proposal was issued exceed 150,000.
If the anticipated fees are above 150,000, the Audit which set out the timetable and Committee must approve the decision to engage the external auditor in process for the tender, scope of advance, and always subject to the overall fee cap.
The total fees for audit thework and key requirements related and non-audit services paid to the external auditor in any year cannot thatHalma would assess against, exceed 70% of the average fees for audit services charged over a three-year information to be provided in an period.
The Audit Committee will be notified of all projects with the external externally hosted data room, access auditor with estimated fees between 75,000 and 150,000 and, at each to key Board and management meeting, the Committee will receive a summary of all fees, audit and non-audit, personnel and details of a data payable to the external auditor.
analytical review to be undertaken by each firm: for expressing an audit opinion re-appointment of the external Auditor data room access granted to each onthetruth and fairness of the and will lead the process for putting firm providing key management financialstatements.
the audit contract out to tender at and financial information: least every 10 years.
As reported last meetings between each firm and Deloitte LLP has been the external year, Halma was required to re-tender Halma management, including the Auditor ofthe Group since 2003 and a the external auditby June 2023 and Chief Executive, Finance Director, review of the independence of Deloitte itwasanticipated the process would Company Secretary, Head Office LLP is undertaken each year.
At the becompleted before the end of functions, Sector CEOs and Sector year end, the Auditor formally December2018.
The Board, on the Finance Directors: confirmed its independence and recommendation of the Committee, meetings between the audit partner thatobjectivity has been maintained.
agreed that it was in the best interests from each firm and Carole Cran: The Committee concluded that the of the Company to commence an external references for each firm relevant independence continues to be external audit tender process during taken up personally by Carole Cran: met.
In addition, the Senior Statutory the first quarter of 2017.
Following a audit firm presentations to Halma: Auditor responsible for the Group audit thorough selection process, the Board completion of scorecards for each is rotated atleast every five years the is recommending to shareholders firm, focusing on audit quality most recent Senior Statutory Auditor atthe 2017 AGM the appointment of including the Financial Reporting change, to Nigel Thomas, having taken  as auditor Council's Audit Quality Review effect fromthefinancial year ended ofthe Company for the financial year Inspection Reports, strength 2April 2016. commencing 2 April 2017 onwards.
andexperience of the audit team, Accordingly, it is not envisaged, at data analytics offering and their Deloitte LLP provides the Committee thedate of this Report, that another fee proposal: withrelevant reports, reviews and competitive auditor tender process the Committee agreed two firms advice throughout the year, as set willbe conducted before 2027.
The torecommend to the Board, outin their termsof engagement.
Committee confirms that the withtheir preference being Company was in compliance with the : and External auditor tendering provisions of The Statutory Audit the Board approved the In accordance with UK Corporate Services for Large Companies Market recommendation and announced Governance Code, the Committee has Investigation Mandatory Use of the outcome of the audit tender in primary responsibility recommending Competitive Tender Processes and the Company's Trading Update to the Board the appointment announcement on 23 March 2017.
85 Governance Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 financial reporting issues when they Committee can confirm that it received Audit Committee arise, rather than limiting the and reviewed the FRC'sreport and exchange to the period in which the noted its findings.
Furthermore, Carole Report continued formal audit and review are taking Cran carried out a separate review of place.
This approach is supported the findings with the Audit partner and byaformal annual survey process.
has confirmed that there is nothing Surveys are tailored and issued to raised in the report which should be of three distinct groups of respondents: concern to the Committee.
The actions which Deloitte proposed in response to Subsidiary Finance Directors, the FRC's report were supported by including Group Finance: the Committee.
Sector Chief Executives and Deloitte will resign as Auditor to the SectorFinance Directors: and Taking into account the internal Company and  Audit Committee members reviewof the Auditor's effectiveness, will be recommended to shareholders andattendees.
along with the findings of the FRC's for appointment as Auditor to the AQR report, the Committee is Company at the 2017 AGM.
The survey completed by the first satisfied that Deloitte remains group is divided between questions effective as auditor to the Company.
Auditor independence focusing on audit quality and client As Deloitte will be resigning as The Groups Policy on Auditor service.
As this group is involved Auditor, no recommendation for Independence and Services provided primarily in the execution phase of the theirre-appointment will be made by the External Auditor sets out audit, the responses cover practical atthe forthcoming AGM and, restrictions on the categories of audit management issues as well as following the audit tender process non-audit services which theexternal observations made on the integrity described above, the Board will be auditor is allowed to provide tothe and quality of audit field teams.
As recommending the appointment of Group, in order to safeguard auditor the second and third group interact  as Auditor.
This mainly with the senior audit team Policy was updated to reflect the andthe Senior Statutory Auditor, the Risk management and internal controls changes to the FRC's Ethical Standard questions are focused more on general Through monitoring of the and approved by the Board in April audit planning and wider areas of the effectiveness of itsinternal controls 2017.
A summary ofthe non-audit audit relationship.
and risk management processes, services whichare permitted and theCommittee is able to maintain prohibited under thePolicy, is set In addition to assessing the agood understanding of business out above.
effectiveness ofthe external Auditor, performance and key areas of the Committee recognises that Group judgement anddecision-making At each meeting, the Committee management has animportant role withinthe Group.
receives asummary of all fees, toplay in the overall effectiveness audit and non-audit, payable to ofthe external audit process and the Details of risk management and the external Auditor.
Auditor is therefore asked to conduct internal controls are set out on its own survey of both subsidiary and pages20 and 21.
The audit fees payable to Deloitte LLP head office companies with which for theyear ended 1 April 2017 were Deloitte interacts.
This survey Significant issues in relation to 1,017,000 2016: 957,000 and addresses items suchas the financial reporting matters in 2016 17 non-audit service fees were 142,000 timeliness, quality and reliability During the year, the Committee 2016: 290,000.
The principal ofdata provided to the Auditor.
considered significant risks and issues non-audit service undertaken by in relation to the Groups financial Deloitte was tax advisory related.
A Taken together, the Committee statements and disclosures summary of fees paid to the external believes that sufficient and appropriate relatingto: Auditor is set out in note 6 to information is obtained to form an theAccounts.
overall judgement on the effectiveness the assessment of the carrying of the external audit process.
The value of goodwill due to the The external Auditor confirmed external audit effectiveness process significance of the amounts its independence as Auditor of the findings from last years review recorded on the Consolidated Company, ina letter addressed to were incorporated into the audit Balance Sheet and the judgements the Directors.
processes forthisyear, to maintain the involved in assessing goodwill process of continuous improvement.
forimpairment: External audit effectiveness the risk that acquisitions are not The effectiveness of the external audit During the year, Halma's financial accounted for correctly in line with process is assessed by the Committee, statements for the period ended IFRS 3 Business combinations which meets regularly throughout 2 April 2016 were selected by the Audit including the recording of fair theyear with the Senior Statutory Quality Review AQR team at the valueadjustments and the Auditorand senior audit manager.
Financial Reporting Council FRC for a identification and valuation of Akey component to the overall cyclical review of the quality of acquired intangible assets: effectiveness of the process is the Deloitte's audit.
While disclosure of the the valuation of any contingent open approach adopted by the Group audit quality category awarded is consideration arising on acquisitions and the Auditor, under which each notpermitted in this Report, the incurrent and prior periods: party raises potential accounting and 86 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 the judgements involved in valuing assessing the assumptions in These focused exercises can be defined benefit pension plans determining the pension summarised as follows: including the discount rate, the obligations, particularly given mortality assumption and the market volatility and determining a qualitative review, performed by inflation rate: and whether the key assumptions were the Group's finance and secretarial risk that revenue is incorrectly reasonable.
These assumptions functions, of disclosures and a recognised for significant contracts were also benchmarked against review of internal consistency which have unusual elements.
other listed companies and throughout the Annual Report and variances highlighted for Accounts.
This review assesses These issues were discussed with consideration: and theAnnual Report and Accounts management at various stages during considering the appropriateness against objective criteria drawn theyear and during the preparation and reasonableness of stated upfor each component of the and finalisation of the financial judgements andconclusions and requirement individual criteria statements.
After reviewing the that reporting wasaccurate.
thatindicate fairness, balance presentations and reports from and understandability as management, the Committee is As part of the above process the wellascriteria that overlap satisfied that the financial statements Committee specifically considered twoormorecomponents : appropriately address the critical thefollowing: a risk comparison review, which judgements and key estimates, both in assesses the consistency of the respect of the amounts reported and the treatment and valuation of the presentation of risks and significant the disclosures made.
The Committee contingent consideration payable judgements throughout the main is also satisfied that the significant inrelationto FluxData: areas of risk disclosure in the assumptions used for determining the fair value of acquired intangible Annual Report and Accounts: the value of assets and liabilities assets and carrying values: a formal review of all Board and havebeen appropriately scrutinised, management's assessment and Committee meeting minutes by challenged and aresufficiently robust.
reasons for the lower than expected theCompany Secretary to ensure The Committee has discussed these returns at Visiometrics, CenTrak that all significant issues are issues with the Auditor during the and Firetrace, and the likelihood of appropriately reflected and given audit planning process and at contract delays at the latter two due prominence in narrative thefinalisation of the year-end audit companies being resolved and reporting: and and is satisfied that its conclusions are fulfilled: preparation and issue to the Audit in line withthose drawn by the Auditor composition of the cash generating Committee of the key working in relation totheseissues.
unitsand related calculations: papers and results for each of the the evidence supporting the going significant issues and judgements The Committees process for concern basis of accounts considered by the Audit Committee challenging theassumptions of preparation, the Viability in the period.
management and addressing Statement and the risk therisksidentified includes the management and internal control The Directors statement on a fair, following activities: disclosure requirements: balanced and understandable Annual the terms of two significant Report and Accounts is set out on assessing treatments of contracts which have elements page 113.  payment ofrevenue which would require arrangements against the appropriate deferral under On behalf of the Audit Committee requirements of IFRS 3 andIFRS 13: ISA240: and focusing on, monitoring regularly accounting assumptions and andconstructively challenging, the disclosures of the defined benefit reasonableness of the assumptions pension plans.
Carole Cran usedin impairment calculations by Chairman management: challenging the Fair, balanced and understandable 13 June 2017 appropriateness of judgements and report andaccounts forecasts used including discount One of the key governance rates, growth rates, the level of requirements isfor the report aggregation ofindividual cash andaccounts to be fair, balanced generating units and methodology andunderstandable.
Ensuring applied, and any other associated that this standard is met requires disclosures in note 11 to theAccounts: continuous assessment of the financial assessing capitalisation of reporting issues affecting the Group development costs in line with the on a year-round basis in addition to accounting policy andstandards: anumber of focused exercises that take place during the Annual Report andAccounts production process.
