39 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS SUCCESSION & INDUCTION CHAIRMAN RECRUITMENT In December 2016 we announced that, responses from each rm and, following The Committee members and Steve were after six years in the role, Robert Swannell further discussions, selected JCA.
Aside unanimous in their final selection of the intended to retire from the business in 2017. from assisting with recruitment, JCA has new Chairman.
Robert committed to continue in his role no other connection to the Company.
On 5 May 2017 we were pleased to until his replacement had been identi ed Given the public pro le of M&S the announce the appointment of Archie and had joined the business.
Committee did not consider it necessary Norman as Non-Executive Chairman with Following this announcement we to use open advertising for this role.
The eff ect from 1 September 2017.
Archie was commenced the process to recruit and announcement of Roberts retirement had an ideal match to our requirements for a appoint a new Chairman.
The search was been made to the market in December and strong retail background and signi cant undertaken by the Nomination Committee interested parties were able to contact board experience.
"He is one of the UKs the ""Committee"" and led by myself as the either myself or other Committee members."
most respected business leaders, with a Senior Independent Director.
Steve Rowe proven track record in retail and business.
A structured timetable was adopted for was fully involved in the entire process.
He has been on the board of public the process and regular Committee companies on and off since 1986, when The Committee had a number of discussions and updates held throughout.
he became finance director of King sher discussions to scope out the key skills, From a detailed understanding of our at the age of 32.
He went on to gain experience, characteristics and requirements and speci cation of the role, experience as both a CEO and chairman of requirements for the role.
We then invited a JCA put together an extensive range of a number of well known listed companies selection of recruitment rms to participate potential candidates for the Committees including Asda and, more recently, ITV.
The in a selection process focusing on a series consideration.
After much debate, this was Committee believes he is well placed to of key questions in order to identify narrowed down to a strong short list for support Steve and the team as they deliver the appropriate executive recruitment interview.
Shortlisted candidates met with the plan that is already underway.
consultants to support our search.
We the same members of the Committee to received very thorough and comprehensive ensure consistency.
Steve Rowe also spent VINDI BANGA SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR signi cant time with the final candidates.
CHAIRMAN INDUCTION PROCESS STAGE 1 STAGE 2 STAGE 3 STAGE 4 Understand the Understand the Meet the Visit the M&S M&S business M&S environment M&S teams operations Stage 1.
Company structure and strategy: Stage 2.
Industry and competitive environment: Stage 3.
Archie's programme will be supported by including Group structure, history, strategy, including customer trends: consumer and one-on-one meetings with management from vision, key people, succession plans: Board regulatory environment including governance and Clothing & Home, Food, M&S.
com, International, procedures including governance framework all relevant consumer and industry bodies, CSR Retail, Finance, Property, Plan A, Marketing, and Code of Ethics and Behaviours: Board environment and sustainability.
Sentiment and Customer Insight Unit, Human Resources, Committees, calendar, minutes, Board reputation: including brand positioning and media Communications and Investor Relations, Internal eff ectiveness reviews and action plans: nances pro le: marketing campaigns: brand values: analyst Audit & Risk, Pensions, the Company Archive and and performance, operating plans, current and investor opinion, review of investor surveys, the Governance Group.
KPIs and targets, operational overview of all share register and voting history: key stakeholder Stage 4.
He will visit a number of our stores with business areas key relationships including relations including employees, customers, the Retail team as well as our distribution centre suppliers and major contracts: Group Risk suppliers, service providers, opinion leaders: an with the Logistics team.
He will also meet with Pro le and our approach to risk.
overview of our remuneration policy and pensions.
SENIOR SUCCESSION The Operating Committee recently A catalyst for the broader M&S talent Ongoing and eff ective talent management undertook a full talent and succession agenda, enabling us to adapt and is key to achieving our strategic and review of the top 120 senior roles within simplify our talent processes for operational objectives and this is clearly the business, plus the succession planning the wider organisation.
recognised by the Board, as re ected in the in place for these roles.
As part of this, Risk Management section on page 33.
This extensive review was discussed by the a benchmarking review was undertaken Board as part of an ongoing drive to provide There is work outstanding to embed some by Korn Ferry for all relevant individuals.
greater clarity and achieve a common of the identi ed core talent processes This supported our talent agenda understanding of talent within the business, deeply in all parts of the organisation, as by providing: and to baseline our talent data at a senior the principles of our new way of reviewing level.
While it was recognised that there is talent represent a cultural shift for M&S.
A thorough benchmarking exercise of still some room for improvement before These changes, although not always easy our talent versus the external market.
our talent information is a true re ection to make, are important if we are to create Additional feedback and insights for all of our overall talent health, themes are a sustainable, winning organisation.
senior individuals which, combined with emerging that enable us to strengthen Korn Ferry is a market leading company that assists our perspectives, are leading to robust our capabilities in the near term.
organisations in attracting, engaging, developing and retaining their people.
development plans for all our leaders.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
