"53 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 GOVERNANCE PENSIONS GOVERNANCE The Group operates a fide ned bene t The Scheme, the assets of which are held All advisers and suppliers are appointed pension scheme, the Marks & Spencer under trust separately from those of the through a rigorous tender process, and UK Pension Scheme, the ""Scheme"" for Group, is managed by the Board of the in respect of investment manager employees with an appointment date prior Pension Trust ""Trustee Board""."
The Trustee appointments are made with advice from to 1 April 2002.
The Scheme closed to future Board comprises four Company-nominated the Schemes appointed investment adviser.
Employees are directors, including the Chairman, Graham They are monitored via quarterly reports now eligible to join and are auto-enrolled Oakley, three member-nominated directors and periodic meetings and there is also a as required by legislation into a fide ned and two independent directors.
All directors rolling programme of both informal and contribution pension scheme, Your M&S are appointed for a five-year term and may formal adviser reviews.
Pension Saving Plan, which is part of a stand for additional terms.
In addition to six-monthly reports from mastertrust arrangement managed by The Trustee Board operates a number of EY as covenant adviser, the Trustee Board Legal & General.
committees including: Management and also receives presentations from the Chief The results of the triennial actuarial Governance, Investment, and Audit to which Finance Offi cer after the Groups Half Year valuation of the Scheme as at 31 March 2015 responsibilities are delegated.
The Trustee and Year End results.
revealed a surplus of 204m on a technical Board is supported by an executive team The Scheme is a signatory to the UN provisions basis.
This represented a healthy which manages the governance and Principles for Responsible Investment improvement from a fide cit of 290m as at operation of the Scheme.
and the Financial Reporting Councils 31 March 2012 as a result of agreed recovery The Trustee Board has a business plan UK Stewardship Code.
It has partnered plan contributions from the Company and against which progress is measured with a specialist engagement service, outperformance of return-seeking assets periodically in a similar approach to the Hermes Equity Ownership Services EOS, over the period.
The Scheme has also been Group Board.
There is also an annual to exercise its global equity voting rights in hedged against interest rate and in ation Trustee Board Eff ectiveness Review and accordance with a detailed Trustee Board risks and has thus been insulated from both the Trustee Board and the Investment policy, which addresses a range of the eff ect of falling real interest rates.
Committee hold annual strategy days which governance, social and environmental Scheme funding is closely and frequently help drive the long-term agenda and the issues.
The engagement of EOS enhances monitored and Scheme investment risks business plan priorities.
Each Trustee Board the Trustee Boards stewardship and are diversi ed.
director has an individual training plan, governance oversight of investee which is based on the Pension Regulators companies by engaging with companies Trustee Knowledge and Understanding on a global basis.
The results of these voting requirements and tailored to address any and engagement activities are published skill gaps and speci c committee roles.
quarterly on the Schemes website.
A majority of the Trustee Board members hold the Pensions Management Institute Award in Trusteeship.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
