43 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS RESPONSIBILITIES, OVERSIGHT & INDEPENDENCE ROLE OF THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES The Board is responsible for the stewardship and enhanced to create competitive and Nomination the Board sets the of the Company, overseeing its conduct and advantage for the Company.
strategic direction and aims to deliver aff airs to create sustainable value for the sustainable shareholder value over The Board delegates the execution of the bene t of its stakeholders.
In performing this the longer term.
Companys strategy and the day-to-day task, the Board recognises that to promote management and operation of the Overseeing the implementation of success over the long term it must ful l its Companys business to the Operating appropriate risk assessment systems wider duty to care for the interests of Committee.
The Board is responsible for and processes to identify, manage employees, customers and the communities overseeing, guiding and holding to and mitigate the principal risks of the in which the Company operates, and whose account management in carrying out Companys business.
Much of this work support is required to create sustainable value.
is delegated to the Audit Committee.
The Board discharges some of its The Board is responsible for ensuring that Eff ective succession planning at Board responsibilities directly and others through appropriate values, ethics and behaviours level and for assessing the processes in its Board committees and through for the conduct of the Company are agreed place to ensure that there is appropriate management.
The terms of reference and that appropriate procedures and training succession planning among senior of the Board and its committees are are in place to ensure that these are observed management.
Much of this work is included in our Governance Framework.
delegated to the Nomination Committee.
The Board agrees, and has collective The Board has discussed and agreed the In addition to the other matters referred to responsibility for, the strategy of the key values of Inspiration, Innovation, in its Governance Framework, the Board is Company.
For M&S, strategy means the Integrity and In Touch and these underpin responsible for speci c matters relating development of speci c actions aimed at the required values, ethics and behaviours.
to strategy, finance, risk management, promoting the long-term sustainable internal control and audit, legal, reputation growth of the Company by meeting the Clear terms of reference outline the full and public company management.
needs of our target customer groups, schedule of matters reserved for the Boards These, along with the individual roles of across all our product categories and decision and that of its key committees.
the Board members, are covered by the channels.
The articulation of our strategy The Board is responsible for: Schedule of Matters Reserved to the will include agreement on how our physical Board in the Marks and Spencer Group plc and intellectual property and the skills of Ensuring leadership through eff ective governance framework, and can be found our people should be used, developed oversight and review.
Supported by its at marksandspencer.
principal committees Audit, Remuneration, MONITORING AND OVERSIGHT BOARD COLLABORATION Protecting the business from operational, The Group Board and committee structure is provided below and the reports from the financial and reputational risk is an essential chairs of the principal committees can be found on the pages 46, 48 and 54.
Following the part of the Boards role.
Both the directors appointment of Steve Rowe as CEO, the business's operational processes were reviewed and senior management focus on not just and a new framework implemented, with the Operating Committee responsible for the short but also the longer term and monitoring, managing and providing executive input to support strategic and operational continue to be more actively involved in decisions to create strong executive alignment on business priorities and actions.
risk management and internal controls, Membership of this committee can be found on page 11 or on our corporate website.
an important part of stewardship and Although the executive directors sit as part of the Operating Committee to debate key to ensuring the long-term viability and understand opinion from key leaders from the business areas, they are ultimately of the business.
responsible for all for decisions on strategy and all non-property investments through The Group Risk Pro le and risk appetite are the Investment Committee, and capital expenditure for the Groups UK and International owned by the Board.
Their compilation is property portfolio in line with the Groups strategic goals and business priorities through facilitated by Group Risk, using business area the Property Committee.
risk registers and one-on-one interviews The supporting committees provide oversight and regular updates to the Operating with Board members and business unit Committee and annual assurance updates to either the Audit Committee or Group Board.
Oversight and independence are All committees have clear terms of reference and approval thresholds set and approved provided in the process through the Audit by the Group Board.
Committee, which ensures that the risks the Board include in the Group Risk Pro le continue GROUP BOARD to re ect the businesss strategic objectives.
An Internal Audit plan is then mapped to the Group Risk Pro le, demonstrating where INVESTMENT OPERATING PROPERTY PRINCIPAL COMMITTEES COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE assurance is provided over mitigating activities.
Audit Remuneration Nomination SUPPORTING COMMITTEES Fire, Health & Safety Business Continuity Plan A FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
