46 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS' REPORT: GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT We are introducing new initiatives to broaden and develop the strong talent that exists within the business.
ROBERT SWANNELL CHAIRMAN INTRODUCTION and multi-channel capabilities, and we wish permanent basis.
These individuals receive her the very best for the future.
"the necessary coaching to ensure they have During the year the focus of the Nomination the required skills to provide any critical Committee the ""Committee"" was on the The Committee maintains a well-fide ned support when needed."
Development for search for a new Chairman to succeed me speci cation for each appointment, with directors and high performing individuals and the succession of non-executives and a clear understanding of the attributes below Board level is an essential area of senior individuals within the business.
and values required to help the eff ective focus.
Coaching and mentoring is provided As outlined on page 39, the Chairman functioning of the whole Board.
It considers to develop and enhance speci c skill sets, search was led by Vindi Banga and I did the combination of skills and experience and the Committee believes the bene ts not participate in the process.
required to ful l the Boards purpose.
As of this approach are critical for developing Chairman of the Committee, I take an active In September, following her maternity leave, our own talent for the future.
role in overseeing the progress made Laura Wade-Gery, Executive Director, Multitowards improving diversity and womens The Committee continues to take a more channel, left the business.
Her responsibilities representation on both the Operating active interest in talent management, in were allocated to the other executive Committee and among its direct reports.
particular ensuring that initiatives are directors, and the business now operates in place to develop the talent pipeline with a smaller executive Board.
Laura was The business has a framework with clearly and to promote diversity in Board and instrumental in modernising our ecommerce identi ed individuals capable of covering executive appointments.
key management roles on an interim or EFFECTIVENESS OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Committee review MEMBER ATTENDANCE MEMBER NUMBER OF MAXIMUM % OF MEETINGS The Committee's performance was SINCE MEETINGS POSSIBLE ATTENDED externally evaluated during the year ATTENDED MEETINGS by F on Hague.
The Committee was considered to be Robert Swannell 4 Oct 2010 5 5 100% eff ective and remains independent.
Areas of focus identi ed for the year Vindi Banga 3 Sept 2011 5 5 100% ahead are provided below.
Nomination Committee activity Alison Brittain 1 Jan 2014 5 5 100% During the year, the Committee held a signi cant number of unscheduled 1 Miranda Curtis 3 Feb 2012 4 5 80% meetings to support the search and appointment of the new Chairman.
In Andrew Fisher 1 Dec 2015 5 5 100% addition, it continued to support the development of the executive directors Andy Halford 1 Jan 2013 5 5 100% and participated in several employeefocused initiatives, giving increased Richard Solomons 13 Apr 2015 5 5 100% access to the organisation.
Miranda Curtis was unable to attend the meeting on 14 March 2017 due to external business commitments.
An area of focus for the Committee over the coming year will be the link between ACTION PLAN 2017 18 diversity, strategy and developing the Continue to review succession plans for the Board and key roles across the business.
More consideration will be given Continue to review future talent pipeline.
to the nature, variety and frequency of Review development initiatives for directors.
interaction between the Board and aspiring candidates at all levels.
Greater input when tailoring the induction of new Board members to their individual skills and experience.
The Committee will play an active part in the induction process for our new Continue to identify opportunities for broader business engagement beyond Chairman, Archie Norman, who joins Head Offi ce.
47 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 BOARD DIVERSITY POLICY for future opportunities.
This has been The annual Board evaluation process supported through greater boardroom includes an assessment of the Boards Since the launch of the Board Diversity exposure, non-executive and Trustee diversity including gender, helping to Policy in 2012, the Board has made progress roles outside of M&S, involvement in objectively consider its composition in broadening the diversity of the Board senior pipeline programmes and and eff ectiveness.
The policy participation in mentoring schemes.
continues to drive the bene ts of a diverse Five employee-led diversity networks that Board and workforce across the business.
Access to international business focus on making M&S an inclusive place The ambitions and objectives set out in school training.
to work for women and men Gender the policy remain relevant targets against Equality Network, minority ethnic groups Senior management mentoring and which to measure our progress.
BAME at M&S, lesbian, gay, bisexual coaching schemes and non-executive and transgender people LGBT at M&S, For further information on employee director sponsored lunches and breakfasts.
diversity, including gender, ethnicity parents Parents Net, and people and age, see p24 of our Plan A Report Consider candidates for appointment with disabilities and health conditions marksandspencer.
as non-executive directors from a wider The Buddy Network.
These deliver pool, including those with experience large-scale awareness-raising events BOARD DIVERSITY: PROGRESS UPDATE outside traditional listed boards.
promoting inclusion and equality, Maintain a level of at least 30% female Although no new appointments were made as well as mentoring, coaching, directors on the Board over the short during the year, the Nomination Committee roundtable discussions with senior to medium term.
continued to discuss the successional needs leaders and regular communication As highlighted earlier in the report, one of the Board in respect of its non-executive across the business.
change to the Board was made during the directors.
Lists of potential candidates are Continued involvement in the governmentyear to 1 April 2017, with the resignation of compiled with assistance from executive backed 30% Club, an organisation Laura Wade-Gery.
Despite the reduced size search agencies and comprise candidates committed to increasing female of the Board, the percentage of women from a range of diff erent industries and representation on UK boards.
on the Board remains on target at 30% backgrounds.
Those subsequently identi ed at the time of publication.
The charts on for interview are measured against criteria Continued involvement running Business page 38 provide a clearer picture of our set at the start of the search process.
The in the Community BITC mentoring Board diversity.
Chairman also meets informally with a circles which help us to promote and range of people introduced by third parties develop BAME Black, Asian and minority The Board remains committed to maintaining or through direct approaches.
Although we ethnic talent pipelines.
at least a 30% female representation on the do not currently openly advertise our nonBoard, while ensuring that diversity in its Active involvement in key campaigns executive director positions, we appreciate broadest sense remains a central feature.
including LGBT Pride celebrations, the bene t of this approach and will keep However, the Nomination Committee will International Womens Day, Black History this under review.
continue to recommend appointments Month, National Inclusion Week, and World to the Board based on merit, measured Ensure long lists of potential non-executive Disability Day, raising awareness and our against objective criteria and the skills and directors include 50% female candidates.
pro le as an inclusive employer.
experience the individual off ers.
The Board remains committed to ensuring A number of programmes to help people that high-performing women from within the The Board is also committed to strengthening in our communities, including Marks & Start business and from a variety of backgrounds, the pipeline of senior female executives and Marks & Start Logistics, are successfully who have the requisite skills, are given greater within the business and has taken steps to helping young people, the homeless, lone exposure to the nomination committees of ensure that there are no barriers to women parents and those with disabilities to nd FTSE 100 companies.
All long lists for potential succeeding at the highest levels within M&S.
work in our stores and distribution centres.
future non-executive director appointments Assist the development of a pipeline of will include at least 50% female candidates.
Report annually on the outcome of the high-calibre candidates by encouraging Board evaluation, the composition and Only engage executive search rms who a broad range of senior individuals within structure of the Board as well as any issues have signed up to the Voluntary Code the business to take on additional roles and challenges the Board is facing when of Conduct for Executive Search Firms to gain valuable board experience.
considering the diverse make-up of on gender diversity and best practice.
During the year, the Board continued to focus the Company.
The Board continues to support the ten on strengthening the pipeline of executive We continue to regard the Board evaluation principles of the Voluntary Code talent in the Company.
It remains committed process as an important means of monitoring of Conduct for Executive Search Firms on to building on existing programmes while our progress.
Full details of the 2016 17 gender diversity and best practice and is introducing new initiatives to broaden and Board evaluation and the Action Plan are on committed to only engaging executive develop the strong talent which exists page 42.
We remain committed to getting search rms who are signatories to this across the business.
the right balance of internal versus external code.
During the year, we worked closely hires and work towards understanding and Key initiatives include: with Egon Zehnder and JCA and maintained managing the challenges we face, such as: our focus on the targets and ambitions A comprehensive talent review presented around female representation on the International management experience to the Board annually, mapping successional Board.
The Board con rms that neither re ective of the customers and candidates and opportunities across all Egon Zehnder nor JCA has any other communities we serve.
senior roles within the business.
Any challenges women face in reaching A thorough approach to talent Report annually against these objectives regional management positions and development through initiatives including and other initiatives taking place within above within the business.
the Korn Ferry Leadership Development the Company which promote gender Review, and Development Centres for and other forms of diversity.
The Board has made strong progress against The Leadership Development Service has the key policy objectives during the year, been in place for four years and continues as reported above.
In addition, the business to identify and partner key senior talent has continued to promote diversity through across the business, broadening their a range of key initiatives: skill sets and experience to prepare them FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
