42 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS' REPORT: GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS BOARD EFFECTIVENESS STAGES OF THE BOARD EVALUATION This is a period of crucial and profound change for the STAGE 1 STAGE 2 STAGE 3 business and it is heartening DISCUSSION to see how committed the BRIEFING & WITH BOARD Board is to eff ecting change.
COMMITTEE OBSERVATION CHAIRS ROBERT SWANNELL, CHAIRMAN RESULTS !
"COLLATED, ACTION BOARD EVALUATION REPORTED & PLAN EVALUATED The assessment of the Board was AGREED ONE-TO-ONE conducted according to the guidance in BOARD INTERVIEWS DISCUSSION the UK Corporate Governance Code the WITH BOARD ""Code"" and was facilitated by F on Hague of Independent Board Evaluation."
Neither F on Hague or Independent Board Evaluation has Note: The above activities were undertaken by F on Hague of Independent Board Evaluation.
F on Hague also attended the Board discussion.
any other connection with the Company.
STAGE 1 BOARD REVIEW INSIGHTS 2016 17 A comprehensive brief was given to The broad message from the directors of the Board is seen as positive and Independent Board Evaluation by the was that Board dynamics and the ow of supportive.
Board members described Chairman and Group Secretary in December information to the Board has improved it as well-balanced, respectful, open, 2016.
The assessment team observed signi cantly.
The Board rated itself as challenging and committed.
However, it the main Board and committee meetings satisfactory in its performance on issues agreed that a greater diversity of culture, in December, January and February.
of Board focus, risk management, Board gender and experience might enhance Access to Board papers was provided culture, the relationship with senior the Board's composition.
electronically prior to the meetings via management, meeting schedules and the a secure portal.
Areas for further COMMITTEES progress included consistency of papers In January and February, detailed interviews Board committees were also reviewed and management information, succession were conducted with each Board member.
and were considered highly regarded planning and people development.
As a All participants were interviewed according in terms of eff ectiveness and decision result, these areas feature in the Board to a clear agenda, tailored for M&S.
Senior managers felt signi cantly Action Plan for the year ahead.
When the team also met with the Group Secretary, challenged by the Audit Committee and review was undertaken, Steve Rowe had HR Director, Director of Group Finance, commented that the Audit Committee been the CEO for a period of nine months.
Head of Internal Audit & Risk, Director Chairman is very engaged on the key issues.
The business had been through signi cant of Retail, audit partners from Deloitte, The Remuneration Committee was seen as change in that period and it was clear PwC remuneration consultant and eff ective and considered.
Greater visibility from the review that the openness in Makinson Cowell independent investor around remuneration is welcomed.
communication was a very positive relations consultants.
The directors felt that the CHAIRMAN Board agenda covered the most important STAGE 2 topics.
However, they felt a review of the The Chairman is much appreciated by staff, The report was compiled by the management information provided to who feel he truly embodies the Companys assessment team based on information the Board would improve the pace of brand through his employee recognition and views supplied by those interviewed.
The culture work and his many store visits.
All recommendations were based on best practice as described in the Code and BOARD ACTION PLAN other corporate governance guidelines.
THE BOARD ACTION PLAN FOR Increase the level of informal contact STAGE 3 2017 18 WILL ALSO INCLUDE: between the Board and senior Draft conclusions were discussed with the individuals and the Board and the Continue tracking of KPIs and Chairman and subsequently with the whole broader business beyond Head Offi ce.
management information and their Board at its meeting in March, with F on alignment with long-term strategy.
The conclusion of that Review the Board education discussion was recorded in the minutes of programme to ensure the induction of Continue tracking of post-decision the meeting.
Following the Board meeting, new Board members is tailored to their reviews of major capital investment F on Hague gave feedback on the Chairman individual skills and experience.
to the Senior Independent Director Vindi Banga, and to the committee chairmen on Continue to drive the people agenda by creating speci c KPIs for people the performance of each committee.
addition, the Chairman received a separate report with feedback on individual directors.
