AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 44 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT I would like to thank Jonathan for his WE ARE COMMITTED TO ENSURING THE INTEGRITY OF THE work as Audit Committee Chairman GROUPS FINANCIAL REPORTING, AUDIT PROCESS, KEY RISK and also for his time in handing over MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL.
The Board believes I have the necessary recent and relevant financial experience The Audit Committee has a number of responsibilities: as required by the Code as I am a to undertake regular scrutiny of the Groups financial performance: Chartered Management Accountant ensuring the financial integrity of the Group is effective: and a Fellow of CIMA, and have ensuring the Group has the appropriate risk management processes and most recently held the role of Chief internal controls: and Executive Officer and previously ensuring that the internal and external audit processes are robust.
Group Finance Director of Anite plc, a UK listed company, and previously Committee Membership During 2016 17 the members were: senior positions in finance at Conoco, The Audit Committee at the Chairman Eurotherm International plc and date of this report comprises Christopher Humphrey Critchley Group plc.
I have maintained four Non-Executive Directors.
from 2 November 2016 an up-to-date understanding of Jonathan Brooks financial and corporate governance until 2 November 2016 best practice by attending many training sessions and updates Members presented by the major accounting Philip Dayer firms.
The Board also considers that Jennifer Allerton the other members of the Committee Christopher Humphrey have a broad range of appropriate skills from 8 July 2016 and experiences covering financial, Ron Mobed from 1 March 2017 commercial and operational matters.
Brief biographical details for all the My induction process involved me members of the Committee are meeting senior members of AVEVAs included on pages 42 and 43.
Financial Management team prior to Jonathans departure and I was closely The Audit Committee provides involved with the half year reporting effective governance over external processes relating to 2016.
I have financial reporting, risk management met with key internal employees and and internal controls and reports its representatives of Ernst & Young EY findings and recommendations to the to learn more about the workings of Board.
In my capacity as Chairman of the Groups financial reporting and the Audit Committee, I am pleased audit process.
During the year I chaired to report on the operations of the two meetings of the Audit Committee.
Committee during the past year, with emphasis on the specific matters Audit Committee terms of reference we have considered, including The Audit Committee monitors compliance with the UK Corporate the integrity of the financial Governance Code the Code statements of the Group and the and associated Guidance on Audit Committee members as part of Committees.
I confirm that we have the full Board review all proposed fully complied with the requirements announcements to be made by the of the Code as issued in April 2016.
Group and consideration is given to any significant financial reporting I was appointed Chairman of judgements contained in them.
the Committee on 2 November 2016, succeeding Jonathan The Committee considers the Brooks who stood down from effectiveness of financial reporting the Board in the same month.
and internal controls, compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards and the Listing, Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
We also review Christopher Humphrey any proposed change in accounting Audit Committee Chairman policies and any recommendations from the Groups auditor regarding improvements to internal controls GOVERNANCE REPORT 45 Overview of the years activities In addition to its prescribed duties the Audit Committee undertook several additional projects during the year.
Topic Activity in the year The Committee received regular updates from management as to its consideration of implications Revenue recognition of the new accounting standard for revenue recognition IFRS 15.
The new revenue recognition standard comes into effect on 1 January 2018, and the first period for which revenue will be reported under IFRS 15 will be the interim period to September 2018.
The Committee is tracking managements progress and a presentation outlining the roadmap and expected impact assessment was presented to the Committee in March 2017.
The Committee undertook a tender of the external audit in the summer of 2016, culminating in External audit tender presentations to the Committee by the incumbent auditor Ernst & Young EY, as well as Deloitte and  PwC.
The Committee was impressed by the quality of presentations from all three firms and, ultimately, EY were successful in retaining the audit.
The Committee felt that EY were in the strongest position to manage the risk associated with the Companys transition to the new revenue recognition accounting standard, IFRS 15, and were pleased with the competitive fee proposal.
The Committee undertook a review of the Groups position on internal audit.
An outline proposal was Internal audit considered in November 2016 to create an internal audit programme, and the level of assurance that such a programme would provide.
The proposal was approved by the Committee and incorporates the establishment of a minimum controls framework, against which internal audit testing will be focused.
Following this, two internal audit visits to overseas subsidiaries were conducted by members of the Group Finance team, and a further visit was conducted by PwC.
More details of the Companys new approach to internal audit is included below.
As part of our ongoing programme of controls assurance, the Committee commissioned internal audit to undertake a review of the process and controls involved in the invoicing of annual fees.
Generally the findings were encouraging but some control improvements were recommended to ensure that all price increases available under the customer contracts are incorporated.
In March 2017, management presented an update on the Company Risk Register and the continual Risks and internal controls development of internal controls.
The update included: The new AVEVA RACI framework which is being enacted for 2017 18 to support the new regional organisational structure.
The Risk Committee had updated the Corporate Risk Register and established a process of creating functional risk registers, which will feed directly into the Corporate Risk Register for a more holistic view of corporate risks.
In furtherance of cyber security, a dedicated IT security team has been established, and a series of mandatory e-learning courses introduced.
We continue to perform periodic phishing simulations, which show an encouraging improvement over time.
Legislation on non-audit services came into effect on 1 April 2017 restricting what work the statutory Non-audit services auditor can perform.
The Committee has implemented a strict policy which goes beyond the minimum requirements of legislation and shall be monitored closely.
This has necessitated the Committee overseeing a transition of work from Ernst & Young to alternative professional services firms and advisers.
and the adequacy of resources Meetings Risk and internal controls within the Groups finance function.
The Audit Committee meets at least The key elements of the Groups The Committee also assesses the four times each year.
The Company internal control framework and process that has been established Chairman and CFO are invited to procedures are set out on page 46.
The to ensure that the Annual Report is attend all meetings.
The external principal risks the Group faces are set fair, balanced and understandable, auditor is also invited to attend.
Annually, the reporting to the Board on their findings.
Members of senior management Audit Committee considers the Group are invited from time to time to Risk Register and related management A full copy of the Committees terms make presentations such as the controls.
Throughout the process, of reference is available from the Committees agenda necessitates.
the Board or the Audit Committee: Companys website at www.
gives consideration to whether areas The Committee meets quarterly should be looked at more closely with the external auditor without through specific control reviews: any members of the Executive team identifies areas where enhancement being present.
I also meet with the of internal controls is required: and external auditor from time to time agrees action plans to deliver the away from the Companys offices.
AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 46 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The Audit Committee has developed be optimal.
The Company has initially is required to approve any fees a framework to gain assurance over chosen PwC for its internal audit paid to the auditor for permissible the system of internal financial and partner, although this appointment is non-audit work and delegates the operational controls.
This comprises: not contractual or for any fixed term.
authority for approval of such work to A risk assessment performed by the Chief Financial Officer where the operational management and The Groups operations are level of fees involved are considered the Board to identify key areas geographically widely spread, which insignificant.
During the year the for assurance.
means that in some instances, auditor has ceased all prohibited nonPeer and head office reviews of key where assurance over the operation audit work.
The Group engages other risk areas of financial internal control.
of internal control is considered independent firms of accountants During the year, subsidiary company valuable, there is a clear advantage to perform tax consulting work and control visits were undertaken in in such reviews of controls being other consulting engagements to Malaysia and Germany and specific undertaken by teams with specific local ensure that the independence of reviews were undertaken related to regulatory knowledge and without the auditor is not compromised.
annual fee billing and general any local language barrier.
the Committee believes that such Audit partners are rotated every The use of qualified third parties to instances favour the provision of five years and a formal statement of undertake specialist reviews in more assurance from external sources, which independence is received from the technical areas.
During 2016 17, is considered to be both more efficient auditor each year.
The Board and the PwC performed an internal audit and effective.
This will be reviewed Audit Committee are satisfied that of our China operations.
on a case-by-case basis, with PwC the independence of the auditor has An annual assessment by the performing these visits as necessary.
The current audit Audit Committee of the whole partner, Marcus Butler, will complete his system of internal financial and External audit second year with the Group this year.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of the Audit planning and main audit issues There is a formal whistle-blowing external auditor and during 2016 17 At the November 2016 meeting of the policy which has been communicated undertook a tender of the role of Committee the auditor presented their to employees.
This policy provides external auditor.
Three firms were audit plan for 2016 17.
This included information on the process to follow invited to the tender process, a summary of the proposed audit in the event that any employee feels which involved several meetings scope for the year for each of the it is appropriate to make a disclosure.
with management and culminated Groups subsidiaries and a summary The Audit Committee is satisfied that in a presentation to the Audit of what the auditor considered to be the process is effective and reviews Committee in July 2016.
Ultimately the most significant financial reporting key issues which are reported.
EY were successful in retaining the risks facing the Group, together audit.
The Committee felt that EY with the auditors proposed audit Key estimates were in the strongest position to approach to these significant risk The Audit Committee discusses manage the risk associated with the areas.
The main area of audit focus with management and the auditor Companys transition to the new for the year is the significant estimate the approach that has been taken in revenue recognition accounting surrounding revenue recognition.
These standard, IFRS 15, and were pleased include revenue recognition, provision with the competitive fee proposal.
Committee objectives for 2017 18 for impairment of receivables and In March 2017, the Committee the valuation of retirement benefit The Committee also advises the considered the objectives for the obligations.
Annually, the Committee Board on the auditors remuneration year ahead and it was agreed the considers the going concern principle both for audit and non-audit work following would be prioritised: upon which the financial statements and discusses the nature, scope and Complete induction of Ron Mobed are prepared and also the Groups results of the audit with the external as a new Committee member.
From 1 April 2017, new, tighter Completion of audited conversion non-audit services legislation came to IFRS 15 opening balance Internal audit into effect, and at the same time, the sheet position.
As outlined above, during the year the Groups updated policy.
The legislation Completion of minimum Company has established an internal and policy severely restricts the level control framework.
audit function which is co-resourced of non-audit work that the external Enhancements to product using Company employees as well as auditor is able to perform and helps development reporting.
As a Committee, to safeguard the independence and we believe this resourcing model will objectivity of the external auditor.
Christopher Humphrey provide the most effective approach, The Committee continues to keep Audit Committee Chairman with some audit reviews requiring under review the cost effectiveness 23 May 2017 internal Company knowledge and for and quality of the audit service.
other audit review areas specialist input Pursuant to the new policy on nonfrom an independent third party will audit services, the Audit Committee
