AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 36 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE I am pleased to introduce the 2017 Composition of the Board Details of the Board changes Corporate Governance statement.
The usual composition of the Board and the work of the Committee This year has seen considerable is the Chairman, three independent undertaken this year can be changes in the composition of the Non-Executive Directors and two found set out in the Nominations Board.
The Nominations Committee Executive Directors.
Our Senior Committee report on page 41. has been extensively involved in Independent Director is Philip Dayer.
the nomination, selection and In the course of the year ending Operation of the Board appointment of the Executive 31 March 2017, and as announced The Chairman, supported by the Directors and Non-Executive by the Company at appropriate times, Company Secretary, ensures that Directors made during the year.
the Board has undergone several the Board functions effectively We are grateful for the tremendous significant, planned changes to refresh and has established Board achievements for AVEVA made by the and strengthen the Board, including processes designed to maximise its resigning Directors.
the appointment of a new Chief performance and effectiveness.
Executive, a new Chief Financial The Company is committed to the Officer and two new independent principles of Corporate Governance Non-Executive Directors, with several contained in the UK Corporate of them having handover periods to Governance Code provided by the transition into their new roles see Financial Reporting Council and more in the Nominations Committee for which the Board is accountable report provided on page 41. to shareholders.
The Company has complied with the provisions Brief biographical details of all of the April 2016 UK Corporate Board members are set out on Governance Code throughout the pages 42 and 43.
The chairmanship financial year ending 31 March 2017. and membership of all Board Committees is set out on page 38.
Further explanation of how the principles have been applied is set Board changes out below and, in connection with The Nominations Committee has Directors remuneration, in the responsibility for Board and Committee Remuneration Committee report composition, particularly in relation on pages 47 to 66. to the diversity of background, skills and experience.
The Committee oversees the nomination, selection and appointment of Non-Executive and Executive Directors and monitors succession planning for Board and senior management roles.
Philip Aiken Chairman GOVERNANCE REPORT 37 Key aspects of these processes are: GROUP STRUCTURE MARCH 2017 The AVEVA Group Board meets regularly in combination with the Board of AVEVA Solutions Limited, THE BOARD the main operating company in the Group which owns all of the Groups trading subsidiaries.
The AVEVA Solutions Limited Board includes as a member the Deputy CEO and Chief Technical Officer, as well as all EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS the members of the Group Board.
This ensures that the AVEVA Group James Kidd Philip Aiken Chairman Board is well informed on technical David Ward Philip Dayer and market factors driving the Jennifer Allerton Groups performance as well as on Christopher Humphrey financial outcomes.
Ron Mobed The Board had eight scheduled meetings during the year.
These meetings, together with any Committee meetings, are generally held at the Groups Head Office in Cambridge or in our London office EXECUTIVE TEAM and are approximately one day in duration.
Each scheduled Board meeting has CHIEF EXECUTIVE an over-arching theme.
These include an annual technology review, Chief Technology officer business plan strategy day, Chief Financial officer and Deputy CEO succession planning, annual budget, presentations from Executive Executive Vice President management, and interim and final Chief Revenue officer Business Strategy results.
The Board aims that Directors visit an AVEVA office or Executive Vice President Executive Vice President business event outside of the UK at Global Services Group General Counsel least once per year.
The Executive Directors visit non-UK AVEVA offices on a regular basis.
This year two of Executive Vice President Regional Executive the Non-Executive Directors Human Resources APAC and MEA attended the AVEVA World Summit in October 2016, meeting with staff Regional Executive Regional Executive and customers throughout the Americas Global Accounts and Europe event.
The Chairman visited the Hyderabad offices in October 2016 and one Non-Executive Director travelled to Russia to meet with management and staff there as part of a review of operations.
AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 38 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Board Nominations Remuneration Audit The roles of the Chairman and the meetings Committee Committee Committee Chief Executive are distinct and the 1 Meetings scheduled : 8 3 6 4 division of responsibility between these roles has been clearly established, set Meetings attended: out in writing and agreed by the Board.
Philip Aiken 8 3 n a n a The Chairman is responsible for the Jonathan Brooks 4 2 3 3 Philip Dayer 8 3 6 4 effectiveness of the Board and ensuring Jennifer Allerton 8 3 6 4 that it meets its obligations and Christopher Humphrey 7 1 4 3 responsibilities.
The Chief Executive is Ron Mobed 1 0 1 1 responsible to the Board for the dayRichard Longdon 5 n a n a n a to-day management of the business, James Kidd 8 n a n a n a leadership of the Executive team and David Ward 7 n a n a n a execution of the Groups strategic and operating plans.
The Chairman 1 Ex ecutive Directors and Non-Executive Directors attendance recorded from time of appointment to time of and Chief Executive meet regularly resignation where applicable.
to discuss any issues pertaining to the Companys performance, In addition, the Board holds a Matters reserved for the Board reputation and organisation.
full-day strategy meeting every year The Board is responsible to at which Executive Directors and shareholders for the proper Committees of the Board members of the senior management management of the Group.
There The Board has three committees: team make presentations covering is a formal schedule of matters Audit, Remuneration and Nominations.
progress against current strategy specifically reserved for the Boards In accordance with the UK Corporate and objectives and ideas for future decision that covers key areas of Governance Code, the duties of the investment.
the Groups affairs, which include: Committees are set out in formal terms The Board delegates the day-to-day overall responsibility for the strategy of reference.
They are available on responsibility for managing the of the Group: request from the Companys registered Group to the Executive Directors.
corporate governance: office during normal business hours To enable the Board to discharge its review of trading performance and and are available on the Companys duties, all Directors receive forecasts: website at www.
risk management: Briefing papers are distributed by the Board membership: Details of the main responsibilities Company Secretary to all Directors, communications with shareholders: and activities during the year of the usually four working days in advance approval of major transactions, Nominations Committee are included of Board and Committee meetings.
including mergers and on page 41, the Audit Committee on A monthly reporting pack containing acquisitions: and pages 44 to 46 and the Remuneration management accounts with approval of the financial statements Committee on pages 47 to 66. commentary and reports from each and annual operating and capital Executive Director is distributed to expenditure budgets.
Performance evaluation the Board on a monthly basis.
The Board undertakes a formal and Meetings were held between the Independence of Non-Executive rigorous review of its performance Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors and segregation of duties and that of its Committees and Directors during the year, without The Board has considered the Directors each financial year.
In 2014, the Executives being present, to independence of the Non-Executive an extensive review was externally discuss appropriate matters as Directors and believes that all are facilitated by Armstrong Bonham necessary.
currently independent of management Carter LLP, the independent board The Chairman ensures that the and free from any material business performance consultants.
The most Directors take independent or other relationships that could recent review was carried out in professional advice where they materially interfere with the exercise October 2016, led by the Chairman judge it necessary to discharge their of their independent judgement.
and conducted following  as Directors at the Their biographies on pages 42 and 43 one interviews with each Director.
All members of the demonstrate a range of experience and Board have access to the advice of sufficient calibre to bring independent the Company Secretary.
judgement on issues of strategy, Non-Executive Directors and performance, resources and standards Executive Directors are encouraged of conduct which are vital to the Group.
annually to undertake training in furtherance of their specific roles and general duties as a Director.
GOVERNANCE REPORT 39 Overall, the review concluded that The key elements of the system of The Boards monitoring covers the Board and its Committees had internal controls currently include: all material controls, including demonstrated a high degree of each member of the Executive team financial, non-financial, operational effectiveness.
The Board is considered has responsibility for specific aspects and compliance controls and risk to be of the right size and having of the Groups operations.
It is based principally on appropriate skills representation.
meet on a regular basis and are reviewing reports from management The October 2016 review identified responsible for the operational to consider whether significant risks five priorities in the form of broader strategy, reviewing operating results, are identified, evaluated, managed discussion at Board level of risk identification and mitigation of risks and controlled and whether any management and succession and communication and application significant weaknesses are promptly planning, a greater development of of the Groups policies and remedied and indicate a need for the annual strategy day, formalisation procedures.
Where appropriate, more extensive monitoring.
The of the internal audit function, the matters are reported to the Board: Board periodically carries out visits appointment of a Non-Executive regular reports to the Board from the to the Groups subsidiaries and Director with software development Executive team on key receives presentations from local and or end market experience and developments, financial management on their operations.
an increase in senior management performance and operational issues presentations to the Board.
Each in the business: The Board has also performed a specific of these areas of development has operational and financial controls assessment for the purpose of this been incorporated into the Boards and procedures which include Annual Report.
This involved reviewing schedule for the next year and authorisation limits for expenditure, the Groups risk matrix that had been into objectives for the Executive sales contracts and capital reviewed updated by the Groups Directors or Board Committees.
expenditure, signing authorities, IT Risk Committee, with representatives application controls, organisation involved from the Executive team and Internal control and risk management structure, Group policies, senior managers.
This assessment The Board has overall responsibility for segregation of duties and reviews by considered all significant aspects of the Groups system of internal control management: internal control necessary for the and for monitoring its effectiveness.
an annual budget process which is Company to successfully carry out the However, such a system is designed reviewed, monitored and approved key business strategies of the Group to manage rather than eliminate by the Board: together with more generic inherent the risk of failure and by its very regular meetings between the risks of the Groups operations.
The nature can only provide reasonable Executive team, sales area managers Audit Committee assists the Board in and not absolute assurance against and key functional managers to discharging its review responsibilities.
The discuss actual performance against principal risks and uncertainties the forecast, budget and prior years.
The Indemnities to Directors Group faces are set out on pages operating results are reported on a In accordance with the Companys 30 and 31.
There were no significant monthly basis to the Board and Articles of Association, Directors control failures during the year.
compared to the budget and the are granted an indemnity from the latest forecast as appropriate: Company to the extent permitted by The Board has established a targeted internal audit reviews which law in respect of liabilities incurred as continuous process for identifying, focus on confirming the operation of a result of the performance of their evaluating and managing the significant controls in key process areas: and duties in their capacity as Directors of risks the Group faces.
The Board maintenance of insurance cover to the Company.
The indemnity would regularly reviews the effectiveness of insure all major risk areas of the not provide any coverage to the the Groups internal controls, which Group based on the scale of the risk extent the Director is proven to have have been in place from the start and availability of the cover in the acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
of the year to the date of approval external market.
The Company has maintained of this report, and believes that it is Directors and officers liability in accordance with the September insurance cover throughout the year.
2014 Financial Reporting Council Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 40 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Policy on appointment and The Board also receives formal reappointment feedback from analysts and In accordance with the Articles institutional shareholders through of Association, all Directors are the Companys financial PR adviser required to retire and submit and financial advisers.
The Board is themselves for re-election at least appraised of discussions with major every three years by rotation and shareholders to ensure that Executive also following their appointment.
In and Non-Executive Directors consider addition, as in the prior year and in any matter raised by shareholders and accordance with the UK Corporate to enable all Directors to understand Governance Code, all of the Board shareholder views.
In addition, when members are offering themselves necessary, the Group consults with for re-election at the Annual shareholders in respect of proposals General Meeting unless retiring.
for the remuneration of Executive Directors.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Directors are appointed Non-Executive Director, Philip Dayer, is for a term of three years.
The terms available to shareholders if they have and conditions of appointment of concerns, which contact through the Non-Executive Directors are available normal channels of Chairman, Chief for inspection at the Companys Executive or Chief Financial Officer registered office during normal has failed to resolve or if such contact business hours and will be available would be inappropriate.
The Chairman, for inspection on the day of the Senior Independent and Non-Executive forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Directors are available for dialogue with shareholders at any time and attend Dialogue with institutional together with the other members shareholders of the Board the Annual General Communication with shareholders Meeting, but are not routinely involved is given high priority by the Board.
in investor relations or shareholder The Chief Executive, Chief Financial communications.
Corporate Officer and Head of Investor Relations information is also available on the have meetings with representatives Companys website, www.
of institutional shareholders and hold analyst briefings at least twice Constructive use of the Annual a year, following the announcement General Meeting of the interim and full year results, The Board seeks to use the Annual but also at other times during the General Meeting to communicate year as necessary.
Senior managers with investors and all shareholders from Product Development, Business are encouraged to participate.
The Strategy and Finance also attended Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration analyst and shareholder meetings and the Nominations Committees during the year.
In January 2017, the will be available at the Annual General Executive Directors and key members Meeting to answer any questions.
of the Executive Committee hosted shareholders and sell-side analysts at a capital markets afternoon.
The session Philip Aiken was an opportunity for the Group to Chairman provide more detail as to the business 23 May 2017 strategy and key areas of focus.
All of these meetings seek to build a mutual understanding of objectives with major shareholders by discussing long-term strategy and obtaining feedback.
