48 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS' REPORT: GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTABILITY AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee has played a key role in ensuring appropriate challenge and governance around accounting treatment, risk management and control and assurance process.
"ANDY HALFORD CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE INTRODUCTION As Chairman of the Audit Committee the Committee has assessed during the year understanding the progress being made the ""Committee"", I am pleased to present and will off er the Committee's view of the towards the strategic plan."
They also the Committees report for the year ended Annual Report as a whole, including the provide the Committee members with 1 April 2017. methodology behind its assessment of the an opportunity to share their own extensive narrative reporting as an accurate re ection experience with the presenters, utilising Through this report I aim to share some of the financial statements.
their independent perspective to add of the Committee's discussions from the value through robust challenge, discussion boardroom, off ering insight into its essential The report also shares some of the and debate.
role in protecting the interests of our executive updates that were presented to shareholders through ensuring the integrity the Committee by diff erent areas of the The report will also update you on our of the Company's published financial business during the year.
These updates are assessment of the eff ectiveness of our information and the eff ectiveness of the essential in telling us how diff erent risks are statutory auditor, Deloitte, and explain Internal Audit process.
Our report will managed and mitigated throughout the our policy relating to any non-audit work provide an overview of the signi cant issues business, and assists the Committee in it was engaged to complete and the fees it received for doing so.
EFFECTIVENESS OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The expertise of the Committee members Discussed and reviewed adjusted items also meets privately, without management is considered as part of the annual review of that may impact business performance.
Additionally, the Committee's eff ectiveness.
The Board separate private sessions attended by the Reviewed the mitigating controls over is satis ed that the Committee possesses lead audit partner from Deloitte and the the Groups principal risks and assessed relevant sectoral competence and Head of Internal Audit & Risk are held after the level of assurance provided.
appropriate levels of independence, and each meeting.
As Committee Chair, I also that its members off er a depth of financial Continued to support assurance regularly meet on a one-to-one basis with and commercial experience across various mapping across the Group, with the Chief Finance Offi cer, Director of Group industries.
It is further satis ed that Andy particular focus on strategic priorities.
Finance, Head of Internal Audit & Risk and Halford possesses recent and relevant other members of senior management.
Continued to monitor and respond to financial experience and the requisite I also meet with the lead audit partner the changing regulatory environment, competence in accounting.
in advance of Committee meetings.
particularly in respect of implementation Scheduling meetings in this way enables Audit Committee activities during 2016 17: of the EU Audit Regulation and Directive.
me to better understand any key issues Maintained focus on the audit, assurance Members of senior management are and areas of concern, and allows suffi cient and risk processes within the business, invited to attend Committee meetings time to facilitate meaningful discussion as well as oversight of financial and other as and when their specialist technical during the subsequent meeting.
The Committee Reviewed the Groups systems of internal MEMBER ATTENDANCE MEMBER NUMBER OF MAXIMUM % OF MEETINGS control and risk management, and any SINCE MEETINGS POSSIBLE ATTENDED ATTENDED MEETINGS changes in accounting policies and impact on its financial statements.
Provided oversight of particular business Andy Halford 1 Jan 2013 5 5 100% risks, including those relating to ethical sourcing and animal welfare.
Alison Brittain 11 Mar 2014 5 5 100% Provided increased oversight of the risks 1 Miranda Curtis 4 Mar 2015 4 5 80% and controls pertaining to cyber security.
Monitored the financial reporting Andrew Fisher 3 Feb 2016 5 5 100% process, the statutory audit of the Groups financial statements and the 1.
Miranda Curtis was unable to attend the meeting on 23 January 2017 due to illness.
independence of the statutory auditor.
Note: Detailed information on the experience, skills and quali cations of all directors is available on pages 36 and 37.
49 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 EFFECTIVENESS OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED INDEPENDENT REVIEW AND The Committee made good progress on Continue to oversee the Company-wide COMMITTEE ACTION PLAN the 2016 17 action plan by reviewing risk and assurance mapping.
controls over and assessing the levels The Committee's performance was Continue to monitor oversight of data of assurance provided in respect of the reviewed externally this year by F on Hague.
governance and information security Groups principal risks, supporting risk Feedback was positive, particularly relating risk ahead of the implementation of assurance mapping across the Group, to the open debate encouraged during the General Data Protection Regulation increasing its oversight of cyber security meetings.
It is regarded as thorough and in May 2018. risks and monitoring regulatory change.
eff ective, and provides the Board with a high Oversee the re nement of the internal level of assurance that audit matters are The action plan for 2017 18: control environment.
Areas in which it Review the eff ectiveness of Internal was felt improvements could be achieved Audit in line with the Chartered Institute were discussed by the Committee for of Internal Audit requirements and inclusion in its 2017 18 action plan.
AUDIT COMMITTEE UPDATES The Committee receives detailed updates including the reports of the third party BUSINESS CONTINUITY from one or more business areas at each facilitated store inspection plan.
Updated on the continued strengthening meeting.
These updates are planned on a of crisis management and business Noted the reductions in reported accidents rolling 12-month basis.
Additional matters recovery capability across all retail and in UK-owned stores as a result of work identi ed by Internal Audit as requiring the distribution operations.
undertaken with our Primary Authority Committees attention are included in Partner, Birmingham City Council.
Discussed national preparedness in the the agendas of subsequent meetings.
An context of the UK's current threat level, overview of some of the updates presented ETHICAL SOURCING AND crisis simulation exercises undertaken during 2016 17 is provided below: MODERN SLAVERY in collaboration with industry peers, Updated on the controls in place to and the development of new training MANAGEMENT OF INTERNAL ensure an uncompromising approach tools for Duty Managers aimed at CONTROL FAILURES to maintaining M&S's ethical standards raising levels of preparedness.
The Audit Committee receives updates on in an increasingly competitive internal control matters at each meeting.
Updated on preparedness and the international sourcing environment.
This regular monitoring of the internal crisis management processes in place control framework allows timely Discussed how risks are mitigated through internationally, region-speci c threat identi cation of issues and formal tracking supplier selection, appraisal criteria assessments and crisis simulations, and of remediation plans.
Instances where the and regional improvement programmes procedures relating to business travel eff ectiveness of internal controls was supported by a strict Internal Audit to areas deemed to be high risk.
considered insuffi cient were discussed and monitoring approach.
Updated on the disaster recovery plans during the year, either by the Audit Updated on the approach to supplier for the distribution centre at Castle Committee or the full Board.
These inspections and the diff erent processes Donington, improvements in resilience have included controls over market adopted in Food and Clothing & Home, capability and key milestones achieved.
updates, third party oversight and IT asset noting the regular ethical audits management.
As part of the annual review Discussed the priorities for 2017 18, undertaken by an accredited third of internal control, the Audit Committee including supply chain resilience in party on all factories used by M&S.
again considered these matters, ensuring international logistics, International that the agreed actions were being Updated on the ways in which the retail and sourcing, as well as global implemented to support a programme business proactively supports the terrorism and cyber security.
of maintaining and improving internal human rights of colleagues across all control.
Following its review, the business operations, including FOOD SAFETY AND INTEGRITY Committee recommended to the Board compliance with the Modern Slavery Updated on the governance and control that, although the matters identi ed were Act and the steps taken to prevent processes in respect of food safety, the important, they had been addressed at modern slavery throughout the assessment of operational risks in key the time of its review, with suitable controls business and its supply chain.
areas and the regular reviews of the now in place.
risk model conducted in response to GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE internal and external issues.
FIRE, HEALTH AND SAFETY FHS Updated on the revisions to the auditor Discussed food safety and the processes Updated on performance across all engagement policy, implemented in place for resolution of complaints.
aspects of trading safely and legally following the introduction of the and the progress made in driving EU Audit Regulation and Directive.
Updated on the internal and external compliance standards.
in uences on risk mitigation strategy, Discussed and reviewed the Board's covering supply base, raw material Discussed the safety of sales oor approach in undertaking its assessment sourcing, product targeting and equipment, ttings and installations, of the long-term viability of the business.
including progress made and the Updated on the annual circulation of key actions put in place.
Discussed the food safety and integrity the M&S Code of Ethics and Behaviours, risk pro le and the greater focus placed Updated on continuing improvements including ongoing monitoring of on supply base within the audit programme.
to International governance and compliance, and noting plans for a full compliance processes in respect of FHS, review of the Code during 2017 18.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 50 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS' REPORT: GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED SIGNIFICANT ISSUES The Audit Committee has assessed PRESENTATION OF THE the number and value of these items whether suitable accounting policies FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 437.4m charge and the recent guidelines have been adopted and whether on the use of alternative performance The Committee gave consideration to the management has made appropriate measures issued by the European Securities presentation of the financial statements judgements and estimates.
and in particular the use of alternative performance measures and the presentation Throughout the year, the Finance team has In addition, the prior year was a 53-week of adjusted items in accordance with the worked closely with Deloitte to ensure that statutory reporting period so consideration Group accounting policy.
This policy states the business is transparent and provides had been given to the balance of 52-week that adjustments are only made to reported the required level of disclosure regarding and 53-week metrics for the prior year pro t before tax where income and charges signi cant issues considered by the reported throughout the Annual Report.
are signi cant in value and or nature.
Committee in relation to the financial The 52-week measures have been quoted The Committee received detailed reports statements, as well as how these issues where relevant to ensure meaningful from management outlining the were addressed, while being mindful of comparison with this years 52-week period.
judgements applied in relation to the matters that may be business-sensitive.
Following detailed review and active disclosure of adjusted items.
In the current discussion with management, the This section outlines the main areas of year, management has included in this Committee has concluded that the judgement that have been considered by category: the reduction in M&S Bank income presentation of the financial statements the Committee to ensure that appropriate for the impact of the M&S Bank provision is appropriate.
All accounting for financial product mis-selling: signi cant See note 5 on p103 policies can be found in note 1 to the charges arising in relation to changes to pay financial statements.
Where further and pensions: net costs associated with the IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL, BRANDS, information is provided in the notes to implementation of strategic programmes in TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS the financial statements, we have included relation to UK organisation, UK logistics, UK the note reference.
The Committee has considered the store estate and the closure of International assessments made in relation to the owned businesses: impairments of the Each of the areas of judgement to the right impairment of goodwill, brands, tangible carrying value of UK and International stores has been identi ed as an area of focus and intangible xed assets, including land including associated onerous leases : and and therefore the Committee has also and buildings, store assets and software legal settlements.
This was an area of focus received detailed reporting from Deloitte.
The Committee received detailed for the Committee in the current year due to FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE At the request of the Board, the Committee The Committee was provided with a list of Is the Annual Report properly has considered whether, in its opinion, the key messages included in the Annual a document for shareholders?
the 2017 Annual Report and Financial Report, highlighting which were positive Are the statutory and adjusted Statements are fair, balanced and and which were re ective of the challenges measures explained clearly with understandable, and whether they provide from the year.
A supporting document was appropriate prominence?
the information necessary for shareholders also provided, speci cally addressing the to assess the Groups position and following listed points, highlighting where Are the key judgements referred to in the performance, business model and strategy.
these could be evidenced within the report.
narrative reporting and the signi cant issues reported in this Audit Committee The structure of the report continues When forming its opinion, the Committee Report consistent with the disclosures to focus strongly on the key strategic re ected on the information it had received of key estimation uncertainties and messages in the Strategic Report.
It was and its discussions throughout the year.
critical judgements set out in the therefore important for the Committee In particular, the Committee considered: financial statements?
to ensure that this emphasis did not dilute the overall transparency in the disclosures IS THE REPORT FAIR?
How do the signi cant issues identi ed made throughout the report, which we compare with the risks that Deloitte Is the whole story presented and has know our stakeholders nd useful, and that plans to include in its report?
any sensitive material been omitted the messages presented by the business that should have been included?
are both clear and re ective of the IS THE REPORT UNDERSTANDABLE?
Is the reporting on the business Company as a whole.
Is there a clear and understandable performance in the narrative reporting framework to the report?
A broad outline of the structure of the consistent with those used for the Annual Report was given to the Committee financial reporting in the financial Are the important messages highlighted early in the planning process, along with a statements?
similarly broad indication of its content.
Are the key messages in the narrative Is the layout clear with good linkage The Committee received a full draft of re ected in the financial reporting?
throughout in a manner that re ects the report two weeks prior to the meeting the whole story?
at which it would be requested to provide Are the KPIs disclosed at an appropriate its final opinion.
Feedback was provided by level based on the financial reporting?
CONCLUSION the Committee in advance of that meeting, highlighting the areas it was felt would Following its review, the Committee IS THE REPORT BALANCED?
The draft was of the opinion that the 2017 Annual Is there a good level of consistency report was then amended to incorporate Report and Financial Statements are between the narrative reporting in this feedback prior to being tabled at the representative of the year and present the front and the financial reporting in May Audit Committee meeting for final a fair, balanced and understandable the back of the report, and does the comment and approval.
overview, providing the necessary messaging presented within each information for shareholders to assess remain consistent when one is read the Groups position, performance, independently of the other?
51 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONTINUED reports from management outlining the RETIREMENT BENEFITS correct period.
The Committee is satis ed treatment of impairments, valuation with managements conclusion that there The Committee has reviewed the actuarial methodology, the basis for key assumptions is minimal risk of material misstatement.
assumptions such as discount rate, in ation discount rate and long-term growth rate Enhanced disclosure has been made again rate, expected return of scheme assets and and the key drivers of the cash ow forecasts.
in the current year through publication of mortality which determine the pension cost The Committee has challenged management the accounting policy and disclosing the and the UK fide ned bene t scheme valuation, and is satis ed that these are appropriate.
eff ects of supplier income on certain and has concluded that they are appropriate.
The Committee has also understood the balance sheet accounts.
The assumptions have been disclosed in the sensitivity analysis used by management financial statements.
CLOSURE COSTS FOR INTERNATIONAL in its review of impairments.
In addition, See note 11 on p108-111 OPERATIONS NEW DISCLOSURE the business plans detailing managements expectations of future performance of The Committee has considered the REVENUE RECOGNITION IN the businesses are Board approved.
The assessments made in relation to the estimation RELATION TO REFUNDS, GIFT CARDS Committee is satis ed that appropriate of closure costs and associated provisions AND LOYALTY SCHEMES impairment of tangible and intangible for the exit from certain International owned Revenue accruals for sales returns and deferred assets has been recognised.
The Committee received detailed income in relation to loyalty scheme reports from management outlining the See notes 5, 14 & 15 on p103-104 & 114-116 redemptions and gift card and credit voucher accounting treatment of the costs, the redemptions are estimated based on historical INVENTORY VALUATION AND basis for the key assumptions used in the returns and redemptions.
The Committee estimation of the costs most notably PROVISIONING has considered the basis of these accruals, in relation to property exit costs and Inventory provisions include obsolete along with analysis of historical returns and redundancy and the assessment of stock, net realisable value below cost and redemption rates and has agreed with the assets to be impaired.
The Committee has stock loss provisions.
The Committee has judgements reached by management.
challenged management and is satis ed examined management papers outlining the that these are appropriate.
The Committee judgements made regarding provisioning SUPPLIER INCOME is satis ed that appropriate costs and for inventory balances and is satis ed that This continues to be monitored closely by associated provisions have been a suffi ciently robust process was followed management and robust controls are in place recognised.
to con rm quantities of inventory and that to ensure appropriate recognition in the net realisable value of inventory exceeds See notes 1, 5, 15 and 22 on p96, 103, 115 and 124 its cost at year end.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR TENURE independent audit process and examines completed management questionnaires any audit adjustments proposed by the sections 1 and 2 above to assist with its Deloitte was appointed by shareholders external auditor with appropriate rigour.
as the Groups statutory auditor in 2014 following a formal tender process.
The This framework provides a robust process WHAT WAS THE OUTCOME?
lead audit partner, Ian Waller, has held for monitoring auditor eff ectiveness and the position for three years.
The external Feedback from each of the target groups can be measured against the findings of audit contract will be put out to tender was positive overall, particularly in respect future external auditor eff ectiveness at least every ten years.
of the technical insight and challenge surveys.
The approach to the assessment The Committee recommends that Deloitte provided by the audit team: its level of is tailored to enable senior management to be reappointed as the Companys statutory interaction with the business: its strong answer detailed questions on the Companyauditor for the 2017 18 financial year.
We understanding of M&Ss culture and values: wide audit process, and provide the believe the independence and objectivity of and the valuable guidance provided for the Audit Committee with suffi cient detail to the external auditor and the eff ectiveness Companys strategic initiatives.
It was felt establish an informed view on the overall of the audit process are safeguarded and that areas identi ed during the 2015 16 effi ciency, integrity and eff ectiveness remain strong.
The Company has complied review had improved during the year, of the external audit.
with the Statutory Audit Services Order for speci cally the communication between Questionnaires were tailored to the the financial year under review.
the business and Deloitte during the audit following target groups: process: however, it was felt that further EFFECTIVENESS improvements could still be achieved.
Chief Finance Offi cer and Director of Group Finance: A full questionnaire The eff ectiveness of our external auditor Areas for development identi ed in this is assessed in accordance with a process was completed, covering all areas of the year's review were encouraging a more audit process, while taking account of the agreed by the Audit Committee, which is joined-up approach during the audit and questionnaires completed by the Directors divided into ten structured components ensuring the timely provision of accurate of Finance for Food and Clothing & Home setting out the key areas of the audit information by M&S to the auditor.
process for the Committee to consider.
and Head of Finance, International.
Additionally, it was felt that further work by both M&S and Deloitte would improve the 2.
Directors of Finance: Food, Clothing This framework also recognises the effi ciency of the overseas audit process.
& Home and Head of Finance, contribution of management in being fully International: Shorter questionnaire, engaged with, and thereby enhancing the eff ectiveness of, the external audit process.
focusing on the audit team, planning, challenge and interaction with the business.
It enables the Audit Committee to form a view of management's role in an eff ective 3.
Audit Committee: A high-level set of audit process by considering whether questions with speci c focus on the it believes in a culture of right first time, planning, execution, value, communication produces high quality papers, ensures and challenge of the audit and audit partner.
robust internal systems and controls are The Committee had access to copies of the maintained, respects and values the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 52 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS' REPORT: GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED EXTERNAL AUDITOR CONTINUED NON-AUDIT FEES management exercises.
The fees for RL The Committee is satis ed that the were 32k.
Since the bulk of the fees were Company was compliant during the year A robust auditor engagement policy is incurred prior to RLs acquisition by Deloitte, with both the updated UK Corporate in place and adhered to.
It is reviewed it was decided to complete the project as Governance Code and the FRC's Ethical annually and was updated during the year planned and that alternative providers and Auditing Standards in respect of the to account for the tighter restrictions would be reviewed for future engagements.
scope and maximum permitted level of on work permitted to be undertaken The majority of the 0.3m in non-audit fees fees incurred for non-audit services by the statutory auditor introduced by paid in total to Deloitte during 2016 17 were provided by Deloitte.
Where non-audit the Financial Reporting Council's FRC incurred for assurance services it provided work is performed by Deloitte, both the Revised Ethical Standard 2016.
The policy during the year.
These comprised fees in Company and Deloitte ensure adherence is disclosed on marksandspencer.
com respect of the Half Year review, turnover to robust processes to prevent the thecompany.
The business is committed certi cates, the annual Euro Medium Term objectivity and independence of the to maintaining non-audit fees at a low level.
Note EMTN programme renewal, reviews auditor from being compromised.
The non-audit fees to audit fees ratio for of quarterly trading statements, crisis the financial year ended 1 April 2017 was All non-audit work performed by Deloitte management reviews and overseas 0.16:1, compared with the previous years was put to the Audit Committee for engagements.
It is normal practice for such ratio of 0.17:1.
During the year, the Company consideration and approval, regardless assurance services to be provided by the was noti ed that Deloitte had acquired crisis of size.
Further details on non-audit Companys statutory auditor.
No additional management specialists Regester Larkin services provided by Deloitte can be recurring or one-off non-audit services RL, which the Company has engaged, found in note 4 on page 102. were provided during the year.
prior to acquisition, to develop crisis ASSURANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL ENVIRONMENT The Board assumes ultimate responsibility of appropriate corrective measures, with Governance Code relating to internal for the eff ective management of risk across results reported to the Committee.
controls and the FRCs revised Guidance on the Group, determining its risk appetite as Audit Committees and Guidance on Risk 2. Business presentations Focusing primarily well as ensuring that each business area Management, Internal Control and Related on the key risks identi ed in the Group Risk implements appropriate internal controls.
No Pro le, management continues to provide The Groups risk management systems are signi cant failings or weaknesses were updates to the Committee on how these designed to manage rather than eliminate identi ed during the Committees review are managed in individual business areas.
the risk of failure to achieve business in respect of the year ended 1 April 2017 These are complemented by independent objectives, and can only provide reasonable and up to the date of this Annual Report.
reviews conducted by Internal Audit.
and not absolute assurance against material Where the Committee identi ed areas misstatement or loss.
Other control agencies Responsible requiring improvement, processes are in for maintaining control over critical areas See p32-33 of the Strategic Report for place to ensure that the necessary action of risk, the processes and controls of these more information on our material risks is taken and that progress is monitored.
agencies are tested by Internal Audit & Risk See p30 for further information on our during relevant audits.
An overview of these Further details of these processes can risk management processes agencies and the manner in which they be found within our detailed Corporate The key features of the Groups internal provide assurance to the Committee is Governance Statement which is available to control and risk management systems indicated in the table below.
view in the Corporate Governance section that ensure the accuracy and reliability of of marksandspencer.
The Group was compliant throughout the financial reporting include clearly fide ned year with the provisions of the UK Corporate lines of accountability and delegation ANDY HALFORD AUDIT COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN of authority, policies and procedures that cover financial planning and reporting, preparing consolidated accounts, capital INTERNAL ASSURANCE FRAMEWORK expenditure, project governance and information security, and the Groups Source of information Frequency nature of reporting Code of Ethics and Behaviours.
Committees Fire, Health & Safety Committee Direct reporting lines to the Committee, with The Board has delegated responsibility for Plan A Committee annual updates from reviewing the eff ectiveness of the Groups Business Continuity Committee the relevant executive systems of internal control to the Audit Committee.
This covers all material controls Business Papers produced on the Formal updates areas including financial, operational and following subjects: presented to the Committee annually compliance controls and risk management Information Security systems.
The Committee is supported by Whistleblowing & Fraud a number of sources of internal assurance Bribery AUDIT from within the Group in order to complete COMMITTEE Code of Ethics and Behaviours these reviews, in particular: GSCOP Grocery Supplier Code of Practice 1.
Internal Audit The Groups primary source of internal assurance remains delivery of the Other Internal Audit testing Updates provided Internal Audit Plan, which is structured to align control as appropriate in relation to: to the Committee with the Groups strategic priorities and key agencies as requested Food Safety & Integrity risks and is developed by Internal Audit with or appropriate Ethical Audits input from management.
Recommendations Trading Safely & Legally from Internal Audit are communicated to the relevant business area for implementation Note: also reports directly to the Board.
