40 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS' REPORT: GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS BOARD ACTIVITIES TOPIC ACTIVITIES DISCUSSION ACTIONS ARISING PROGRESS Discussed strategic Agree a new three-year plan focused on recovery Three-year strategic plan agreed.
Strategy priorities across and growth in Clothing & Home and growth in Food.
Detailed implementation plans established and Food and Clothing Focus on simplifying organisational structure robust processes in place to manage and monitor & Home.
Deliver signi cantly greater focus on customers Key risks and opportunities identi ed.
and drive improvements in our brand position.
Agreed the strategic Assess the optimisation of the Clothing & Home Agreed expedited plan for recon guration of Clothing plan for the UK network, based on practical and deliverable actions.
& Home space to be achieved over the next five years.
Deliver improved sales and pro tability through Agreed necessary actions and costs associated enhancing the quality of our UK estate.
with delivery of the proposed strategy.
Continue to drive Food store roll-out programme.
Roll-out of c. 250 new Simply Food stores by 2019 20.
Reviewed the Review performance and ownership structure of Decision taken to exit loss-making, wholly-owned Company's all International operations.
retail businesses in speci c regions, following International Retain our position as an international retailer and completion of a thorough consultation process operations and reaffi rm our clear commitment to continued growth with colleagues in the aff ected markets.
set strategy for in international markets.
Agreed the sale of three stores and head offi ce in the future.
Develop strategy to deliver a sustainable International Romania to an existing franchise partner.
business built on a portfolio of pro table markets.
Agreed restructure of current franchise model to increase competitiveness in our chosen markets.
Discussed the Groups Assess the medium-term capital and funding Discussed the balance sheet strategy, capital capital structure structure in light of the three-year plan.
effi ciency and leverage position of the Group.
and financial Review the Company's cash ow position, dividend Continued strong cash generation and diligent strategy, including cover and enhanced shareholder returns policy in management of costs.
capital investments, the context of the wider market and our agreed Maintained a strong balance sheet, investment shareholder capital allocation priorities.
grade credit rating and a progressive dividend returns and the Continue investing in the business for growth, policy broadly twice covered by earnings.
underpinned by strong investment disciplines.
Full year ordinary dividend of 18.7p, plus an additional special dividend of 4.6p paid in July 2016.
Shareholder returns programme put on hold during the year.
Reviewed our Challenge and develop our current technological Conducted a full review of the skills, capabilities, technological capabilities to enable further business growth.
systems and supplier landscapes needed capabilities and Deliver solutions that build on the strategic to deliver the strategy over the next few years.
debated future investments in technology already made, with Substantial progress made through initiatives requirements greater focus on user experience, simpli cation focusing on simpli cation, cost reduction and and areas for and use of more cost-eff ective technologies.
Discussed potential risks and mitigating actions.
Discussed the Consider the broader future of, and anticipated All major building projects now complete.
logistics strategy long-term changes to, logistics and distribution Proportion of product handled through single tier in Clothing & Home.
and how these might t with the M&S business logistics network increased.
Discussed the key initiatives included in the three-year Agree plan for the development of the logistics plan, including operating model, systems upgrades network and infrastructure over the next three years.
Identify opportunities to maximise the potential Robust challenge and discussion around the logistics of the Company's distribution centres, improving network review, including planning processes and the service and productivity.
key risks and assumptions made.
Discussed continued 107 total Plan A 2020 commitments.
Values progress and Review progress made in 2016 17 and set priorities 25 on plan, 11 behind plan.
Strategic priorities for 2017 18 identi ed.
Identi ed Ensure the Company has the optimal organisational Undertook a review of processes, activities, structures opportunities structure in place to support our business strategy and costs.
to improve our and drive growth.
Progress made in implementation of Smarter Working organisational culture workstream to optimise use of offi ce space.
Encouraged strong Actively support engagement opportunities.
Strengthened links between the business and its Shareholder engagement retail investors through the launch of our engagement with investors Shareholder Panel.
and other Largest shareholders invited to annual Governance stakeholders.
Event hosted by the Chairman.
Reviewed independent report, from Makinson Cowell, covering major investors' views on our management and performance.
Ensured shareholder Speci c issues raised by shareholders to be addressed Key topics raised by shareholders to be communicated feedback was reviewed in the Chairman's AGM statement.
together with an update on the Company's progress and considered in in these areas.
41 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 See Board Eff ectiveness on p42 TOPIC ACTIVITIES DISCUSSION ACTIONS ARISING PROGRESS Discussed the Review the Companys internal policies, procedures Internal systems and processes updated in line Governance evolving regulatory and controls in respect of market abuse, market with new requirements.
& risk environment and manipulation and insider dealing prior to Training on the new Market Abuse Regulation the internal implementation of the Market Abuse Regulation.
conducted at Board level and for employees across governance processes Assess controls over internal financial reporting the relevant business units.
underpinning processes to improve information ows.
Identi ed and implemented enhancements to controls programmes Review key projects on completion and evaluate and processes relating to internal financial reporting.
Undertook comprehensive post-implementation reviews of key projects.
Reviewed progress Conduct an externally facilitated Board evaluation.
Discussed the outcome of the Board evaluation against the 2016 17 Obtain and evaluate director feedback on the conducted by an external facilitator, F on Hague Board Action Plan.
processes, eff ectiveness and working of the of Independent Board Evaluation.
Agreed 2017 18 Action Plan with clear process for ongoing monitoring over the course of the year.
Half yearly review Assess the eff ectiveness of the Group risk process.
Agreed a robust set of Group-level risks and mitigating of Group Risk Pro le, Review completeness and ordering of the Group activities, which are regularly monitored.
covering core internal Risk Pro le, including key risk movements, and Debated key changes in risk severity and the relevant and external risks, consider appropriate mitigating activities.
contributing factors, rede ning as appropriate.
risks driven by Ongoing robust debate around risk tolerance Discussed the potential business impact of Brexit and business change and and risk appetite.
the possible actions to mitigate the associated risks.
Reviewed the Review and assess the strength of the Company's Undertook a comprehensive, externally facilitated Company's progress cyber security capabilities and potential risks in assessment of the Company's cyber security risks.
on data governance light of the perpetually changing nature of Key areas of risk identi ed and future priorities agreed.
Updated programme for driving responsible use of data throughout the business.
Reviewed progress Review customer perceptions of Sparks against Work underway to ensure the customer insights Customer of Sparks programme loyalty schemes off ered by peers.
gathered through Sparks are used to inform and discussed future Assess overall performance of the scheme and future business decisions that generate growth.
the extent to which it drives customer behaviour.
Plans in place to further develop and improve Determine the overall vision for the future of the the programme.
programme, including growth prospects and potential future applications.
Discussed brand and Evaluate insights from customer research and assess Key themes emerging from customer and employee customer proposition.
recommendations in respect of our brand positioning.
Continue to re ne our customer understanding.
Agreed actions to improve customer experience, with emphasis on our brand purpose of Making Every Moment Special.
Discussed succession, Review the Board's composition, diversity and Women comprised 30% of our Board as at close Leadership talent development succession plans.
& employees and diversity across Facilitate the smooth succession of the Chairman.
Robust succession process for the Chairman management.
Deliver eff ective and sustainable management completed.
of talent pipelines to ensure the right talent is in Undertook a comprehensive review of talent and the right place at the right time.
succession among senior management during the Continue to support and encourage the professional year, with clear development plans produced.
development of Board members and senior Progress made in adapting and simplifying processes management to provide them with the skills they for managing our talent pipelines.
need both today and for the future.
Ongoing development initiatives include the Korn Ferry Leadership Development Review, and Development Centres for high potential talent.
Discussed employee Promote stronger engagement between the Received a detailed update from the National Business engagement.
Board and colleagues across the business.
Involvement Group BIG, the Company's employee Evaluate the results of the annual Your Say survey representative body, on its activities during the year from colleagues across the business and identify and discussed its role in providing an independent areas for improvement.
Discussed colleague sentiment across the business, including key areas of concern and the employee perspective of M&S's future opportunities and risks.
Regular engagement with our people across the business.
Discussed employee Implement the agreed arrangements for pay and Decision taken to cease future accrual in the Companys reward and pensions.
pensions across the business following the full fide ned bene t pension scheme, following a period of review initiated during the previous financial year consultation with National BIG on behalf of employees.
and conclusion of the consultation period.
Determined the Companys future approach to pay with emphasis on fairness, consistency and sustainability, following a period of consultation with National BIG.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
