GOVERNANCE REPORT 41 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT During the financial year, the Details of Board changes of the Audit Committee with effect Nominations Committee comprised On 31 December 2016, after 33 years from 2 November 2016.
Additionally, in a majority of independent Nonwith the Group, 17 years of which as advance of the intent for Philip Dayer Executive Directors, chaired by Chief Executive, Richard Longdon not to stand for re-election at the 2017 Philip Aiken.
The Committee stepped down from his role as Chief AGM, Ron Mobed was appointed as has responsibility for Board and Executive and Executive Director of a Non-Executive Director on 1 March Committee composition, particularly the Company.
It was also decided that Jennifer in relation to the diversity of Allerton should assume the position background, skills and experience.
On 8 July 2016, James Kidd, previously of Remuneration Committee Chair.
In The Committee oversees the Chief Financial Officer since 2011, was relation to both of these appointments, nomination, selection and announced as being Richard Longdons the Company consulted with a number appointment of Non-Executive and successor as Chief Executive and was of search firms, and retained the Executive Directors and monitors appointed as deputy Chief Executive services of Spencer Stuart, to provide succession planning for the Board with effect from that date.
James suitable candidates for consideration and senior management roles.
assumed the role of Chief Executive by the Nominations Committee.
Short with effect from 1 January 2017. listed candidates were interviewed In 2016 17, the Committee met by the Chairman and other Nonthree times and the main areas that Additionally, on 8 July 2016, David Executive and Executive Directors.
it concentrated on were succession Ward was appointed Chief Financial planning, Board refreshment and Board Officer, having previously held the On appointment, all Directors are and senior management appointments.
position of Head of Finance since 2011. asked to confirm that they have sufficient time to devote to the role, Succession planning and In respect of these appointments which is confirmed together with Board refreshment as Executive Directors, the details of their duties in the letter of Effective succession planning is vital for Committee considered the two appointment.
All Directors undergo the long-term success of the Company.
internal candidates to be the most an induction as soon as practical There have been considerable changes suitable candidates, bearing in mind, following their appointment.
As part to the composition of the Board in particular, their knowledge of, of the induction process, Directors are during the financial year and the and service with, the Company.
provided with background information Committee has taken a lead role in the on the Group and attend the Groups process for the appointment of both The Chairman of the Nominations headquarters in Cambridge for Executive and Non-Executive Directors Committee and the remainder of the meetings and presentations from and senior management.
A key Board considered the independence of senior management.
In addition, requirement of the succession planning Philip Dayer now that he is in his third where appropriate, meetings are also and Board evaluation has been to term of office.
It was concluded that he arranged with the Groups advisers.
ensure a balance of skills, experience, remained independent and continued independence and knowledge that is to contribute to the operation of the Diversity policy appropriate to manage future growth Board.
Philip Dayer will not stand The Board considers that diversity, and strategic plans of the Company.
for re-election at the 2017 AGM.
including diversity of gender, is very important when reviewing the With the appointments during the Jonathan Brooks resigned composition of the Board and possible course of 2016 of our new Chief from the Board with effect new appointments.
That said, whilst Executive, our new Chief Financial from 8 November 2016. the Board notes the 2016 Hampton Officer and our two new NonAlexander report on FTSE women Executive Directors, the Committee In respect of the intended resignation leaders, it has not set targets on gender considers that, at the same time as of Jonathan Brooks in November balance.
The Board considers that promoting very able internal people 2016, Christopher Humphrey was the most important consideration is with vast Company knowledge, duly appointed as a Non-Executive to appoint people based on merit, the Company has also gained Director on 8 July 2016: this being as skills and relevant experience with experienced Board members who part of a transition process between a view to enhancing the balance will complement and add depth to the two Non-Executive Directors, and and effectiveness of the Board.
the skills and balance of the Board.
