36 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS' REPORT: GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS OUR BOARD The Board is responsible for the stewardship of the Company, overseeing its conduct and aff airs to create sustainable value for the bene t of its shareholders.
CHAIRMAN EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS N R Robert Swannell Steve Rowe Helen Weir Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne Chairman Chief Executive Chief Finance Offi cer Executive Director, Customer, Marketing & M&S.
com Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Chairman in January 2011, Chief Executive in April 2016 April 2015 July 2013 Non-Executive Director in October 2010 Skills, competence and experience: Skills, competence and experience: Skills, competence and experience: Skills, competence and experience: Robert is a chartered accountant Steve joined M&S in 1989 and Helen is a quali ed accountant, Patrick brings over 25 years of and a Barrister.
He has extensive progressed through a variety of roles with over 25 years experience in extensive experience in the government and regulatory within store management before the finance and retail sectors.
experience and possesses a wealth moving to Head Offi ce in 1993.
He has brings substantial strategic financial His valuable strategic insight is of knowledge of many diff erent worked in senior roles across various experience and a wealth of signi cant supported by his experience in business areas, banking and the areas of the business, including retail and consumer experience to developing and marketing brands City, acquired over a 33-year career Director of Home, Director of the Board.
Helen has strong listed globally and broad knowledge of in investment banking.
He has Retail, and Director of Retail and company experience having been enhancing business performance signi cant experience as a director Ecommerce.
He was appointed Group Finance Director, Executive and customer experience in and chairman across various sectors, to the Board as Executive Director, Director and Non-Executive Director a multi-channel environment.
and his leadership in the area of Food in 2012, moving to the role on the Board of a number of major Patrick played a key role in creating governance promotes robust debate of Executive Director, General companies.
Helen is a Fellow of the the new Masterbrand marketing and drives a culture of openness in Merchandise in July 2015.
He was Chartered Institute of Management strategy across Food and Clothing & the boardroom.
Robert will retire appointed as CEO on 2 April 2016.
Accountants and was awarded a CBE Home, and continues to lead the from the Board on 1 September 2017.
During his first year in the role he for services to Finance in 2008. digital transformation of M&S and has laid solid foundations for a more the global growth of M&S.
Other roles: Chairman of UK Other roles: Trustee of Marie Curie, relevant, customer-centric M&S, Patrick assumed overall responsibility Government Investments, Director Non-Executive Director of the including the repositioning of for Customer Experience, M&S.
com of the Investor Forum, Trustee of Rugby Football Union.
Clothing & Home and the continued and Plan A in May 2016.
Teach First, Advisory Board Member growth of Food.
More information of Sutton Trust and Spencer Stuart.
Other roles: Non-Executive Director about Steve's work during the year of Brown-Forman Inc. can be found in the Chief Executive's Strategic Update starting on page 8.
INCOMING CHAIRMAN King sher, Asda and Energis.
Archie is an experienced chairman and board director having served as Chairman of ITV, Lazard, and Hobbycraft and Deputy Chairman of Coles Limited.
In 2016 he was appointed by the Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy as its Lead NonKEY TO COMMITTEES FIND OUT MORE Executive Board member.
Further Archie Norman information about Archies skills, See p43 for Governance A Audit Chairman Designate experience and suitability for the and Board structures role of Chairman can be found under N Nomination Succession & Induction on page 39.
Proposed appointment date: See p40-41 for R Remuneration 1 September 2017 Archie brings Other roles: Adviser to the Board Board activities in 2016 17 a breadth of experience with an of Wesfarmers Limited, Director of Committee Chair extensive track record in retail Target Pty Limited, Chairman of and brands.
He was instrumental in See p43 for Board roles Lazard and Hobbycraft, Deputy Full biographical details of each transforming a number of major Chairman of Coles Limited, Lead Nonand responsibilities director are available on British businesses including Executive Board Member of BEIS.
com thecompany 37 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS RETIREMENTS IN 2016 17 R N A R N A N Vindi Banga Miranda Curtis Andy Halford Laura Wade-Gery Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Executive Director, Multi-channel Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Retired: Senior Independent Director in February 2012 January 2013 12 September 2016 March 2015, Non-Executive Director in September 2011 Skills, competence and experience: Skills, competence and experience: Skills, competence and experience: Laura stepped down from the Vindi has extensive consumer brand Mirandas substantial experience A chartered accountant, Andy has Board after five years of service knowledge and global business of the international consumer and a strong finance background and during which she was instrumental experience, acquired over 33 years technology sectors, and extensive signi cant recent and relevant in the improvement and in senior roles within the consumer knowledge of global industry, financial experience gained from CFO modernisation of our ecommerce goods industry.
His in-depth provides a valuable contribution positions in global listed companies.
knowledge of UK and international to the Board.
During her 20-year His extensive knowledge of the UK trade and industry provides valuable career with Liberty, Miranda led the and international consumer market insight into business and enterprise companys investments in digital provides the Board with valuable across the globe.
He has strong distribution and content operations strategic insight.
Andy is a member experience as a board member of across continental Europe and of the Business Forum on Tax and other listed companies and is the Asia-Paci c, most notably in Japan.
Competitiveness and a Fellow of the recipient of the Padma Bhushan, Miranda will retire from the Board on Institute of Chartered Accountants one of Indias highest civilian honours.
1 February 2018. in England and Wales.
Other roles: Partner at Clayton Other roles: Non-Executive Director Other roles: Chief Financial Offi cer Dubilier & Rice, Director of Kedaara of Liberty Global plc, Lead Nonof Standard Chartered plc.
Capital Investment Managers Ltd, Executive Director of the Foreign and Kedaara Capital I Ltd and Kedaara Commonwealth Offi ce, Trustee of the Holdings Ltd, Non-Executive Director Institute for Government, Deputy of Thomson Reuters and GSK, Chair of the Royal Shakespeare Chairman of the Mauser Group and Company, Deputy Chair of the CBIs Economic Growth Board, Garsington Opera, Chair of African member of the Governing Board of girls education charity, Camfed.
the Indian School of Business.
GROUP SECRETARY A N N R A N Alison Brittain Richard Solomons Andrew Fisher Amanda Mellor Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Group Secretary and Head of Corporate Governance Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: January 2014 April 2015 December 2015 July 2009 Skills, competence and experience: Skills, competence and experience: Skills, competence and experience: Alison brings extensive financial Richard brings strong commercial, Andrew has substantial experience and commercial experience to the financial, consumer, branding and of the international consumer and Board, combined with considerable global experience to the Board.
technology sectors and has led the knowledge of running large-scale His extensive international retail and successful growth of a number of consumer businesses.
She is Chief consumer experience, plus his role technology-focused enterprises Executive of hospitality group as CEO of a global business, provide over the past 19 years.
He is Executive Whitbread, and was Group Director valuable insight.
Richard has held Chairman of Shazam Entertainment of Lloyds Banking Groups Retail a number of senior roles at IHG and Limited, having previously served as Division until July 2015.
She has held is currently Chief Executive Offi cer, Chief Executive Offi cer since 2005. a number of senior positions in the a role from which he will retire on Prior to that, Andrew was European financial sector, particularly in retail, 1 July 2017.
Richard was integral in Managing Director of Infospace Inc and has valuable regulatory insight.
shaping and implementing IHG's now Blucora and founder and Alison has an MBA from Cambridge asset-light strategy, which has helped Managing Director of TDLI.
the business grow signi cantly since He was a member of the Advisory it was formed in 2003, as well as Board to the Secretary of State for Other roles: Chief Executive of supporting the return of $12.8bn the Review of the BBC Charter and Whitbread plc, Trustee of the to shareholders.
was awarded an OBE for services to Prince's Trust Council.
Other roles: Chief Executive Offi cer of IHG retiring 1 July 2017, Governor Other roles: Executive Chairman of the Aviation, Travel and Tourism of Shazam Entertainment Limited, Industry Community of the World Non-Executive Director of Economic Forum, Member of the MoneySupermarket.
Industry Real Estate Financing Advisory Council.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 38 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS' REPORT: GOVERNANCE OUR BOARD CONTINUED BOARD COMPOSITION, ROLES AND ATTENDANCE AS AT YEAR END MAX LINKED TO CHAIRMAN ATTENDED POSSIBLE INDEPENDENT RESPONSIBILITY IN 2016 17 REMUNERATION Robert Swannell 99 Board governance and performance, shareholder engagement EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Chief Executive Strategy and Group performance Steve Rowe 99 Chief Finance Offi cer Group Financial Performance, Property, Helen Weir 99 IT and Clothing & Home distribution Executive Director Customer, Marketing and M&S.
com Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne 99 Executive Director Laura was on maternity leave from September 2015 and was Laura Wade-Gery N A N A therefore not expected to attend Board meetings during this time.
She retired from the business in September 2016.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Independent non-executive directors assess, challenge and monitor the executive Vindi Banga 99 directors delivery of strategy within the risk and governance structure agreed by the Board.
As Board Committee members, they also review the integrity of the Alison Brittain 99 Company's financial information, recommend appropriate succession plans and monitor Board diversity.
Miranda Curtis 99 Andrew Fisher 99 Andy Halford 99 1 Richard Solomons 89 This table provides details of scheduled meetings held in the 2016 17 financial year.
Richard Solomons was unable to attend the meeting on 20 May due to personal commitments which had been booked prior to the meeting being rescheduled for this date.
See Board Activities on p40-41 INDEPENDENCE OF DIRECTORS BOARD MEETINGS The Board reviews the independence of The Board considers that all of the The Board held nine scheduled meetings its non-executive directors as part of its non-executive directors bring strong during the year, and individual attendance annual Board Eff ectiveness Review.
independent oversight and continue is set out above.
Suffi cient time is provided to demonstrate independence.
The Board at the start and end of each meeting for The Chairman is committed to ensuring recognises the recommended term within the Chairman to meet privately with the the Board comprises a majority of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Senior Independent Director and the independent non-executive directors It is mindful of the need for suitable non-executive directors to discuss any who objectively challenge management, succession, and therefore maintains matters arising.
balanced against the need to ensure a clear record of the time each noncontinuity on the Board.
executive has served the Company None of the non-executive directors and the skill set that each provides.
has served more than six full years See details and experience of each director on the Board.
on p36-37 BOARD DIVERSITY GENDER DIVERSITY 1 April 2017 as at year end GROUP BOARD EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE 70% 67% 71% Male Male Male 30% 33% 29% Female Female Female SECTOR EXPERIENCE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR TENURE 1-2 YEARS 28.57% 3-4 YEARS 28.57% 60% 60 0% 40% 40 0% 90% 90% 0 100% 100% 5-6 YEARS 42.86% FINANCE ECOMMERCE RETAIL CONSUMER & TECHNOLOGY INTERNATIONAL EXPERIENCE
