Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 57 Accountability Audit and Risk Committee Membership, relevant skills and experience The Committee continued to oversee the On 23 March 2017, the Group announced that both myself and Phil Yea would not seek re-election at the Companys annual general meeting Groups financial reporting, financial control and in July 2017 after more than ten years of service.
As a result, with effect risk management and compliance processes, from 28 July 2017, David Nish will be appointed Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and Maria Amparo Moraleda Martinez will become with areas of particular focus this year including a member of the Audit and Risk Committee.
the preparations for the future implementation The Committee was conscious of the need for a strong knowledge of IFRS 15 and IFRS 16, both of which will transfer process and efficient succession planning and as a result, have a significant impact on the Group, a David Nish was appointed as an additional Committee member on 1 January 2016, allowing him to take an active role in the number of accounting, reporting and valuation Committees activities in the year.
David was appointed after a rigorous judgements in relation to the agreements to process to ensure the Committee will continue to have the necessary financial experience, commercial expertise and capital markets skills form new joint ventures in the Netherlands required to meet its responsibilities and provide an effective level and India as well as deep dives into a range of of challenge to management.
Similarly, Amparo brings her international business experience, engineering background and IT and technology technology, commercial and market risks.
expertise to the role and will be a valuable addition to the Committee.
Full biographies of the Committee members are set out on pages 48 Chairman and and 49. financialexpert Nick Land All the members of the Committee are Non-Executive Directors of the Independent Non-Executive Director Company and given my experience, I continue to be designated as the financial expert on the Committee for the purposes of the US SarbanesMembers Sir Crispin Davis Oxley Act and the UK Corporate Governance Code for 2017.
David Nish Dame Clara Furse will assume this role upon my retirement.
David Nish Phil Yea In order to ensure that the Committee continues to have experience and knowledge relevant to the sector in which the Company operates, Key objectives: all of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company receive ongoing The provision of effective governance over the appropriateness training and development as detailed in the section on Board evaluation, of the Groups financial reporting, including the adequacy induction and training on pages 54 and 55.
In addition, every three years of related disclosures, the performance of both the internal the Board appoints an external organisation to perform an independent audit function and the external auditor and oversight over the review of the Committee to evaluate its performance.
The last Groups system of internal control including risk management and independent review was performed in March 2016 which concluded compliance activities.
that the Board members considered the Committee to be thorough and fully effective in meeting its objectives.
Responsibilities: How the Committee operates The Board has approved terms of reference for the Committee The Committee met six times during the year, five times under its which are available at vodafone.
These provided standard schedule of meetings plus an additional meeting in October the framework for the Committees work in the year and can 2016 to cover a specific external auditor independence matter be summarised into four primary sets of activities.
These are as detailed later in this report.
Two of the standard meetings are timed oversight of the: for September and March in each year so that the Committee can appropriateness of the Groups external financial reporting: assess in advance the issues likely to effect the Groups half-year and year end reporting.
The meetings in October and May conclude this relationship with, and performance of, the external auditor: work and play a key role in the approval of the Groups external financial Groups system of internal control, including risk management results.
The meeting in January has a focus on risk and compliance framework and the work of the internal audit function: and related matters.
Meetings of the Committee generally take place the day before a Board meeting to maximise the efficiency of interaction Groups system of compliance activities.
with the Board and I report to the Board, as a separate agenda item, The Committee met six times during the year and each meeting on the activity of the Committee and matters of particular relevance had full attendance.
The terms of reference of the Committee are to the Board in the conduct of its work, with the Board receiving copies available on vodafone.
The external auditor,  LLP, is invited to each meeting together with the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the Deputy Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controlling and Operations Director, the Group Audit Director, the Group Risk and Compliance Director, and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
The Committee also regularly meets separately with each of  LLP, the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Audit Director without others being present.
58 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Accountability Audit and Risk Committee continued The Committee received regular reports from management on the Financial reporting programmes for the adoption of IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts The Committees primary responsibility in relation to the with customers and IFRS 16 Leases, both of which are likely to have Groups financial reporting is to review, with both management and a substantial effect on the Groups accounting when adopted for the the external auditor, the appropriateness of the half-year and annual years ending 31 March 2019 and 2020 respectively.
Our disclosures financial statements concentrating on, amongst other matters: on pages 107 and 108 include further qualitative detail on the impact the quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices: of these two accounting standards.
The Committees work in relation to the oversight of these programmes is set out below.
material areas in which significant judgements have been applied or where significant issues have been discussed with the Regulators and our financial reporting external auditor: There has been no correspondence from regulators, including the FRCs Corporate Reporting Review team, in relation to our financial providing advice to the Board on the form and basis underlying the reporting during the 2017 financial year.
The Committee is committed long-term viability statement: to improving the effectiveness and clarity of the Groups corporate the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial reporting reporting and has continued to encourage management to consider, standards and relevant financial and governance reporting and adopt where appropriate, initiatives by regulatory bodies which requirements, including the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code would enhance our reporting, such as the FRC Lab projects on business and the European Securities and Marketing Association Guidelines model reporting and digital future data.
on Alternative Performance Measures: In addition, the Committee continued to support the Groups broader any correspondence from regulators in relation to our financial commitment to corporate transparency which this year saw the reporting: and publication of the Groups award-winning report into its Taxation and total economic contribution to public finances report.
Now in its fifth an assessment of whether the Annual Report, taken as a whole, year, the report remains the most comprehensive publication of its is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information kind in the telecommunications and technology sectors covering tax necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and strategy and detailed analysis of taxes paid around the world.
performance, business model and strategy.
This assessment forms the basis of the advice given to the Board to assist them in making the Significant judgements and issues statement required by the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
The significant areas of focus considered and actions taken by the Committee in relation to the 2017 Annual Report, which have been Accounting policies and practices extended to reflect the Groups change in presentation currency from The Committee received reports from management in relation to the sterling to the euro from 1 April 2016, are outlined below.
We discussed identification of critical accounting judgements and key sources these with the external auditor during the year and, where appropriate, of estimation uncertainty, significant accounting policies and proposed these have been addressed as areas of audit focus as outlined in the disclosure of these in the 2017 Annual Report.
Following discussions Audit Report on pages 91 to 98. with management and the external auditor, the Committee approved these critical accounting judgements, significant accounting policies and disclosures which are set out in note 1 Basis of preparation to the consolidated financial statements.
Significant judgements and issues Matter considered Action Revenue recognition The timing of revenue recognition, the recognition of revenue on  LLP shared its approach to the audit of a gross or net basis, the treatment of discounts, incentives and revenue in their detailed audit plan, which identified the primary commissions and the accounting for arrangements with multiple risks attaching to the audit of revenue to be a the controls over deliverables are complex areas of accounting.
See note 1 Basis of the underlying accuracy of billing systems and b presumed fraud preparation for further detail.
risk, and reported on the results of its audit work in this area to the Committee at both the half-year and year end.
In addition there is heightened risk in relation to the accounting for revenue as a result of the inherent complexity of newly introduced The Committee confirmed with management that the basis of systems and changing pricing models.
revenue accounting remained unchanged from prior years with  LLP.
As a result, the Committee was satisfiedwith the appropriateness of the revenue recognised in thefinancial statements.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 59 Significant judgements and issues Matter considered Action Taxation The Group is subject to a range of tax claims and related legal actions The Group Tax Director presented on both provisioning and across a number of jurisdictions where it operates.
The most material disclosure of tax contingencies and deferred tax asset recognition at claim continues to be from the Indian tax authorities in relation to our the November 2016 and May 2017 Committee meetings.
He also acquisition of Vodafone India Limited in 2007, further details of which provided an update on upcoming changes in the wider tax landscape are included in note 30 Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings.
that were potentially relevant to the Group.
 LLP also identified this as an area of higher audit effort and the Further, the Group has extensive accumulated tax losses as detailed Committee received reporting from it on these matters.
in note 6 Taxation, and a key management judgement is whether a deferred tax asset should be recognised in respect of these losses.
As The Committee challenged both management and at 31 March 2017, the Group had recognised a 23.5 billion deferred  LLP on the legal judgements underpinning tax asset primarily in respect of these tax losses.
both the provisioning and disclosure stance adopted in relation to material elements of tax contingent liabilities and the IFRS basis of, and operating assumptions underlying, the deferred tax assets recognised at the year end.
Consequently, the Committee was satisfied with the approach adopted in the financial statements by management for each matter.
Impairment testing This is an area of focus for the Committee given the materiality of the The Committee received detailed reporting from management and Groups goodwill balances 26.8 billion at 31 March 2017 and the challenged the appropriateness of the assumptions made, including: inherent subjectivity in impairment testing.
the consistent application of managements methodology: The judgements in relation to impairment testing continue to relate the achievability of the business plans: primarily to the assumptions underlying the calculation of the value in use of the Groups businesses, being the achievability of the longassumptions in relation to terminal growth in the businesses at the term business plans and the macroeconomic and related modelling end of the plan period: and assumptions underlying the valuation process.
As at 31 March 2017, discount rates.
these judgements were extended to include the assessment of the fair value of Vodafone India.
This remains an area of audit focus and  LLP provided detailed reporting on these matters to the Committee, During the year, a new entrant in India launched free trial services including sensitivity testing.
for an extended period and commercial price plans at a significant discount to prevailing market pricing, resulting in competitive As a result, the Committee was satisfied with both the appropriateness responses from other operators.
This created a high degree of of the analysis performed by management and the impairment uncertainty over a range of commercial planning assumptions related disclosures set out in note 4 to the financial statements.
including future pricing, profitability and market structure, resulting in a wide range of potential outcomes which the Committee had to consider in assessing managements view of future business performance and cash flows for impairment valuation purposes at both 30 September 2016 and 31 March 2017.
A net of tax impairment charge of 3.7 billion was recorded in respect of the Groups investment in Vodafone India for the year ended 31 March 2017.
See note 4 Impairment losses for detail.
Liability provisioning The Group is subject to a range of claims and legal actions from a The Committee received a presentation from the Groups General number of sources, including competitors, regulators, customers, Counsel and Company Secretary and the Director of Litigation in both suppliers and, on occasion, fellow shareholders in Group subsidiaries.
November 2016 and May 2017 on managements assessment of the most significant claims.
The level of provisioning for contingent and other liabilities is an issue where legal and management judgements are important and As this is an area of audit focus,  LLP also accordingly an area of Committee focus.
See note 30 Contingent reviews these claims and relevant legal advice received by the Group, liabilities and legal proceedings for further detail.
to form a view on the appropriateness of the level of provisioning that is shared with the Committee.
The Committee challenged both management and  LLP on the level of provisioning for legal claims and was satisfied that the amounts recorded appropriately reflected the risk of loss.
60 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Accountability Audit and Risk Committee continued Significant judgements and issues Matter considered Action Significant one-off transactions The Committee reviewed the accounting and reporting implications of Management outlined the key accounting and disclosure impacts in the merger of Vodafones and Liberty Globals operating businesses in relation to these transactions.
the Netherlands and the agreement to combine Vodafone India with The Committee also received detailed reporting from Idea Cellular into a new joint venture.
The latter resulted in Vodafone  LLP on their assessment of the accounting India being accounted for as a discontinued operation at 31 March and disclosures made by management in the financial statements.
See note 7 Discontinued operations and assets held for resale and note 28 Acquisitions and disposals for further detail.
After having reviewed these reports and the financial statements, the Committee concluded that it was satisfied with the accounting and disclosures made in the Annual Report.
Key business controls The Group has continued to devote considerable resources to the The Committee reviewed the work performed by management in development of key business and related IT controls to ensure a relation to the implementation and maintenance of these controls, robust system of internal control.
including the degree to which they operated effectively throughout the year and at the year end.
This was supplemented by the results of Following the prior year implementation of a suite of standard related reviews performed by Internal Audit.
controls over the Groups core financial processes, there have been nosignificant changes to the Groups key business controls.
The audit scope of  LLP included certain of these key business and IT controls and they reported to the Committee the results of their audit testing in these areas.
Further detail is provided in the  LLP audit report on pages 91 to 98.
As a result, the Committee was satisfied with the basis of managements report on internal control over financial reporting as required by section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act and with managements ongoing focus on enhancements to the internal control environment.
Change in presentation currency Following the change in the Companys functional currency and Management outlined the key accounting and disclosure impacts in the Groups presentation currency from sterling to the euro with relation to the changes in both the Companys functional currency effect from 1 April 2016, the Group has performed a full historic and the Groups presentation currency.
retranslation of the Groups results.
See note 1 Basis of preparation The Committee also received detailed reporting from for further detail.
 LLP, at both the half-year and the year end, on their assessment of the accounting and disclosures made by management in respect of the change in functional and presentational currency.
After having reviewed these reports and the disclosures in the financial statements, the Committee concluded that it was satisfied with the accounting and disclosure for each of these matters.
Other matters Brexit The Committee also undertook a range of further activities in relation The Committee discussed a number of issues arising from the UKs vote to the Groups accounting and external reporting in the year: to leave the European Union in June 2016, including consideration of the impact on our principal risks, as set out on pages 28 to 34, Adoption of recent accounting developments and the consideration of potential tax impacts in conjunction with the The Committee received regular reporting from management Groups tax risk mitigation strategy, further details of which are included on the Groups ongoing implementation of IFRS 15 Revenue from in Note 6 Taxation.
contracts with customers, which will be adopted in the financial year ending 31 March 2019, focusing on the key decision points relating Fair, balanced and understandable to the choice of IT system, systems integration, the methodology As part of the Committees assessment of whether the Annual in which the standard would be adopted and programme resourcing.
Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and The implementation programme continued to progress satisfactorily provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the during the year, with the accounting systems build being finalised and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy, tested and new business and IT controls being designed and rolled out.
it draws on the work of the Groups Disclosure Committee and has Markets are expected to go-live across the Group in a phased approach discussions with senior management.
Similar reporting was given to the Committee in relation to the Groups implementation of IFRS 16 Leases, which will be adopted in the financial year ending 31 March 2020.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 61 The processes and controls that underpin our consideration include Auditor appointment ensuring that:  LLP were appointed as the Groups external auditor in July 2014 following an audit tender and, whilst the all contributors are fully briefed on the fair, balanced and Group has no current retendering plans, in accordance with the understandable requirement: UK implementation of the EU Audit Regulation and Directive or the a dedicated and experienced core team is responsible for the Competition & Markets Authority Order on the Statutory Audit coordination of content submissions, verification, detailed review Market, the Group will be required to put the external audit contract and challenge: out to tender by 2024.
In addition,  LLP will be required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group senior management confirms that the content in respect audit every five years and, as a result, the current lead audit partner, of their areas of responsibility is considered to be fair, balanced AndrewKemp, who was appointed in July 2014, will be required to and understandable: step down following the completion of the 2019 audit.
the Disclosure Committee reviews and assesses the Annual Report The Committee continues to review the auditor appointment and the as a whole: and need to tender the audit, ensuring the Groups compliance with the the Committee receives an early draft of the Annual Report to enable 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code and the reforms of the audit timely review and comment.
market by the UK Competition and Markets Authority.
Accordingly, the Company confirms that it complied with the provisions of the This year, following guidance issued by the European Securities Competition and Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year under and Markets Authority, the Committees assessment was extended review.
For the financial year ending 31 March 2018, the Committee to cover the use and disclosure of alternative performance measures has recommended to the Board that  or non-GAAP measures to ensure that they were clearly explained, LLP be reappointed under the current external audit contract defined and labelled, disclosed separately from reported GAAP metrics, and the Directors will be proposing the reappointment not given undue prominence compared to reported IFRS measures of  LLP at the annual general meeting and were reconciled to the nearest GAAP financial metric.
In addition, in July 2017. the Committee also considered the financial reporting responsibilities Audit risk of the Directors under section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 At the start of the audit cycle for the 2017 financial year we received to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its members from  LLP a detailed audit plan identifying as a whole as well as meeting the needs of wider society.
their audit scope, planning materiality and their assessment of key risks.
These processes allowed us to provide positive assurance to the The audit risk identification process is considered a key factor in the Board to assist them in making the statement required by the 2014 overall effectiveness of the external audit process.
For the 2017 financial UK Corporate Governance Code.
year, the key risks identified were as follows: Long-term viability statement Taxation matters, including recognition and recoverability of deferred As part of the Committees responsibility to provide advice to the Board tax assets in Luxembourg and Germany and a provisioning claim for on the form and basis underlying the long-term viability statement withholding tax in India.
as set out on page 34, the Committee reviewed the process and Carrying value of goodwill.
assessment of the Groups prospects made by management, including: Provisions and contingent liabilities.
the review period and alignment with the Groups internal longterm forecasts: Revenue recognition including accuracy of revenue recorded given the complexity of systems and fraud.
the assessment of the capacity of the Group to remain viable after consideration of future cash flows, expected debt service Management override of internal controls.
requirements, undrawn facilities and access to capital markets: Accounting for significant one-off transactions.
the modelling of the financial impact of certain of the Capitalisation and asset lives.
Groups principal risks materialising using severe but plausible scenarios: and Change in the Groups presentation currency.
ensuring clear and enhanced disclosures in the Annual Report The key audit risks for the 2017 financial year, are unchanged from the as to why the assessment period selected was appropriate to the 2016 financial year except for the addition of a new risk arising from the Group, what qualifications and assumptions were made and how change in the Groups presentation currency from sterling to the euro.
the underlying analysis was performed, consistent with recent These risks are regularly reviewed by the Committee to ensure the FRC pronouncements.
external auditors areas of audit focus remain appropriate.
Management also sought independent external advice on best Working with the auditor practice to ensure appropriate compliance with the requirements We hold private meetings with the external auditor at each Committee of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
meeting to provide additional opportunity for open dialogue and feedback from the Committee and the auditor without management being present.
Matters typically discussed include the external External audit auditors assessment of business risks, the transparency and The Committee has primary responsibility for overseeing the openness of interactions with management, confirmation that there relationship with, and performance of, the external auditor.
This includes has been no restriction in scope placed on them by management, making the recommendation on the appointment, reappointment the independence of their audit and how they have exercised and removal of the external auditor, assessing their independence professional scepticism.
I also meet with the external lead audit partner on an ongoing basis, negotiating and approving the statutory audit fee, outside the formal Committee process throughout the year.
the scope of the statutory audit and approval of the appointment of the lead audit engagement partner.
62 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Accountability Audit and Risk Committee continued Effectiveness of the external audit process Audit fees The Committee reviewed the quality of the external audit throughout For the 2017 financial year, the Committee considered the ongoing the year and considered the performance of  fee proposal included as part of the audit tender in 2014, negotiated LLP, taking into account the Committees own assessment and audit scope changes and, following the receipt of formal assurance that feedback, the results of a detailed survey of senior finance personnel their fees were appropriate for the scope of the work required, agreed across the Group focusing on a range of factors we considered a charge from  LLP and related member relevant to audit quality, feedback from  firms of 16 million for statutory audit services.
This included 1 million LLP on their performance against their own performance objectives in respect of advance audit procedures in respect of the forthcoming and the firm-wide audit quality inspection report issued by the FRC implementation of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
In addition, the FRCs Audit Quality Review team reviewed Non-audit fees  LLPs audit of the Groups financial statements As one of the ways in which it seeks to protect the independence for the year ended 31 March 2016 as part of their 2016 annual and objectivity of the external auditor, the Committee has a policy inspection of audit firms.
This concluded that their work was of a high governing the engagement of the external auditor to provide non-audit standard at both a Group and component level, identifying only minor services.
This precludes  LLP from providing issues arising, all of which were addressed in the audit firms proposed certain services such as valuation work or the provision of accounting action plan.
services and also sets a presumption that  LLP Based on these reviews, the Committee concluded that there had should only be engaged for non-audit services where there is no legal been appropriate focus and challenge by  or practical alternative supplier.
LLP on the primary areas of the audit and that they had applied robust For certain specific permitted services, the Committee has prechallenge and scepticism throughout the audit.
Consequently, as noted approved that  LLP can be engaged above, the Committee has recommended to the Board that they by management, subject to the policies set out above, and subject be reappointed at the annual general meeting in July 2017. to a 60,000 fee limit for individual engagements, a 500,000 total fee Independence and objectivity limit for services where there is no legal alternative and a 500,000 In its assessment of the independence of the auditor and in accordance total fee limit for services where there is no practical alternative supplier.
with the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Boards standard For all other services or those permitted services that exceed these on independence, the Committee receives details of any relationships specified fee limits, I, as Chairman, or in my absence another Committee between the Company and  LLP that may member, can pre-approve permitted services.
have a bearing on their independence and receives confirmation that In addition, the Committee assessed the impact of revised UK regulation they are independent of the Company within the meaning of the including the prohibition of the auditor playing any part in management securities laws administered by the US Securities and Exchange or decision making and expected regulations restricting non-audit Commission SEC.
services that auditors can provide, including a cap on the amount During the year, we were notified by our lead audit partner that of non-audit fees that can be billed and a list of prohibited services.
a company, for which a number of  Consequently, the Groups policy on non-audit fees was amended LLP partners were acting as administrators, was considering to reflect these additional restrictions during the 2017 financial year for litigation against the Group.
The Committee, in consultation implementation in the 2018 financial year.
with the Groups legal advisors, reviewed the implications Non-audit fees were 4.0 million of which 3.5 million was for services on  LLPs audit independence from the roles where there was no legal alternative and 0.5 million for services where played by  LLPs partners as administrators there was no practical alternative supplier.
Non-audit fees represented and  LLP as the Groups statutory auditor 22% of audit fees for the 2017 financial year 2016: 11%, 2015: 33% in the context of relevant regulations and ethical standards.
Further, with the increase in the current year mainly due to 1.1 million of fees the Committee consulted with the UK Financial Reporting Council and relating to a potential initial public offering IPO of Vodafone India that a number of institutional investors.
was being considered prior to the agreement to combine the business To address any potential threat to their audit independence, with Idea Cellular.
Further details of the fees paid for audit and non-audit  LLP put in place a number of safeguards services to  LLP can be found in note 3 to the including ensuring both the administration and audit teams were consolidated financial statements.
physically separate and had no interactions, that working papers and other highly confidential material were separately stored with Internal control and risk management highly restricted access and that the lead group engagement partner The Committee has the primary responsibility for the oversight of the would be solely responsible for the audit implications of the potential Groups system of internal control, including the risk management litigation.
In response, we requested that both  framework and the work of the Internal Audit function.
LLPs Compliance Department and its independent non-executives Assessment of Groups system of internal control, including provide oversight of the effectiveness of the safeguards put in place risk management framework and they reported to the Committee on these safeguards on a regular The Groups risk assessment process and the way in which significant basis.
 confirmed to the Committee that these business risks are managed is a key area of focus for the Committee.
safeguards had been put in place, were being monitored internally and Our activity here was driven primarily by the Groups assessment of its operated effectively throughout the relevant period.
principal risks and uncertainties, as set out on pages 28 to 34 and our The Committee concluded that this position was not prohibited and review included reports from the Group Risk and Compliance Director,  LLP remained independent for the purposes with whom I met regularly during the year, on the Groups risk evaluation of the audit throughout this period.
process as well as a review of changes to significant risks identified at both operating entity and Group levels.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 63 The Committee also maintains a programme of in-depth reviews into Internal audit specific financial, operational and regulatory areas of the business.
Monitoring and review of the scope, extent and effectiveness of the These reviews are critical to the role of the Committee, as they allow activity of the Group Internal Audit department is an agenda item us to meet key business leaders responsible for these areas and provide at each Committee meeting.
We approve the annual audit plan prior independent challenge to their activities.
During the 2017 financial year, to the start of each financial year and receive updates from the Group the areas reviewed included: Audit Director on audit activities, progress against the approved Group audit plan, the results of any unsatisfactory audits and the action technology failure, including a review of the Groups technology plans to address these areas.
I also met regularly with the Group resilience risk management plan, policy compliance across both the Audit Director, which has been of particular importance following the Groups mobile and fixed networks, cyber-threat resiliency and user appointment of a new Group Audit Director this year, to set annual access management: objectives, monitor performance against these objectives, discuss tax risk mitigation strategy, including proactive engagement with the teams activities and any significant issues arising from their work.
key stakeholders, external publication of the updated Tax Risk Following an independent assessment of the functions effectiveness Management Policy to meet new UK legislative requirements and in 2015, and the increasing pace of change of the business, initiatives internal policies to manage tax fraud risks: are continuing to be implemented to evolve and strengthen Internal Audits effectiveness.
unstable economic conditions and the impact on the Groups treasury operations including the setting of debt maturities, Compliance with section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act fixed floating interest rate mix and counterparty credit risk: The Committee takes an active role in monitoring the Groups compliance activities in respect of section 404 of the US Sarbanesthe impact on the framework for risk and compliance in Vodafone Oxley Act, receiving reports from management in the year covering: India following changes in competition driven by the new market entrant and the demonetisation introduced by the Indian financial control governance: Government in November 2016: changes to the section 404 programme, including scoping and the the integration of Vodafone Netherlands and Ziggo into the results of work performed: and merged 50:50 joint venture and the transition to common the evolution of the wider control environment in response governance standards: to ongoing business developments.
a review of the monitoring work being done to assess the impact of the referendum vote that Britain should leave the EU: and The scope of the Groups section 404 compliance activities in 2017 was broadly stable compared to the 2016 financial year.
The external a review of  data security and auditor reported the status of their work in each of their reports confidentiality arrangements.
The Group has in place an internal control environment to protect Compliance activities the business from the material risks which have been identified.
The Committee is responsible for the oversight of the Groups Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate compliance programme and held a number of deep dive sessions internal controls over financial reporting and we have responsibility for oncompliance-related matters in the year.
These focused on: ensuring the effectiveness of these controls.
Last year, these controls were enhanced through the application of a co-ordinated assurance the organisational model for managing fraud including the use approach which provides a framework that allows a comprehensive of shared services to enhance preventative controls and increase assessment of the assurance and compliance activities for the the use of big data and advanced analytics to detect trends earlier, Groups significant risks.
the types of fraud most commonly detected and the level of fraud within the Enterprise business: We reviewed the process by which the Group evaluated its control environment.
Our work here was driven primarily by the Group results from the annual Policy Compliance Review which tests the Audit Directors reports on the effectiveness of internal controls, extent to which local markets and Group entities are compliant with significant identified frauds and any identified fraud that involved our high risk policies: management or employees with a significant role in internal controls.
a review of the new EU General Data Protection Regulation, likely Oversight of the Groups compliance activities in relation to section 404 to take effect from May 2018, including the areas of potential impact of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act also falls within the Committees remit.
for the Group: and The Committee has completed its review of the effectiveness of the results of the use of Speak Up channels in place to enable Groups system of internal control, including risk management, during employees to raise concerns about possible irregularities the year and up to the date of this Annual Report, in accordance with the in financial reporting or other issues and the outputs of any requirements of the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control resulting investigations.
and related Financial and Business Reporting published by the FRC.
It confirms that no significant failings or weaknesses were identified in the review for the 2017 financial year and allowed us to provide positive assurance to the Board to assist them in making the statements required by the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Where areas for Nick Land improvement were identified, processes are in place to ensure that the On behalf of the Audit and Risk Committee necessary action is taken and that progress is monitored.
