Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Other governance matters At 31 March 2017, 55,381,017 ordinary shares and 8,000,000 Dividend policy deferred ordinary shares were in issue.
The ordinary shares The companys policy is to pay an increasing annual dividend per therefore represented approximately 87% and the deferred share in real terms, which it has now done for 50 consecutive ordinary shares approximately 13% of the total issued share years.
In addition, the company may supplement the annual capital by nominal value.
Of the ordinary shares in issue at dividend with special dividends when the board considers it 31 March 2017, 3,000 shares were held by a group company.
appropriate, for example if the company has surplus cash As stated above, all voting rights are suspended on these reserves in excess of its strategic investment plans.
The company did not purchase any of its ordinary The boards objective is to ensure that the annual dividend shares during the year and accordingly the companys issued is fully covered by investment income for the financial year, share capital as at 24 May 2017, being the latest practicable although the company has available distributable reserves of date prior to signature of these accounts, was 55,381,017 1,895m, broadly equivalent to over 60 years payment of the ordinary shares and 8,000,000 deferred ordinary shares.
current annual dividend, which could be used to smooth any investment income shortfall.
Restrictions on the transfer of shares There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of the companys 2017 dividend distributions shares, although the articles of association contain provisions An interim dividend of 14.9p per share 2016 14.3p was paid whereby the directors may refuse to register a transfer of a on 5 January 2017 and the board has recommended a final certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that such dividend of 39.9p per share 2016 second interim dividend of refusal does not prevent dealings in the share from taking place 38.3p per share, giving total annual dividends for the year of on an open and proper basis.
The directors may also refuse to 54.8p per share 2016 52.6p.
register the transfer of a certificated share unless it is a lodged, duly stamped, at the registered office or at such other place as In addition, the directors have recommended a special dividend the directors may appoint, accompanied by the certificate for of 100.0p per share 2016 nil.
the shares to which it relates and such other evidence as the directors may reasonably require to show the right of the Share capital structure transferor to make the transfer: b in respect of only one class The company has two classes of share capital ordinary shares of shares: and c in favour of not more than four transferees.
of 5p each and deferred ordinary shares of 5p each.
The directors may refuse to register a transfer of shares if The holders of the ordinary shares are entitled to receive a shareholder has not supplied information to the company dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one in default of a request duly served under section 793 of vote per share at meetings of the company.
All voting rights are the Companies Act 2006 and such shares represent at least however suspended in respect of any of the companys shares 0.25% of the class of shares concerned.
that are held in treasury or by group companies.
The deferred ordinary shares carry no voting rights and are Substantial interests not redeemable.
They carry the right to a fixed cumulative As at 31 March 2017, the following had notified the company preference dividend of 1% per annum exclusive of any that they held 3% or more of the voting rights of the company: associated tax credit of the nominal value of such deferred Percentage ordinary shares, being 0.05p per share, or 4,000 in aggregate, Number of of voting voting rights rights for all such shares currently in issue.
The company is required The Cayzer Trust Company Ltd 19,401,815 35.0% to pay the dividend to the extent that it has distributable 1 Rebelco SA 2,847,344 5.1% profits.
On a winding-up or other return of capital, the deferred 1.
Rebelco SA is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sofina SA.
ordinary shares carry the right to the payment of the amount paid up on such shares only after holders of the ordinary shares On 5 May 2017, the company was notified that, following an have received the sum of 100,000 in respect of each ordinary intergroup transfer by way of a merger by absorption, the share.
All of the deferred ordinary shares are held by Sterling 2,847,344 Caledonia shares held by Rebelco SA had been Industries Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Caledonia.
There have been no other changes in the substantial interests notified to the company up to the date of this report.
64 Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information At the annual general meeting held on 21 July 2016, shareholders Employee share trust also granted authority for the company to make market purchases The Caledonia Investments plc Employee Share Trust acquires of up to 5,538,100 of its own ordinary shares, being approximately and holds ordinary shares in the company for subsequent 10% of the ordinary share capital then in issue, at a price not more transfer to employees exercising options under the companys than the higher of a 5% greater than the average of the middle executive share option scheme and the performance share market quotations for such ordinary shares during the five scheme or calling for awards vesting under the companys business days preceding any such purchase: and b the higher of deferred bonus plan.
The voting rights of shares held by the i the price of the last independent trade in such ordinary shares: trust are exercisable by the independent trustee.
The trust is and ii the highest current independent bid relating thereto on financed by an interest free loan facility from Caledonia and the trading venue where the purchase is carried out, nor at a price the trustee has waived all dividends payable in respect of the less than 5p, being the nominal value of an ordinary share.
This ordinary shares held by the trust, except to the extent of authority lasts until 21 October 2017 or, if earlier, the conclusion of 0.0001% of such dividends.
the next annual general meeting.
At the same time, shareholders At 31 March 2017, the trust held 487,217 ordinary shares, who were not members of the Cayzer family concert party representing 0.88% of the total issued voting share capital.
Cayzer Concert Party gave their approval for a waiver by the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers of the obligation that could arise on the Cayzer Concert Party under Rule 9 of the City Code Restrictions on voting rights on Takeovers and Mergers to make a general offer for Caledonia The directors may direct that a shareholder shall not be entitled on the implementation by the company of the above authority to attend and vote either personally or by proxy or exercise any to purchase its own shares.
The approval was subject to the other right conferred by membership in relation to general maximum percentage of voting rights in which the Cayzer Concert meetings of the company in respect of some or all of the shares Party is interested not exceeding 49.9% as a result of purchases by held by him, if he or any person with an interest in such shares the company.
This waiver expires on 21 October 2017 or, if earlier, has been duly served with a notice under section 793 of the the conclusion of the next annual general meeting.
Companies Act 2006 and is in default for the prescribed period in supplying to the company the information required or, in Due to the level of the shareholding of the Cayzer Concert Party purported compliance with such a notice, has made a statement and the maximum percentage of voting rights permitted to be which is false or inadequate in a material particular.
held by it under the Rule 9 waiver, the board has only limited scope to utilise the authority to purchase the companys shares.
Agreements which may restrict the transfer of It will however consider using the authority when it considers it shares or exercise of voting rights in the companys and shareholders best interests to do so, for example when it believes that the shares represent good value The company is not aware of any arrangements which may in terms of the level of the discount to net asset value, and restrict the transfer of any of its shares or the exercise of any taking into account anticipated future cash requirements.
Change of control rights Authority to allot and purchase shares There are no special control rights in relation to the companys At the annual general meeting of the company held on shares.
21 July 2016, shareholders granted to the directors authority to allot ordinary shares up to a nominal amount of 923,016, Options granted under the companys executive share option representing approximately one-third of the ordinary share scheme and its performance share scheme and awards made capital then in issue, with authority to allot additional ordinary under its deferred bonus plan may become exercisable or vest shares up to a nominal value of 923,017, representing as a result of a change of control, although the number of approximately a further one-third of the ordinary share capital shares comprised in those options or awards may be reduced.
then in issue, by way of pre-emptive rights issues only, in The service contracts of certain directors and other senior accordance with guidance issued at that time by the executives also contain provisions whereby a liquidated sum Association of British Insurers.
The directors were further is payable by the company in the event of termination within authorised to issue ordinary shares up to a nominal amount of one year following a change of control.
138,452 other than pro rata to existing ordinary shareholders.
Further details of these change of control rights are set out These authorities last until 21 October 2017 or, if earlier, the in the Directors remuneration report.
conclusion of the next annual general meeting.
Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 65 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Other governance matters continued In accordance with changes to the Financial Conduct Authoritys Investment trust status Listing Rules introduced in 2014, the election of those directors Her Majestys Revenue and Customs has confirmed determined by the board to be independent under the UK that Caledonia has investment trust status for all relevant Corporate Governance Code must be subject to the approval financial periods.
of both all shareholders of the company and separately those shareholders who are not controlling shareholders, being the Annual general meeting Cayzer Concert Party.
The eighty-eighth annual general meeting of the company will be held at the Royal Over-Seas League, Park Place, St Jamess Customers and suppliers Street, London SW1A 1LR on Thursday, 20 July 2017 at The groups policy in relation to all of its suppliers is to settle the 11.30 am.
The notice of the annual general meeting and details terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transaction.
of all of the resolutions to be put to shareholders are set out in The group will abide by those terms on condition that it is a separate circular sent to shareholders at the same time as this satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services annual report.
in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
The group does not follow any code or statement on payment practice.
Directors The directors of the company, all of whom served throughout Going concern the year, are shown on pages 34 and 35.
The groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set Directors indemnity out in the Chairmans and Chief Executives report on pages 2 Each of the directors has the benefit, under the companys to 7 and the investment review on pages 14 to 23.
The financial articles of association, of an indemnity, to the extent permitted position of the group, its cash flows, liquidity position and by the Companies Act 2006, against any liability incurred by borrowing facilities are described in the financial review on pages him or her for negligence, default, breach of duty or breach 24 to 26.
In addition, note 21 to the financial statements includes of trust in relation to the affairs of the company.
the groups capital management policies and procedures and processes for managing market risk and exposures to currency Appointment and removal of directors and the risk, interest rate risk, price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
articles of association The group has cash and other liquid resources and committed The appointment and removal of directors is governed by the bank facilities available to meet existing and new investment companys articles of association and prevailing company law.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the group is well placed to manage business risks successfully.
The articles of association provide that at every annual general meeting one-third of the directors, or if not a multiple of three, The directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has the number nearest to one-third, shall retire by rotation and adequate resources to continue in operational existence for a therefore be required to seek re-election by shareholders.
New period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of directors may be appointed by the board, but are subject to the financial statements.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the election by shareholders at the next annual general meeting of going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
the company following their appointment.
However, to comply with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Viability statement company requires that all directors should be subject to annual The directors have assessed the viability of the company over election by shareholders.
Shareholders may also appoint new the three years to March 2020, taking account of the companys directors by ordinary resolution.
The articles of association position, its investment strategy, and the potential impact of limit the number of directors to not less than two and not the relevant principal risks set out on pages 29 to 31.
In making more than twelve, unless the shareholders resolve otherwise.
this statement, the board is satisfied that the company operates an effective risk management process and confirms that it has conducted a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the company.
This includes those that would threaten its strategic objectives, its business as usual state, its business model, and its future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Based on this assessment, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to March 2020.
66 Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information In making this assessment, the directors took comfort from The reports on pages 34 to 69 comprise the Directors report of the results of a series of stress tests that considered the impact the company.
The Directors report was approved by the board of a number of severe market downturn scenarios and loss on 25 May 2017 and signed on its behalf by: of investment trust status on the companys financial position and, in particular, its ability to settle projected liabilities of the Graeme Denison company as they fall due.
The directors determined that a three Company Secretary year period to March 2020 is an appropriate period for which to provide this statement given the companys long term investment objective and the resilience demonstrated by the stress testing and the relatively low working capital requirements.
Cross references to information required to be disclosed by Listing Rule 9.8.
4 R. To comply with Listing Rule 9.8.
4 C, the following table provides references to where relevant information required to be disclosed under Listing Rule 9.8.
Listing Rule Required information Location 9.8.
4 5 R Details of any arrangements under which a director has waived or agreed to Directors remuneration report waive any emoluments from the company or any subsidiary undertaking.
Waiver by Mr Bol of all non-executive director fees to which he would otherwise be entitled.
4 6 R Where a director has agreed to waive future emoluments, details of such As above.
waiver together with those relating to emoluments which were waived during the period under review.
4 12 R Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder has waived or agreed Other governance matters page to waive any dividends.
Waiver of all dividends by the trustee of the Caledonia Investments plc Employee Share Trust, except to the extent of 0.0001% of such dividends.
6 13 R Where a shareholder has agreed to waive future dividends, details of such As above.
waiver together with those relating to dividends which are payable during the period under review.
4 14 a R A statement made by the board that the listed company has entered into an Corporate governance report agreement with a controlling shareholder under Listing Rule 9.2.
4 14 c R A statement made by the board that: As above.
1. the listed company has complied with the independence provisions included in any agreement with a controlling shareholder entered into under Listing Rule 9.2.
2 AR 2 a 2. so far as the listed company is aware, the independence provisions included in any agreement with a controlling shareholder entered into under Listing Rule 9.2.
2 AR 2 a have been complied with during the period under review by the controlling shareholder or any of its associates 3. so far as the listed company is aware, the procurement obligation as set out in Listing Rule 9.2.
2 BR 2 a included in any agreement entered into under Listing Rule 9.2.
2 AR 2 a has been complied with during the period under review by a controlling shareholder.
Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 67 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017
