Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Corporate governance report Statement of compliance Caledonia recognises the importance of The board recognises the importance of good corporate good corporate governance, which governance and this report describes how the company has complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code Code issued requires the board to define the in September 2014 for the duration of the reporting period.
framework of the processes, controls The company has complied throughout the year with all of the and limits within which the company provisions of the Code, other than provisions B.
6.2 and D. 1.1. should operate and to establish a Provision B.
6.2 requires that the evaluation of the boards of FTSE 350 companies should be externally facilitated at least working culture that is clear and every three years.
The company last engaged an external understandable to everyone involved facilitator for its 2014 board evaluation and therefore, to comply with the Code, should have done so again for its 2017 in the management of the company.
However, in view of the change of Chairman that will take effect from the conclusion of the 2017 annual general meeting, the board decided that more value would be gained by deferring external facilitation until after the chairmanship succession to enable the facilitator to consider the dynamic of the board under its new leadership.
Accordingly, an external facilitator will be engaged for the 2018 board evaluation.
Membership and attendance The board held eight scheduled meetings during the year.
Provision D. 1.1. requires that schemes for performance-related Attendance of the directors was as follows: remuneration should include provisions that would enable the company to recover sums paid clawback or withhold any Meetings Meetings eligible sums due malus and specify the circumstances in which it Director attended to attend would be appropriate to do so.
Malus provisions were R D Kent 8 8 introduced into Caledonias performance share scheme and W P Wyatt 8 8 deferred bonus plan in 2014 and were included in the directors S A King 8 8 remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the annual J M B Cayzer-Colvin 8 8 general meeting in that year.
The provision in the Code 1 H Y H Bol 7 8 requiring malus and clawback did not become operative until S J Bridges 8 8 after the 2014 directors remuneration policy had been 1 Hon C W Cayzer 7 8 approved and the Remuneration Committee had been advised C H Gregson 8 8 that it would be necessary to seek shareholder approval of a S C R Jemmett-Page 8 8 change in the remuneration policy for clawback provisions to D C Stewart 8 8 be included in the companys incentive plans.
Mr Bol and The Hon C W Cayzer were each unable to attend one board meeting line with the GC100 guidance, the Remuneration Committee due to illness.
resolved to incorporate clawback provisions into Caledonias incentive plans as part of the next scheduled remuneration policy renewal.
Such provisions are therefore included in the 2017 directors remuneration policy, for which shareholder approval is being sought at this years annual general meeting.
A copy of the Code is available on the website of the Financial Reporting Council at https: www.
36 Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Appointment, induction and training The board The company complies with the recommendation of the Code Overall responsibility and operation that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to The board as a whole is collectively responsible for the success annual election by shareholders.
of the company and for supervising its affairs.
It sets the companys strategy, ensures that the necessary financial and On appointment, new directors are offered induction and human resources are in place to enable the company to meet training considered appropriate by the board, and subsequently its objectives and reviews management performance.
It also as necessary, and the annual performance evaluation of the defines the companys culture and sets the companys values board encompasses the identification of any individual training and standards to ensure that its obligations to its shareholders needs of board members so that, if necessary, these can be and others are understood and met.
It aims to provide reviewed by the Chairman with the directors concerned.
The leadership of the company within a framework of prudent and directors receive briefings at board meetings on regulatory and effective controls, which enables risk to be assessed and other issues relevant to the company and its business sector appropriately managed.
and, in addition, may attend external courses to assist in their professional development.
To assist its operation, the board has adopted a Schedule of Authorities which sets out those matters which it specifically Board composition reserves for its own decision and those which are delegated to The biographies of the directors appear on pages 34 and 35. board committees and to executive management.
Matters The board currently comprises ten directors.
Excluding the reserved for the boards own decision include the following: Chairman, three of the directors are executive and six are the appointment and removal of directors of the company, non-executive.
The board considers all of the non-executive as prescribed by the companys articles of association, and directors to be independent, other than The Hon C W Cayzer, of certain senior executive positions who was an executive director prior to becoming nonexecutive.
In assessing Mr Bols independence, the board took the terms of reference of board committees and the account of his position as Chief Executive Officer of Sofina SA, membership thereof which has a 5.1% shareholding in Caledonia.
Mr Bols position the companys strategy at Sofina has not given rise to any conflicts of interest and his circumstances very much accord with the importance that annual budgets Caledonia attaches to its own executives having board the companys systems of risk management and internal control positions at, or close contact with, investee companies.
treasury policies, banking counterparties and counterparty Since August 2015, Mr Bridges has been Group Chief Financial exposure limits Officer of Nex Group previously ICAP, where Mr Gregson is non-executive Chairman.
The board does not consider that directors remuneration and terms of appointment Mr Bridges role has any influence on either his, or Mr Gregsons, significant capital transactions ability to exercise independent judgement in relation to the affairs of Caledonia, which has no other connection with Nex Group.
Mrs Jemmett-Page was Caledonias audit partner at KPMG The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are Audit Plc from November 1995 to March 2001.
The board does separated and clearly defined in the Schedule of Authorities.
not consider that this affects her independence given the length The Chairman is primarily responsible for the leadership of the of time that has elapsed since this role ended and also the fact board to ensure that it carries out its role effectively and for that none of the current board members, other than The Hon succession planning.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the Charles Cayzer, were in post whilst she was audit partner.
implementation of the boards strategy and policies and the management of the companys activities, other than those Board committees matters specifically reserved to the board.
The Schedule of The board has delegated certain specific areas of responsibility Authorities is reviewed annually by the board.
to the following standing committees the Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee, the Governance Committee All directors receive detailed papers in advance of board and the Remuneration Committee.
Further details of the work meetings to enable them to discharge their duties.
They also of each of these committees and their membership during the have unlimited access to senior management should further year are set out on pages 40 to 63. information be required and presentations by investment pool managers and other senior executives are regularly given to the The terms of reference of each committee are reviewed board.
The board also attends an annual conference and dinner annually and are available on the companys website.
with the senior executives of Caledonias unquoted portfolio companies, which include presentations on specific issues facing their businesses and give board members the opportunity to meet the management teams of the Unquoted pool investee companies, both formally and informally.
Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 37 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Corporate governance report continued Other committees Board performance evaluation Various other committees have been established with The board conducts an annual evaluation of its performance responsibility for specific areas of the companys activities, and that of its committees and, in accordance with best other than matters reserved to the board as a whole, as follows: practice, engages an independent third party facilitator to assist in this process every three years although, as explained The Administrative Committee of the board has been above, the scheduled 2017 external facilitation has been established to deal with administrative matters of a routine deferred for a year in view of the forthcoming change of nature requiring board approval or matters which are reserved Chairman at the 2017 annual general meeting.
Accordingly, to the board, but for which board approval has already been for the year ended 31 March 2017, the evaluation of the board given in principle.
The Administrative Committee meets when as a whole and of its committees was undertaken internally, required and comprises any two directors.
led by the Chairman, and was conducted by inviting individual The Executive Committee meets when required and board members to complete questionnaires regarding the is responsible for matters relating to the day to day operation and effectiveness of the board and its committees, management of the companys business, other than where the responses from which were collated by the Company delegated to other committees.
It is chaired by the Chief Secretary and discussed at a special session of the board.
Executive and other members comprise the Chairman, The evaluation of the performance of the Chairman was led by the executive directors, the heads of the pools of capital the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and involved and the Company Secretary.
individual discussions with other members of the board.
The The Investment Management Committee meets fortnightly Chairman considered the performance of the non-executive and considers matters relating to the companys investment directors and that of the executive directors was reviewed by portfolio and monitors the companys cash requirements the Chairman and the non-executive directors, with the Chief and its net asset value per share total return performance.
Executive also present for the discussion on the other executive The Investment Management Committee is chaired by the directors.
Chief Executive and other members comprise the entire The results of the 2017 evaluation process were presented investment team, the Company Secretary and the Deputy in a report to the board.
The conclusion was that the board Company Secretary.
operated well in terms of dynamics, different viewpoints, The Investment Approvals Committee considers and formally relevant knowledge and expertise.
It was however recognised approves new investments and proposed realisations.
This that it could be strengthened by specific knowledge of private committee meets when required, is chaired by the Chief equity investing, given the companys increased strategic Executive and other members comprise the Chairman, allocation to the unquoted sector.
Further development of the the executive directors, the heads of the pools of capital boards visibility of the governance and control environments and the Company Secretary.
within the larger unquoted portfolio companies was also identified as a key action point.
The Compliance Committee meets fortnightly to monitor the companys ongoing compliance with the requirements for investment trust status and to approve all investment Directors conflicts of interest activity from an investment trust compliance perspective.
Each director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to It also monitors the potential impact of legal, tax and avoid a situation where he has, or could have, a direct or regulatory developments.
The Compliance Committee is indirect interest which conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with chaired by the Company Secretary and other members the companys interests.
The Companies Act 2006 however comprise the Finance Director, the Heads of Tax, Treasury allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and and Finance, the Group Financial Controller and the Deputy potential conflicts where the articles of association contain a Company Secretary.
The Companies Act 2006 also allows the articles to contain other provisions for dealing with The Challenge Committee formally reviews valuations of all directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
of the companys investments at each half-year and full-year.
It is chaired by the Chief Executive and other members comprise the Finance Director, the Head of Finance and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The meetings are observed by representatives from KPMG LLP.
38 Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information There are safeguards in the companys articles which apply when Relations with controlling shareholders the directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential As at 24 May 2017, being the latest practicable date prior to conflict of interest.
First, only independent directors, being those the publication of this annual report, the Cayzer family concert who have no interest in the matter being considered, are able to party Cayzer Concert Party held 48.48% of Caledonias take the relevant decision and, second, in taking the decision, voting rights.
the directors must act in a way which they consider, in good Under the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules, where faith, will be most likely to promote the success of the company.
a premium listed company has a controlling shareholder or The directors are able to impose time limits or conditions when shareholders being a person or persons acting in concert who giving authorisations if they think this is appropriate.
exercise or control 30% of more of the companys voting The board has adopted procedures to address the requirements rights, the company is required to enter into a written and of the Companies Act 2006 in relation to directors conflicts legally binding agreement which is intended to ensure that of interest.
Each new director on appointment is required to the controlling shareholder undertakes to comply with certain declare any potential conflict situations, which may relate to him independence provisions, namely that: or her, or his or her connected persons.
These are reviewed by 1. transactions and arrangements with the controlling the board and, if necessary, also by the Governance Committee, shareholder and or any of its associates will be conducted which then considers whether these situations should be at arms length and on normal commercial terms: authorised and, if so, whether any conditions to such authority should be attached.
2. neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will take any action that would have the effect of preventing Each board meeting includes a standing agenda item on the listed company from complying with its obligations under conflicts of interest to ensure that all directors disclose any new the Listing Rules: and potential conflict situations.
These are then reviewed, again if necessary also by the Governance Committee, and authorised 3. n either the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates by the board as appropriate.
A register of directors conflicts of will propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder interest is maintained by the Company Secretary and is resolution which is intended or appears to be intended to reviewed annually by the Governance Committee.
circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
The board confirms that agreements specified under the Listing Relations with shareholders Rules as described above which were required to be in place The company welcomes dialogue with investors in order by 17 November 2014 were entered into by the company on to achieve a mutual understanding of objectives.
The Chief 30 October 2014 with The Cayzer Trust Company Limited Executive and the Finance Director regularly hold meetings Cayzer Trust and separately with the Trustee of the with institutional investors, private client stockbrokers and fund Caledonia Investments plc Employee Share Trust Employee managers.
The Chairman and other non-executive directors are Share Trust, which is deemed by the Panel on Takeovers and also available to attend some of these meetings, if requested.
Mergers to form part of the Cayzer Concert Party, and remain Any views put forward by shareholders are reported back to the in place.
Under the terms of its agreement, Cayzer Trust has board, which periodically also receives presentations from the undertaken to procure the compliance with the independence companys brokers on shareholder feedback and the general provisions of all of the other members of the Cayzer Concert market perception of the company.
In addition, the annual Party, other than the Employee Share Trust.
general meeting provides a forum for shareholders to meet The board confirms that, during the period under review and the directors, both formally and informally.
up to 24 May 2017, being the latest practicable date prior to The Chairmen of all of the boards committees will be available the publication of this annual report: to answer questions at the annual general meeting.
1. the company has complied with the independence provisions included in the agreements with Cayzer Trust and the Employee Share Trust 2. so far as the company is aware, the independence provisions included in the agreements have been complied with by Cayzer Trust and the Employee Share Trust 3. s o far as the company is aware, the procurement obligation included in the agreement with Cayzer Trust has been complied with by that company.
Rod Kent Chairman of the board 25 May 2017 Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 39 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017
