Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Nomination Committee report The Nomination Committee is responsible for the regular The Nomination Committee is focused review of the structure, size and composition including the on evaluating the directors and skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the board and for giving consideration to succession planning for directors examining the skills and attributes and, if requested by the board, for other senior executives.
It is needed of board members.
It is also responsible for identifying, using external search consultants where necessary, candidates to fill board vacancies as and responsible for identifying suitable when they arise, for making recommendations to the board in candidates for new director positions.
relation thereto and for keeping under review the leadership needs of the company, both executive and non-executive.
The Nomination Committee also reviews the time required of the non-executive directors and ensures that they receive formal letters of appointment setting out clearly what is expected of them in terms of time commitment, committee service and involvement outside board meetings.
Diversity The boards policy on diversity is, as it has been in the past, to seek to appoint the best qualified person to a particular role Membership and attendance regardless of gender or other diversity criteria and therefore it The membership and attendance record of the Nomination has not adopted any measureable objectives in relation Committee during the year was as follows: thereto.
Meetings Meetings eligible attended to attend Work of the Nomination Committee R D Kent Chairman 3 3 The Nomination Committee met three times during the year H Y H Bol 3 3 and the work undertaken included: 1 S J Bridges 2 3 1 Hon C W Cayzer 2 3 consideration of the contributions and effectiveness of the C H Gregson 3 3 non-executive directors seeking re-election at the 2016 2 S C R Jemmett-Page 2 3 annual general meeting, prior to giving recommendations 2 D C Stewart 2 3 for their re-elections W P Wyatt 3 3 the renewal of expiring letters of appointment for certain 1.
Mr Bridges and The Hon C W Cayzer each absented themselves from one meeting of the non-executive directors which approved the renewal of their letters of appointment.
Mrs Jemmett-Page and Mr Stewart each absented themselves from one meeting consideration of potential candidates for the role of Chairman which established a sub-committee to deal with the Chairmanship succession, for which both were candidates.
Subsequent to the year end, the Nomination Committee recommended to the board that Mr Stewart should succeed Mr Kent as Chairman, with effect from the conclusion of the 2017 annual general meeting.
In making this recommendation, the Nomination Committee did not use an external search consultancy nor open advertising, as it considered that Mr Stewarts personal qualities and the breadth of his experience in asset management and international business made him the most suitable candidate for the role.
An external search consultancy was however used for Mr Stewarts appointment as a non-executive director in 2015.
Rod Kent Chairman of the Nomination Committee 25 May 2017 40 Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017
