46 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Leadership Leadership structure The Board Creating the right Responsible for the overall conduct of the Groups business culture through our including our long-term success: setting our values, standards and governance framework strategic objectives: reviewing our performance: and ensuring The Board is responsible for maintaining a strong and a successful dialogue with effective governance system throughout the Group.
How the Board operates The Board is collectively responsible for the oversight and success of our business.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman, who was independent on appointment, and the Chief Executive.
The Matters Reserved for the Board were last reviewed in March 2017 and can be found on our The Board held seven scheduled meetings during the year and website vodafone.
additional meetings were held as required.
The meetings are structured to allow open discussion.
At each Board meeting, the Chairman also met with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executives present.
Board Committees Information on the matters considered at the Board meetings are set Delegated to by the Board and out on pages 52 and 53. responsible for maintaining effective All of our Directors attended all Board meetings and their respective governance in the following areas: Committee meetings during the financial year.
No apologies for absence audit and risk, remuneration, Board were received.
composition, succession planning Culture: setting the tone from the top and corporate governance.
The Board recognises that a healthy corporate culture is fundamental Full details of the Committees to our business purpose and strategy.
Vodafones culture is defined responsibilities are detailed through The Vodafone Way, our Business Principles and the Code of Conduct.
Together these set out what we expect from our employees on the following page and and how we expect business to be carried out.
By embedding The in theCommittee reports.
Vodafone Way into our processes, we strive for a culture of speed, simplicity and trust.
Our culture is not static and has evolved over time, reflecting the changing environment we operate in.
Our Code of Conduct, which includes details of our Business Principles and The Vodafone Way, can be found on our website, vodafone.
com The Committees terms of reference can be found on governance.
Our leaders have a critical role in setting the tone of our organisation and championing the behaviours we expect to see.
The Executive Executive Committee Committee led campaigns and engagement throughout the year to highlight our values, beliefs and business approach to health and and other committees safety, business integrity, The Vodafone Way, Customer eXperience Responsible for implementing eXcellence, diversity and inclusion.
strategic objectives and realising Various indicators are used to monitor and provide insight into our competitive business performance culture, including employee engagement, health, safety and wellbeing in line with established risk measures and diversity indicators.
The state of our culture is assessed through compliance reviews, internal audit and formal and informal management frameworks, channels for employees to speak up and we ensure action is taken compliance policies, internal control to address behaviour that falls short of our expectations.
Its about doing things our way with strong beliefs and valuesbuilt into the way we manage the business.
These beliefs drive business decision making and that means .
Vittorio Colao Chief Executive Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 47 Chairman Senior Independent Non-Executive Chief Executive Director Directors Leads the Board, sets the Leads the business, agenda and promotes a Provides a sounding board to Contribute to developing our implements strategy culture of open debate the Chair and appraises his strategy and chairs the between Executive and performance Executive Committee Scrutinise and constructively Non-Executive Directors Acts as intermediary for challenge the performance Chief Financial Regularly meets with the other Directors if needed of management in the Officer Chief Executive and other execution of our strategy Available to respond to senior management to stay Responsible for the shareholder concerns when informed preparation and integrity of contact through the normal our financial reporting Ensures effective channels is inappropriate communication with our shareholders Audit and Risk Nominations and Remuneration Committee Governance Committee Committee Reviews the integrity, Sets, reviews and adequacy and effectiveness recommends the policy Evaluates Board composition of the Groups system on remuneration of the and ensures Board diversity of internal control, including Chairman, Executives and and a balance of skills the risk management senior management team Reviews Executive framework and related Monitors the succession plans to maintain compliance activities implementation of the continuity of skilled resource remuneration policy Oversees matters relating to corporate governance Audit and Risk: Nominations and Governance: Remuneration: Pages 57 to 63 Page 56 Page 67 Risk and Disclosure Executive Compliance Committee Committee Committee Oversees the accuracy Focuses on strategy and timeliness Assists the Executive implementation, of Group disclosures and Committee to fulfil its financial and competitive approves controls and accountabilities with regard performance, commercial procedures in relation to risk management and and technological to the public disclosure policy compliance developments, of financial information succession planning and organisational development
