54 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Effectiveness Board evaluation, induction and training Board evaluation 2017 This years process Board effectiveness review In accordance with our three-year cycle, Board effectiveness is reviewed The Board recognises that it continually needs to monitor and improve by an external performance evaluation every three years, and will its performance.
This is achieved through annual performance be externally conducted again in 2019.
An internal performance evaluation, full induction of new Board members and ongoing Board evaluation was carried out this year, with the assistance of Lintstock development activities.
Limited Lintstock, a London-based corporate advisory firm, which has no other connection with Vodafone.
Stage 1: Stage 2: Stage 3: Stage 4: Comprehensive One-on-one Evaluation Reporting and questionnaire interviews discussion with the Chairman and the Board Each Director completed The Chairman then held one-toThe Chairman reviewed the Lintstock prepared a report a confidential online one interviews with each of the Directors contributions and the based on the completed questionnaire, designed Directors to discuss the reports.
Senior Independent Director led questionnaires for the Chairman by Lintstock and the Group the review of the performance and the chairman of each General Counsel and Company of the Chairman.
Each Board The chairman of each Board Committee undertook a specific Committee gave feedback self-assessment questionnaire.
on the evaluation of their The Audit and Risk Committee Committee to their Committees assessment also included input and to the Board at its meeting from the external auditor and in March 2017.
The Chairman relevant senior management.
discussed Lintstocks report with the Nominations and Governance Committee and with the Board at its meeting in March 2017.
Board development The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all Non-Executive There is a procedure to enable Directors to take independent legal and Directors receive ongoing training and development.
Our Non-Executive or financial advice at the Companys expense, managed by the Group Directors are conscious of the need to keep themselves properly briefed General Counsel and Company Secretary.
No such independent advice and informed about current issues.
was sought in the 2017 financial year.
Topics covered at sessions attended by our Directors during the The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary also: year were consumer, customer service, network and share dealing assists the Chairman by organising induction and training rules.
Specific and tailored updates, delivered by the Group Financial programmes and ensuring that all Directors have full and timely Controlling and Operations Director, were also provided to the members access to all relevant information: of our Audit and Risk Committee during the year covering key themes surrounding financial and narrative reporting, and accounting and ensures that the correct Board procedures are followed: and auditing standards.
advises the Board on corporate governance matters.
The Board also received reports from the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary on current legal and governance issues.
The removal of the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 55 Board review insights 201516 Conclusions from the 201617 review: Recommendation: review the Board induction and development The conclusions of this years review have been positive and have programme to focus on strategically significant areas confirmed that the Board and its Committees operate effectively Action taken in 201617: the induction programme for new and that each Director contributes to the overall effectiveness and Directors was refreshed and sessions were arranged for Directors success of the Group.
to learn more about the Companys strategic priorities and significant The recommendations from this years review included: risks including cyber threats, convergence, network quality, content, customer experience initiatives and Enterprise business Although the Boards composition was rated highly, developments including the growth of Internet of Things business.
it was agreed that adding further financial expertise would be beneficial, particularly in view of the impending retirement Recommendation: increase transparency around Board and of Nick Land and Phil Yea from the Board.
executive succession plans The Directors should continue to build their knowledge and Action taken in 201617: the Chairman discussed Board understanding of the Companys Enterprise business and succession plans and the profile to be sought in new Board its content assets.
In addition, more time should be spent appointments with the Directors and kept the Board informed on digital matters.
of progress during the process to appoint a new Non-Executive Director.
Executive succession plans were discussed by the The balance between focus on organic growth and on portfolio Nominations and Governance Committee and the outcomes management needs to be carefully managed.
of thediscussion were shared with the Board.
More opportunities should be provided for the Directors to take Recommendation: clarify expectations on an overall strategic part in site visits and one-to-one interactions with members framework of the executive team.
Action taken in 201617: in addition to the Boards regular reviews The Board will address these recommendations during the on performance of individual operating companies, the Board 2018 financial year and will report on progress in our 2018 discussed Group-wide strategic themes during the course of the Annual Report.
yearin Board meetings and in the annual strategy meeting.
Recommendation: create more opportunities for Board members to spend informal time together Action taken in 201617: the Directors dined together on the eve of each Board meeting, sometimes with senior executives as guests.
The meetings at Vodafone Italy and Vodafone UK also provided occasions for the Directors to spend informal time together.
Governance in action Amparo will join the Board as a Non-Executive Director with effect from Maria Amparo Moraleda Martinezs appointment 1 June 2017.
During the year the Committee recognised that it would be valuable for a Non-Executive Director to be appointed who had IT and technology Amparo is a high calibre international business leader who brings to the expertiseas well as experience as an international business leader.
Board extensive engineering, IT and technology expertise developed from The Committee worked with Russell Reynolds Associates, an executive her previous roles as chief operating officer of the international division searchconsultancy, to identify suitable candidates.
of Iberdrola and president of IBM Southern Europe.
Amparos other current appointments: Airbus Group SE, non-executive director CaixaBank, non-executive director Solvay SA, non-executive director
