56 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Effectiveness Nominations and Governance Committee Any conflicts identified are considered and, as appropriate, authorised The Committee continues its work of ensuring by the Board.
A register of authorised conflicts is maintained which is reviewed periodically.
the Board composition is right and that our The Committee reviewed the independence of all the Non-Executive governance is effective.
All Non-Executive Directors are considered independent and their contributions continue to be effective.
They have all submitted Chairman themselves for re-election at the 2017 AGM with the exception of Phil Gerard Kleisterlee Yea and Nick Land.
Amparo Moraleda will be elected for the first time Chairman of the Board in accordance with our Articles of Association.
Members Valerie Gooding The Executive Directors service contracts and Non-Executive Directors Phil Yea appointment letters are available for inspection at our registered office and at our AGM.
Key objective: Board evaluation To make sure the Board comprises individuals with the necessary The Committee oversaw the internal evaluation of the Board and skills, knowledge and experience to ensure that it is effective Committees.
A description of the evaluation is set out on page 54. in discharging its responsibilities and to have oversight of all matters relating to corporate governance.
Succession planning The Committee received several presentations throughout the year Responsibilities: from the Chief Executive and Group Human Resources Director.
Assessing the composition of the Board and making The presentations provided details of the changes to the Vodafone recommendations on appointments to the Board and senior organisational structure in order to deliver our strategy as well executive succession planning: as succession planning for senior management.
Potential successors have been identified for the top senior management positions and the Overseeing the performance evaluation of the Board, Committee reviewed the profiles for all of these positions during the year.
its Committees and individual Directors: and The Committee also monitors a schedule on the length of tenure Overseeing all matters relating to corporate governance, bringing of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors and the mix and skills any issues to the attention of the Board.
The Committee is satisfied that adequate succession The Committee met four times during the year and each meeting planning is currently in place for the Executive Directors and senior had full attendance.
The terms of reference of the Committee are executives, but will keep succession planning under review and monitor available on vodafone.
the progress and success of the development plans which have been established for relevant employees.
Committee meetings Diversity I invite other individuals and external advisers to attend all or part of any Vodafone acknowledges the importance of diversity and inclusion to the meeting, as and when appropriate.
I report to the Board, as a separate effective functioning of the Board.
This includes diversity of skills and agenda item, on the activities of the Committee at the following experience, age, gender, disability, sexual orientation, cultural background Board meeting.
Currently, 25% of our Board roles are held by women and our ambition over the coming years is to increase that proportion further, Changes to the Board and Committees which is supported by our Board diversity policy.
Following Amparo As announced on 31 January 2017, Maria Amparo Moraleda Martinez will Moraledas appointment on 1 June 2017, 31% of our Board roles will be held join the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 June 2017.
Further details by women: this will increase further after the AGM with 36% of our Board are on page 55.
As announced on 23 March 2017, Nick Land and Phil being women.
Our Board diversity statistics can be found on page 49.
Yea will not seek re-election at the 2017 AGM after more than ten years of service.
The following changes to the composition of the Board and Diversity extends beyond the boardroom.
The Board supports Committees will be made with effect from 28 July 2017: management in its efforts to build a diverse organisation.
Vodafone has recently launched the ReConnect programme which aims to bring Valerie Gooding will be appointed as Senior Independent Director: talented women back into the workplace after a career break and David Nish will be appointed Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee: to increase the number of women in management roles.
Further details are set out on pages 7 and 21 and on the Vodafone website.
Renee James and Sir Crispin Davis will become members of the Nominations and Governance Committee: and Governance The Committee reviewed Vodafones compliance with the 2014 Amparo Moraleda will become a member of the Audit and UK Corporate Governance Code and was satisfied that Vodafone Risk Committee.
complied with the Code during the year.
It also received updates on corporate governance developments during the year and Assessment of the independence of the considered the impact of those developments on Vodafone.
 The Committee and the Board are satisfied that the external commitments of its Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors set out on pages 48 and 49 do not conflict with their duties and commitments as Directors of the Company.
Our Directors must: report any changes to their commitments to the Board: Gerard Kleisterlee On behalf of the Nominations and Governance Committee notify the Company of actual or potential conflicts or a change 16 May 2017 in circumstances relating to an existing authorisation: and complete an annual conflicts questionnaire.
