Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Audit Committee report The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the The Audit Committee plays a integrity of the financial statements of the company and significant role in ensuring that the any announcements relating thereto and for reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements contained therein.
companys financial statements are In addition, it oversees the relationship with the external auditor, properly prepared and that the system KPMG LLP KPMG.
It also reviews the companys systems of internal control and risk management procedures and considers of controls that is in place is effective annually whether an internal audit function is required.
The Audit Committee, comprised exclusively of independent non-executives directors, met three times in the year ended 31 March 2017, in May and November 2016 and in March 2017.
Subsequent to the year end, it met in May 2017 to consider the significant issues in relation to the 2017 annual report.
The external auditor, KPMG, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Company Secretary and members of the finance team attend the meetings of the Audit Committee.
Other board members and or senior executives may also attend meetings at the invitation of the Chairman.
At the end of each Membership and attendance meeting, the Audit Committee has a separate discussion with the external auditor without executive management present.
The membership and attendance record of the Audit Committee during the year was as follows: Work of the Audit Committee Meetings Meetings eligible The Audit Committee undertook the following activities in the attended to attend discharge of its responsibilities.
S J Bridges Chairman 3 3 1 H Y H Bol 2 3 Financial statements D C Stewart 3 3 The main focus of the meetings in May and November 2016 was 1.
Mr Bol was unable to attend one meeting due to illness.
the 2016 annual report and financial statements and the 2016 half year results respectively, including evaluation of the going concern statement and, in the case of the annual report, the viability statement therein.
The March 2017 meeting considered principally the audit planning for the 2017 annual report, including in particular the requirements of the 2016 revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code and other disclosure requirements.
In its May 2017 meeting, the Audit Committee reviewed the form and content of the 2017 annual report and financial statements.
In conducting its review, the Audit Committee considered reports prepared by management and the external auditor.
These reports provided an analytical review of the financial statements, comparing the current to prior year financial position and results, and detail the judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty involved in applying the accounting policies to the financial statements.
The Audit Committee also considered the going concern statement and the viability statement.
The Audit Committee recommended the 2017 annual report to the board.
The significant issues the Audit Committee considered in relation to the 2017 financial statements were the valuation of unlisted and listed investments.
In relation to these financial statements, the Audit Committee also considered the going concern statement, the viability statement and compliance with the annual report fair, balanced and understandable provisions of the 2014 revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 41 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Audit Committee report continued Unlisted valuations Internal control The Audit Committee recognises that unlisted investments are In the May and November meetings, a report on the internal a significant component of the financial statements and that control reviews performed during the previous six months was their valuation is subject to considerable judgement and presented, together with an update on the controls assurance uncertainty.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee attended programme given at the March 2017 meeting.
The Audit the Challenge Committee meetings along with the external Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control auditor and reported to the Audit Committee on the quality of environment and the structure in place to resolve identified the review, adherence to the companys valuation policy and weaknesses.
The Audit Committee agreed the control review consistency of valuation methodologies over time.
Listed valuations The board of directors is responsible for the companys system Listed investments are a significant component of the financial of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Challenge Committee meetings referred to system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk above also considered the listed securities, to ensure that the of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide exchange bid prices used in the valuation were from an actively reasonable and not absolute assurance against material traded market.
The Audit Committee concurred that it was misstatement or loss.
appropriate to use the exchange bid price in all cases.
The Audit Committee recognised the increased regulatory Going concern and viability risk associated with the investments in the prior year in Seven The Audit Committee considered the funding needs of the Investment Management and Gala Bingo, both of which are company and its financial capacity, including available bank regulated entities.
The company will closely monitor the credit and liquid funds, to be wholly sufficient to confirm the controls in place in these entities.
going concern of the business.
Internal audit The Audit Committee also assessed the viability of the As the company does not have an internal audit function, the company.
They agreed to provide a viability statement for a Audit Committee considers annually whether there is a need period of three years for the reasons set out in the statement for one.
The company is an investment trust and manages its on page 66.
In May 2017, the Audit Committee conducted a non-consolidated subsidiaries as other private company series of stress tests that considered the impact of severe investments, expecting them to operate their own risk market downturn scenarios on shareholders funds, the debt management processes.
The company closely monitors the facility, investment income and also the potential loss of control environment of its private company investments.
The outcome of this activity led the Audit Committee recommended to the board that an internal Audit Committee to recommend to the board to make the audit function was not required.
Auditor Fair, balanced and understandable statement The Audit Committee last conducted an audit tender process The Audit Committee reviewed the draft annual report and, in mid-2011.
The main outcomes of the process were the taken as a whole, considered it to be fair, balanced and replacement of Deloitte who had been the companys auditor understandable.
To assist in reaching this view, the Audit since 2006 with KPMG Audit Plc and a plan for the development Committee considered a report prepared by management of the external audit approach.
The principal planned changes highlighting the positive and negative statements included in were to increase the depth of the audit by reducing the the annual report to ensure that they fairly reflected the results materiality level and an increased focus on unquoted for the year.
The Audit Committee recommended to the board investment valuations and process.
At its request and for that the Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of internal reasons, KPMG Audit Plc resigned as the companys the annual report and the financial statements, set out on auditor with effect from the conclusion of the annual general page 68, should be signed accordingly.
meeting on 24 July 2013 and was replaced by its immediate parent entity, KPMG LLP.
42 Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information In accordance with professional guidance, KPMG LLP changes Non-audit work the audit partner every five years.
The current audit partner, In order to safeguard the auditors independence and Thomas Brown, was appointed in 2016. objectivity, the Audit Committee maintains a schedule of specific non-audit activities which may not be undertaken by The Audit Committee has decided that it will put the role of the external auditor, within the broad principles that the auditor out to tender at least every ten years, in accordance external auditor should not audit its own work, should not with the UK Corporate Governance Code and rules from the make management decisions on behalf of the company, should Competition and Markets Authority and EU legislation.
Its not be put into the role of advocate for the company and that current plan is to complete an audit tender in the financial year no mutuality of interest should be created between the ended 31 March 2022, being ten years from the date of the last company and the external auditor.
The Audit Committee believes that the depth of knowledge of the company and its investments in particular The Audit Committee reviewed and adopted a revised policy for the majority owned unquoted investments obtained by the provision of non-audit services, meeting the requirements KPMG LLP over its tenure as auditor puts it in the best position of the 2016 revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code and to conduct an effective audit for members.
the FRC Revised Ethical Standard implementing the EU Audit Regulation and Directive and the requirements of the Audit effectiveness Competition and Markets Authoritys final Order.
Audit quality is reviewed continuously throughout the year by both the Finance Director and Audit Committee.
The focus is Certain non-audit services are prohibited and permitted centred on the following: services are subject to approval by the Finance Director and Audit Committee.
Total fees payable for non-audit work the quality and seniority of the auditors staff carried out by the companys auditor are subject to limits.
the appropriateness of the planned audit methodology as Re-appointment of KPMG as auditor applied to Caledonias business activity KPMG Audit Plc was appointed auditor in 2011 and was replaced the level and challenge and quality of reporting to the Audit by KPMG LLP in 2013.
The lead audit partner is required to rotate Committee.
every five years this was done in 2016 and other key audit partners every seven years.
No contractual obligations restrict The effectiveness of the audit is also monitored throughout the the Audit Committees choice of external auditor.
The Audit year using a number of measures, including but not limited to: Committee concluded that KPMG provides an effective audit a review and approval of the scope of the planned audit and the Audit Committee recommended to the board the reappointment of KPMG LLP.
the planned implementation of improvements following appropriate post audit reviews Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG LLP as auditor and to authorise the directors to determine the auditors remuneration, will be the monitoring of the independence of the external auditor proposed at the annual general meeting on 20 July 2017. a review of any Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Review Report for KPMGs audit of the company.
Private meetings During the year, the Chairman of the Audit Committee met separately and privately with the Finance Director and KPMG.
Statement of compliance This report has been prepared in compliance with the Competition and Markets Authority Order 2014 on statutory audit services for large companies.
Stuart Bridges Chairman of the Audit Committee 25 May 2017 Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 43 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017
