30 Strategic report QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 People and relationships Our employees and their relationships with others are at the heart of our vision to be the chosen partner.
At the heart of our vision is partnership, innovation to support change.
One such approach will be to and a vision-led strategy.
Our people are critical to this introduce Rapid Improvement Events to remove and they make QinetiQ a truly unique organisation.
Our barriers and support team collaboration.
values and the strong relationships we have with our people, customers, suppliers, business partners and Page 19 Non-financial KPIs: Employee engagement communities are core to our business success.
By and Employee turnover harnessing these relationships, we can also create value for society by developing the skills of the Corporate values and culture next generation and contributing positively to In FY17, we introduced new corporate values integrity, the communities where we work.
collaboration and performance to underpin our vision and strategy.
These values reinforce our ongoing commitment to responsible business practice and Our people our focus on delivering for our customers, through Integrity partnership.
Their introduction followed a programme People strategy to engage with our people in the process of change and Trusted to do the right thing In FY17, we created a new people strategy to support at all times, we take pride in to ensure that our values resonate across the diversity our vision and strategy, that is values-led and balances our decisions, and work to of our workforce.
The values have been embedded the needs of employees and other stakeholders.
The create a sustainable and in our updated Code of Conduct and Performance strategy is based on four integrated elements that work responsible business.
Development Review PDR to ensure we capture together to develop Engaged People in Winning Teams.
how people deliver results as well as what results The elements are Right People, Right Culture, Right they deliver.
Cultural development is a key part of our Learning and Right Reward.
We will drive the Collaboration transformation and four Transformation Action Groups development of the key elements in FY18.
TAGs have been set up to address Collaboration, The chosen partner for Recognition, Culture and Communication.
Under the Engaging our people customers and industry Recognition TAG, a new employee recognition scheme Engaged employees are vital to a successful business.
colleagues, we are a diverse has been initiated, with categories such as living our The Employee Engagement Group EEG is an and inclusive community with values, customer focus, innovation and community.
independent consultative forum which provides a a common purpose: every contribution is valued.
trusted and effective two-way dialogue between the Safety, health and wellbeing Company and employees.
It ensures that our people The safety, health and wellbeing of our people and the are informed and engaged on key people issues, environment we operate within are intrinsically linked especially during times of change and it has been Performance to our success and underpin our strategic goals.
particularly valuable during our transformation.
We regularly communicate with employees to ensure Customer focused and In July 2016, an air accident involving a contracted-in highly responsive, providing they understand QinetiQs strategy, performance Yak aircraft operating in support of the Empire Test operational excellence and business priorities.
Our communication channels Pilots School ETPS sadly resulted in the death of an and assuring safe and include the intranet, monthly face-to-face Q-Talks with secure delivery.
RAF pilot and serious injury to the contractor pilot.
We leaders and six-monthly roadshows with the Executive are actively supporting the subsequent official inquiries Committee.
This ensures that across the Group our and will respond to all recommendations made.
people understand how what they do contributes to our strategy and that they are knowledgeable The lost time incident LTI rate is calculated as the about our Company.
In FY18, we will be introducing the number of lost time incidents, where the employee Global Portal a new intranet platform, enabling greater is away from work for one or more days, times 1,000, connectivity for our people across the Group.
We use a divided by the total number of employees.
The LTI rate number of channels to gather and understand employee has increased from 5.0 to 5.7 following a small increase engagement.
We seek regular feedback as part of in lost time incidents.
There were no prosecutions, our face-to-face sessions with leaders Q-Talks and prohibition notices or improvement notices issued roadshows as well as more formally through surveys.
by regulators in the UK during the last financial year.
In addition we monitor voluntary employee turnover, which reduced in FY17 page 19.
In FY17 we again Lost Time used Best Companies to run a survey for all employees Incident Rate 2017 2016 2015 excluding QNA, where they use the Top Work Places QinetiQ Group 5.7 5.0 5.6 survey, administered by Workplace Dynamics, to independently measure levels of employee engagement.
FY18 will see the launch of a new three-year Health This annual survey is complemented by a shorter Safety and Environment strategy.
We are working six-monthly pulse to provide a detailed view of how together to reduce work-related ill-health and injury engaged our people feel.
The response rate was 70% where our people are safe and healthy and enjoy a good and we scored 596 compared to 623 in FY16.
FY17 work-life balance while feeling empowered and involved was a year of significant change, which has been in making improvements.
To assist this we have put understandably challenging for many employees and in place a new Steering Committee, chaired by the this is reflected in the fall in the score.
Feedback from Company Secretary and Group General Counsel, to the executive roadshows is seeing an upward trend coordinate the development and implementation of the on specific issues, e. g. I am confident about the strategy.
Part of our new strategy involves the ongoing future.
Our employee surveys and feedback help us roll out of Safe for Life across the Group during FY18, identify specific areas where we can work to improve which focuses on behavioural safety aspects to performance and engagement and we are committed improve safety and health See page 18. to acting on the feedback we receive.
In FY18 we are seeking to simplify our approach to measuring and action planning on engagement, empowering teams QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | People and relationships 31 Equality, diversity and inclusion ED&I Page 24 Principal risks and uncertainties: For sustained business success, it is vital to create a recruitment and retention workplace that is inclusive: where our diversity drives innovation and creativity for our customers.
To achieve Page 19 Non-financial KPI: apprentices this, we have revitalised our programme to ensure we and graduates create a workplace and culture where everyone can be authentic, feel valued and realise their full potential.
Learning and development Under the new ED&I strategy we will focus on leadership The QinetiQ Academy is a fundamental enabler of our and culture, training, communication and awareness, vision and strategy, helping our people to develop and recruitment and outreach.
In FY18 we will deliver updated fulfil their potential, through three faculties People, training for key roles, review policy and introduce Fair Business and Engineering, Science and Technical.
Treatment Advisors who will provide an additional route Our learning management system has been developed for advice and support for our people.
We will continue to further in FY17, providing employee access to a growing collaborate with like-minded organisations and networks catalogue of training courses and we have invested in to share ideas.
QinetiQ is subject to new Gender Pay supporting a number of our people to undertake PhDs, Reporting legislation and will be publishing information as part of our IRAD programme.
Key highlights in FY17 later in 2017.
The breakdown of employees by gender include a suite of aligned development programmes: as at the end of March 2017 is shown below.
Female Male Leadership development programme for 1 Board Directors 2 22% 7 78 % our top 100 leaders see page 14.
2 3 Senior Managers 40 17% 201 83% Managers have been trained on a revised PDR 4 All Employees 1,169 20% 4,742 80% process, via a programme called Raising the Bar.
A management development programme MDP 1 For more information on Board diversity see page 53. to develop our 1,100 line managers: MDP covers 2 E xcluding senior managers who are also Board Directors managing transformation and leadership culture.
Business ethics and anti-bribery 4 Excluding senior managers.
Our Code of Conduct lays out our ethical standards, providing our people with clear direction and guidance For more information on ED&I on how we do business across the Group and how to www.
The Code which has been updated forms a cornerstone of our Operating Framework see page 64 The 5% Club Investing in a Generation for more on governance and the role of the Risk & CSR As with many companies in our sector, we need to consider Committee.
Training on business ethics is mandatory the age diversity of our scientists and engineers and we are for all of our people, as well as Board members and is taking a number of steps to ensure access to talent now available for our suppliers and customers.
As well as and in the future.
QinetiQ is a founding member of The 5% explaining the Code of Conduct, the training provides Club, which aims to increase the employment and career challenging scenarios to help our people know what to prospects of todays youth and equip the UK with the skilled do if they were to come across issues such as bribery, workforce it needs.
A commitment of the campaign is conflict of interest, discrimination and modern slavery.
to publish the number of employees on apprenticeships Our people are provided with a number of routes to seek and graduate programmes and sponsored students: the help or raise concerns.
They are encouraged to talk to breakdown is shown below.
We have seen a slight reduction a manager, use our ethics email advice services and this year, due in part to the acquisition of QinetiQ Target our independently-run 24 7 confidential reporting line Systems, and as a result of our reorganisation, which has see page 58.
We have provided prompt help and advice meant a change to how we recruit.
Our plans for next in response to all queries received via our ethics email year will see us increase our investment in QinetiQ advice services and all communication through the Early Career programmes.
confidential reporting line is appropriately investigated.
FY17 FY16 FY15 We have a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and 1 Apprentices 146 150 208 corruption and have put in place a range of governance Graduates 106 135 102 measures.
Our anti-bribery programme is overseen by our Chief Ethics Officer the Group General Counsel and Sponsored students 10 25 8 Company Secretary.
We address the risk of bribery in % UK workforce 4.9% 5.7% 5.9% our international business risk management process: undertaking due diligence, monitoring and auditing of 1 Not including 12 employees undertaking the Systems our use of commercial intermediaries.
We use expert Engineering Masters Apprenticeship Programme.
third-party providers of due diligence where appropriate.
We provide more in-depth anti-bribery training for those The Academy is executing Company-wide graduate and in higher risk roles, for example those who carry out apprentice programmes with core learning modules and overseas business.
This will be a significant factor in attracting people to our Early Careers programmes and Page 22 Principal risks and uncertainties our continuing commitment to The 5% Club.
Our QinetiQ Apprentice Training School is confirmed as a Registered Approved Training Provider and we train not only our own apprentices but also those of customers such as DSTL and the National Crime Agency.
32 Strategic report QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 People and relationships continued Human rights Supply chain We seek to anticipate, prevent and mitigate potential At QinetiQ, we see our supply chain as a critical asset negative human rights impacts through our policy as we look to grow our business.
This year has seen and processes, which underpin our commitment an unprecedented investment in our supply chain in to responsible business practices.
These include support of the test aircrew training and air range our Code of Conduct, business ethics training and modernisation interventions, and many of our future policies to support adherence to export controls, key campaigns are dependent on partnering and health and safety, non-discrimination, anti-bribery contracting with industry to deliver integrated solutions and environmental laws.
This is further supported to our customers.
We are committed to making QinetiQ by our procedures on product and service trading, easy to do business with, especially for the SME product safety, sustainable procurement, due diligence community.
This commitment has been demonstrated and risk management.
We monitor the application of by our innovative approach to supply chain engagement these policies and procedures through our business on our Strategic Enterprise programme.
We believe that this embedded to safety and governance in our supply chain remains approach is effective.
We have a structured approach to paramount.
We continue to refine our approach to risk understanding human rights risk within our international management in the supply chain across the Group to business risk management process and in our supply both protect the interests of QinetiQ and its shareholders, chain.
Our ongoing programme to address modern and also the employees of our subcontractors.
slavery has resulted in updated policies and training.
Our statement on modern slavery and human Community relationships trafficking is published on our website.
As a responsible employer, we invest in making a positive difference in the communities where we For more information on business ethics operate.
Across QinetiQ Group, we provide employees www.
com about-us  with time for skills-based volunteering, typically one day, at manager discretion.
Our main focus is our Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths STEM Relationships STEM Outreach: outreach programme which aims to inspire the next Empowering teachers generation of scientists and engineers, contributing to The relationships we have with customers, suppliers, In July 2016, we hosted teachers solving skills shortages and youth unemployment and business partners and communities are core to our from Farnborough Sixth Form underpinning our approach to skills, recruitment and business today and in the long term.
For us, working College for a week-long STEM retention.
This year we have engaged with over 5,700 collaboratively with these groups delivers better Insight placement to offer them young people through bespoke activities and with a real-world insight and a better outcomes which will drive growth, innovation and teachers see case study.
We have also engaged with understanding of the skills transformation.
Collaboration one of our three over 6,300 young people at events such as The Skills young people need in STEM values will help us to realise our vision to become careers.
Outreach focused on girls forms part of our ED&I the chosen partner around the world for mission-critical run by STEM Learning and is strategy.
As part of National Women in Engineering Day solutions, innovating for our customers advantage.
supported by face-to-face and 2016 we hosted inspirational events for young women at online Continuing Professional six locations across the UK.
We will continue to promote Customer focus Development.
A full case study the benefits of skills-based volunteering in FY18.
Collaborative working is a critical enabler of success is available at www.
com about-us corporatethroughout our strategic campaigns, for us, our Page 24 Principal risks and uncertainties: responsibility.
customers, partners and suppliers page 6.
FY17, we have placed significant, focused effort on strengthening our relationships with the UK MOD and Some of the sites we manage on behalf of the the broader UK Government agencies and this can be MOD have dedicated full-time Community Liaison seen in the progressive contracts we have won under Officers who manage local community and stakeholder the LTPA delivering true transformation across the relationships specific to the site.
This year saw the UK test and evaluation enterprise.
We have also taken end of our five-year partnerships with our existing significant steps forward on improving vital connections charities, donating a total of 251,800 through employee with industry partners, with collaborative agreements fundraising and corporate matched funding.
In the signed with BAE Systems, Boeing Defence UK, MBDA UK, employees have voted to select new corporate and Thales.
By working collaboratively, we will secure charities and we have also selected local Charity of the joint growth with our partners and suppliers to provide Year partners across many of our UK sites.
In the US, our customers with better capability and value for employees fund-raise for a number of defence charities money while accelerating programme timelines and in Australia we have a two-year partnership with and reducing risk.
the Australian War Memorial in Canberra to provide in-kind advisory services and engineering expertise.
We are signatories to the Armed Forces Corporate Covenant.
In 2016, Steve Wadey was presented with For more information on community relationships the MODs Gold Award by the Duke of Cambridge, as www.
com about-us  part of the Defence Employer Recognition Scheme.
The scheme encourages employers to support defence and inspire others to do the same.
The award recognised our approach to recruitment and our commitment to our employees who are reservists.
Page 18 Non-financial KPI: customer satisfaction
