QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance | Corporate governance statement 41 Corporate governance statement Compliance statement The Board considers that QinetiQ has complied with all relevant Provisions of the Code throughout the last financial year.
Overview of the application of Code Principle A The Board considers that all the Non-executive Directors the Main Principles of the Code were independent of QinetiQs executive management Leadership QinetiQ is subject to the and free from any business or other relationships that Financial Reporting Councils could materially interfere with the exercise of their UK Corporate Governance A1 independent judgement throughout the last financial Code the Code as currently in The Role of the Board year.
In accordance with the Code, the Board undertakes effect.
The Code and associated The Board represents the interests of QinetiQ and an annual review of the independence of the Nonguidance are publicly available its shareholders.
It comprises a range of experience executive Directors.
on the Corporate Governance and expertise required to meet the challenges facing page of the Financial Reporting the Group.
The Board of Directors is responsible for Councils website, The Non-executive Directors bring independent overseeing the Groups strategy and performance and www.
judgement on key issues affecting the Group and its ensuring the implementation of operational activity business operations including strategy, performance, This statement provides details which supports the strategy.
It has mandated the resources including key appointments and standards of the way in which the Main organisations standards of behaviour and its risk of conduct.
Their independence of character and Principles of the Code have appetite, along with key policies and processes, integrity, together with the experience and skills that been applied during that year.
and enables the business to implement strategy they bring to their duties, prevent any individual or and monitor operational performance through small group from dominating the decision-making An overview of the Groups its direction and advice.
corporate governance arrangements can be found The Directors powers are subject to the Articles on the QinetiQ website at Code Principle B of Association and any applicable legislation.
Board has delegated the day-to-day operational management of the Company to the Executive Directors and members of the senior management team, but B1 certain matters are reserved to it for its decision.
The Composition of the Board The Board monitors the performance of the senior In compliance with provision B.
1.2 of the Code, at least management team and organises its business half the Board excluding the Chairman comprises to have regular interaction with key members independent Non-executive Directors.
The Board of senior management.
considers the overall size and composition to be appropriate, having regard to the experience and skills The Board met seven times during the year.
The that individual Board members bring to their duties.
The Board of Directors schedule of matters reserved to the Board and the They are able to operate at a high level independently is responsible for Boards objectives and responsibilities can be found of each other but also work together as a team.
This report contains a statement of how the Board operates, including which types of decisions The Board considers that the skills and experience Groups strategy are taken by the Board and which are delegated to of its individual members, particularly in the areas and performance management.
Details of the Board and Committee of UK defence and security, the commercialisation and ensuring the membership and Directors attendance at Board and of innovative technologies, corporate finance Committee meetings are set out on page 46. and governance, international markets and risk implementation of management, have provided both support and operational activity challenge to the Chief Executive Officer, Chief A2 which supports Financial Officer and the executive management Division of Responsibilities team during the year, in terms of both the formulation the strategy.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are not of the new strategy and transformation programme exercised by the same individual and their separate and also in respect of business as usual items which responsibilities are established, set out in writing and require Board oversight, such as financial and trading approved by the Board.
matters and significant commercial projects.
A3 At the date of this report, the Board has nine members: The Chairman the Non-executive Chairman: six other Non-executive The Chairman, working with the Company Secretary, Directors: and two Executive Directors the Chief sets the agenda for Board meetings and encourages an Executive Officer CEO and the Chief Financial open and constructive debate.
In accordance with the Officer CFO.
Code, the Chairman was independent on appointment.
The following changes in Board membership took place A4 during the year: Non-executive Directors The Non-executive Directors bring independent David Mellors resigned as an Executive Director judgement on key issues affecting the Group and its and CFO on 31 December 2016. business operations, including strategy, performance, David Smith was appointed as an Executive Director resources including key appointments and standards and CFO on 1 March 2017. of conduct.
They provide constructive challenge to management and help develop proposals on strategy.
Details of the process for the appointment of the new The Board has appointed a Senior Independent CFO can be found in the report of the Nominations Non-executive Director.
Regular meetings are held Committee on page 52. with the Chairman and Non-executive Directors without the executives present.
42 Corporate governance QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance statement continued Details of the Directors, including their names, skills B5 During the year, and experience can be found in the biographies on Information and Support for Directors pages 48 to 49.
The Chairman, working in conjunction with the Company individual NonSecretary, ensures that the Board receives accurate, executive Directors The Nominations Committee seeks to ensure that the timely and clear information.
visited the composition of the Board and its Committees provides the optimum balance of skills, knowledge, background Shoeburyness and B6 and experience, and to oversee succession planning for Performance Evaluation Boscombe Down the Board and senior management.
The report of the An evaluation of the performance of the Board, its sites in the UK and Nominations Committee can be found on page 52.
Committees and individual Directors, is carried out the Waltham site annually, with an external, independent, review in B2 each third year.
Appointments to the Board The Nominations Committee oversees appointments The most recent external review took place in 2016. to the Board, its balance of skills and experience and the It was carried out by Lintstock and took place in the succession planning process for the Board and senior final quarter of the year so that it could be fully focused management.
It ensures that the requirements for on outside the financial reporting cycle and strategy updating Board membership are met on a timely basis.
The key findings of the prior year external The report of the Nominations Committee can be found evaluation review and progress against them can be on page 52. found on page 50.
During the year under review, an evaluation of B3 the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees Time Commitment was carried out internally by way of a questionnaire The anticipated time commitment required in respect completed by Board members.
Details of the process of the non-executive role is communicated in the and key findings of this evaluation and resulting appointment process.
The Board is notified of changes priorities for the coming year can be found on page 51. to other significant commitments and the Chairman consulted where appropriate.
B7 Re-election of Directors B4 The Company requires each serving member of the Director Training and Development Board to be put forward for election or re-election On appointment, Directors receive a tailored induction on an annual basis at each Annual General Meeting.
programme, comprising site visits, meetings with management, and training where required.
On an Code Principle C ongoing basis, Directors receive appropriate training about the Company and their duties.
The Directors Accountability are also required to complete the annual business ethics training, as noted on page 31.
The Company C1 Secretariat organises site visits and training to suit Financial and Business Reporting individual requirements.
The Board presents its results at the full year and the half year and provides quarterly updates to the market.
David Smith, who joined the Board in March 2017, has The Annual Report and Accounts contains a Strategic received technical materials in respect of the Groups report which provides an explanation of how the policies and procedures, had a series of meetings with Company generates or preserves value over the senior management, members of the Finance team and longer term the business model and the strategy members of the wider leadership community, and has for delivering the objectives of the Company.
A going visited a number of QinetiQ sites, including Malvern and concern statement and longer-term viability statement Portsmouth in the UK and Waltham in the USA.
He has are included on pages 58 and 22 respectively, also met with the Companys auditors, brokers, and responsibility statements can be found on page 95, financial and corporate relations advisors.
and details of the process for ensuring that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable can During the year, individual Non-executive Directors be found on page 61.
There is also a statement visited the Shoeburyness and Boscombe Down sites in in the auditors report on page 99 about their the UK and the Waltham site in the USA, as a result of reporting responsibilities.
The Board received collective training in the form of technical briefings from KPMG on C2 accounting changes, from Ashurst on the Market Abuse Risk Management and Internal Control Regulation and a corporate governance update from The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups the Company Secretary.
Non-executive Directors also system of internal control and for reviewing its personally arranged and attended external updates effectiveness in safeguarding shareholders and training courses.
interests and the Companys assets.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance | Corporate governance statement 43 The system is designed to manage and mitigate, rather Code Principle E All shareholders are than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business Relations with Shareholders objectives, and, like any appropriate or proportionate invited to attend the system of corporate internal control, cannot provide Annual General E1 absolute assurance against material misstatement Dialogue with Shareholders Meeting AGM or loss.
The Chairman ensures that all Directors are made aware and to ask questions.
of major shareholder issues and concerns, by way of Details of risk management and internal control reports from the Executive Directors at Board meetings, processes can be found on pages 54 to 57.
The risk attendance at key financial calendar events and by management process and the system of internal control making themselves available to meet shareholders necessary to manage risks are assessed and monitored as required.
by the Audit Committee financial risks and the Risk AGM date & CSR Committee non-financial risks.
A report on The Company attaches significant importance to 19 July 2017 specific risk review activity undertaken during the year maintaining an effective engagement with shareholders by those committees, together with the current risk to ensure a mutual understanding of objectives and registers, is presented by the CEO to the Board annually.
to deal with issues of concern.
Responsibility for The Strategic report contains on pages 22 to 25 details communications with shareholders rests with the of the Companys principal risks and uncertainties, their Executive Directors, assisted by the Group Director, impact and how they are managed.
The Company Secretary oversees communications with private An explanation of how the Directors have assessed the individual shareholders.
As noted on page 67, meetings prospects of the Company and a statement in respect with investors during the year were led by the Chairman of the Boards assessment of the Companys longer-term and the Senior Independent Director.
Investor roadshows, viability are set out on page 22. analyst presentations and webcasts were carried out during the year, as detailed on page 67.
C3 Audit Committee and Auditors An analysis of the shareholder register, by type of holder The Board has established an Audit Committee and by size of holding, can be found on page 152. comprising at least three independent Non-executive Directors, with formal terms of reference.
It oversees the E2 financial risk management and internal controls process, Constructive Use of the Annual General Meeting the effectiveness of internal audit activities, the external All shareholders are invited to attend the Annual General auditors independence and objectivity and makes Meeting AGM and to ask questions.
The Chairs of recommendations to the Board in respect of the the Audit, Nominations, Remuneration, Risk & CSR reappointment of the external auditor and their and Security Committees attend the meeting and remuneration.
The report of the Audit Committee are available to answer any questions on the work can be found on pages 59 to 63. of the committees.
Code Principle D The 2016 AGM was held at the offices of Ashurst LLP, Remuneration Broadwalk House, 5 Appold Street, London EC2A 2HA, on 20 July 2016 and each member of the Board attended D1 the meeting and was available to take questions.
Level and Components of Remuneration The Board has established a Remuneration Committee The 2017 AGM is scheduled to be held at Ashurst LLP, with formal terms of reference.
It is responsible for Broadwalk House, 5 Appold Street, London EC2A 2HA, ensuring that levels of remuneration are of sufficient on 19 July 2017.
The Company confirms that it will send quality and that any performance related elements the Notice of Meeting and relevant documentation to all are relevant, stretching and designed to promote shareholders at least 20 working days before the date the long-term success of the Company.
For those shareholders who have elected to receive communications electronically, notice is given of the availability of documents in the Investors section D2 of the Groups website.
Developing Remuneration Policy and Packages The report of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the Directors remuneration report on pages 82 to 84.
It provides details of, or links to, the Groups reward and remuneration policies and payments, and also the procedure for setting policy on Executive Director remuneration.
The Committee also recommends and monitors the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
The Directors remuneration report is incorporated into this corporate governance statement by reference.
44 Corporate governance QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Code Principle A Leadership Board objectives an impact on the Group, from which the corporate plan Non-executive The overarching remit of the Board is to demonstrate is generated.
It is also regularly kept up to date on the highest standards of corporate governance in strategic issues throughout the year.
Directors have accordance with the Code and to carry out the attended each Directors fiduciary duties: For each meeting, as standing items, the Board receives of the quarterly a written report from the CEO and CFO and a report To demonstrate strategic leadership and oversight: produced by the Company Secretary on key legal and extended leadership regulatory issues that affect the Group.
To agree the strategy and to ensure the continuing meetings run by evolution and implementation of the Groups strategy the Executive The CEOs and CFOs report contains a financial to deliver value to all stakeholders: customers, overview, addresses the key actions taken in pursuit employees and shareholders: Committee and of strategic initiatives which have had an impact on the To develop challenging objectives for the business which are attended Group since the previous Board meeting, with particular and monitor management performance against by approximately focus on the progress of each of the businesses, those goals: a report on investor relations which is prepared in 100 senior leaders To provide a framework of effective controls to assess consultation with QinetiQs brokers and a report within the Group.
and manage risks, with clear expectations of conduct on employee matters.
to the highest standards of ethics: To provide support and constructive challenges to During the year under review, in response to comments the CEO and senior management to promote the arising from the annual Board effectiveness review Groups success: as detailed on page 50, the format of the CEOs and CFOs report was adjusted to lay greater emphasis on To demonstrate leadership in management systems the growth strategy of the Company, to give more detail around health, safety and environment: and on customer engagement and to give details of progress To manage succession planning for the Board with strategic goals.
Other matters which might be and the Groups executive management.
included in the report as and when required include health, safety and environmental matters, corporate Matters reserved to the Board responsibility, the status of key account management The Board has a clearly articulated set of matters customer relationship initiatives, the pipeline of potential which are specifically reserved to it for consideration, bids, acquisitions, disposals and investments, and in addition to those specified in the Companys the post-acquisition performance of recently Articles of Association.
These include but are not limited to : The Board also receives updates from key functional areas on a structured basis, on issues such as human Reviewing and approving the annual budgets: resources, treasury, corporate responsibility, real estate, Raising indebtedness: security, trade controls and pensions.
Granting security over Group assets: Approving Group strategy and the corporate plan: During the year under review, members of the senior management team presented to the Board and its Approving the Annual and Half-Year Report and Committees on specific areas, including research Accounts: and development activity, recruitment and retention, Approving significant investment, bid, acquisition reputational risk, corporate responsibility, cyber risk and and divestment transactions: strategy.
Non-executive Directors have attended each Approving HR policies including pension of the quarterly extended leadership meetings run by arrangements : the Executive Committee and which are attended by Reviewing material litigation: and approximately 100 senior leaders within the Group.
The meetings take place over a two-day period, include Monitoring the overall system of internal control, updates on key business developments and provide including risk management.
networking and development opportunities for the wider leadership community.
Operation of the Board The Board has an annual calendar of meetings and Board and Committee meetings are generally spread operates through a comprehensive set of processes over a two-day period, to allow sufficient time for the which define the schedule of matters to be considered Board to deal with the various items of business.
The by the Board and its Committees during the annual Chairman meets with the Non-executive Directors, business cycle.
This includes the level of delegated without executives present, after each Board meeting.
authorities both financial and non-financial available to Executive Directors and other layers of management The Board also meets informally, to facilitate Board in the business, QinetiQs business ethics, risk integration and working together as a team, and to allow management, and health, safety and environmental time for the Directors to consider other matters outside processes.
The Board devotes one entire meeting each of the formal agenda.
year to consider strategy and planning issues that have QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance | Corporate governance statement 45 Key issues considered by the Board in the past year During the year under review, the Board continued to focus on its drivers for growth implementation of strategy, oversight of progress with the Group transformation programme and organisational design, business development initiatives and financial performance.
Group strategy for each business area Air and Space, Maritime In 2016, the Company initiated a two-year Land and Weapons, Cyber Information and Training, transformation programme, designed to deliver and transformation International, OptaSense, QinetiQ North America and growth through improved customer focus and greater programme Business Development, and updates on the Groups operational efficiency.
As part of this programme, a financial performance and trajectory, and on the new operating model based on collaboration, improved 1 ongoing internal business transformation programme efficiency and new ways of working across the in respect of process excellence, competitiveness, and Company was rolled out.
An organisational design working environment.
At the outset, the CEO set out programme in the Companys employee structure was The Board has had full oversight of the progress of the the objectives for the meeting and the Board advised completed during the year under review to support the Group strategy and transformation programme during on the details they wished to understand from the delivery of this operating model.
The Board was kept the year.
Of the seven Board meetings held during the discussions.
In the concluding remarks, it was noted up to date on progress against objectives and was year, Group strategy was presented at five of them, the that the matters raised by the Board had been able to challenge developments by way of regular other two Board meetings having a particular focus addressed and the conclusions noted.
reports from the Group Director, Transformation and on the financial results.
At three of the meetings, the by way of updates in the CEOs and CFOs report.
At Group Director, Strategy and Planning, gave an update the October Board Strategy meeting, a specific report Business leaders attended the two-day meeting on key aspects of the Group strategy, on mergers on the transformation programme was presented by and presented on key subject areas where required.
and acquisitions, on progress against strategic goals, the Group Director, Transformation, and the impact There was also time allocated during the two-day on market conditions and on particular areas of of the organisational design programme was referred period to enable the Board and the senior managers strategic focus.
At these meetings the Board had to in a wider report by the CEO and Group Director, to meet informally.
the opportunity to question and challenge the Human Resources in respect of HR strategy, talent work being undertaken.
At the March Board meeting, the Group Director, Strategy and Planning, presented the Integrated The October Board Strategy meeting was a two-day The progress of the Integrated Strategic Business Plan Strategic Business Plan for the coming financial year, meeting held at an off-site location where the strategy and transformation programme will continue to be on the plan being the culmination of feedback from the for the Group as a whole was reviewed by the Board.
the Board agenda for review and measurement over October strategy meeting, progress against existing Reading materials were circulated in advance of the the coming year.
Details of the Group strategy can be strategic objectives and targets for the coming year.
meeting, setting the strategic market context and found in the Strategic report on pages 14 to 17. including updates on strategic initiatives, the strategy Business development QinetiQ will modernise and operate the air ranges at amendment was finally agreed and announced MOD Aberporth and MOD Hebrides, and test aircrew in December 2016.
At the January Board meeting contract amendment training through the Empire Test Pilots School at MOD the Group Director, Business Development and to the Long Term Boscombe Down.
The Board of Directors considered the Group Director, Test & Evaluation presented the proposal at a Board meeting in July and approved an update on how work under the new arrangement 2 Partnering Agreement it for initial presentation to the customer.
An update on was progressing and provided an update on progress progress was provided in the CEOs and CFOs report against the objectives relating to T&E.
Throughout at the September meeting and a formal presentation the process the Board was kept up to date on In December 2016, QinetiQ announced a was made by the Group Director, Test & Evaluation at developments and had the opportunity to 1bn contract amendment to the Long Term the Board Strategy meeting in October on the priorities challenge management where appropriate.
Partnering Agreement with the UK Ministry of Defence, related to the Companys T&E strategy, approach, under which Test and Evaluation T&E services have progress to date, targets and next steps.
The contract been delivered since 2003.
Under the amendment, Financial in November and May respectively.
At the May Board In terms of dividend considerations, at both the full meeting, the draft annual report and financial results year and the half-year, the CFO tables a dividend paper reporting announcement were considered.
The Companys which contains a recommendation as to whether brokers attended relevant parts of the meeting.
The to retain the current dividend policy and to propose Board received a report from the CFO and considered consideration of a dividend payment based on that 3 the recommendation from the Audit Committee in policy.
The current dividend policy was reinstated in respect of the work undertaken to satisfy the fair, May 2011, when the Group recommenced payment balanced and understandable requirement and the of a dividend on the basis of a progressive dividend Financial reporting is an ongoing area of Board longer-term viability assessment.
The Board received policy which will take into account the profitability of governance, which is carried out in three principal a summary of the principal controls put in place by the QinetiQs businesses and underlying growth, as well ways: i by way of a standing report at each Board executive to ensure the integrity of the audit process, as its capital requirements and cash flows, while meeting from the CEO and CFO: ii by way of review including the provision of information to the auditor, maintaining an appropriate level of dividend cover.
The of the full year and half-year results: and iii by way the self-certification process and internal management final dividend will normally represent approximately of an update at the annual Board Strategy meeting.
representations, and a going concern review.
A paper two-thirds of the full year dividend in future periods.
As noted above, the CEOs and CFOs report tabled at was also tabled to discuss dividend considerations.
The dividend paper presented to the Board covers each Board meeting contains a Group financial report.
these various aspects and also looks at sustainability This report contains an overview, split by month and and market expectations.
At the November Board meeting, the half-year full year summary, and sets out details of Group announcement and draft results presentation were financial performance to date, the latest forecast, presented by the CEO and CFO to the Board for At the annual Board Strategy meeting, the CFO and performance by sector.
their consideration, together with a paper to discuss gave a presentation on the financial performance dividend considerations.
The Companys auditor trajectory, looking at Group performance against key In conjunction with the Audit Committee, the Board and brokers attended relevant parts of the meeting.
financial parameters across a range of scenarios.
reviews the results at the half-year and the full year, 46 Corporate governance QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Code Principle A Leadership continued Attendance at meetings of the Board and its Committees: 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2017 The Disclosure Audit Nominations Remuneration Risk & CSR Committee was Members Board Committee Committee Committee Committee established during Mark Elliott 7 7 6 6 5 5 4 4 the year under review Steve Wadey 7 7 6 6 4 4 to ensure compliance David Smith Appointed 1 March 2017 1 1 with the Market Lynn Brubaker 7 7 6 6 6 6 5 5 4 4 Abuse Regulation.
Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 7 7 6 6 6 6 5 5 4 4 Michael Harper 7 7 6 6 6 6 5 5 4 4 1 Ian Mason 6 7 5 6 5 6 4 5 4 4 David Mellors Resigned 31 December 2016 5 5 3 3 2 Paul Murray 7 7 6 6 5 6 5 5 4 4 Susan Searle 7 7 6 6 6 6 5 5 4 4 1 Ian Mason was unable to attend the March Board Committees, with the exception of the Disclosure and Committee meetings due to a prior commitment.
Committee as noted below and other than where 2 P aul Murray was unable to attend the July Nominations prohibited by the Code, statutory or Security Committee Committee meeting due to a prior commitment.
As a result, all Board members are There was no requirement for the Security Committee members of the Risk & CSR Committee, which to meet during the year.
facilitates full consideration of the oversight of internal controls and non-financial risk management, with all of Committees the Non-executive Directors being the members of the During the year, QinetiQ operated by way of five principal Audit Committee and focusing on financial controls and Board Committees and the Executive Committee.
Details of the key issues discussed, and decisions taken, are circulated to In the interests of full Board participation and all members of the Board after the relevant transparency, the Board maintains a policy of all Committee meeting.
of the Directors being members of all of the Board Board Committees Board of Directors Audit Nominations Remuneration Risk & CSR Security Disclosure Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee The Board has established five principal Committees: Committee is held after each Board meeting, with all the Audit Committee, the Nominations Committee, the Board members in attendance, which reviews the work Remuneration Committee, the Risk & CSR Committee of the executive-level Disclosure Panel that has taken and the Security Committee, together with a Disclosure place since the previous Board meeting.
Each operates within written terms of reference approved by the Board.
The full terms of reference of each Committee can be found in the Governance section of the QinetiQ website The Disclosure Committee was established during the at www.
year under review to ensure compliance with the Market Abuse Regulation.
The Disclosure Committee comprises A report in respect of each of the five principal the Chairman, the CEO, the CFO and any one of the Committees is set out in this report on the pages noted Non-executive Directors that chair the Audit Committee, in the index on page 39.
The details of attendance at Remuneration Committee or Risk & CSR Committee.
Committee meetings are set out in the table on the The role of the Committee is, on an ad hoc basis, to previous page.
determine whether information is inside information which would require disclosure, and to make The relevant Code disclosures in respect of the recommendations as to when that information Remuneration Committee are set out in the Directors should be disclosed, in accordance with regulatory remuneration report on pages 68 to 91 and are requirements.
In addition, a meeting of the Disclosure incorporated into this Corporate governance statement by reference.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance | Corporate governance statement 47 The Executive Committee During the year under review, the Committee met on Executive Committee The Executive Committee comprises the CEO, CFO, a two-weekly basis, and reported via the Chief Executive the MDs of the business groups and functional heads.
Its focus continued to be on the members and The full list of members can be found in the Governance achievement of the Groups strategic goals in respect members of the senior section of the QinetiQ website at www.
com of growth and operational excellence, with an ongoing management team about-us corporate-governance and as at the date consideration of governance issues.
The Executive of this report is as set out in the table below: Committee received, discussed and acted upon subject present to the Board presentations on health, safety and environment, risks and the Board Executive Committee membership: and opportunities, trade controls, business ethics, Committees security and General Compliance matters.
It was Steve Wadey Chief Executive Officer responsible for the day-to-day management of the on key matters.
David Smith Chief Financial Officer Groups activities, with the exception of QinetiQ North America which is managed through the Proxy Board, Jon Messent Company Secretary & as described on page 57 in the section headed Group General Counsel Management and control of US subsidiaries and John Anderson Managing Director, the oversight of the risk management process and Air & Space its implementation by the businesses and functions.
Ian Beresford Group Director, Engineering & Operations The Group uses a number of different committees to David Bishop Group Director, Investor monitor and drive operational excellence and to ensure Relations & Communications appropriate actions are taken to deliver the strategy.
Michelle Cummins Group Director, Human These committees are split between strategic and Resources operational focus.
Iain Farley Managing Director, International In addition, the Executive Committee has set up a number of sub-committees to drive integration, Sarah Kenny Managing Director, Maritime, alignment and monitoring of policies and processes Land & Weapons across the Group, to ensure functional excellence Jamie Pollard Chief Executive Officer, and best practice.
Each sub-committee is led by a OptaSense member of the Executive Committee and comprises Neville Salkeld Group Director, Strategy representatives from relevant businesses and functions.
& Planning Andy Thorp Group Director, Business Communication between the Board and the Development Executive Committee Vicky Weise Chief of Staff The Executive Directors and Company Secretary are Jeff Yorsz President, QinetiQ North members of the Executive Committee and are involved America in the day-to-day management of the Groups business, operations and underlying committees.
Other Executive Committee members and members of the senior management team present to the Board and the Board Committees on key matters.
This interaction enables the Board to receive information first-hand about the Company and its operations and to give guidance on strategy and oversight of the business direct to senior management.
