THE S THE STRA TRATE TEGIC REPOR GIC REPORT T GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE FINANCIAL S FINANCIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S ADDITIONAL INF ADDITIONAL INFORMA ORMATION TION How we govern the group Our governance structure The Board is responsible for managing the group, agreeing strategy, overseeing performance, and discharging The Board certain legal responsibilities.
The Board delegates day-to-day responsibility for running the group to BTs executive management, with specialist tasks passed to various Board committees.
PG106 and 107 For the Board biographies PG116 For Board diversity www.
com for Board news PG109To read about the Board activities for the year Equality of Audit & Risk Nominating Remuneration BT Pensions Committee for Technology Access Board Committee & Governance Committee Committee Sustainable and Committee Committee Responsible Business The Equality of The Nominating The Audit & Risk The Remuneration The BT Pensions The Committee The Technology Access Board EAB & Governance Committee is Committee agrees Committee is for Sustainable Committee agrees monitors, reports Committee makes responsible for the remuneration responsible for and Responsible the development and advises on BT's sure the Board has financial and framework for our overseeing the BT Business provides and implementation compliance with the the right balance narrative reporting, chairman, executive Pension Scheme the strategic of BTs major Undertakings given of skills, experience, internal controls and directors and certain BTPS.
oversight necessary technology by BT to Ofcom.
independence risk management, senior executives.
to make sure BT strategies.
The EAB reports and knowledge.
including core is a sustainable regularly to the It also oversees compliance and responsible Board and publishes BTs governance programmes and business.
an annual report to framework.
assurance, internal audit and external audit.
com eab PG112 PG116 PG122 PG118 PG119 PG120 The Operating Committee OC is our key management committee.
It makes decisions on operational issues Operating and other matters within the framework established by the Board.
Committee PG14 For the OC biographies Conflicted Matters Committee Integration Committee Investigatory Powers Governance Committee This committee is responsible for overseeing The Integration Committee monitors and Following the appointment of Tim Httges BTs role in the use of official investigatory oversees the integration of EE and BT.
to the Board, we established the Conflicted powers.
Matters Committee to review all Board papers and agenda items that could give rise to a conflicted matter.
com  Annual R Annual Repor eport 2017 t 2017 B BT Gr T Group plc oup plc 105 105 THE S THE STRA TRATE TEGIC REPOR GIC REPORT T GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE FINANCIAL S FINANCIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S ADDITIONAL INF ADDITIONAL INFORMA ORMATION TION Key to membership of Board committees Board of Directors ARC Audit & Risk CSRB Sustainable & Responsible Business EAB Equality of Access Board Committee Chair IC Integration NAG Nominating & Governance OC Operating TC PEN BT Pensions REM Remuneration Technology CSRB NAG PEN IC OC TC CSRB IC OC PEN REM IC NAG TC ARC NAG TC Sir Michael Rake Gavin Patterson Simon Lowth Tony Ball Iain Conn Tim Httges Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Non-independent, non-executive director Appointed to the Board as chairman in Appointed chief executive in September Appointed to the Board as group finance Appointed to the Board in July 2009.
Appointed to the Board in June 2014.
Appointed to the Board in January 2016.
2013 and on the Board since June 2008. director in July 2016.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Tony brings international business expertise Iain has significant international experience, Skills and experience Sir Michael has financial, risk, international Skills and experience Simon has experience in finance, accounting, in addition to financial, operational, sales, and understanding of technology and Tim has international telecoms experience business and professional services expertise Gavin has experience in sales, marketing, risk, corporate strategy and mergers and marketing and media experience.
Iain joined Centrica as chief having been CEO of Deutsche Telekom since gained during his time at KPMG 1974 to technology and operations.
He was CFO and executive 1999 to 2003 Tony was chief executive executive in January 2015 having been January 2014, and with the company since 2007 where he was senior partner in the previously CEO, BT Retail and from 2004 to director of BG Group before the takeover of BSkyB and until 2013 chairman of with BP since 1986.
From 2009 until his appointment UK from 1998 and international chairman 2008 was managing director, BT Consumer by Royal Dutch Shell in February 2016.
Germanys largest cable operator, Kabel Iain was executive director of BP and chief as CEO, he was a member of the board of from 2002.
He was knighted in 2007 and BT Retail.
Before joining BT, Gavin was Simon was CFO and an executive director Deutschland GmbH.
He has held a number executive downstream from 2007 to 2014. management responsible for finance and is a former president of the Confederation of managing director of the consumer division of AstraZeneca from 2007 to 2013, and of senior executive positions in broadcasting Until May 2014, Iain was a non-executive controlling.
From 2006 to 2009 he was British Industry.
of Telewest now Virgin Media.
Prior to that an executive director of ScottishPower from and telecoms businesses in the UK, US and director of Rolls-Royce for nine years, and a member of the board of management he spent nine years at Procter & Gamble, 2003 to 2007, and was appointed finance Continental Europe.
responsible for the T-Home unit.
In this Other appointments include rising to become European marketing director in 2005.
Prior to that, Simon was a position, he was in charge of fixed-network Chairman of Worldpay Group, International director.
Other appointments include Other appointments include and broadband business, as well as Chamber of Commerce UK and Majid Al Senior adviser to Providence Equity Partners, Member of the CBI Presidents Committee, integrated sales and service in Germany.
Futtaim Holdings and a director of S&P Other appointments include Other appointments chairman of the advisory council of Portland chairman of the advisory board of the Global formerly McGraw Hill Financial.
Non-executive director of British Airways None outside BT.
PR, Ambassadors Theatre Group and Bite Imperial College Business School and Other appointments include and a member of the CBI Presidents Group.
member of the Imperial College Council.
Chairman of T-Mobile US and a supervisory Committee.
board member of FC Bayern Mnchen AG and of Henkel AG & Co. KGaA.
EAB PEN NAG REM REM TC ARC REM TC ARC IC NAG REM ARC CSRB Jan du Plessis Isabel Hudson Mike Inglis Karen Richardson Nick Rose Jasmine Whitbread Jan will join BT on 1 June 2017 as a Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director non-executive director and will become Appointed to the Board in November 2014.
Appointed to the Board in September 2015.
Appointed to the Board in November 2011.
Appointed to the Board in January 2011 Appointed to the Board in January 2011. chairman from 1 November 2017.
Age 54. and senior independent director since March Age 53.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Isabel has experience in the financial sector Mikes technology experience includes With a career over 30 years in the Skills and experience Jasmine has experience in transforming as well as pensions, risk, control, governance serving on the board of ARM Holdings from technology and software industry, Karen Nick brings experience in finance, risk, large complex organisations in the UK and and international business.
Isabel was 2002 to 2013, with roles including chief brings experience in technology having held control, governance and international internationally and brings an understanding previously a non-executive director of The commercial officer, executive vice president a number of senior operating roles in both business expertise.
He was chief financial of corporate social responsibility and Pensions Regulator, MGM Advantage, QBE and general manager of the processor the public and private technology sector.
She officer of Diageo prior to his retirement in sustainable business.
She was previously Insurance, Standard Life and an executive division and executive vice president of sales is a former adviser to Silver Lake Partners, December 2010, having joined the board chief executive of Save the Children director of Prudential Assurance Company in and marketing.
Prior to joining ARM, Mike was with NASDAQ-listed software company in 1999. International and has a background in the UK.
worked in management consultancy with Epiphany Inc, latterly as chief executive and technology marketing.
Dan Fitz AT Kearney and held a number of senior has served on a number of corporate boards Other appointments include Company Secretary Other appointments include operational and marketing positions at including VirtuOz, Proofpoint, Hi5 Networks Chairman of Williams Grand Prix Holdings, Other appointments include Dan is the group general counsel & Executive chair of National House Building Motorola.
Mike was previously a director at and Convercent.
senior independent director of BAE Systems Chief executive of London First and noncompany secretary.
He joined BT in April Council and senior independent director of Pace.
and non-executive chairman of Loch executive director of Standard Chartered.
2010 as its group general counsel.
Isabel is also an ambassador Other appointments include Lomond Scotch Whisky.
Adviser to CCMP for the disability charity, SCOPE.
Other appointments include Director of AYASDI, Exponent, HackerRank, Capital.
Non-executive chairman of Ilika and a and Worldpay Group.
director of Advanced Micro Devices.
106 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 107 Leadership The Board Who we are Composition Gender diversity Balance of non-executive directors executive directors Tenure years chairman and non-executive directors Read more about the Board directors and the skills and experience they bring to BT on pages 106 and 107.
12.5% 73% Male 1 Chairman 45% 0-3 The Board consists of: the chairman, the chief executive, the group finance director, seven independent non-executive directors including 11% 3-6 the senior independent director and one non-independent, non- 2 Executive directors executive director.
The Board is supported by the company secretary.
87.5% 27% Female The roles of the chairman and the chief executive are separate.
They 33% 6-9 are set out in written job descriptions which provide clear, distinct 1 Non-independent non-executive director responsibilities for each role.
Simon Lowth joined the Board on 12 July 2016.
Hes also a member of the BT Pensions, Integration and Operating Committees.
7 Independent non-executive directors 11% 9-12 Following the Nominating & Governance Committees recommendation, we approved the re-appointments of Nick Rose and Jasmine Whitbread on the expiry of their second three-year Composition Gender diversity Balance of non-executive directors executive directors Tenure years chairman and non-executive directors terms.
The majority of the Board is made up of independent non-executive 12.5% 73% Male 1 Chairman 45% 0-3 directors.
We judged the chairman to be independent at the time of his appointment, and consider all other non-executive directors to 11% 3-6 be independent under the terms of the Code, with the exception of 2 Executive directors Tim Httges, a non-independent, non-executive.
87.5% 27% Female Read about the roles of the Board members and the company 33% 6-9 secretary below.
1 Non-independent non-executive director The Chairman The chairmans role is to: lead the Board and create a culture of openness characterised by debate and appropriate challenge: 7 Independent non-executive directors 11% 9-12 promote the highest standards of corporate governance: ensure that the Board determines the nature and extent of the significant risks BT is willing to take to implement its strategy: Composition Gender diversity Balance of non-executive directors executive directors Tenure years chairman and non-executive directors make sure that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information, and is consulted on all relevant matters: 12.5 %monitor the contribution and performance of Board members: 73% Male 1 Chairman 45% 0-3 make sure that BT communicates clearly with shareholders, and discusses their views and concerns with the Board: and 11% 3-6 acts as a key contact for important stakeholders, as well as 2 Executive directors 27% Female 87.5% working with the chief executive and senior independent director to represent BT in key strategic and government relationships.
33% 6-9 The Chief Executive 1 Non-independent non-executive director The chief executives role is to: lead the groups performance and management: propose strategies, business plans and policies to the Board: implement Board decisions, policies and strategies: 7 Independent non-executive directors 11% 9-12 develop and promote compliance with BTs policies on conducting business around the world: maintain an effective framework of internal controls and risk management: lead the Operating Committee in the day-to-day running of every part of the business: and lead, motivate and monitor the performance of BTs senior management team, as well as overseeing succession planning for roles on the Operating Committee.
com for more information 108 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 THE S THE STRA TRATE TEGIC REPOR GIC REPORT T GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE FINANCIAL S FINANCIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S ADDITIONAL INF ADDITIONAL INFORMA ORMATION TION The Independent Non-Executive Directors The chart below shows how the Board allocated its time.
A number The independent non-executive directors role is to: of these areas are also considered by the Board committees.
bring experience and independent judgement to the Board: and Allocation of time develop and constructively challenge strategy proposals.
Each non-executive director is appointed for an initial three-year 21% Strategy term but they are all subject to annual re-election by shareholders 20% Governance, risk and audit at the Annual General Meeting.
Provided each director is re-elected by shareholders every year, their appointment may be extended.
The Senior Independent Director 4% People, health and safety The senior independent director is a non-executive director whose role is to: meet with BTs major institutional shareholders and shareholder representative bodies, to discuss matters that wouldnt be 33% Business and CEO updates appropriate for discussion with the chairman or chief executive: act as a sounding board for the chairman and as an intermediary between the chairman and other directors: and 22% Finance and investor relations review the chairmans performance during the year, taking account of feedback from other Board members.
The Board has a flexible forward programme of business that makes The Non-Independent Non-Executive Director sure key areas get the time they need, and that items can be added After acquiring EE, we appointed Deutsche Telekoms nominated to agendas as necessary.
During 2016 17 we spent considerable director Tim Httges to the Board.
Tim owes a fiduciary duty to both time discussing our Italian business, the issues around Deemed BT and Deutsche Telekom.
As a non-independent, non-executive Consent and Ofcoms Strategic Review of Digital Communications.
director, Tim has the same responsibilities as the other directors: Read more about these matters on pages 6, 7 and 39. weve set up a Conflicted Matters Committee to identify potential or The Boards annual programme included: actual conflicts of interest.
Read more about this committee below.
Chief executives reports Succession planning The Company Secretary Financial reports Customer experience The company secretarys role is to: Strategy Regulation manage the flow of timely, accurate and well-considered Line of business updates Governance and compliance information to the Board: Risk management Approach to tax recommend corporate governance policies and practices to the Dividend policy Annual Report & Form 20-F chairman and the chief executive: Investor relations Human rights put in place and promote corporate governance policies across Health, safety and well-being Board evaluation the group: BT Sport Investing for the future advise the Board and its committees on corporate governance We also received updates from the respective chairs on key matters and compliance across the group: and put in place the right discussed at the Board committees.
procedures for managing their meetings and duties.
The Board also sets time aside to hold a strategy offsite, giving directors the opportunity to focus solely on strategic issues and The company secretarys appointment and removal is a matter for challenges and opportunities in the short and longer term areas of the whole Board.
particular focus were Global Services, Business and Public Sector, the network and market developments.
What weve done The Board is responsible for deciding the groups strategy and Conflicted Matters Committee CMC overseeing its performance, while passing the responsibility for dayThe CMC is chaired by the company secretary.
Its responsible for to-day operations to executive management.
The Board is directly deciding to what extent Board meetings and papers are likely to involved with approving major acquisitions, providing oversight consider or refer to a conflict of interest between BT and DT or and control, growing shareholder value and promoting corporate their respective affiliates.
The committee considers both actual governance.
and potential conflicts of interest including situations where BT and DT or their respective affiliates are considered competitors.
The CMC helps the non-independent, non-executive director Tim Httges comply with his fiduciary duties although ultimate responsibility rests with him, supports good governance and protects the groups competitively sensitive information.
If a conflict arises the CMC makes sure the non-independent, non-executive director doesnt receive related documents or information and that he absents himself from related Board discussions.
During the year a number of Board papers were identified as containing conflicted material.
Tim either didnt receive these documents or he received a redacted version.
Tim also didnt receive any reports regarding Global Services which contained conflicted material and wasnt present when these reports were discussed by the Board.
Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 109 The Leadership continued Attendance at Board meetings Investigatory Powers Governance Committee The following table shows each directors attendance at Board The Investigatory Powers Act 2016 made changes to the meetings during the financial year.
The chairman meets privately investigatory powers regime in the UK.
To enhance our own with independent non-executive directors before most scheduled processes we have created the Investigatory Powers Governance Board meetings.
We encourage directors who cant attend a Board Committee, chaired by Sir Mike Rake, to help ensure we strike the meeting to give the chairman their views in advance.
right balance between complying with the law and respecting human rights, including the right to privacy.
Board members We reviewed our Board committee structure and approved changes Meetings to some committees terms of reference.
Eligible to Member attend Attended Director election and re-election Sir Michael Rake chairman 12 12 Jan du Plessis appointed to the Board with effect from 1 June 2017 will be proposed for election.
All other directors will be Gavin Patterson 12 12 proposed for re-election by shareholders at the AGM in line with the a Tony Chanmugam 5 5 Code.
b Simon Lowth 8 8 Length of appointment of chairman and non-executive directors Tony Ball 12 12 Iain Conn 12 11 Sep 2007 Sir Michael Rake Tim Httges 12 10 Jul 2009 Tony Ball Isabel Hudson 12 12 Jan 2011 Jasmine Whitbread Mike Inglis 12 12 Jan 2011 Nick Rose Karen Richardson 12 12 Nov 2011 Karen Richardson Nick Rose 12 12 June 2014 lain Conn Jasmine Whitbread 12 12 a Nov 2014 Isabel Hudson Tony stepped down from the Board on 13 July 2016. b Simon was appointed to the Board from 12 July 2016.
Sep 2015 Mike Inglis The chairman reviews the directors attendance, contribution and Jan 2016 Tim Httges performance.
He currently considers that each of them continues 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 to make an effective contribution to the Board on a wide range of issues, as well as demonstrating commitment to their role.
Calendar year Nick Rose reviewed and discussed the chairmans performance during the year, taking into account feedback from other Board We include details of all directors contracts letters of appointment in members.
the Report on Directors Remuneration.
Board induction On appointment, directors take part in an induction programme to increase their understanding of our business.
Meetings are arranged with the chairman, chief executive, senior independent director and company secretary, as well as other Board members and senior members of management to ensure directors gain a thorough overview and understanding of the business.
They receive information about BT including financial data and the key policies supporting BTs business practices.
We also give new directors details on: the role of the Board, its terms of reference, the membership of our main Board committees and matters reserved for decision by the Board, the Board committees or BTs most senior executives.
110 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 THE S THE STRA TRATE TEGIC REPOR GIC REPORT T GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE FINANCIAL S FINANCIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S ADDITIONAL INF ADDITIONAL INFORMA ORMATION TION Training and information Board evaluation We encourage all directors to regularly update their skills and The chairman and company secretary carried out a Board evaluation knowledge.
As part of this the Board and individual directors receive in 2016 through an electronic questionnaire.
We discussed the ongoing training as required.
The chairman works with individual resulting report and noted that the overall results were positive.
directors to identify any specific training they need to perform their role.
The chief executive regularly includes information on the Directors commented positively on the effective operation of the business in his report to the Board.
This can include updates on Board.
They felt that Board members work well together as a unit, operational matters, the competitive and regulatory environment and that the non-executive directors strike a good balance between affecting the group and the wider communications industry, group supporting and challenging management.
Directors commented and line of business performance, strategy, investor relations and favourably on the Board strategy day, and they felt that the Board corporate responsibility.
The chairman also provides a weekly written played an important and positive role in the EE transaction.
update to the non-executive directors on key business activities, high level meetings, regulation and relevant sector highlights.
The table below shows progress against the main actions: The company secretary provides briefings during the year on any KEY AREAS ACTIONS significant developments in legal, governance and compliance areas.
Regulation The Board spent considerable time on Non-executive directors regularly meet with management and the Digital Communications Review.
increase their understanding of the business through formal briefing Integration of EE The Board has received regular updates sessions, breakfast meetings with senior staff and site visits which from the chair of the Integration this year included a meeting at the BT Sport studios.
In addition Committee and have heard from the to the private session the chairman holds with the independent CEO, EE.
non-executive directors before Board meetings, Board dinners are Improving customer The Board continued to focus on held before most Board meetings which are also attended by the experience customer experience throughout non-independent, non-executive director and the chief executive.
The group finance director attends most dinners.
At least once a year, a dinner is held for members of the Board and Operating Committee.
Succession planning and This has been an area of significant senior management focus for the Board during the year.
We have appointed a new chairman as well as the chair of the Openreach board.
The chief executive has also given regular updates on senior management changes.
We have commissioned the triennial external evaluation of the Board for 2017 18.
This is being conducted by Independent Board Evaluation.
You will find further details on this evaluation process on page 117.
Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 111 Audit & Risk Committee Chairmans report What weve done We met nine times during the year and the chart below shows how we allocated our time.
Meetings are scheduled in line with the financial reporting timetable and after each meeting, I report to the Board on the main issues that we discussed.
During the year, we hold separate sessions with the internal and external auditors in the absence of management.
Allocation of time 24% Risk and controls 27% Financial matters 13% Internal audit matters My report this year is dominated by the clear 13% External audit matters deficiencies in relation to the financial control of our Italian business.
We have focused on the independent investigation led by KPMG and other advisers, and our internal investigations 23% Governance and compliance into the deficiencies, the subsequent accounting adjustments that the company has The committee has an annual work plan.
This includes standing items needed to make, and the actions which the that the committee considers regularly in addition to any specific matters that require the committees attention and topical items on which company has already taken.
We will continue we have chosen to focus.
to give these actions the highest priority in Activities during the year 2017 18 to ensure that issues such as these BT Italy will never re-occur in BT.
Italy has been a major area of focus for the committee and the improper practices that came to light in our Italian business via a whistle-blower are extremely disappointing.
A large part of our work in the second half of the year has been in relation to the financial Who we are irregularities that were discovered and which are detailed on page 6.
In I chair the Audit & Risk Committee and have recent and relevant October, the committee instructed KPMG, with support and oversight financial experience as required by the provisions of the Code and am from our Legal, Governance & Compliance function and Freshfields the designated financial expert for Sarbanes Oxley Act purposes.
The Bruckhaus Deringer, to commence an independent investigation.
committee acts independently of the executive and all its members Throughout the investigation, KPMG reported directly to me and are independent non-executive directors with diverse skills and the BT Group chairman and the full committee has received regular experience.
reports from both KPMG and from the management team.
This investigation is now complete.
The investigation identified collusion, Although they arent members of the committee, the company circumvention and override of controls within our Italian business that secretary, group finance director, deputy finance director, group was not identified by our monitoring controls thereby resulting in financial controller and director internal audit attend each meeting the misstatement of results going undetected for a number of years.
as does the lead audit partner and representatives from our external There are a number of recommendations arising from the KPMG work auditors.
I meet with this group ahead of the meetings to discuss key and our own observations that we are acting on.
We are undertaking areas for discussion with the committee.
The external auditors are steps to improve the groups systems, processes and controls, not only not present at meetings when we discuss their performance and or in Italy but also in our shared service centres, in Global Services and remuneration.
This includes increasing the resources and improving the capabilities of the controlling function and the audit function Committee members outside the UK, and further developing our integrated risk and Meetings assurance reporting processes.
We are also enhancing our controls and compliance programme to strengthen awareness of the standards we Eligible to Member attend Attended expect, the capabilities of our people, and to reinforce the importance of doing business in an ethical, disciplined and standardised way.
The Nick Rose chairman 9 9 committee has specifically focused on: understanding and investigating the override of controls and Iain Conn 9 6 accounting processes in Italy: Karen Richardson 9 9 understanding how the financial irregularities have accumulated over time.
We considered managements conclusions in Jasmine Whitbread 9 9 determining the accounting treatment and disclosure of the prior year errors: 112 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 113 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION reviewing managements assessment of the nature of the specific January 2017 BT Italy items in the 2016 17 financial year and the judgements taken in Third quarter results determining these changes on estimates: Audit tender update External and internal audit reports ensuring, in discus sion with the chief executive, group finance Ethics and Compliance & Speak Up cases director, the internal auditors, the external auditors, and other Accounting policies and reporting developments advisors that the remedial steps proposed are appropriate and March 2017 BT Italy sufficient to prevent a repetition of these issues: Regional Governance Committee update sa tisfying itself that the issues in BT Italy are discrete and isolated External audit report and do not exist across our business more widely: and examining the culture and behaviours that have come to light in Financial reporting the investigation into BT Italy and analysing the culture across BT We: more widely.
reviewed the Annual Report & Form 20-F, together with annual, half-year and quarterly results announcements for In the course of and following the investigation into BT Italy, the recommendation to the Board: business took immediate steps to strengthen the financial processes c onsidered the appropriateness of the groups accounting policies and controls in BT Italy and a number of BT Italys senior management and critical accounting estimates and key judgements: and team have now left the business.
A new chief executive and chief c onsidered the Annual Report in the context of advising the finance officer of BT Italy are in place having moved from other parts Board that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced of BT and they will report back to us on the improvements that have and understandable and provides the information necessary for been made to the governance, compliance and financial safeguards in shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, our Italian business.
Other key matters considered by the committee In addition to BT Italy, other significant issues we considered in relation A summary of key matters we considered and discussed at each to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2017 are set meeting during the financial year are set out below: out below.
We have discussed these with the external auditors during the year.
MEETING AREAS OF FOCUS April 2016 External audit & non-audit fees Group accounting policies, critical accounting estimates and Sarbanes Oxley update judgements Draft Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 Major contracts We reviewed the accounting policies, including a paper from External audit report management and the disclosures in the consolidated financial Internal audit plan of work statements that relate to critical accounting estimates and judgements, Ethics & Compliance & Speak up cases and re-confirmed they remained appropriate for the group.
In particular Anti-corruption & bribery update we reviewed and challenged the judgements and assumptions in April 2016 Full year results statement relation to provisions, including regulatory risks and litigation, and the Going concern and viability statement assumed level of take-up in the BDUK programme which affects the Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 including a value of the potential obligation to re-invest or repay grant funding.
review to ensure the report was fair, balanced and understandable Going concern External and internal audit reports Internal control requirements under the UK Corporate We considered managements forecasts of group cash flows and net Governance Code including risk management debt as well as the financing facilities available to the group.
Following processes this review and a discussion of the sensitivities, we confirmed that Internal audit performance report it continues to be appropriate to follow the going concern basis of June 2016 Regional Governance Committee update accounting in the financial statements.
Further detail on the basis of Review of the Regulatory Financial Statements the going concern assessment by the directors is set out on page 146.
Security risk management July 2016 Regional Governance Committee update Viability statement External and internal audit reports We received a paper from management which summarised how we Sarbanes Oxley update meet the requirement in the UK Corporate Governance Code to include First quarter results a viability statement in the annual report.
We were satisfied that the Ethics and Compliance & Speak Up cases viability statement could be provided and endorsed the continued September 2016 Risk updates from the chief executive and the lines of selection of a three year time horizon as a basis for the statement and the business approach to its development.
Further detail on the assessment of viability October 2016 BT Italy and the viability statement are set out on page 55.
Major contract review Going concern assessment Regulatory reporting Half year results We reviewed and were supportive of the changes across people, External and internal audit report processes and systems that were put in place to ensure that we met Internal controls our 2016 17 regulatory financial obligations.
December 2016 BT Italy Major contracts Goodwill impairment Data protection update Regional Governance Committee effectiveness review We reviewed managements process and methodology for assessing the carrying value of goodwill.
This included the impact of the reorganisation of the group on 1 April 2016.
We also considered the cash flow forecasts for the groups cash generating units CGUs that hold goodwill, being Consumer, EE, Business and Public Sector, Global Services, and Wholesale and Ventures.
We considered the key 112 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 113 Chairmans report continued assumptions, resulting headroom and the sensitivities applied by no later than 2019 but that the committee would keep the external management in forming its assessment that no goodwill impairment audit arrangements under review annually.
In our annual review, charges were required.
With regards to Global Services we reviewed we recommended to the Board that the audit tender process be the impact of the deterioration in international corporate markets accelerated with a view to appointing new auditors for the financial and the outlook for our Italian business.
We expect the audit tender process to be completed assessment that there was no impairment of goodwill this year.
We by the companys Annual General Meeting in July 2017, such that also discussed and agreed with managements disclosures in respect there can be an effective transition by the selected audit firm during of the headroom in Global Services in note 12 to the financial the 2017 18 audit process.
The company confirms that it complied with the provisions of the BT Pension Scheme BTPS Competition and Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year We reviewed the assumptions underlying the valuation of the pension under review.
liabilities in the financial statements and considered the financial assumptions including the discount rate, future inflation, salary Auditor effectiveness increase expectations and pension increases as summarised in note We discussed the quality of the audit throughout the year 20 to the financial statements.
We also considered sensitivities around and consider the performance of our external auditors, the assumptions and reviewed the accounting impacts, as well as the , annually, taking into account feedback from impact of the assumptions on the 2016 17 balance sheet statement a survey targeted at various stakeholders across the business and the and 2017 18 income statement and the related disclosures.
We were committees own assessment.
The evaluation focused on: robustness satisfied that these were appropriate.
of the audit process, quality of delivery, reporting and people and services.
Based on the committees own view and the survey input, Major contracts PwC have been informed of some specific areas for improvement In addition to our review of the appropriateness of accounting policies, which will ensure that they are able to deliver the very best outcomes management provided regular updates on the performance of major for BT in the coming year.
contracts within Business and Public Sector and Global Services.
This included an overview of the trading and operational performance Independence and objectivity of the contracts, the assessment of the recoverability of dedicated BT has agreed policies in place on what non-audit services can be contract assets, the assessment of the future performance of the provided by the external auditors.
The external auditors are not contracts and any requirement for loss provisions.
permitted to perform any work which they may be later required to audit or which might affect their objectivity and independence or Asset verification and asset lives create a conflict of interest.
There are internal procedures in place for We considered the results of managements annual review of asset the approval of work given to the external auditors.
lives, verification of assets and fully depreciated assets.
We considered the judgements taken in relation to asset lives and the methodology During the year we have considered independence matters and areas applied to consider asset verification.
We were satisfied that the which could give rise to a conflict of interest.
We noted the safeguards proposed adjustments were appropriate.
that the external auditors have in place to prevent compromising their independence and objectivity.
Other matters We reviewed and approved changes to BTs non-audit fee policy in Each quarter, as part of our review of the quarterly results, we are light of the new FRC Revised Ethical Standard for auditors issued in provided with a summary of specific items and managements view June 2016 which applied to BT from 1 April 2017. of the quality of earnings and of the effective tax rate.
We considered whether specific items are appropriately categorised.
At the half-year We monitored compliance with the agreed policies and the level and full-year, a detailed assessment of provisions is also provided and of non-audit fees paid to the auditors in order to satisfy ourselves discussed.
In each quarter and for the full year, the committee was that the types of services being provided and the fees incurred satisfied with the information, analysis and explanations provided in were appropriate.
You can see details of non-audit services carried relation to the results.
out by the external auditors in note 7 to the consolidated financial External audit statements.
In this context audit-related assurance services which We: included the audit of the Regulatory Financial Statements, are considered and approved the auditors group audit plan this considered to pose a low threat to auditor independence and followed discussion with the auditors on the scope of the work to therefore the proportion of other non-audit services to total services be undertaken as well as their consideration of risk informing their is considered the most suitable measure of the non-audit services plan: provided.
These represented 20% of the total fees 2015 16: 26%.
reviewed reports on audit fees, external audit findings and the The most significant changes year on year relate to services performed letter of engagement: and on the EE acquisition prospectus in the prior year and advice in relation c onsidered and approved the letter of representation.
to Ofcoms Digital Communications Review in the current year.
Further details of the non-audit services that are prohibited and allowed under The committee and the external auditors have discussed the issues the policy can be found in the corporate governance section of the BT addressed by the committee during the year and the areas of website.
particular audit focus, as described in the Independent Auditors Report on pages 154 to 164.
The committee is satisfied that when assessed against all relevant factors, the overall levels of audit and non-audit fees are not Audit tender material relative to the income of the external auditors as a whole  PwC and its predecessor firms have been and therefore that the objectivity and independence of the external BTs auditors since BT listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1984 auditors was not compromised.
and their reappointment has not been subject to a tender in that time.
I reported to you last year that we proposed to tender the audit 114 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 115 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Internal audit Governance & Compliance We monitor and review the effectiveness of internal audit annually and We received and considered reports from management on: endorse the internal audit plan of work.
This integrates the assurance ethics and compliance plan of work: requirements for the internal financial controls testing programme, anti-corruption and bribery: the groups overseas footprint, and the groups risk assurance mapping.
Speak Up arr angements, cases, outcomes statistics and trends It includes coverage of static and dynamic risks.
Going forward the including the confidential, anonymous submission by employees committee has asked for greater emphasis to be given to the audit of regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing financial controls, and our overseas operations.
We ensure that arrangements are in place for the proportionate, independent investigation and follow up of these We receive regular reports from the internal auditors and monitored matters.
We will review our whistleblowing arrangements in managements responsiveness to the findings and recommendations light of the issues found in our Italian business and consider if as well as discussing with them the action required to bring matters to improvements are needed: resolution.
data protection: and the eff ectiveness of our Regional Governance Committees As mentioned above, in light of the learnings arising from BT Italy, which monitor governance and compliance in their respective we are increasing the resources and improving the capabilities of the regions.
We were also updated on the work of several of these controlling function and audit function outside the UK and further committees.
developing our integrated risk and assurance reporting processes.
Internal audit will also play a critical role as we move towards a more Committee review integrated risk and assurance reporting processes.
We review our performance annually by inviting members and regular attendees at our meetings, including the external auditors, to Internal controls and risk management complete online questionnaires.
The results, as expected, reflect the In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance disappointment concerning the issues found in our Italian business.
Code, BT has in place an internal control environment to protect the We will ensure that we act upon the lessons learnt from this issue to business from material risks which have been identified within the enhance the role of the committee.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting and we have Conclusion responsibility for ensuring the effectiveness of these controls.
To The events in 2016 17 surrounding BT Italy are a matter of enable us to do this, each quarter the lines of business certify substantial disappointment to the committee.
We have undertaken compliance with the Financial Reporting Councils risk management a significant number of actions in response to these events and to guidance and Sarbanes-Oxley controls.
The outcomes of these reviews thoroughly investigate and deal with the issues identified, including: are reported to us.
the c ommissioning and oversight of KPMGs comprehensive investigation into the nature, extent and causes of the issues: As set out in the description of the committees activities during the o versight of multiple other related internal workstreams, the year the investigations into the irregular practices in the Italian including scrutiny of the accounting treatment of the issues business identified a number of control deficiencies which were identified, analysis of the controls framework in Italy and across not identified by our monitoring controls thereby resulting in the Global Services, and testing and review to satisfy ourselves that misstatement of results going undetected for a number of years.
the issues are isolated to BT Italy: Immediate steps were taken to strengthen the financial processes driving f orward how we can learn from this issue, including to and controls in our business and control improvement plans have reflect the recommendations of the KPMG investigation and our been instituted where appropriate.
Steps will continue to be taken to own observations: and improve further our control, governance and compliance environment.
the ac celeration of the companys audit tender.
BTs risk management processes which have been in place throughout We believe that these actions will ensure that the events surrounding the period under review identify and monitor the risks facing the BT Italy will never be repeated in the company.
The risks which are considered material are reviewed regularly by the Operating Committee and the Board.
We also continue and will continue to work on a number of specific areas to further strengthen our systems, controls and culture During the year we heard from the chief executive on the enterpriseincluding: wide risk management process and the key risks facing the group as a analy sis of the culture of the company in the context of the whole.
Each line of business CEO presented the key risks in their part of events in BT Italy and how this can be improved: and the business as well as the actions they are taking to address them.
an incr eased focus on integrated assurance across a range of functions, together with the development of a system to better The Board is ultimately responsible for the groups systems of internal integrate the range of financial and non-financial risk factors that controls and risk management.
You can find details of the Boards exist across the group to enable a better understanding of them.
and our review of the groups systems of internal control and risk management on page 149 and for details of the assessment of Going forward, the committee will seek to ensure that all the lessons internal controls, as affected by the issues identified in our Italian that need to be learnt from the events surrounding BT Italy have been business for the purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, see US learnt.
Nick Rose Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee 11 May 2017 114 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 115 Nominating & Governance Committee Chairmans report This chart shows how we allocated our time.
Allocation of time 56% Succession 10% Committee governance 8% Board membership 26% Governance structure and eectiveness We have focused on succession, Board membership, and our governance structures Succession for BT and Openreach.
I believe the decisions Our senior independent director, Nick Rose, led the process to find and we have made this year will have a meaningful appoint my successor.
We engaged with external search consultants MWM Consulting to identify potential candidates.
BT instructs impact in setting BT and Openreach up for long MWM Consulting from time to time for search assignments, but term future success.
they otherwise have no connection to the company.
The committee discussed the process used to compile the candidate list, and agreed that MWM Consultings methodology and rationale were appropriate Who we are and that there was sufficient diversity in the proposed field of I chair the Nominating & Governance Committee at the request of the candidates.
Our role is to ensure our Board and committee members have the right balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge to Nick Rose, Gavin Patterson and other Board members then met effectively discharge their duties and responsibilities.
We also oversee with potential candidates.
MWM Consulting also commissioned an BTs governance framework.
independent report from Montrose Associates, to provide a thorough profile on each candidate.
Our members and their meeting attendance are set out below.
The company secretary attends our meetings, as does the chief executive Following this comprehensive process the committee was able to make where appropriate.
a clear recommendation with which the Board agreed.
As a result, Im delighted to welcome Jan du Plessis as a non-executive director Committee members of the Board from 1 June 2017, before he becomes chairman on my Meetings retirement on 1 November 2017.
Jan has led a number of high profile organisations, having been chairman of British American Tobacco, Eligible to SABMiller and Rio Tinto.
I wish Jan every success as he joins BT at this Member attend Attended important time.
Sir Michael Rake chairman 5 5 Board membership Tony Ball 5 5 We keep the composition of our Board under close review.
In order Iain Conn 5 5 to best serve all of our customers, we believe the composition of our Board should support diversity in its widest sense.
As part of Isabel Hudson 5 5 our gender diversity policy we aim to have at least 25% female Nick Rose 5 5 representation on the Board.
We currently have 27% female representation, with 3 female members out of 11.
Gender diversity on our Board continues to be in line with the Davies Report target and What weve done we make sure that our external search consultants consider diversity We met five times this year.
We spent a considerable amount of time as part of the candidate shortlisting process as we work towards Lord discussing and agreeing the appointment of my successor.
This process Daviess new target of 33% female Board representation by 2020. was led by Nick Rose as our senior independent director, who chaired Read more about BTs approach to diversity on page 29. the meetings when the appointment of my successor was discussed.
Our Board members each contribute individual knowledge, skills In accordance with our proposals to Ofcom on the DCR, we discussed and experience, which we regularly review using a skills matrix.
This the independent appointments to the Openreach board, and approved covers the skills needed for running a listed company: knowledge the appointment of Mike McTighe as the first chairman of Openreach and understanding of different customer sectors: industry specific from January 2017.
Mike is an experienced telecoms executive and knowledge: stakeholder engagement: and regional experience in brings a wealth of industry and regulatory knowledge to this role.
different parts of the world.
This year, we asked Board members to re-evaluate their own skills, and considered the skills we may wish to prioritise when evaluating potential new candidates.
116 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 117 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION We believe our Board currently has an appropriate composition and The following table summarises our progress against the key areas of mix of skills and we continue to keep under review the retirement focus: dates of our non-executive directors.
KEY AREAS OF FOCUS ACTIONS This year, we recommended that Nick Roses appointment as senior Succession planning independent director be extended for a further three-year term Chairman succession This has been a key focus of the starting from 1 January 2017, and that Jasmine Whitbreads committee this year: Nick Rose, our appointment as a non-executive director should also be extended senior independent director has led the for a further three-year term starting on 19 January 2017.
did not participate in any discussions regarding his reappointment.
The impact of Ofcoms DCR on Openreach and Group governance The UK Corporate Governance Code states that any term beyond six Openreach board In line with our proposals to Ofcom years should be subject to a particularly rigorous review, therefore this on the DCR, the committee received recommendation followed a thorough appraisal of Nicks and Jasmines updates on the Openreach board performance.
We concluded that both make a valuable and broad appointment process.
Mike McTighes ranging contribution to the Board and the various committees of appointment as chairman was approved which theyre members, as well as to the business as a whole.
by the committee and announced on 29November 2016.
The appointment We also reviewed Nick and Jasmines roles outside BT, and as a result of the remaining three independent we're confident that these dont prevent either Nick or Jasmine from non-executives was completed in effectively discharging their Board responsibilities and making a full January.
We were able to assure ourselves that Nick Integrating BTs and EEs governance cultures post EE acquisition and Jasmine continue to be independent in character and judgement, Integration Committee The Integration Committee oversees the and that there are no conflicts of interest that could affect their integration of EE and BT, and has met decision making.
Governance arrangements for a non-independent non-executive All non-executive appointments can be terminated on three months director notice and are subject to automatic termination in the event of a Conflicted Matters Committee The Conflicted Matters Committee director not being elected or re-elected by shareholders at the AGM.
reviews all Board papers and agenda items to make sure we dont share Governance structure and effectiveness any conflicted matters with the nonWe keep our governance structure and the membership of our Board independent, non-executive director.
The committee reviewed the role of committees under continuous review: the Conflicted Matters Committee at its In light of the new Investigatory Powers Act passed in November meeting in March.
2016, we recommended that the Board approve the creation of Governance requirements for data privacy and data protection an Investigatory Powers Governance Committee with immediate effect.
This will help us to develop and refine our governance of Investigatory Powers Governance In December 2016, the committee investigatory powers requests so that we meet our new legal Committee recommended, and the Board subsequently approved, the formation obligations and our human rights commitments.
of the Investigatory Powers Governance After reviewing the terms of reference of this committee we Committee.
Its role is to make sure we recommended a change to allow any independent non-executive balance our legal obligations under the director to attend its meetings, unless the topic being discussed new investigatory powers legislation, relates to their appointment.
The Board approved this change in and our human rights commitments, October 2016. particularly the right to privacy.
We also reviewed the terms of reference of our Regional Governance Committees RGCs which monitor governance and Board evaluation 2017 18 compliance in their respective regions.
We approved a number of In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, we have changes to help improve the effectiveness of the RGCs.
commissioned an external evaluation of our Board effectiveness for 2017 18.
We agreed that the company secretary would conduct Committee evaluation 2016 17 the tender exercise and recommend an external facilitator to the As part of our internal Board review in June 2016, we evaluated the chairman.
Following the tender exercise, we chose Independent committees effectiveness.
Committee members, the chief executive Board Evaluation to conduct the evaluation, which comprised an and the group general counsel & company secretary completed an interview with each Board member, and observations of the Board and online questionnaire based on the committees terms of reference.
The review focused on Board accountability and composition, the Boards role in setting strategy, risk management, We noted the results of the questionnaire in October 2016, and in succession planning, and the effectiveness of the Board committees.
March 2017 we reviewed our progress in addressing the various The evaluation took place in March and April 2017.
The Board will challenges and priorities it highlighted.
receive a full report in June 2017, and will discuss the results at a future Board meeting.
The chairman will also conduct one-to-one interviews with directors on their individual performance and the senior independent director, Nick Rose, will conduct the annual evaluation of the chairman.
Sir Michael Rake Chairman of the Nominating & Governance Committee 11 May 2017 116 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 117 BT Pensions Committee Chairs report What weve done BT management provides regular updates on BTs performance and strategy at BTPS Trustee meetings, and held extra sessions with the Trustee Board over the course of the year, including reporting on Ofcoms Strategic Review of Digital Communications.
We met six times during the year.
The chart below shows how we allocated our time.
Allocation of time 38% Risk management and investment performance 5% Other 8% BTPS administration During the year the committee focused on a number of areas, including how well approach the 30 June 2017 valuation, and the potential 18% Governance, legal and regulatory implications of Ofcoms Strategic Review 31% Funding of Digital Communications for our pension arrangements.
Areas of work Who we are Key areas of work carried our in the year include: I chair the BT Pensions Committee.
Were responsible for BTs interactions with the Trustee of the BT Pension Scheme BTPS.
The Risk management and investment strategy: At each meeting BTPS is a defined benefit pension scheme with around 300,000 we reviewed the investment performance and risk associated with members.
It pays out over 2bn a year of pensions and has liabilities the BTPS.
During the year we agreed enhancements to the Trustees of around 60bn.
reporting of investment performance and strategy to the committee.
We received an improved information pack, updated each quarter, Id like to welcome Simon Lowth who joined the committee during together with presentations from the BTPS management team the year.
Id also like to thank Tony Chanmugam, who stepped down every six months.
Investment return was around 21% for the year to on 13 July 2016, for his contribution to the committees work.
Our 31 March 2017. membership and meeting attendance are set out below.
We reviewed the BTPSs approach to reducing risk over the year, which Committee members included increasing its interest rate and inflation hedging levels.
Over Meetings the course of the year we provided views to the Trustee on various elements of the investment strategy, including the Trustees approach Eligible to Member attend Attended to hedging.
We also received a presentation from the CEO of Hermes the investment management company wholly owned by the BTPS Isabel Hudson chair 6 6 on its financial performance and future strategy.
Sir Michael Rake 6 5 Funding: We received regular updates on the development of the a Simon Lowth 4 4 funding position throughout the year.
We also started planning our Alison Wilcox 6 6 approach to the next funding valuation that will take place as at an effective date no later than 30 June 2017, including how we might b Tony Chanmugam 2 2 deal with an increased deficit given the continued low interest rate a Simon Lowth was appointed to the committee from 12 July 2016. environment.
b Tony Chanmugam retired from the committee on 13 July 2016.
Governance, legal and regulatory: We looked at the potential Further information impact of Ofcoms Strategic Review of Digital Communications on You can find out more about BTs pension schemes in note 20 to the the BTPS.
We also dealt with other governance matters, including accounts.
BTPS administration: We monitored BTPS Trustee progress on improving administration services to members.
Isabel Hudson Chair of the BT Pensions Committee 11 May 2017 118 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 119 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Committee for Sustainable and Responsible Business Chairmans report 2020 ambitions.
Were focused in particular on the central role that we can play in shaping the worlds digital future, and how we can energise and inspire all of our people to help deliver our purpose, so that it becomes fully part of our culture at all levels.
Allocation of time 33% Strategy and governance 9% Delivering environmental benets 11% Volunteering 13% Supporting charities and communities BTs purpose is to use the power of communications to make a better world.
This remains at the heart of everything we do and 17% Creating a connected society inspires our customers, partners and employees 17% Engagement and advocacy to make a lasting, positive impact on society and the environment.
The CSRB met twice this year and visited the EE contact centre in Merthyr Tydfil.
As well as spending time with our employees, we saw Who we are how The Supporters Club is helping local schools by combining fun, I chair the Committee for Sustainable and Responsible Business CSRB.
action-packed rugby sessions with education pathways and mentoring Our membership and meeting attendance are set out below.
sessions to drive social change.
Committee members This year, we made an investment in society of 35.6m, made up of a mix of cash, time volunteered by BT people and in-kind contributions.
Meetings Eligible to 2020 Ambitions Member attend Attended Were making good progress toward our 2020 ambitions.
We helped Sir Michael Rake chairman 2 2 3.9m people to overcome social disadvantage through our services in a 2016 17, and since 2012, weve used our skills and technology to Tony Chanmugam 1 0 generate 422m for good causes.
By 2020, we hope to have raised b Niall Dunne 2 2 1bn in total.
c Phil Hodkinson 2 2 To find out more about on our 2020 ambitions and our progress so c, d far, please see BTs Delivering Our Purpose Report 2016 17.
Baroness Margaret Jay 2 2 c, e Lisa MacCallum 2 2 Tech Literacy c, f As part of our commitment to help build a culture of tech literacy Gavin Neath 2 2 in the UK, were on track to reach 5m kids by 2020.
Through the Gavin Patterson 2 2 Barefoot Computing Project, which brings computer science alive c, g across the curriculum, weve already reached over 1m primary school Gunhild Stordalen 2 0 children.
This year weve helped over 2050 young people, many from Jasmine Whitbread 2 2 disadvantaged backgrounds, get better prepared for the world of work b through our Work Ready programme and partnership with the Rio Alison Wilcox 2 2 Ferdinand Foundation.
a Tony stepped down from the CSRB from 13 July 2016. b Volunteering BT employee.
Our people are essential to help us create a lasting positive impact d Margaret stepped down from the CSRB from 14 April 2017. on society and the environment: thats why we offer them up to e Lisa was appointed to the CSRB from 6 July 2016. three volunteering days a year.
To support this weve launched a new f Gavin stepped down from the CSRB from 31 December 2016. g volunteering portal to make it easier for them to find opportunities Gunhild was unfortunately unable to attend meetings this year due to poor health.
She receives the materials for the meetings and feeds back her comments to the chairman.
and register their volunteering time.
In 2016 17, over 31.8% of BT people volunteered over 39,000 days, Im pleased to welcome Lisa to the CSRB, who brings a fresh new worth over 11.5m to support charities and communities around the perspective.
It is with regret that we say goodbye to Tony Chanmugam, world.
Find out more information about volunteering on page 29.
Gavin Neath and Baroness Margaret Jay: on behalf of the CSRB I would like to thank all three for their contribution over the years.
Sir Michael Rake What weve done Chairman of the Committee for Sustainable and Responsible Weve continued to bring our purpose to life through our Purposeful Business Business strategy, as well as monitoring our progress towards our 11 May 2017 118 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 119 Technology Committee Chairmans report What weve done We met twice this year.
Allocation of time 19% Governance 37.61% 31.62% 24% Future technology 17.95% 19% Technology risk Were proud of the role BT plays in shaping the success of the UKs digital economy.
Our 38% Technology strategy ambition is to be the first to build a truly converged fixed and mobile network.
We want Technology strategy This year, we reviewed our ultrafast broadband programme, which to give our customers a seamless service on a is on track to deliver G. fast technology to 10m homes, with an trusted network with the best connectivity.
ambition to deliver Fibre to the Premises FTTP to a further 2m locations by 2020.
We looked at ways we will improve the capability and agility of our core IP network, and agreed our vision for 5G mobile services.
Who we are Future technology I chair the Technology Committee.
Our role is to agree the Its important we understand emerging future technologies, to development and implementation of BTs technology strategies, and identify potential opportunities for investment and growth.
We oversee technology risk management across the group.
spent time looking at the future of mobile, the Internet of Things and other emerging technologies such as transportation and finance This table shows our membership and meeting attendance.
Committee members Cyber security The threat of cyber-attacks has continued to increase this year, as Meetings we see attacks growing in both scale and sophistication.
We receive Eligible to regular updates on cyber security to improve our understanding of Member attend Attended the nature of these attacks, and how to prevent them.
Gavin Patterson chairman 2 2 Weve several major programmes underway to help us protect our Tony Ball 2 2 systems, people and customers.
Our focus is on prevention, so Iain Conn 2 2 were working to detect pro-actively and repair vulnerabilities in our systems and networks.
Mike Inglis 2 2 Karen Richardson 2 2 Gavin Patterson Chairman of the Technology Committee Howard Watson 2 2 11 May 2017 120 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 121 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Integration Committee Chairmans report What weve done We met four times this year.
This chart below shows how we allocated our time.
Allocation of time 20% Financial performance and synergies 11% Governance 14% People and culture 17% Technology Im pleased with the progress weve made 19% Customers this year integrating EE and BT.
We can now 19% Strategy offer exciting converged propositions such The first year of our integration has gone well.
Weve delivered 152m as BT Sport to EE customers and Plusnet of run rate cost synergies, which is higher than our public commitment Mobile, and were realising the cost savings and of 100m in year 1. efficiencies set out in our deal case.
Weve successfully launched converged propositions such as BT Sport for EE customers and Plusnet Mobile, which support our strategy of improving our entire customer experience.
We want the combined EE and BT to remain a great place to work, with exciting opportunities for development.
There are many things we can learn from each other, so Who we are were using a best of both approach to integrate EE and BTs cultures I chair the Integration Committee.
We oversee the integration of and policies.
EE and BT, including monitoring progress towards financial synergy targets, creating a fit for future organisation, improving customer In 2017 18, our priorities are to: experience, and integrating the cultures of the two organisations.
continue to launch converged propositions to improve our customers experience: Our membership and meeting attendance are set out below.
The deliver revenue and cost synergies: group HR director and integration project director, although not continue to integrate the two organisations and cultures to create members of the committee, attend meetings at my invitation.
a brilliant place to work: and preserve EEs tax losses through the integration activities.
Committee members Meetings Gavin Patterson Eligible to Chairman of the Integration Committee Member attend Attended 11 May 2017 Gavin Patterson chairman 4 4 Tony Ball 4 4 a Thomas Dannenfeldt 4 4 Simon Lowth 4 4 Nick Rose 4 4 a Deutsche Telekom member.
120 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 121 Report on Directors Remuneration Application of malus due to Italian issues: In January we published revised results for 2014 15 and 2015 16 after our investigations into accounting irregularities in our Italian business.
The committee has recalculated the annual bonuses for the years in question and the outcome of vesting for the 2013 ISP to reflect the revised results.
This clearly showed that the payouts based on the revised results would have been lower than those actually paid at thetime.
The committee has therefore decided to exercise its discretion and apply the malus provisions in the Deferred Bonus Plan to reduce the number of shares under award, for the executive directors, plus the Operating Committee members who received payments under the bonus arrangements and or the ISP, and for the company secretary.
This action ensures the restitution of overpayments to these recipients and places them in the same position they would otherwise have been in had the awards been based on the revised results.
Further details are shown on page 133. Review of the year The committee will keep under active review whether any additional The past year has been challenging.
Although good progress has been employees awards should be adjusted.
In addition, where employees made in a number of areas unfortunately our performance has been have been dismissed or resigned as a result of our investigations into significantly affected by the accounting irregularities in our Italian the issues in Italy, shares and incentives have been lapsed in full as a business, the issues that arose in Openreach around Deemed Consent result.
and the significant challenges we faced in the UK public sector and international corporate markets.
Our adjusted EBITDA was 7,645m Looking ahead compared with our initial outlook for the year of around 7.9bn and The committee considered the base salaries of the executive our normalised free cash flow was 2,782m compared with our initial directors in the context of the UK employee population.
We have outlook for the year of 3.1bn to 3.2bn.
We have also seen a 28% agreed a 2.1% annualised pay settlement for our team members in fall in the share price over the last year.
However, the budget for increases for our managerial and professional team will be lower than this and any increases will be Outcomes for the year more targeted and discretionary.
The executive directors salaries will The committee has made a number of difficult decisions this year in remain unchanged.
light of these circumstances and these are summarised below.
Good progress has been made on the integration of the EE business 2016 17 Bonus: The annual bonus is determined by a number of and the realisation of the associated cost synergies.
As we move into factors including profit, cash flow, revenue, customer experience the second year of integration, the committee is satisfied that EE is and EE integration synergies.
The threshold targets for revenue, well embedded into the business, such that it is now business-ascustomer experience and for the EE synergies were achieved.
usual, and has elected to remove the specific integration synergy However the committee used its discretion to reduce the bonus target and increase the weighting of the earnings per share and free payable to the group chief executive and outgoing group finance cash flow targets for the annual bonus for 2017 18. director to zero.
Finally, we agreed the remuneration package for the incoming In the case of the new group finance director, Simon Lowth, who chairman, Jan du Plessis, who joins the board on 1 June and joined the company in July 2016, the committee has calculated a becomes chairman on 1 November, the details of which are set out bonus based on the formulaic outcome of the company performance on page135.
This remuneration arrangement will remain fixed for measures and an assessment of his personal performance.
resulted in an annual bonus of 38.2% of maximum for Simon Lowth.
Renewal of Remuneration Policy Throughout the year we have continued to operate within the Details of the outcome of performance against the targets for the shareholder approved Remuneration Policy.
We have conducted a 2016 17 annual bonuses for the group chief executive, the new comprehensive review of the Policy ahead of the 2017 AGM where group finance director and the outgoing group finance director are shareholders will again have the opportunity to vote on it.
The committee has concluded that the existing Policy with some 20142017 ISP vesting: The group returned below threshold minor changes, remains aligned to the business strategy and performance against all of the performance measures for the 2014 current best market practice and therefore no material changes are ISP.
This resulted in none of the shares under the award vesting.
More information on the 2014 ISP is on pages 126 to 127.
The committee continues to maintain the link between pay and 20172020 ISP award: The level of ISP award for the chief performance and remains committed to doing so in the future.
executive was reduced from 400% of salary to 350% of salary for this year in light of the share price fall over the last year.
Tony Ball Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 11 May 2017 122 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Focus on Remuneration Fixed pay Base salary No increases for executive directors in 2017 18.
Base salaries during the year were Gavin Patterson 996,825, Simon Lowth 700,000 and Tony Chanmugam 646,000.
Pension Pension arrangements during the year were the same for all executive directors, each receiving a cash allowance of 30% of salary.
There are no changes proposed to the pension arrangements for 2017 18.
Other benefits Benefits include company car, fuel or driver, personal telecommunication facilities and home security, medical and dental cover for the directors and immediate family, life cover, professional subscriptions, personal tax advice and financial counselling.
There are no changes proposed to the benefit framework for 2017 18.
Annual bonus 2016 17 maximum The maximum level of bonus opportunity was 240% for the chief executive, 210% for the outgoing award group finance director pro-rated for time and 180% for the new group finance director pro-rated for time.
2016 17 performance Group performance was based on: measures 60% financial adjusted earnings per share, 40% non-financial personal normalised free cash flow, revenue excluding transit objectives and customer and integration synergies experience Deferral One-third of the bonus is deferred into shares for three years.
Award in respect of Despite some of the performance targets being met, the committee exercised discretion and determined 2016 17 that no bonus would be awarded to the chief executive and the outgoing group finance director and a bonus representing 38.2% of maximum would be awarded to the new group finance director.
Changes for 2017 18 No changes are being proposed to the maximum bonus opportunities.
Now that EE is well embedded into the business, the committee has elected to remove the integration synergy measure and increase the weightings of the earnings per share and free cash flow measures.
Incentive Share Plan ISP 2016 17 maximum The Policy provides for a maximum annual ISP award of 500% for an executive director.
The chief award executive received an award of 400% of salary.
The new group finance director received an award of 350% of salary.
No award was made to the outgoing group finance director.
2016 17 performance Awards are subject to performance conditions: 40% based on relative TSR, 40% based on normalised measures free cash flow and 20% based on growth in underlying revenue excluding transit adjusted for the acquisition of EE over a three year period.
Vesting of 2014 award The 2014 ISP lapsed in May 2017 as the threshold target was not met for any of the performance conditions.
Changes for 2017 18 The award to the chief executive will be reduced from 400% of salary to 350% of salary as a result of the share price fall over the last year.
It is expected that the award level will return to 400% in 2018.
The award to the group finance director will remain at 350% of salary.
No changes are proposed to the performance measures or operation of the ISP for awards to be granted in 2017 18.
Shareholding Shareholding The chief executive is required to build up a holding equal to 300% of salary and the new group finance requirements director a holding of 250% of salary.
Malus and clawback Application of malus In the context of the publication of revised results for 2014 15 and 2015 16, the committee has and clawback exercised its discretion and applied malus to outstanding deferred bonus awards to ensure restitution of overpayments of previous incentive awards.
Annual bonus and ISP awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions in certain circumstances.
The ISP has an additional holding period of two years post vesting.
More detail is available on page 145.
Annual R Annual Repor eport 2017 t 2017 B BT Gr T Group plc oup plc 123 123 Remuneration Principles Our remuneration principles are to maintain a competitive remuneration package that promotes the long-term success of the business, avoids excessive or inappropriate risk taking and aligns managements interests with those of shareholders.
We believe in pay for performance against In setting directors remuneration, the challenging targets and stretching goals for committee takes account of the pay and the annual bonus including deferred shares employment conditions of all our employees, and long-term incentive shares.
A significant the performance of the group and the individual, proportion of the total remuneration package the current views and guidelines of shareholders is therefore variable and linked to corporate and their representatives, and general market performance.
Remuneration arrangements at other companies of a similar size and complexity are The committee determines the remuneration also reviewed for guidance.
policy for the executive directors and the chairman.
The chairman is not currently a The committee continues to keep under review member of the committee.
the relationship of risk to remuneration.
The chair of the Audit & Risk Committee is currently The committee reviews the performance a member of the Remuneration Committee.
targets regularly to ensure that they are both challenging and closely linked to the groups The committee is also satisfied that the strategic priorities.
Furthermore, because a large incentive structure for senior executives does part of the remuneration package is delivered in not raise environmental, social or governance shares and senior executives are required to build risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible up a significant shareholding themselves, they behaviour.
Part of the annual bonus depends are directly exposed to the same gains or losses upon an assessment of each senior executives as all other shareholders.
personal contribution which typically includes the environmental, social, health and safety and governance agenda.
The committee retains absolute discretion to reduce variable compensation in light of risk and the groups overall performance.
We would only use this in exceptional circumstances.
124 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Annual Remuneration Report This part of the Report summarises key elements of the directors remuneration in 2016 17.
Single figure remuneration Directors emoluments audited The following sets out the full review of directors emoluments, Directors emoluments for the financial years 2016 17 and including bonus and deferred bonus, and long-term incentive plans 2015 16 are set out in the table below.
The deferred element of the 2016 17 bonus includes the value of deferred The 2015 16 ISP figure reflects two awards granted in 2013.
One as CEO BT Retail and one as shares to be granted in June 2017.
Further details of the deferred element are set out below.
b g As a result of investigations into improper accounting practices in BTs Italian business, the committee Simon Lowth was appointed as a director on 12 July 2016. h has exercised its discretion and applied the malus provisions under the Deferred Bonus Plan.
This will Under the terms of the Relationship Agreement between BT and Deutsche Telekom and Tims letter be applied in 2017 18 and reflected in the single figure table in the Annual Report 2018.
Further of appointment, no remuneration is payable for this position.
i details can be found on page 133.
Value shown relates to reimbursement of reasonable travelling and other expenses including any c The ISP 2014 granted in June 2014 will lapse in full.
Further details are provided on pages 126 relevant tax incurred in carrying out their duties.
Includes an additional fee for regular travel to Board and Board Committee meetings.
d k Vesting of ISP 2013 granted in June 2013 and vested in May 2016 at a share price of 4.45.
The Tony Chanmugam retired as a director on 13 July 2016.
Under the terms of his service contract, value shown last year of 3,022 for the chief executive and 1,405 for the then group finance he continued to receive his salary and contractual benefits until the end of his notice period, being director were based on an estimated share price of 4.63.
Further details are provided on page 128.
Annual bonus Additional disclosures relating to the single The annual bonus opportunities for the executive directors in figure table 2016 17 were as follows: Salaries Level of We reviewed Gavin Pattersons salary and increased it to 2016 17 bonus 996,825 in June 2016.
This was an increase of 2.5% from the New group Outgoing group prior year.
The salary increase was consistent with the approach Chief executive finance director finance director taken for substantially all of our UK employees who received an Annual cash bonus Target 80% of salary Target 80% of salary Target 70% of salary average increase of 2.5%.
No salary increase was made to Tony Maximum 160% of salary Maximum 120% of salary Maximum 140% of salary Chanmugam in light of his stepping down during the year.
We agreed Simon Lowths salary 700,000 at the time of his Deferred bonus in shares Target 40% of salary Target 40% of salary Target 35% of salary appointment in July 2016.
Maximum 80% of salary Maximum 60% of salary Maximum 70% of salary Total bonus Target 120% of salary Target 120% of salary Target 105% of salary Benefits Benefits provided to executive directors and the chairman include Maximum 240% of salary Maximum 180% of salary Maximum 210% of salary company car, fuel or driver, personal telecommunication facilities and home security, medical and dental cover for the directors and immediate family, life cover, professional subscriptions, personal tax advice and financial counselling.
Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 125 Annual Remuneration Report continued The bonus payment for the outgoing group finance director is proSimon Lowth achieved 80% of the maximum score for his personal rated in respect of the period for which he was performing full-time contribution.
The result for the personal contribution score was for duties.
The bonus payment for the new group finance director is significant contribution to commercially sensitive strategic programmes.
pro-rated in respect of the period for which he was in full-time As set out in the table opposite, the committee applied the EPS gateway employment.
One third of any bonus paid is deferred into shares for and no payment was made in respect of the customer experience three years with the remaining two-thirds paid in cash.
This resulted in a total annual bonus, paid in both cash two-thirds and deferred shares one-third representing 68.8% of his The weighting of the annual bonus structure for 2016 17 is set out salary pro-rated to reflect the period he was in full-time employment below.
during the year and 38.2% of the maximum opportunity.
The deferred shares will be granted in June 2017.
Chief Executive and Group Finance Director % Weighting Bonus award and proportion of value Gavin Simon Tony 20% Adjusted earnings per share a b Element of bonus Patterson Lowth Chanmugam EPS 0% 0% 0% 20% Personal objectives Normalised free cash flow 0% 0% 0% Revenue growth 0% 9.25% 0% Intergration synergies 0% 34.9% 0% c 20% Customer experience Customer experience 0% 0% 0% Personal contribution 0% 55.85% 0% a New group finance director.
c The committee applied the EPS gateway and no payment was made to executive directors in 10% Integration synergies respect of Customer Experience performance.
10% Revenue excluding Transit 20% Normalised free cash ow Incentive share plan 2014 The ISP is a conditional share award.
The performance conditions are assessed to 31 March 2017 and the awards would ordinarily vest in As a result of the accounting irregularities in our Italian business, May 2017.
The performance conditions are based 40% on relative the issues that arose in Openreach around Deemed Consent and TSR, 40% on normalised free cash flow, and 20% on growth in the significant challenges we faced in the UK public sector and underlying revenue excluding transit over a three-year performance international corporate markets, the committee has exercised its period.
The threshold performance target in respect of each measure discretion and moved not to award bonuses to the chief executive was not met and therefore the awards will lapse in full.
and the outgoing group finance director in respect of 2016 17 despite some of the performance targets being met.
TSR The TSR element is measured against a comparator group containing The table below provides an overview of performance against the other telecommunications companies and companies which are of a targets for the 2016 17 annual bonus.
similar size or market capitalisation, have a similar business mix and Result % spread as BT or operate in comparable markets.
a Measure Threshold Target Maximum Outcome of max b Adjusted EPS p 30.9 32.5 34.9 28.9 0% BTs TSR comparator group for the 2014 ISP comprised the following companies: Normalised free cash c flow m 3,064 3,225 3,467 2,782 0% Accenture IBM Telefnica d Revenue m 23,661 23,900 24,259 23,678 26.7% AT & T National Grid Telekom Austria Integration synergies 111 117 126 152 100% e Customer experience 50 100 200 124.33 62.2% Belgacom Pharol formerly Telenor Portugal Telecom a Threshold represents 25% of maximum.
b Adjusted EPS is defined on page 21. c Cap Gemini Royal KPN TeliaSonera Normalised free cash flow is defined on page 21. d Revenue is defined on page 20. e Centrica Sky Verizon The committee applied the EPS gateway and no payment was made to executive directors in respect of Customer Experience performance.
Deutsche Telekom Swisscom Vodafone As described above, the committee moved not to award bonuses France Telecom TalkTalk to the chief executive and the outgoing group finance director in respect of 2016 17.
The chief executive and outgoing group Hellenic Telecom Telecom Italia finance director both understood the committees decision not to award a bonus and indicated that they would not have accepted a The TSR for a company is calculated by comparing the return index bonus should one have been approved.
For Simon Lowth, the new RI at the beginning of the performance period with the RI at the group finance director who joined the company in July 2016, the end of the period.
The RI is the TSR value of a company measured on committee calculated a bonus based on the formulaic outcome a daily basis, as tracked by independent analysts, Datastream.
of the company performance measures and an assessment of his personal performance.
126 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION It uses the official closing price for a companys shares, adjusted for Total pension entitlements audited all capital actions and dividends paid.
The initial RI is determined by The BT Pension Scheme BTPS closed to new entrants on 31 March calculating the average RI value taken daily over the three months 2001.
None of the executive directors participate in future service prior to the beginning of the performance period: and the end value accrual in the BTPS.
Tony Chanmugam has deferred benefits in the is determined by calculating the average RI over the three months BTPS and benefitted from death in service cover which has now up to the end of the performance period.
This mitigates the effects ceased.
A positive change between the initial and final values indicates growth in TSR.
New UK employees are eligible to join a defined contribution scheme.
These are typically personal pension plans.
For executive The following graph shows the vesting schedule for the TSR directors, the company agrees to pay a fixed percentage of the element of the 2014 ISP awards.
executives salary each year which can be put towards the provision of retirement benefits.
Executive directors who have never been members of the BTPS benefit from death in service cover that would TSR vesting schedule 2014 awards provide a lump sum of four times salary and a dependants pension 40% of 30% of capped salary.
Gavin Patterson receives an annual allowance equal to 30% of salary in lieu of pension provision as set out in the table on page 125.
Gavin has previously been a member of the BTRSS but neither he 20% nor the company has made any contribution to the scheme during 2016 17.
BT also provides death in service cover of a lump sum of four times his salary plus a dependants pension of 30% of his capped salary.
0% 0 5 10 15 20 25 Simon Lowth receives an annual allowance equal to 30% of salary in lieu of pension provision as set out in the table on page 125.
Simon TSR ranking position has not previously been a member of any of the company pension schemes.
BT also provides death in service cover of a lump sum of four times his salary plus a dependants pension of 30% of his The companys TSR performance was -5.63%.
This was 18th out capped salary.
of 23 companies during the three-year period and resulted in the threshold target for TSR not being met.
Tony Chanmugam was not a contributing member of any of the company pension schemes: he did not accrue any BTPS pension over Normalised free cash flow the financial year and no other contributions were made.
Further When we set the performance measures for the 2014 ISP, the information is provided in the table below.
The company agreed to threshold for the three-year cumulative normalised free cash flow pay him an annual amount equal to 30% of salary in lieu of pension was set above consensus market expectations at the time, with provision as set out in the table on page 125.
Tony still had deferred the upper part of the range considered to be stretching.
Following payment of the BTPS benefit payable from his 60th birthday.
BT completion of the EE acquisition in January 2016, the free cash provided death in service cover of a lump sum of four times his salary flow measure was revised to reflect the enlarged group.
We which would cease if his BTPS benefits were put into payment.
disclosed the adjustment in the 2016 Annual Report.
We achieved a three-year cumulative normalised free cash flow outcome of Sir Michael Rake is not a member of any of the company pension 8.4bn.
This resulted in the threshold target of 8.67bn for schemes, and the company made no payments towards retirement normalised free cash flow not being met.
BT provides him with a lump sum death in service benefit of 1m.
Underlying revenue excluding transit This measure reflects the groups aim to drive sustainable profitable revenue growth.
Following completion of the EE acquisition in Deferred pension benefits at 31 March 2017 January 2016, the revenue measure was revised to reflect the audited enlarged group.
The measure excludes specific items, foreign The table below shows Tony Chanmugams pension benefits at exchange movements and disposals and is calculated as though EE 31 March 2017.
There was no pension accrued over the financial has been part of the group from 1 April 2015.
We disclosed the year and no contributions were made into the pension plans.
adjustment in the 2016 Annual Report.
The measure was based on growth in underlying revenue excluding transit measured against Accrued the baseline of 2013 14, with the threshold set as growth of pension Additional scheme 2.35% cumulative over the three years.
Normal retirement age 000 lump sum 000 a Tony Chanmugam 60 258 775 Over the three-year period we grew underlying revenue by 1.39%, a Tony Chanmugams contributions in 2016 17 were nil 2015 16: nil.
Figures represent resulting in the threshold target for revenue not being met.
total benefits accrued across two BT pension schemes.
Tony is beyond the pension plans normal retirement age and is not drawing a pension.
Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 127 % of share award vesting Annual Remuneration Report continued Deferred shares Awards granted during the year audited A proportion of the 2015 16 annual bonus was awarded in 2016 ISP awards deferred shares.
The table below provides further details.
No award The 2016 ISP awards were made in June and July 2016 as set out was made to the new group finance director, having joined in July below and on page 131.
The award to Gavin Patterson represented 2016.
400% of his salary and for Simon Lowth it was 350% of salary.
DBP award Face value of a Director Date of award shares award Gavin Patterson 20 June 2016 87,412 352,430 ISP award Face value a Director Date of award shares of award Tony Chanmugam 20 June 2016 48,564 195,802 Gavin Patterson 20 June 2016 988,954 3,987,297 a Face value based on share price at grant of 403.18p.
The grant price is calculated using the average middle-market price of a BT share for the three days prior to grant.
Simon Lowth 29 July 2016 604,366 2,449,978 a Face value based on share price at the date of grant of 403.18p and 405.38p respectively.
The The deferred shares are not subject to further performance grant price is calculated using the average middle-market price of a BT share for the three days conditions and normally vest in three years if the individual is still prior to grant.
Details of all interests in deferred shares are set out on page 130.
The performance conditions are based 40% on relative TSR, 40% on normalised free cash flow, and 20% on growth in underlying When Deferred Bonus Plan DBP awards vest, additional shares revenue excluding transit over a three-year performance period from representing the value of reinvested dividends on the underlying 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2019.
The performance conditions are shares are added.
the same for each director.
The target ranges for TSR: the normalised free cash flow and underlying revenue growth excluding transit for Former directors audited the three-year performance period 2016 172018 19 is set out in Sir Peter Bonfield received, under pre-existing arrangements, a the table below.
TSR vesting schedule 2016 awards Baroness Jay retired as a non-executive director on 13 January 2008 and was a member of the Committee for Sustainable and 40% Responsible Business until standing down on 14 April 2017.
She received an annual fee of 10,000 as a member of the Committee for Sustainable and Responsible Business.
Phil Hodkinson retired as a non-executive director on 31 January 20% 2016 but continues to be a member of the Committee for Sustainable and Responsible Business, for which he receives an annual fee of 10,000.
Payments for loss of office audited 0% Tony Chanmugam retired as a director on 13 July 2016.
Under 0 5 10 15 20 25 the terms of his service contract, he continued to receive his salary TSR ranking position and contractual benefits until the end of his notice period, being 31 March 2017.
These payments totalled 462,000 basic salary and fees, 15,000 benefits excluding pension and 139,000 Measure Level of Level of a pension allowance.
As outlined above, no payment will be made in 2016 172018 19 Threshold vesting Maximum vesting respect of his 2016 17 annual bonus.
All payments made to him as Normalised free a director in respect of 2016 17 are reported in the single figure of cash flow 10.7bn 25% 11.7bn 100% remuneration on page 125. b Revenue growth 2.1% 25% 7.6% 100% a Vesting levels between threshold and maximum will be on a straight line basis.
Directors share ownership b Underlying revenue excluding transit.
The committee believes that the interests of the executive directors should be closely aligned with those of shareholders.
The deferred The committee believes that the free cash flow and revenue shares and incentive shares provide considerable alignment.
performance measures are challenging, and the financial performance necessary to achieve the upper end of the range for To increase the alignment between shareholders and executive each target is stretching.
directors, the chief executive is required to build up a shareholding equal to 300% of salary, and the new group finance director Please see pages 126 to 127 for details of how TSR is calculated.
The aim of this personal shareholding policy is With one change, the TSR comparator group for the 2016 ISP to encourage the build up of a meaningful shareholding in the awards was the same for awards granted in June 2015.
The company over time by retaining shares which they have received committee agreed the removal of Pharol formerly Portugal Telecom under an executive share plan other than shares sold to meet a on the basis of scale compared to others in the group.
National Insurance contribution or income tax liability or from purchases in the market.
When ISP awards vest, additional shares representing the value of reinvested dividends on the underlying shares are added.
The value of the BT shares to be used in determining whether the minimum shareholding requirement has been reached is the average BT share price over the preceding 12 months or, if higher, the share price at the acquisition date.
128 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 % of share award vesting THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Directors interests at 31 March 2017 or date of retirement, if At 31 March 2017, the chief executive met his shareholding earlier audited requirement, as set out in the table below.
Having joined the The beneficial interests of directors holding office at the end of the company in July 2016, the group finance director will build his year or at the point of leaving for directors who retired during the shareholding over time.
year, and their families, in the companys shares at 31 March 2017 Personal shareholding as a percentage and 1 April 2016, or at date of appointment if later, are shown Executive director of salary below: Gavin Patterson 1,103% Number of shares Simon Lowth 0% Beneficial holdings 31 March 2017 1 April 2016 a Tony Chanmugam 216% a Sir Michael Rake 148,721 132,957 a As at 13 July 2016. a G Patterson 2,871,032 2,448,772 The following table shows the total unvested interests held by the a, b T Chanmugam 310,684 445,268 executive directors in the ISP and DBP.
The numbers represent the c S Lowth maximum possible vesting levels.
The ISP awards will only vest to the extent the performance conditions are met over a three-year period.
T Ball 93,871 23,652 Full details of all ISP and DBP awards, including performance periods I Conn 19,442 4,442 and vesting conditions, are set out on pages 130 to 131.
T Httges Unvested interests in shares audited I Hudson 8,424 3,552 DBP not subject to M Inglis 2,600 1,200 ISP subject to performance performance 1 April 31 March 1 April 31 March N Rose 125,000 50,000 2016 2017 2016 2017 d K Richardson 13,525 10,250 Gavin Patterson 2,734,526 3,046,654 376,092 334,944 J Whitbread 7,990 7,990 a Simon Lowth 628,928 Total 3,601,289 3,128,083 b Tony Chanmugam 1,270,600 900,663 337,943 245,143 a Includes shares purchased under directshare and free shares awarded under UK allshare.
a Simon Lowth was appointed to the Board on 12 July 2016.
Details of Simon Lowths ISP and DBP Directshare is a HMRC approved plan that allows BT employees to buy shares out of gross pay.
Prior awards are set out on pages 130 to 131. to 2008 BT awarded free shares to UK employees UK allshare.
b Tony Chanmugam retired on 13 July 2016 and the number reflects his awards at that date.
b Tony Chanmugam retired on 13 July 2016 and the number reflects his holding at that date.
Details of Tony Chanmugams ISP and DBP awards are set out on pages 130 to 131. c Simon Lowth joined the Board on 12 July 2016. d Shares are held as 2,705 American Depositary Shares ADS.
One ADS equates to five BT ordinary The table below shows share options held by the directors under the shares.
companys all employee sharesave plans as at 31 March 2017.
None of the directors held share options with performance conditions.
During the period from 1 April 2017 to 11 May 2017, there were no movements in directors beneficial holdings.
The directors, as a Share options held without performance conditions saveshare group, beneficially own less than 1% of the companys shares.
audited The company encourages the chairman and independent nonShare options Options Options Value at executive directors to purchase, on a voluntary basis, BT shares at 1 April granted exercised date of 31 March with an aggregate value of 5,000 on average each year to further 2016 during year during year exercise 2017 align the interests of non-executive directors with those of our Sir Michael Rake 5,172 5,172 shareholders.
The directors are asked to hold these shares until they retire from the Board.
This policy is not mandatory.
Gavin Patterson 5,642 5,642 a Simon Lowth This policy does not apply to Tim Httges who was appointed to b the Board as a non-independent non-executive director following Tony Chanmugam 6,525 6,525 completion of the EE acquisition in January 2016.
This assists a Simon Lowth joined the Board on 12 July 2016. b with avoiding any conflict of interest in relation to Tims ongoing Tony Chanmugam retired on 13 July 2016 and the number reflects his options at that date.
employment as CEO of Deutsche Telekom.
No saveshare options were exercised by the directors during the year.
There were no vested but unexercised options at the year end.
Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 129 Annual Remuneration Report continued Deferred Bonus Plan awards at 31 March 2017 The following DBP awards have been granted to the directors.
These shares will normally be transferred to participants at the end of the three-year deferred period if those participants are still employed by BT.
Simon Lowth joined the Board on 12 July 2016 and is due to be granted his first DBP award in June 2017.
The number of shares subject to awards was calculated using the average middle market price of a BT share for the three days prior to the grant.
Awards of deferred shares in respect of 2017 will be calculated using the average middle market price of a BT share for the three days prior to grant.
b As a result of investigations into improper accounting practices in BTs Italian business, the committee has exercised discretion and applied the malus provisions under the Deferred Bonus Plan.
Further details can be found on page 133.
The number of shares subject to awards was calculated using the average middle market price of a BT share for the three days prior to grant of 315.00p.
40% of each award is linked to TSR compared with a group of 23 companies, 40% is linked to a three-year normalised free cash flow measure and 20% to a measure of growth in underlying revenue excluding transit over three years.
The awards vested in May 2016. b Award granted on 12 November 2013 following appointment as chief executive.
The number of shares subject to award was calculated using the average middle market price of a BT share for the three days prior to grant of 372p.
40% of each award is linked to TSR compared with a group of 23 companies, 40% is linked to a three-year normalised free cash flow measure and 20% to a measure of underlying revenue growth excluding transit over three years.
The award vested in May 2016. c Awards granted on 19 June 2014.
The number of shares subject to awards was calculated using the average middle market price of a BT share for the three days prior to grant of 384.20p.
40% of each award is linked to TSR compared with a group of 22 companies, 40% is linked to a three-year normalised free cash flow measure and 20% to a measure of underlying revenue growth excluding transit over three years.
Performance against the TSR, normalised free cash flow and revenue targets resulted in the threshold targets not being met and none of the shares vesting under the 2014 ISP.
The awards lapsed in May 2017. d Awards granted on 18 June 2015.
The number of shares subject to awards was calculated using the average middle market price of a BT share for the three days prior to grant of 449.50p.
The number of shares subject to award was calculated using the average middle market price of a BT share for the three days prior to grant of 403.18p.
40% of each award is linked to TSR compared with a group of 21 companies, 40% is linked to a three-year normalised free cash flow measure and 20% to a measure of underlying revenue growth excluding transit over three years.
The number of shares subject to award was calculated using the average middle market price of a BT share for the three days prior to grant of 405.38p.
g Tony Chanmugam retired from the Board on 13 July 2016 and details of the ISP 2013 award vesting are set out on page 125.
Share options held at 31 March 2017 Number of shares under option: Market price Usual date Option price at date of from which Usual expiry 1 April 2016 Granted Lapsed Exercised 31 March 2017 per share exercise exercisable date a Sir Michael Rake 5,172 5,172 319p 01 08 2019 01 02 2020 a Gavin Patterson 5,642 5,642 319p 01 08 2019 01 02 2020 Simon Lowth Former director b Tony Chanmugam 6,024 6,024 249p 01 08 2018 01 02 2019 a 501 - 501 359p 01 08 2017 01 02 2018 All of the above options were granted for nil consideration.
a Option granted on 26 June 2014 under the employee saveshare scheme, in which all employees of the company are entitled to participate.
b Option granted on 27 June 2013 under the employee sharesave scheme, in which all employees of the company are entitled to participate.
Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 131 Annual Remuneration Report continued Percentage change in Chief Executive Comparison of Chief Executive remuneration remuneration comparing 2016 17 to to Total Shareholder Return This graph illustrates the performance of BT Group plc measured 2015 16 by TSR relative to a broad equity market index over the past eight The table below illustrates the increase in salary, benefits and annual years.
We consider the FTSE100 to be the most appropriate bonus for the chief executive and that of a representative group of index against which to measure performance, as BT has been a the companys employees.
For these purposes, we have used the constituent of the FTSE100 throughout the eight-year period, and UK management and technical employee population representing the index is widely used.
TSR is the measure of the returns that a around 22,800 people.
We believe this broad group provides the company has provided for its shareholders, reflecting share price most meaningful comparison as they also participate in performance movements and assuming reinvestment of dividends.
related pay arrangements on a similar basis as executive directors.
a b Salary Benefits Bonus BTs TSR performance vs the FTSE100 % Change in chief executive 700 remuneration 2.5% 5.26% 100% c % Change in comparator group 2.5% 0% -25.7% 600 a The decrease in benefits for the chief executive was around 3,000. b 500 The bonus comparator is based on cash bonus only to give a better like for like comparison.
c Comparator group is the UK management and technical employee population representing around 400 22,800 individuals.
300 Relative importance of spend on pay The table below illustrates the change in total remuneration and 200 dividends and share buyback paid.
100 Area 2016 17 m 2015 16 m % Change 0 Mar 09 Mar 10 Mar 11 Mar 12 Mar 13 Mar 14 Mar 15 Mar 16 Mar 17 Remuneration paid to all employees 5,189 4,639 11.9% BT FTSE100 Dividends share buybacks 1,642 1,390 18% Source: Datastream The graph shows the relative TSR performance of BT and the FTSE100 over the past eight years.
History of chief executive remuneration Total rem Annual bonus ISP vesting Year end Chief Executive 000 % of max % of max 2017 Gavin Patterson 1,345 0% 0% a 2016 Gavin Patterson 5,396 45% 82.01% 2015 Gavin Patterson 4,562 58% 67.4% b 2014 Gavin Patterson 2,901 62% 78.7% Ian Livingston 4,236 35% 63.4% 2013 Ian Livingston 9,402 65% 100% 2012 Ian Livingston 8,520 73% 100% 2011 Ian Livingston 4,009 79% 0% 2010 Ian Livingston 3,556 71% 0% a The t otal remuneration figure includes the ISP award as CEO BT Retail and the first award as chief executive, granted in 2013. b Ian Livingst on stepped down on 10 September 2013 and Gavin Patterson took over from that date.
132 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The committee has therefore decided to exercise its discretion Implementation of Remuneration Policy in and apply the malus provisions in the Deferred Bonus Plan DBP 2017 18 to reduce the number of shares under award in recompense for payments and awards otherwise due under the annual bonus Base salary arrangements for both cash and the deferred share element and The committee decided not to increase salaries for the chief where relevant the ISP.
These malus provisions will be applied in executive and group finance director which will remain at 996,825 2017 18 to previous awards made to the executive directors, plus and 700,000 respectively.
the other Operating Committee members who received payments under the bonus arrangements and or the ISP, and for the company Benefits secretary.
This action ensures full restitution of the overpayments The committee has set benefits in line with the Remuneration Policy for the annual bonus for the cash and the deferred share elements set out on pages 139 to 145.
There are no changes proposed to the and for the 2013 ISP award through the enforcement of the malus benefit framework for 2017 18. provisions in the DBP.
This places the recipients in the same position they would otherwise have been in had the annual bonus and Pension the ISP award been based on the revised results.
The application Current levels of pension provision for 2017 18 are the same as for of the malus provisions are calculated based on the share price at 2016 17.
Executive directors receive an annual amount equal to the original grant.
For the cash element of the annual bonus, the 30% of salary in lieu of pension provision.
calculation is based on the share price of the corresponding deferred share award.
Clawback and malus The clawback provisions introduced in 2015 16 will continue for The committee will keep under active review whether any additional annual bonus payments relating to the 2017 18 financial year, and employees awards should be adjusted.
In addition, where employees for the ISP awards that are expected to be made in June 2017. have been dismissed or resigned due to the outcome of our investigations into the issues in Italy, shares and incentives have The annual bonus clawback will apply for one year following lapsed in full as a result.
The ISP clawback arrangements may be enforced by the committee in the two year period post-vesting of any awards.
The table below sets out the number of shares under the relevant DBP awards following the application of malus as explained above In January 2017 we published revised results for 2014 15 and and as agreed by the committee.
These shares will normally be 2015 16 as a result of our investigations into improper accounting transferred to participants at the end of the three-year deferred practices in BTs Italian business.
The committee has recalculated the period if those participants are still employed by BT.
Simon Lowth annual bonuses for the years in question and the outcome of the joined on 12 July 2016 and did not receive a bonus in 2016 17 2013 ISP award vesting to reflect the revised results.
This showed for the 2015 16 financial year.
that the payouts based on the revised results would have been lower than those actually paid at the time.
b The gr ant price is calculated using the average middle market price of a BT share for the three days prior to grant.
Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 133 Annual Remuneration Report continued Annual bonus Incentive Share Plan The level of bonus opportunity for the chief executive and group Acknowledging the fall in the share price over the last year, the finance director is set out in the table below.
One-third of any bonus 2017 ISP award for the chief executive will be reduced from 400% will be deferred into shares for a period of three years.
to 350% of salary and for the group finance director will be 350% of salary.
We expect to grant the awards in June 2017.
The number Level of of shares awarded is calculated using the average middle market 2017 18 bonus price of a BT share for the three days prior to the grant.
Any shares Group acquired on the vesting of the 2017 ISP awards will be subject to a Chief executive finance director holding period of two years, commencing from the end of the threeAnnual cash bonus Target 80% of salary Target 80% of salary year performance period.
Maximum 160% of salary Maximum 120% of salary The holding period will apply to the number of shares received Deferred bonus in shares Target 40% of salary Target 40% of salary on vesting after tax and other statutory deductions.
No further Maximum 80% of salary Maximum 60% of salary performance measures will apply during the holding period as Total bonus Target 120% of salary Target 120% of salary performance will have already been assessed.
Maximum 240% of salary Maximum 180% of salary The performance conditions will be the same as for the 2016 ISP: 40% based on relative TSR: 40% based on normalised free cash The 2017 18 annual bonus structure and weighting is set flow: and 20% growth in underlying revenue excluding transit over out below.
Chief executive and group finance director % Weighting BTs TSR comparator group for the 2017 ISP will be the same as for 2016 and comprise the companies listed below.
25% Adjusted earnings per share Accenture KPN Telecom Italia 20% Personal objectives AT & T National Grid Telefnica Cap Gemini Orange Telekom Austria Centrica Proximus Telenor 20% Customer experience Deutsche Telekom Sky Telia Company Hellenic Telecom Swisscom Verizon IBM TalkTalk Vodafone 10% Revenue excluding Transit 25% Normalised free cash ow TSR vesting schedule 2017 awards For the 2017 ISP awards, 40% of the potential outcome is based on relative TSR.
The following graph shows the potential vesting of Adjusted earnings per share: normalised free cash flow: and awards based on the TSR element.
revenue excluding transit have a direct impact on shareholder value.
Customer experience measured through our RFT and the customer perception measure is vital to the companys long-term health and TSR vesting schedule 2017 awards growth.
All four of these measures are KPIs for BT and are defined 40% 40% on pages 20 to 21.
Good progress has been made on the integration of the EE business and the realisation of associated cost synergies.
The committee is satisfied that the EE is well embedded into the business, such that 20% 20% it is now business-as-usual, and elected to remove the specific integration synergy target and increase the weighting of the earnings per share and free cash flow targets for the annual bonus for 2017 18.
0% We do not publish details of the financial targets in advance since 0% 0 5 10 15 20 25 these are commercially confidential.
We will publish achievement TSR ranking position against these targets at the same time as we disclose bonus payments in the Annual Report Form & 20-F 2018 so that shareholders can evaluate performance against those targets.
The personal contribution measure is aligned to our strategy and is assessed by the chairman for the chief executive and by the chief executive for the group finance director and each senior executive.
Performance against the personal contribution element is assessed individually and is based on achievement against individual objectives, organisational culture and growth measures.
134 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 % of share award vesting THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The target ranges for the normalised free cash flow and underlying The senior independent director receives an additional fee of revenue growth excluding transit revenue are set out below: 27,000 for that position.
Measure Level of Level of a 2017 182019 20 Threshold vesting Maximum vesting An additional fee of 2,000 per trip is paid to those non-executive directors travelling on an inter-continental basis to Board and Board Normalised free b committee meetings.
As outlined in the Remuneration Policy, we are cash flow 7.92bn 25% 8.92bn 100% proposing to increase this fee to up to 6,000. c Revenue growth 1.8% 25% 4.0 % 100% No element of non-executive director remuneration is performancea Vesting level between threshold and maximum will be on a straight line basis.
Non-executive directors do not participate in BTs bonus or Normalised free cash flow is defined on page 21. c employee share plans and are not members of any of the company Growth in underlying revenue excluding transit is defined on page 20. pension schemes.
The committee continues to believe that the free cash flow and revenue performance measures are challenging, and the financial performance The Remuneration Committee necessary to achieve awards is stretching.
In setting these targets the committee took into account the revised outlook for the Group.
This section describes the membership and role of the committee.
Who we are Chairman and non-executive director Tony Ball chairs the Remuneration Committee, made up of remuneration independent non-executive directors, which met five times during the year.
The fees for non-executive directors, and for the chairman, were reviewed during the year.
The last review of non-executive director Our membership and meeting attendance are set out below.
Isabel fees was in January 2016.
In accordance with the Articles of Hudson and Mike Inglis became members of the committee with Association, the chairman and executive directors conducted the effect from 1 April 2017. review, and considered the role and requirements of BT, together with the fees paid to non-executive directors at companies of a Committee members similar size and complexity.
Following the review, it was agreed no increase should be applied.
The chairmans fee was reviewed by Meetings the committee of which he is not a member and it was agreed no Member Eligible to attend Attended increase should be applied.
Tony Ball chairman 5 5 Jan du Plessis joins the company on 1 June 2017 as a non-executive Karen Richardson 5 5 director and will become chairman on 1 November 2017.
On appointment, he will receive the basic fee per year for a nonNick Rose 5 4 executive director 72,000.
On becoming chairman, he will receive a fee of 700,000 per year, fixed for five years.
The incoming chairmans fee was reviewed and agreed by the committee.
The basic fee for non-executive directors is 72,000 per year.
There are additional fees for membership and chairing a Board committee, details of which are given in the table below: Committee Chairmans fee Members fee 35,000 25,000 Audit & Risk a n a 10,000 Integration a n a 10,000 Nominating & Governance 25,000 10,000 Pensions 28,000 15,000 Remuneration a, b n a 5,000 Sustainable & Responsible Business a n a 14,000 Technology 72,500 n a Equality of Access Board a Where the chairman or chief executive acts as chair of a board committee, no additional committee chair fee is payable.
b External members of the CSRB receive a fee of 10,000 a year.
Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 135 Annual Remuneration Report continued Voting at the 2016 Annual General Meeting Other Remuneration Matters The votes cast in respect of the Annual Remuneration Report at the In addition to the committee members, the chairman and chief Annual General Meeting held on 13 July 2016 were: executive are invited to attend meetings, except in instances where their own remuneration is discussed, or other circumstances where Votes cast in Votes cast their attendance would not be appropriate.
favour % against % Approve Annual The committee regularly consults the chief executive, the group Remuneration Report 6,638,116,690 98.52% 99,928,946 1.48% HR director, the HR director, reward and pensions, and the group general counsel & company secretary.
A vote withheld is not counted when calculating voting outcomes.
Advisers During the year, the committee received independent advice on Committee evaluation executive remuneration matters from Deloitte LLP.
Deloitte The committee reviews its performance with Board members and received 103,450 in fees for these services.
The fees are charged other participants, including through the annual Board evaluation.
on a time spent basis in delivering advice that materially assisted the committee in their consideration of matters relating to executive Independent non-executive directors letters of appointment remuneration.
Each independent non-executive director has an appointment letter setting out the terms of his or her appointment.
They do Deloitte is a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants not have service contracts.
The letter includes membership of any Group and as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct Board committees, the fees to be paid and the time commitment in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
We ask each non-executive director to allow a minimum commitment of 22 days each year, subject to committee The committee appointed Deloitte to the role of independent responsibilities, and to allow slightly more in the first year in order to advisers to the committee in 2012 following a competitive tender take part in the induction programme.
The actual time commitment exercise conducted by the committee.
required in any year may vary depending on business.
We highlight that additional time may be required if the company is going The committee is comfortable that the Deloitte engagement partner and through increased activity.
team, who provide remuneration advice to the committee, do not have connections with BT that may impair their independence or objectivity.
Appointments are for an initial period of three years.
During that period, either party can give the other at least three months notice In addition, during 2016 17, Deloitte also provided the company of termination.
All Board appointments automatically terminate with advice on corporate and indirect taxes, assistance with in the event of a director not being elected or re-elected by regulatory, risk and compliance issues and additional shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The appointment of consultancy services.
a non-executive director is terminable on notice by the company without compensation.
At the end of the period, the appointment Dilution may be continued by mutual agreement.
For a number of years we generally used treasury shares to satisfy the exercise of share options and the vesting of share awards under Further details of appointment arrangements for independent nonour employee share plans.
We intend to use both treasury shares and executive directors are set out on page 137. shares purchased by the BT Group Employee Share Ownership Trust the Trust for share option exercises, and shares purchased by the The appointment letter also covers matters such as confidentiality, Trust for the vesting of executive share awards in 2017 18.
Shares data protection and BTs share dealing code.
held in the Trust do not have any voting rights.
Tim Httges was appointed as a non-independent non-executive At the end of 2016 17, shares equivalent to 1.89% 2015 16: director, following Deutsche Telekoms nomination and his 1.98% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares would appointment letter reflects the terms of the Relationship Agreement be required for all share options and awards outstanding.
between BT and Deutsche Telekom.
Of these, we estimate that for 2017 18, shares equivalent to approximately 0.45% 2016 17: 0.30% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares will be required for the all-employee share plans.
Outside appointments The committee believes that there are significant benefits, to both the company and the individual, from executive directors accepting non-executive directorships of companies outside BT.
The committee will consider up to two external appointments of which only one may be to the board of a major company, for which a director may retain the fees.
Gavin Patterson is a non-executive director of British Airways for which he receives an annual fee of 50,000 and the benefit of free BA flights.
136 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Directors service agreements and letters of appointment The dates on which directors service agreements initial letters of appointment commenced and the current expiry dates are as follows: Chairman and executive directors Commencement date Expiry date of current service agreement or letter of appointment Sir Michael Rake 26 September 2007 The agreement is terminable by the company on 12 months notice and by the director on six months notice.
Gavin Patterson 10 September 2013 Initial term until 10 September 2014, and thereafter terminable by the company on 12 months notice and by the director on six months notice.
Simon Lowth 6 July 2016 Terminable by the company on 12 months notice and by the director on six months notice.
Non-executive directors Tony Ball 16 July 2009 Letter of appointment was for an initial period of three years.
The appointment was extended for a further three years in June 2015 following extension in 2012.
Nick Rose 1 January 2011 Letter of appointment was for an initial period of three years.
The appointment was extended for a further three years in December 2013.
Karen Richardson 1 November 2011 Letter of appointment was for an initial period of three years.
The appointment was extended for a further three years in October 2014.
Jasmine Whitbread 19 January 2011 Letter of appointment was for an initial period of three years.
Iain Conn 1 June 2014 Letters of appointment are for an initial period of three years.
Isabel Hudson 1 November 2014 Mike Inglis 1 September 2015 Tim Httges 29 January 2016 Appointed as a non-independent non-executive director under the terms of the Relationship Agreement between BT and Deutsche Telekom.
The appointment is terminable immediately by either party.
There are no other service agreements, letters of appointment or material contracts, existing or proposed, between the company and any of the directors.
There are no arrangements or understandings between any director or executive officer and any other person pursuant to which any director or executive officer was selected to serve.
Jan du Plessis joins the board as a non-executive director on 1 June 2017 and will become chairman with effect from 1 November 2017.
There are no family relationships between the directors.
Inspection by the public The service agreements and letters of appointment are available for inspection by the public at the registered office of the company.
They will also be available for inspection commencing one hour prior to the start of our AGM, to be held in London on 12 July 2017.
Tony Ball Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 11 May 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 137 Annual Remuneration Report continued Remuneration policy Legacy matters The following pages set out our directors remuneration policy the The committee reserves the right to make any remuneration Policy which will be put forward for shareholder approval at the payments and or payments for loss of office including exercising 2017 AGM on 12 July 2017 in accordance with section 439A any discretions available to it in connection with such payments of the Companies Act 2006.
Subject to approval at the AGM, this notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy where Policy will apply from the date of the AGM.
The Policy is divided into the terms of the payment were agreed i before the AGM in 2014 separate sections for the executive directors and the chairman and the date the companys first shareholder-approved directors the non-executive directors.
remuneration policy came into effect : ii before this Policy came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent Minor changes have been made to the Policy to align it with the with the shareholder-approved directors remuneration policy business strategy and evolving investor and HMRC guidance.
in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the company and, in the The Policy was previously approved by shareholders at the AGM in opinion of the committee, the payment was not in consideration 2014 and votes cast were: for the individual becoming a director of the company.
For these purposes payments includes the committee satisfying awards Votes cast in Votes cast of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, favour % against % the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is Approve Directors granted.
Any legacy payments would be disclosed in the Annual Remuneration policy 4,579,788,136 96.85% 148,973,373 3.15% Remuneration Report for the relevant year 208,032,899 votes were withheld.
Minor amendments The committee may make minor amendments to the arrangements for the directors as described in the Policy, for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes, or to take account of a change in legislation.
138 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Policy Executive Directors and Chairman Policy Element Operation and Opportunity Performance measures or basis of payment Base salary Salaries for the executive directors and the chairman are reviewed Whilst there is no maximum salary level, any Purpose - a annually, although an out-of-cycle review may be conducted if the increase will typically be broadly in line with core element of committee determines it appropriate.
A review may not necessarily BTs UK employee population.
remuneration, lead to an increase in salary.
Salaries are paid monthly in cash.
For the executive directors, higher increases used to attract and The pay and conditions for all UK employees are considered when may be made under certain circumstances, retain executive setting salaries for executive directors and the chairman.
such as: directors of the calibre required incr ease in the scope and or responsibility to develop and of the individuals role: deliver our dev elopment of the individual within their business strategy.
role: and wher e an executive director has been appointed to the Board at a lower than typical level of salary, for example to reflect less experience, larger increases may be awarded to move them closer to market practice as their experience develops.
Individual and business performance are taken into account in deciding salary levels.
Benefits Executive directors and the chairman receive benefits which While no maximum level of benefits is Purpose typically include but are not limited to company car or monthly prescribed, they are generally set at an to support health allowance in lieu of a car or part of such allowance not used for a appropriate market competitive level and wellbeing and car, fuel and or driver, personal telecommunication facilities and determined by the committee, taking into provide employees home security, medical and dental cover for the directors and their account a number of factors including: with a market immediate family, life cover, professional subscriptions, personal the jurisdic tion in which the employee is competitive level tax advice and financial counselling up to a maximum of 5,000 based: of benefits.
the lev el of benefits provided for other Where executive directors are required to relocate, the committee employees within the group: and may offer additional expatriate benefits, if considered appropriate.
market practice for comparable roles within appropriate pay comparators in that The company purchases directors and officers liability insurance jurisdiction.
to cover the directors, and has in place a directors and officers indemnity.
The insurance operates to protect the directors in The committee keeps the benefit policy and circumstances where, by law, BT cannot provide the indemnity.
benefit levels under regular review.
Further details of the directors and officers liability insurance and indemnity are set out on page 147.
Annual bonus Executive directors are eligible for an annual bonus.
The The committee seeks to effectively reward Purpose chairman is not eligible for an annual bonus.
Awards are based performance against the key elements of our to incentivise and on performance in the relevant financial year.
Measures used typically include, but reward delivery of is paid in two elements, a cash element, and a deferred element are not limited to: our business plan awarded in shares.
Annual bonus amounts are not pensionable.
financial per formance measures these on an annual basis.
The committee sets annual bonus performance targets each year, are chosen carefully to ensure alignment taking into account key strategic priorities and the approved between reward and underlying financial budget for the year.
As an example, such measures may include free cash flow and The committee ensures that targets set are appropriately earnings per share: and stretching in the context of the corporate plan and that there is an non-financial performance measures appropriate balance between incentivising executive directors to these reflect key company, strategic meet targets, while ensuring that they do not drive unacceptable and individual goals.
For example, levels of risk or inappropriate behaviours.
such measures may include customer experience, purposeful company and At least one-third of the annual bonus will be granted in the personal objectives.
form of deferred shares to strengthen further the alignment of management interests with the long-term interests of In terms of weighting, non-financial measures shareholders.
The deferred element in shares must be held for a will typically account for no more than 50% deferral period which will not be less than three years.
If following of the total annual bonus.
the grant of an award, facts subsequently become known to the committee which would justify a reduction in the award, the A sliding scale between 0% and 100% of committee may reduce the number of deferred shares, including the maximum award applies for achievement to nil.
Further information on the malus and clawback provisions is between threshold and maximum set out on page 145.
The maximum annual bonus opportunity is performance under the bonus plan.
Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 139 Remuneration Policy continued Policy Element Operation and Opportunity Performance measures or basis of payment Incentive Share Executive directors are eligible to participate in the ISP.
The The committee aligns the performance Plan ISP chairman is not eligible to participate.
The ISP forms the longmeasures under the ISP with the long-term Purpose term variable element of executive remuneration.
Awards are strategy of the company and considers to incentivise discretionary and normally vest subject to performance measured that strong performance under the chosen executive over a period of at least three years.
measures should result in sustainable value directors over the creation: Under the terms of the plan rules the current ISP has no maximum longer-term, by award level.
The committee have determined that it will impose financial measur es to reflect the financial rewarding delivery limits for executive directors to apply to future awards.
The performance of our business and a direct of stretching maximum normal ISP award that may be awarded to an executive and focused measure of company success targets linked to director in respect of any financial year of the company will be and, for example, may include free cash our strategy and 400% of basic salary.
In exceptional circumstances, for example flow and revenue measures.
We set targets long-term value recruitment, this limit may be increased to 500% of basic salary.
to be appropriately stretching, with regard creation.
to a number of internal and external The proposed award levels for 2017 18 are set out on page 134. reference points including our business plan and consensus market expectations: In respect of ISP awards made to executive directors there is and normally a further holding period of two years, commencing from shar e price performance measures, to the end of the performance period applicable to the net number reflect the ultimate delivery of shareholder of shares received after tax and other statutory deductions.
During returns which may, for example, include the holding period, no further performance measures will apply.
This promotes alignment between If following the grant of an award, facts subsequently become executive director reward and shareholder known to the committee which would justify a reduction in the value creation.
Targets are set with award, the committee may reduce the number of shares, including reference to wider market practice and to nil.
Further information on the malus and clawback provisions is positioned at a level which we consider set out on page 145. represents stretching performance.
Targets will be measured against a comparator group containing other telecommunication companies and or companies which are either similar in size or market capitalisation and or have a similar business mix and spread as BT or operate in comparable markets.
In terms of weighting, share price performance measures will typically account for no more than 50% of the total award.
Under each performance measure, performance below threshold levels would result in nil vesting for that element.
For threshold levels of performance, no more than 25% of the maximum for that element would typically vest, rising to 100% for maximum performance.
Pension Executive directors currently receive a cash allowance in lieu of Purpose pension.
to attract and The committee may determine that alternative pension retain executive provisions will operate for new appointments to the Board.
When directors of the determining pension arrangements for new appointments, the right calibre by committee will give regard to: providing market competitive the cost of the arrangements: post-retirement pension arrangements received elsewhere in the group: and income.
The chairman does not receive a pension benefit or payment in lieu of such benefit, but does receive a lump sum death in service benefit of 1m.
For executive directors, the maximum cash allowance or equivalent contribution to an executive directors pension may not exceed 30% of salary.
Executive directors who are not members of the BT Pension Scheme benefit from a death in service cover of a lump sum of 4xsalary and a dependants pension of 30% of capped salary.
140 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 THE S THE STRA TRATE TEGIC REPOR GIC REPORT T GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE FINANCIAL S FINANCIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S ADDITIONAL INF ADDITIONAL INFORMA ORMATION TION Policy Element Operation and Opportunity Performance measures or basis of payment Save As You Earn Executive directors and the chairman may participate in the There are no performance measures attached Saveshare Scheme all-employee saveshare HMRC approved savings related share to these awards.
Purpose option plan on the same basis as other eligible employees.
to encourage All participants may invest up to the limits operated by the employee share company at the time set in line with HMRC guidance.
ESIP directshare Executive directors and the chairman may participate in the There are no performance measures attached Purpose Directshare HMRC approved purchase of shares from gross to these awards.
to encourage salary on the same basis as other eligible employees.
employee share All participants may invest up to the limits operated by the ownership.
company at the time set in line with HMRC guidance.
Notes to the policy table be gr anted as conditional share awards or in such other form that the committee determines has 1.
For further information on the performance measures applicable to the annual bonus and ISP the same economic effect: see pages 139 and 140. ha five any performance conditions applicable to them varied or substituted by the committee if an 2.
No performance measures are applicable to salary, benefits, pension, BT saveshare and BT event occurs which causes the committee to determine that the performance conditions no longer directshare in line with market practice.
achieve their original purpose, provided that the varied or substituted performance condition 3.
Common award terms would be not be materially less difficult to satisfy: Awards under any of the companys share plans referred to in this report may: be settled in cash at the committees discretion: and inc orporate the right to receive the value of dividends that would have been paid on the shares be adjust ed in the event of any variation of the companys share capital or any demerger, special subject to an award that vests, which may be calculated assuming the shares were reinvested in dividend or other event that may affect the current or future value of awards.
This value will normally be delivered in the form of additional shares: Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 141 Remuneration Policy continued Payment for loss of office Remuneration arrangements throughout the In a departure event, the committee will typically consider: company BT operates in a number of different environments and has many whe ther any element of annual bonus should be paid for the employees who carry out diverse jobs across a number of countries: financial year.
Any bonus paid will normally be limited to the all emplo yees, including directors, are paid by reference to the period served during the financial year in which the departure market rate: occurs: per formance for managers is measured and rewarded through a whe ther any of the share element of deferred bonus awarded in number of performance-related bonus schemes across the group: prior years should be preserved either in full or in part: and busines s unit performance measures are cascaded down through whe ther any awards under the ISP should be preserved either in the organisation: full or in part and, if relevant, whether the post vesting holding B T offers employment conditions that reflect our values and are period should apply.
commensurate with a large publicly listed company, including The committee has historically maintained a discretionary approach high standards of health and safety and equal opportunities: to the treatment of leavers, on the basis that the facts and B T operates all employee share plans in many countries.
These are circumstances of each case are unique.
open to all employees where offered: and B T offers a range of employee benefits many of which are In an exit situation, the committee will consider: the individual available to everyone.
circumstances: any mitigating factors that might be relevant: the appropriate statutory and contractual position and the requirements Recruitment of the business for speed of change.
Our recruitment policy is based on a number of key principles: we aim t o provide a remuneration package which is sufficient to The default position is that an unvested ISP or DBP award or attract, retain and motivate key talent, while at all times ensuring entitlement lapses on cessation of employment, unless the that we pay no more than is necessary, with due regard to the committee applies discretion to preserve some or all of the awards.
best interests of the company and our shareholders: This provides the committee with the maximum flexibility to review the c ommittee will take a number of factors into account in the facts and circumstances of each case, allowing differentiation determining the appropriate remuneration package.
For example, between good and bad leavers and avoiding payment for failure.
these may typically include the candidates experience and calibre, their circumstances, external market influences and arrangements When considering a departure event, there are a number of factors for existing executive directors: which the committee takes into account in determining appropriate the ongoing r emuneration package offered to new directors will treatment for outstanding incentive awards.
only include those elements listed within the policy table: These include: the c ommittee may also consider providing additional benefits to the po sition under the relevant plan documentation: expatriate appointments, where appropriate: and the individual cir cumstances of the departure: the c ommittee will provide full details of the recruitment package the per formance of the company individual during the year to for new executive directors in the next Annual Report on date: and Directors Remuneration and will provide shareholders with the the na ture of the handover process.
rationale for the decisions that were taken.
In some cases, the treatment is formally prescribed under the The maximum level of variable pay excluding buyouts for which rules of the relevant plan so that where there are good leaver see below which may be awarded in respect of a recruitment circumstances awards, which would otherwise lapse by default, vest event internal or external, will not exceed 740% of base salary, either on the normal vesting date or on cessation of employment.
representing the current maximum award under the annual bonus These circumstances include death, injury, ill-health, disability, and ISP.
redundancy or sale of the company or business.
If the director dies In addition, to facilitate recruitment, the committee may make or leaves due to ill health, injury or disability, ISP awards which have awards to buy-out variable incentives which the individual less than 12 months of the performance period remaining or DBP would forfeit at their current employer.
The committee will give awards which have less than 12 months of the deferred period to consideration to any relevant factors, typically including the form of run, vest automatically on leaving.
In other leaver circumstances the award eg cash or shares, the proportion of the performance the committee has discretion to determine whether, when, and to vesting period outstanding and the potential value of the forfeited what extent, awards vest.
Where a director leaves where some of his remuneration, including performance conditions attached to the shares acquired under an ISP award are subject to a holding period, awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met, and the timing that holding period will continue to apply unless the committee of any potential payments.
In making buying-out awards, the committee may use the relevant The committee considers the leaver circumstances along a provision in the Financial Conduct Authority Listing Rules.
continuum, ranging from bad leaver scenarios such as termination of employment for gross misconduct or resignation, through to the This allows for the granting of awards specifically to facilitate, in good leaver scenarios outlined above.
Accordingly the committee unusual circumstances, the recruitment of an executive director, may apply or disapply such performance conditions or time without seeking prior shareholder approval.
In doing so, the pro-rating to awards vesting in these circumstances as it considers committee will comply with the relevant provisions in force at the appropriate.
Where an executive director is appointed from within the organisation, the company will honour legacy arrangements in line with the original terms and conditions.
In the event of the appointment of a new non-executive director, remuneration arrangements will be in line with those detailed on page 135.
142 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 THE S THE STRA TRATE TEGIC REPOR GIC REPORT T GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE FINANCIAL S FINANCIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S ADDITIONAL INF ADDITIONAL INFORMA ORMATION TION All-employee plans leavers Employment conditions elsewhere in the group The treatment of saveshare options and directshare shares on The committee considers the pay and conditions of employees leaving is as determined under the respective HMRC approved rules.
throughout the company when determining the remuneration For saveshare, someone who ceases to be an employee in special arrangements for executive directors although no direct comparison circumstances for example injury, disability, death, or following metrics are applied.
sale of the company or business where they work may exercise the In particular, the committee considers the relationship between option within six months after leaving or 12 months in the case general changes to UK employees remuneration and executive of death or the relevant corporate event.
If someone leaves for a director reward.
reason not falling within special circumstances, the option lapses on the date the individual leaves.
Whilst the committee does not directly consult with our employees as part of the process of determining executive pay, the Board does ISP DBP change of control receive feedback from employee surveys that takes into account In the event of a takeover or scheme of arrangement involving the remuneration in general.
The committee also receives updates from company, ISP and DBP awards will vest, at a minimum, to the extent the group HR director.
that any applicable performance measures have been satisfied at the time subject to the committees discretion to determine the Executive director and chairman service contracts appropriate level of vesting, having regard to such relevant factors The other key terms of the service contracts for the current as it decides to take into account.
If the acquiring company offers executive directors and the chairman are set out below.
to exchange awards over BT shares for awards over its shares or The termination provisions described above are without prejudice shares in another company, awards will normally be exchanged and to BTs ability in appropriate circumstances to terminate in breach continue under the rules of the relevant plan.
If within 12 months of the notice period referred to above, and thereby be liable for of a change of control, a participants employment is terminated damages to the executive director or chairman.
by his employer other than for misconduct or performance or he or she resigned as a result of a reduction of his or her duties or In the event of termination by BT, each executive director and the responsibilities constituting a material breach of the individuals chairman may have entitlement to compensation in respect of his or contract, the participant is entitled to receive an amount equal to her statutory rights under employment protection legislation in the the difference between the value he or she received on the change UK.
of control he would have received if the relevant performance Where appropriate, BT may also meet a directors reasonable legal condition had been met in full.
expenses in connection with either his or her appointment or In the event of a voluntary winding up of the company, awards termination of his or her appointment.
may vest on the members resolution to voluntarily wind-up the company being passed.
There are no other service agreements, letters of appointment or material contracts, existing or proposed, between the company and any of the executive director Provision Policy Notice period 12 months notice by the company, six months notice by the executive director or chairman there is no fixed expiry date.
Termination payment In lieu of giving an executive director or the chairman 12 months notice, BT may terminate the directors contract and make a payment in lieu of notice to which the director was entitled if he or she had received salary and the value of contractual benefits for the period.
In respect of the executive directors, the payments in lieu will be payable in equal monthly instalments until the date on which the notice period would have expired or if earlier the date on which the director secures alternate employment with the same or higher basic salary or fee.
In the event that the director secures alternate employment at a basic salary of 30,000 or higher, but lower than their salary, payment in lieu will be reduced by the amount of the new lower salary received.
The Board retains the right to lower the payment in lieu of the directors new employment if it considers the new employment terms of the director are not appropriately balanced between basic salary and other elements, and may cease making payments entirely where the Board is not satisfied the director is making reasonable efforts to secure alternative employment.
In respect of the chairman, the payment in lieu will be payable in equal monthly instalments until the earlier of 12 months from the date of termination or the date the chairman secures alternate full-time employment.
Remuneration and Participation in the incentive plans, ISP, DBP and annual bonus, saveshare and directshare, is nonbenefits contractual.
The chairman does not participate in the ISP, DBP or any annual bonus.
Other benefits include pension including life cover, dental cover, company car, fuel or driver, private health care including spouse and children under age of 18 or 21 if in full time education, telecommunication facilities, home security and professional subscriptions.
The chairman does not receive pension benefits but is entitled to all other benefits.
The chairman receives an all-inclusive fee for the role.
Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 143 Remuneration Policy continued Illustration of executive director pay scenarios ISP awards have been shown at face value, with no share price Our remuneration policy aims to ensure that a significant proportion growth or discount rate assumptions.
All-employee share plans of pay is dependent on the achievement of stretching performance saveshare and directshare have been excluded, as have any legacy targets.
The committee has considered the level of total awards held by executive directors.
remuneration that would be payable under different performance scenarios and is satisfied that, as the graph below illustrates, Chief executive - performance scenario chart executive pay is appropriate in the context of the performance required and is aligned with shareholders interests.
Minimum Minimum 1.3m The illustrative scenarios below set out the total remuneration that On-Target On-Target 3.5m might be received by each executive director for different levels of performance, based on our remuneration policy.
Maximum Maximum 7.7m The minimum reflects base salary, pension and benefits only which are not performance related.
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Fixed remuneration Performance Assumptions Variable remuneration Long-term incentives Fixed pay All scenarios Consists of total fixed pay base salary, benefits and pension: Group finance director - performance scenario chart Base salary salary effective as at June 2017 Minimum Minimum 0.9m Benefits amount received by each director in 2016 17 On-Target On-Target 2.4m Pension cash supplement in Maximum Maximum 5.1m lieu of pension provision for 2016 17 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 Fixed remuneration Variable Minimum No payout under the annual Variable remuneration pay bonus Long-term incentives No vesting under the ISP On-target On target payout under the Fixed pay is calculated as follows: annual bonus Salary Benefits Pension Total 000 000 000 fixed pay 25% of maximum vesting Chief executive 997 54 298 1,349 under the ISP Group finance Maximum 100% of the maximum payout director 700 24 210 934 under the annual bonus 100% of maximum vesting under the ISP For the purposes of the scenarios chart for the group finance director, we have increased the amount received in 2016 17 on a pro-rata basis to reflect a full financial year.
The chief executive has a target bonus of 120% of salary, with a maximum bonus of 240% of salary.
The group finance director has a target bonus of 120% of salary, with a maximum bonus of 180%.
For these purposes, we have assumed a usual maximum ISP award of 400% of base salary for the chief executive and 350% of base salary for the group finance director.
The absolute maximum ISP award under our remuneration policy is 500% of base salary 144 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 THE S THE STRA TRATE TEGIC REPOR GIC REPORT T GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE FINANCIAL S FINANCIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S ADDITIONAL INF ADDITIONAL INFORMA ORMATION TION works and or worked: iii a material misstatement of the companys Other Remuneration Policies audited financial accounts other than as a result of a change in Malus and clawback accounting practices : iv misconduct of a participant which results Under the terms of the DBP and ISP, if following the grant of in or is likely to result in reputational damage to the company: an award, facts subsequently become known to the committee v a material failure in risk management: vi negligence or gross which would justify a reduction in the award, the committee may misconduct of a participant: and or vii fraud effected by or with reduce the number of shares under award to take account of this, knowledge of a participant.
In order to retain flexibility, the events under which this may apply are not formally stipulated in the rules.
However, for Other elements of remuneration are not subject to recovery illustration, such events may include, for example, mis-statement of arrangements.
the financial accounts, fraud or material failure of risk management.
Consideration of shareholder views Clawback provisions are also in place for the cash part of the annual The committee is strongly committed to an open and transparent bonus and ISP awards granted from June 2015 onwards.
Under the dialogue with shareholders on remuneration matters.
We believe annual bonus, clawback will normally apply for one year following that it is important to meet regularly with our key shareholders to payment.
The ISP clawback arrangements may be enforced by the understand their views on our remuneration arrangements and committee in the two year period post-vesting of any awards.
The discuss our approach going forward.
circumstances in which the committee may consider it appropriate The committee will continue to engage with shareholders going to apply clawback include, but are not limited to i the behaviour forward and will aim to consult on any material changes to the of the participant which fails to reflect the companys governance Policy or other relevant matters.
and business values: ii material adverse change in the financial performance of the company or any division in which the participant Non-executive director fees Element purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Purpose NEDs receive a basic fee, paid monthly in Current fee levels can be found in the Annual Core element of remuneration, respect of their board duties.
Report on Remuneration on page 135. paid for fulfilling the relevant role Further fees may be paid for chairmanship or Fees are set at a level which is considered membership of Board committees or to the appropriate to attract and retain NEDs of the senior independent director.
Additional fees of up to 6,000 may also Fee levels are normally set by reference to the be payable to NEDs travelling regularly from level of fees paid to NEDs serving on boards overseas on an intercontinental basis to Board of similarly-sized, UK-listed companies, taking and committee meetings.
into account the size, responsibility and time NEDs are not eligible for annual bonus, share commitment required of the role.
incentives, pensions or other benefits.
The companys Articles of Association provide Expenses incurred in the performance of the maximum fee level payable.
The maximum non-executive duties for the company may be is based on NED fees benchmarked as at reimbursed including any relevant tax or paid 1April 1999 with increases linked to the directly by the company, as appropriate.
Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 145 Directors information the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 102 includes a fair review Statement of directors responsibilities of the development and performance of the business and the The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, position of the group, together with a description of the principal the Report on Directors Remuneration and the financial risks and uncertainties it faces.
statements in line with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each Fair, balanced and understandable financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the consolidated financial statements in accordance with International In accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Code, we have processes and procedures in place to ensure that the Union.
Theyve also prepared parent company financial statements information presented in the Annual Report is fair, balanced and in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice understandable.
We describe these processes and procedures on UK GAAP, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced page 113.
Disclosure Framework FRS 101, and applicable law.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the directors have also Based on the advice of the Audit & Risk Committee the Board elected to comply with IFRS, issued by the International Accounting considers that the Annual Report, as a whole, is fair, balanced Standards Board IASB.
Under company law, the directors must not and understandable, and provides the information necessary for approve the financial statements unless theyre satisfied that it gives shareholders to assess the groups position, performance, business a true and fair view of the group and the company and of the profit model and strategy.
or loss of the group and the company for that period.
Critical accounting estimates and key To prepare these financial statements, the directors: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them judgements, and significant accounting consistently: policies make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Our critical accounting estimates, key judgements, and significant and prudent: accounting policies conform with IFRS and are set out on page state whether IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, and IFRS 176 of the consolidated financial statements.
The directors have issued by the IASB and applicable UK GAAP including FRS 101 reviewed these policies and applicable estimation techniques and have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed have confirmed them to be appropriate for the preparation of the and explained in the consolidated and parent company financial 2016 17 consolidated financial statements.
statements respectively: notify the parent companys shareholders in writing about the use of any disclosure exemptions of FRS 101 used in the preparation Disclosure of information to auditors of financial statements: and As far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant prepare financial statements on a going concern basis unless its information as defined by section 418 3 of the Companies Act inappropriate to presume that the group and the company will 2006 that has not been disclosed to the auditors and each of the continue in business.
directors believes that all steps have been taken that ought to have been taken to make them aware of any relevant audit information The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting and to establish that the auditors have been made aware of that records that show and explain the group and companys transactions information.
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Report on Directors Going concern Remuneration comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 102 includes information on regards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS the group structure, strategy and business model, the performance Regulation.
Theyre also responsible for safeguarding the assets of each line of business, the impact of regulation and competition of the company and the group and for taking reasonable steps to and principal risks and uncertainties.
The Group Performance section prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
on pages 91 to 102 includes information on our group financial results, financial outlook, cash flow and net debt and balance sheet The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of position.
Notes 23, 24, 25 and 27 of the consolidated financial the corporate and financial information included on the companys statements include information on the groups investments, cash and website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the cash equivalents, borrowings, derivatives, financial risk management preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ objectives, hedging policies and exposure to interest, foreign from legislation in other jurisdictions.
exchange, credit, liquidity and market risks.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on In line with IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements, and revised pages 106 to 107 confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: FRC guidance on risk management, internal control and related the company financial statements, which have been prepared in financial and business reporting, management has taken into accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting account all available information about the future for a period of at Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising least, but not limited to, 12 months from the date of approval of the FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law, financial statements when assessing the groups ability to continue as give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position a going concern.
and profit of the company: the consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared The directors carried out a robust assessment of the main risks in accordance with IFRS, and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and affecting the group including any that could threaten our business International Accounting Standards, as adopted by the European model, future performance, insolvency or liquidity.
Details of those Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial risks and how we manage and mitigate them are set out in Our Risks position and profit of the group: and on pages 44 to 55.
146 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 147 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Having assessed the main risks and other matters discussed Power to authorise conflicts in connection with the viability statement, in accordance with All directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 the UK Corporate Governance Code and the FRC guidance, the Act to avoid a situation in which he or she has, or can have a direct directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the basis of accounting when preparing the financial statements.
This interests of the company.
The companys Articles of Association assessment covers the period to May 2018, which is consistent with include provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest the FRC guidance.
in accordance with the 2006 Act.
The company has procedures in place, which it follows, to deal with such situations.
These require the Independent advice Board to: consider each conflict situation separately on its particular facts: The Board has a procedure that allows directors to seek independent consider the conflict situation in conjunction with the rest of its professional advice, at BTs expense.
duties under the 2006 Act: keep records and Board minutes on any authorisations granted by All directors also have access to the advice and services of the directors and the scope of any approvals given: and company secretary.
Directors and officers liability insurance and In addition, we have a Conflicted Matters Committee.
Tim Httges owes duties to both BT and Deutsche Telekom and the Conflicted indemnity Matters Committee helps him comply with his fiduciary duties For some years, BT has bought insurance cover for the directors, although ultimate responsibility rests with him.
You can find more officers and employees in positions of managerial supervision of BT details about the Conflicted Matters Committee on page 109.
Group plc and its subsidiaries.
This is intended to protect against defence costs, civil damages and, in some circumstances, civil fines and penalties following an action brought against them in their personal capacity.
The policy also covers individuals serving as directors of other companies or of joint ventures or on boards of trade associations or charitable organisations at BTs request.
The insurance protects the directors and officers directly in circumstances where, by law, BT cannot provide an indemnity.
It also provides BT, subject to a retention, with cover against the cost of indemnifying a director or officer.
One layer of insurance is ring-fenced for the directors of BT Group plc.
As at 8 May 2017, and throughout 2016 17, the companys wholly-owned subsidiary, British Telecommunications plc, has provided an indemnity for a similar group of people who would be covered by the above insurance.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover where the person has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Interest of management in certain transactions During and at the end of 2016 17, none of BTs directors was materially interested in any material transaction in relation to the groups business and none is materially interested in any presently proposed material transactions.
As explained below, Tim Httges is a member of the Board as well as the CEO of Deutsche Telekom.
146 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 147 General information In January 2017 we reported that the investigations had revealed US Regulation that the extent and complexity of the improper practices were greater than previously identified and that these had resulted in New York Stock Exchange an overstatement of profits over a number of years.
We concluded BT, as a foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares listed on the that the errors were not individually material to any of the groups New York Stock Exchange NYSE, is obliged to disclose any significant previously issued financial statements, but that the correction of ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from the 268m in the current year would materially misstate the current year.
corporate governance listing standards of the NYSE.
Therefore in our financial statements for and as of 31 March 2017, we have revised our prior year income statements, balance sheets and We have reviewed the NYSEs listing standards and believe that our cash flow statements.
corporate governance practices are consistent with them, with the following exception where we do not meet the strict requirements in As part of the investigation, we also commissioned KPMG, with the standards.
These state that companies must have a nominating support and oversight from our Legal, Governance and Compliance corporate governance committee composed entirely of independent function and Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, reporting directly to directors and with written terms of reference which, in addition to both the chair of the Audit & Risk Committee and BT Group chairman, identifying individuals qualified to become board members, develops to conduct a detailed independent review to determine how the and recommends to the Board a set of corporate governance collusion and override of controls within our Italian business remained principles applicable to the company.
We have a Nominating & undetected, while management conducted its own review.
These Governance Committee whose terms of reference include governance controls, investigations and reviews are now completed.
and compliance issues see Nominating & Governance Committee Chairmans report on pages 116 to 117.
The Nominating & Management had implemented a series of remedial and compensating Governance Committees terms of reference are in line with the actions after the issues were first identified in October 2016 requirements set out in the standards.
However, the committee is and, informed by the results of their own review and the recently chaired by the chairman, Sir Michael Rake, who is not considered completed KPMG investigation, has since implemented, and plans to independent under the NYSEs listing standards.
The Board and the implement, further such actions.
These actions include suspending Nominating & Governance Committee are made up of a majority of the key members of the senior management team in Italy who have independent, non-executive directors.
now left the business and appointing a new senior management team in Italy, strengthening the monitoring controls and escalation The US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the US mechanisms in our finance shared services centres, transferring Italy Securities and Exchange Commission SEC and NYSE listing standards customer billing activities to group billing services and performing require companies to comply with certain provisions relating to detailed substantive reviews of the balance sheet of our Italian their audit committee.
These include the independence of audit business and other large country operations outside the UK.
committee members and procedures for the treatment of complaints regarding accounting or auditing matters.
We comply fully with these As a result of the implementation of these remedial and compensating requirements.
actions, management has made all necessary adjustments in our consolidated financial statements.
Management has concluded that US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 our consolidated financial statements for the year ended, and as of, 31 March 2017 fairly present, in all material respects, our financial BT has securities registered with the SEC.
As a result, we must comply condition and results of operations.
Management also concluded that with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act which apply to the impact of all facts known to management to date are reflected in foreign issuers.
We comply with the legal and regulatory requirements the consolidated financial statements.
introduced under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, in so far as they apply.
Disclosure Controls and Procedures The Audit & Risk Committee includes Nick Rose who, in the opinion of We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed the Board, is an audit committee financial expert and is independent to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports as defined for this purpose.
The Board considers that the committees under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Exchange Act, and the members have broad commercial knowledge and extensive business rules and regulations thereunder, is recorded, processed, summarised leadership experience, having held between them various prior roles and reported within the time periods specified in the SECs rules and in major business, financial management, and financial function forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated supervision and that this constitutes a broad and suitable mix of to our management, including our chief executive and group finance business and financial experience on the committee.
director to allow for timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, The code of ethics we have adopted for the purposes of the Sarbanesmanagement recognises that any controls and procedures, no Oxley Act applies to the chief executive, group finance director and matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable senior finance managers.
assurance of achieving their objectives and management necessarily applies its judgement and makes assumptions about the likelihood of Controls and Procedures future events.
There can be no assurance that any design will succeed Background in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, Our assessment of our controls and procedures for this year has been regardless of how remote.
affected by the issues that have been identified in our Italian business.
We have evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and In October 2016 we reported that following an initial investigation procedures.
Based upon that evaluation, our chief executive and group we had identified improper accounting practices in our Italian business finance director concluded that as a result of the material weakness and had appointed KPMG, with support and oversight from our Legal, described below, as of 31 March 2017, our disclosure controls and Governance and Compliance function and Freshfields Bruckhaus procedures were not effective to provide reasonable assurance that Deringer, reporting directly to both the chair of the Audit & Risk information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file Committee and BT Group chairman, to perform an independent or furnish under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarised investigation, alongside our own detailed balance sheet review and continuing investigation.
148 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 149 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION and reported, within the time periods specified in the applicable rules Remediation and forms.
Since October 2016, and later informed by the results of the recently completed KPMG investigation and managements own Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial review, management has been actively engaged in the design and Reporting implementation of remediation efforts that are intended to address Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate the identified material weakness.
The design and implementation of internal control over financial reporting for the group.
Internal control these and other remedial efforts are the responsibility of management.
over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of The actions are intended to strengthen our internal control, consolidated financial statements for external reporting purposes in governance and compliance environment and remediate the material accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and IFRS as adopted by weakness described above.
These include the following: the EU.
We suspended a number of BT Italys senior management team Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial who have now left the business.
The president of our European reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Therefore even operations has also left the business.
We have appointed a new those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable president of our European operations and a new CEO and CFO of assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and BT Italy from outside the Italian executive management team.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness 2.
We strengthened our monitoring controls and escalation to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become mechanisms as they relate to our Italian business, including in inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of relation to the reviews of reconciliations and journals.
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
We transferred the Italy customer billing activities to our group billing services function.
Management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of 31 March 2017 based We also are in the process of evaluating additional actions to remediate on the criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework the material weakness and strengthen our internal control, governance 2013 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the and compliance environment, including increasing the resources and Treadway Commission COSO.
improving the capabilities of the controlling function and the audit function outside the UK, and further developing our integrated risk Following this assessment, management has concluded that our and assurance reporting processes.
We are also enhancing our controls internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of and compliance programme to reinforce the importance of doing 31 March 2017 due to the material weakness described below.
business in an ethical, disciplined and standardised way.
Material Weakness in Internal Control over Financial Reporting Notwithstanding the identified material weakness, management has A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in concluded that our consolidated financial statements for the year internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable ended, and as of 31 March 2017 fairly present, in all material respects, possibility that a material misstatement of our consolidated financial our financial condition and results of operations.
Management has also statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.
concluded that the impact of all facts known to management to date are reflected in the consolidated financial statements.
Our Italian business is managed by a local management team within the Global Services line of business.
Individuals in Italy colluded to Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting override the period end financial close controls and overstate the Changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred results, and the monitoring controls which include the review of during 2016 17, which have materially affected, or are reasonably reconciliations, journals, results and financial position, did not operate likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting effectively to identify the overstatement in a timely manner.
are described in points 2 and 3 above under Remediation.
The group did not maintain effective controls to prevent or detect the UK Internal control and risk management collusive circumvention or override of controls related to our Italian The Board is responsible for the groups systems of internal control business.
Specifically management has identified the following internal and risk management and for reviewing the effectiveness of those control deficiencies related to our Italian business and the failure systems each year.
These systems are designed to manage, rather than to detect the circumvention or override of controls that together eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives: any system constitute a material weakness in the control environment i failure in can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against the review of reconciliations ii failure in the review of journals and iii material misstatement or loss.
failure in our monitoring controls over the results and financial position of our Italian business.
For details of our assessment of our internal controls, as affected by the issues identified in our Italian business, see US Regulation on This material weakness could result in a misstatement of the account page 148. balances and disclosures relating to our Italian business that would represent material misstatements in our annual consolidated financial The Board also takes account of significant social, environmental statements that would not be prevented or detected.
and ethical matters that relate to BTs businesses and reviews BTs corporate responsibility policy annually.
The companys workplace Audit of the Effectiveness of Internal Control over Financial practices, specific environmental, social and ethical risks and Reporting opportunities and details of underlying governance processes are dealt Our independent registered public accounting firm, with on pages 26 to 38 in the Delivering our strategy section.
 LLP, has audited the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as stated in their report as of We have enterprise-wide risk management processes for identifying, 31 March 2017, which is included herein.
evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the group.
These processes have been in place throughout the year and have continued 148 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 149 General information continued up to the date on which this document was approved.
The processes Capital management and funding policy are in accordance with the FRC guidance on risk management, internal The objective of our capital management policy is to target an overall control and related financial and business reporting.
level of debt consistent with our credit rating objectives while investing in the business, supporting the pension fund and paying progressive Risk assessment and evaluation take place as an integral part of BTs dividends.
We have a detailed risk management process which identifies the key risks facing the group, each line of The Board reviews the groups capital structure regularly.
proposes actions which reflect the groups investment plans and risk characteristics as well as the macro-economic conditions in which we The key features of our enterprise-wide risk management and internal operate.
control process covering financial, operational and compliance controls are: Our funding policy is to raise and invest funds centrally to meet the senior executives collectively review the groups key risks and have groups anticipated requirements.
We use a combination of capital created a Group Risk Register describing the risks, owners and market bond issuance, commercial paper borrowing and committed mitigation strategies.
The Group Risk Panel and the Operating borrowing facilities to fund the group.
When issuing debt, group Committee review this before it is reviewed and approved by the treasury will take into consideration the maturity profile of the groups Board: debt portfolio as well as forecast cash flows to avoid refinancing risk.
the lines of business and TSO carry out risk assessments of their operations, create risk registers relating to those operations and Details of our treasury policy are included in note 27 to the ensure that the key risks are addressed: consolidated financial statements.
senior executives with responsibility for major group operations report quarterly their opinion on the effectiveness of the Financial instruments operation of internal controls in their areas of responsibility: Details of the groups financial risk management objectives and policies the groups internal auditors carry out continuing assessments of the group and exposure to interest risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and of the quality of risk management and control, report to foreign exchange are given in note 27 to the consolidated financial management and the Audit & Risk Committee on the status of statements.
specific areas identified for improvement and promote effective Credit risk management policy risk management in the lines of business and TSO: We take proactive steps to minimise the impact of adverse market the Audit & Risk Committee, on behalf of the Board, considers conditions on our financial instruments.
In managing investments and the effectiveness of the groups internal control procedures during derivative financial instruments, the groups central treasury function the financial year.
It reviews reports from the internal and external monitors the credit quality across treasury counterparties and actively auditors and reports its conclusions to the Board.
The Audit & Risk manages any exposures which arise.
Management within the lines Committee has carried out these actions for 2016 17: and of business also actively monitors any exposures arising from trading the Audit & Risk Committee, on behalf of the Board, reviews the balances.
effectiveness of risk management arrangements across the group.
In support of this, an annual review meeting is held with the Off-balance sheet arrangements group chief executive and the CEOs of each line of business.
Other than the financial commitments and contingent liabilities disclosed in note 30 to the consolidated financial statements, there We have not dealt with joint ventures and associates, which BT does are no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably not control, as part of the group risk management process.
They are likely to have, a current or future material effect on: our financial responsible for their own internal control assessment.
condition: changes in financial condition: revenues or expenses: results of operations: liquidity: capital expenditure: or capital resources.
Our significant accounting policies are set out on pages 176 to 181.
The consistent application of those policies is subject to ongoing Legal proceedings verification through management review and independent review by The group is involved in various legal proceedings, including actual or internal and external auditors.
threatened litigation, government or regulatory investigations.
For The processes supporting the preparation and consolidation of the further details of legal and regulatory proceedings to which the group financial statements have been documented and are subject to annual is party please see note 30 to the consolidated financial statements on verification through the programme of testing done by our internal pages 229 to 231. auditors.
This serves to confirm the operation of the internal controls over financial reporting and compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Save as disclosed below and in note 30 to the consolidated financial The Audit & Risk Committee reviews BTs published financial results, statements, the group does not currently believe that there are any related disclosures and accounting judgements.
The committees legal proceedings, government or regulatory investigations that may activities are set out on pages 112 to 115. have a material adverse impact on the operations or financial condition of the group.
In respect of each of the claims described in note 30 The Board has approved the formal statement of matters which the nature and progression of such proceedings and investigations are reserved to it for consideration, approval or oversight.
It has can make it difficult to predict the impact they will have on the group.
also approved the groups corporate governance framework, which There are many reasons why we cannot make these assessments with sets out the high level principles by which BT is managed and the certainty, including, among others, that they are in early stages, no responsibilities and powers of the Operating Committee and the damages or remedies have been specified, and or the often slow pace groups senior executives.
As part of this framework, the development of litigation.
and implementation of certain powers relating to group-wide policies and practices are reserved to identified senior executives.
Italian business Following the groups announcement with respect to our investigation into our Italian business in January 2017, three purported securities class action complaints were filed against the company and certain current and former officers in United States courts.
All three actions 150 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 151 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION are purportedly brought on behalf of purchasers of BT Group ADRs The following disclosures arent covered elsewhere in this Annual between May 2012 or May 2013 and January 2017.
The actions Report: allege that the company made materially false and or misleading BT has two employee share ownership trusts that hold BT shares statements between 2012 and 2016 regarding its internal controls, for satisfying awards under the various employee share plans.
ethics and corporate governance, and financial outlook in its submissions The Trustee of the BT Group Employee Share Investment Plan to and filings with the US Securities and Exchange Commission and may invite participants, on whose behalf it holds shares, to direct other public disclosure.
Plaintiffs counsel have filed motions to appoint it how to vote in respect of those shares.
If there is an offer for lead plaintiff and lead counsel, and decisions on these motions have not the shares or other transaction which would lead to a change of yet been made.
We intend to defend these claims vigorously.
control of BT, participants may direct the Trustee to accept the offer or agree to the transaction.
In respect of shares held in the The issues in Italy have also resulted in engagement with certain of our BT Group Employee Share Ownership Trust, the Trustee abstains regulators and other authorities in the UK and elsewhere.
As would from voting those shares.
be expected, we are cooperating fully with these bodies including the If theres an offer for the shares, the Trustee doesnt have to Italian authorities.
accept or reject the offer but will have regard to the interests of the participants, may consult them to obtain their views on the offer and may otherwise take the action with respect to the offer Other information Listing Rules it thinks fair.
4CR, the information required to be No person holds securities carrying special rights with regard to disclosed by LR 9.8.
4R is on these pages: control of the company.
Proxy appointment and voting instructions must be received by Section Information Page the registrars not less than 48 hours before a general meeting see also page 266.
1 Interest capitalised Not material for Any amendment of BTs Articles of Association requires the group shareholder approval in accordance with applicable legislation.
2 Publication of unaudited financial information 20 to 21 The powers of the directors are determined by UK legislation and 4 Details of unusual long-term incentive schemes Not applicable the Articles of Association.
The directors are authorised to issue and allot shares, and to undertake purchases of BT shares subject 5 Waiver of emoluments by a director Not applicable to shareholder approval at the AGM.
6 Waiver of future emoluments by a director Not applicable We have no agreements with directors providing for 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash 92 and 234 compensation for loss of office or employment as a result of a takeover.
There is similarly no provision for this in standard 8 Non pre-emptive issue by a major subsidiary Not applicable contracts for employees.
undertaking We arent aware of any agreements between shareholders that 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed Not applicable may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting subsidiary rights.
10 Contracts of significance involving a director or Not applicable controlling shareholder Political donations 11 Provision of services by a controlling Not applicable Our policy is that no company in the group will make contributions in shareholder cash or kind to any political party, whether by gift or loan.
However, 12 Shareholder waiver of dividends See below the definition of political donations used in the 2006 Act is very much broader than the sense in which these words are ordinarily used.
It 13 Shareholder waiver of future dividends See below could cover things like making members of parliament and others in 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable the political world aware of key industry issues and matters affecting the company, enhancing their understanding of BT.
4R 12 and 13 the trustee of the BT Group Employee Share Ownership Trust agrees to waive dividends payable on The authority for political donations we are requesting at the AGM the BT shares it holds for satisfying awards under various BT executive isnt intended to change this policy.
It will, however, ensure that share plans.
Under the rules of these share plans, the dividends are rethe group continues to act within the provisions of the 2006 Act invested in BT shares that are added to the relevant share awards.
requiring companies to obtain shareholder authority before they can make donations to EU political parties and or political organisations as defined in the 2006 Act.
During 2016 17, the companys wholly Other statutory information owned subsidiary, British Telecommunications plc, paid the costs of Companies Act 2006 attending corporate days at i the Conservative party conference: ii the Labour party conference and iii costs associated with Certain provisions of the 2006 Act require us to make additional participating in an event as part of the EU referendum debate.
These are described on the pages listed below: costs totalled 6,870 2015 16: 4,192.
No loans were made to any political party by any company in the BT group.
Information Page Structure of BTs share capital including the rights and 168 and 266 obligations attaching to the shares to 268 Restrictions on the transfer of BT shares and voting rights 266 to 268 Significant direct or indirect shareholdings 152 Appointment and replacement of directors 137 and 268 Significant agreements to which BT Group plc is a party 268 to 269 that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover 150 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 151 Shareholders and Annual General Meeting As part of our policy to involve shareholders fully in the affairs of the Relations with shareholders company, at our AGM we give them the opportunity to ask questions The chief executive and group finance director, as well as other about BTs activities.
We also give shareholders the opportunity to senior executives, hold meetings with BTs institutional shareholders vote on every important issue by proposing a separate resolution for and prospective shareholders to discuss BTs strategy and financial each.
Before the AGM, we count the proxy votes for and against each performance.
In 2016 17 we held 507 meetings or events with resolution, as well as votes withheld, and make the results available at institutional investors.
This included a number of meetings held the meeting.
As with the 2016 AGM, well take votes on all matters at with investors by our chairman and senior independent director.
This the 2017 AGM on a poll, except procedural issues.
Well count every marks a significant increase on 353 in 2015 16.
Following Simon vote cast, whether in person or by proxy at the meeting, and post Lowth joining as group finance director in July 2016, we saw an the outcome of voting on the resolutions on our website as soon as increased number of introductory meetings.
The announcement of possible after the meeting.
Its our policy for all directors to attend the our updated outlook in January 2017 then also led to an increased AGM if possible.
While, because of ill health or other pressing reasons, number of requests for meetings.
All non-executive directors have this may not always be possible, in normal circumstances this means an invitation to attend investor meetings if they wish.
that the chairs of the Audit & Risk, Nominating & Governance and Remuneration Committees are at the AGM and are available to answer We control contact with institutional investors as well as financial questions.
All directors attended the 2016 AGM.
analysts, brokers and the media through written guidelines that ensure the protection of commercial and inside information that has The separate Notice of meeting 2017 which we send to all not already been made generally available to the market.
shareholders who have requested shareholder documents by post contains the 23 resolutions we will propose at the 2017 AGM on During the year, we surveyed 13,000 private shareholders selected at 12 July, together with explanatory notes.
We notify all shareholders random to help us improve shareholder engagement.
Weve continued of the publication of these documents, which we send out in the to include more information on BTs financial performance, strategy, most cost-effective way.
We aim to give as much notice of our AGM as our purpose and future plans in our shareholder communications.
possible and at least 21 clear days notice, as required by our Articles of Association.
In practice, we send these documents to shareholders We provide the directors with regular reports and other written more than 20 working days before the AGM.
For other general briefings on shareholders and analysts views and the company meetings this should be at least 14 working days in advance.
secretary notifies directors of changes in the holdings of the principal shareholders.
Weve put procedures in place to ensure the timely At the AGM well propose resolutions to re-appoint release of inside information and for the publication of financial results  as BTs auditors and to authorise the directors and regulatory financial statements.
The Disclosure Committee made to agree their remuneration.
up of the group chief executive, group finance director and other senior executives, is chaired by the company secretary and reviews all Authority to purchase shares significant announcements for accuracy and compliance requirements.
The authority given at last years AGM, held on 13 July 2016, for BT Substantial shareholdings to purchase in the market 996m of its shares, representing 10% of At 11 May 2017, BT had received notice, under the Financial Conduct the issued share capital, expires on 12 July 2017.
Shareholders will be Authoritys Disclosure Guidance & Transparency Rules, in respect of the asked to give a similar authority at the 2017 AGM.
following holding of shares: During 2016 17, 34m shares of 5p each were purchased under this authority 0.34% of the share capital for a consideration of 150m, % of total Date Shares voting rights at an average price of 4.41 per share.
During 2016 17, 34.5m treasury shares were transferred to meet BTs obligations under our BlackRock Inc 27 April 2017 497,222,381 4.99% employee share plans.
At 8 May 2017, we held a total of 7.6m shares as treasury shares.
All of those shares were purchased in an on-market At 31 March 2017, BlackRocks interest was 547,375,427 shares buyback programme from May 2016 to March 2017. representing 5.50% of total voting rights.
No requirement to notify the company of any increase or decrease would have arisen unless In addition, the BT Group Employee Share Ownership Trust purchased the holding moved up or down a whole number percentage level.
The 12.9m BT shares for a total consideration of 55m, of which 14.3m percentage level may decrease on the transfer of treasury shares for shares continued to be held in the Trust at 8 May 2017. any of the companys share plans.
Cross reference to the Strategic Report In addition to the above, T-Mobile Holdings Limited holds 1,196,175,322 shares representing 12% of total voting rights and As permitted by the Companies Act, we have chosen to include in the Orange SA and Orange Telecommunications Group Limited holds Strategic Report the following information required by law to be 399,070,327 shares representing 4% of total voting rights.
included in the Report of the Directors : the final dividend proposed by the Board page 96 : No changes to these holdings were notified to BT in 2016 17. an indication of likely future developments in the business of the company see the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 102 : As partial consideration for our purchase of EE Limited in January an indication of our R&D activities page 32 : 2016, we issued 1,594,900,429 new ordinary shares to T-Mobile information about our people page 26 : and Holdings Limited and Orange Telecommunications Group Limited.
information about greenhouse gas emissions page 42.
By order of the Board Annual General Meeting Resolutions Dan Fitz Well ask our shareholders to vote on both the Annual Report and the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary Report on Directors Remuneration at our AGM.
Approval of the latter 11 May 2017 will be sought in two parts and will include the Remuneration Policy.
152 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc PB THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Financial statements Financial Auditors reports consolidated financial statements United Kingdom opinion 154 United States opinion 164 statements Group income statement 165 Group statement of comprehensive income 166 Group balance sheet 167 Group statement of changes inequity 168 Group cash flow statement 169 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Basis of preparation 170 Critical accounting estimates and key judgements 176 Significant accounting policies 176 Segment information 182 Operating costs 186 Employees 187 Audit, audit related and other non-audit services 188 Specific items 189 Taxation 191 Earnings per share 194 Dividends 195 Intangible assets 195 Property, plant and equipment 198 Business combinations 199 Programme rights 200 Inventories 200 Trade and other receivables 200 Trade and other payables 202 Provisions 203 Retirement benefit plans 204 Own shares 214 Share-based payments 215 Investments 216 Cash and cash equivalents 218 Loans and other borrowings 218 Finance expense 221 Financial instruments and risk management 222 Other reserves 228 Related party transactions 229 Financial commitments and contingent liabilities 229 Auditors report parent company financial statements 232 Financial statements of BTGroup plc 234 Related undertakings 238 Additional information 251 PB BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 153 Independent auditors report Report on the group financial statements had resulted in the overstatement of earnings in the Italian business United Kingdom over a number of years.
We considered the impact of these matters on the group audit risk assessment, the scope of the audit in Our opinion determining which reporting units required audit work and the In our opinion, BT Group plcs group financial statements the extent of the work to be performed in Italy specifically and in other financial statements : reporting units and the audit response to the issues identified.
giv e a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then Overview ended: Overall group materiality: 130 million 2015 16: 130 million ha five been properly prepared in accordance with International which represents approximately 4% of profit before tax.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the F ull scope audits were performed in three reporting units the European Union: and main BT UK trading company British Telecommunications plc, EE ha five been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the and the principal reporting unit in Italy.
These units accounted for Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
over 80% of the groups revenue and groups profit before tax.
Specific audit pr ocedures were performed in four reporting Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB units Spain, Germany, Ireland and the US.
These units As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the group, in accounted for 7% of the groups revenue.
addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, Specific audit pr ocedures over certain operating costs were has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting performed in one additional reporting unit in the UK.
Our assessment of the risk of material misstatement also informed In our opinion, the financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued our views on the areas of particular focus for our work which are by the IASB.
listed below: As sessment of the carrying value of goodwill and acquired What we have audited intangible assets in EE: The financial statements, included within the Annual Report & Form As sessment of the carrying value of goodwill in Global Services: 20-F 2017 the Annual Report, comprise: Major c ontracts in Global Services, Business & Public Sector and the gr oup balance sheet as at 31 March 2017: EE: the gr oup income statement for the year then ended: A ccuracy of revenue due to complex billing systems: the gr oup statement of comprehensive income for the year then P ension scheme obligations and unquoted investments in the ended: BT Pension Scheme: the gr oup cash flow statement for the year then ended: Litiga tion and regulatory provisions including historical use of the gr oup statement of changes in equity for the year then deemed consent : ended: and R ecognition and measurement of potential tax exposures and the no tes to the financial statements, which include a summary of deferred tax assets: significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
C ost capitalisation and asset lives for property, plant and equipment and software intangible assets: and Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Irregular accounting practices in BT Italia.
Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are The scope of our audit and our areas of focus identified as audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing European Union, and applicable law.
the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective Our audit approach judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting Context estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future We took into consideration the ongoing integration of EE into the events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also wider group and that 2016 17 was the first full year of EEs results addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, being consolidated into the groups financial statements.
EE was including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the also included in the groups internal control over financial reporting directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to framework for the first time.
In addition, in October 2016, the group announced that following The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on allegations of inappropriate management behaviour in BTs Italian our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are business, it had conducted an initial internal investigation.
This initial identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out investigation included a review of accounting practices during which how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to group management had identified certain historical accounting provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any errors and reassessed certain areas of management judgement.
In comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read January 2017, the group announced that its investigations had in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our revealed that the extent and complexity of inappropriate behaviour audit.
in the Italian business was greater than previously identified and 154 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and acquired We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness intangible assets in EE of managements controls in assessing the carrying value of The group acquired EE on 29 January 2016 and finalised the purchase goodwill and other intangible assets.
We determined that the price accounting in the current year.
The goodwill acquired was 6.5bn controls were designed and operating effectively.
and other intangible assets with finite useful lives of 5.9bn were also recognised on acquisition.
We tested the allocation of EE goodwill to other CGUs.
In testing this we assessed whether managements approach was in As a result of the group reorganisation effective 1 April 2016, the compliance with IAS 36 and tested the calculation.
group allocated goodwill of 2.1bn relating to the acquisition of EE to other cash generating units CGUs on a relative fair value basis in We assessed and challenged management on the assumptions accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets.
reflected in the future cash flows of the businesses transferred between CGUs as a result of the reorganisation.
The carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets is generally considered to be at higher risk of impairment in the first year following In testing the impairment assessment we agreed the cash flow any acquisition.
forecasts used in the impairment model to Board approved forecasts.
We considered managements expectations in respect Management prepared an impairment assessment, for both the of developments in the business and corroborated certain goodwill and the intangible assets acquired, that was based on a information with third party sources where possible and tested value in use calculation.
Management concluded that there was no internal data.
We considered planned operational improvements impairment.
The disclosures in respect of this are included in note 12. and the reasonableness of these in generating future cash flows and whether these were appropriately reflected in the cash flow forecasts.
We compared actual historical cash flows with previous forecasts.
We used internal specialists to independently calculate an appropriate pre-tax discount rate by making reference to market data, and to verify the long-term growth rate used by management to observable market data.
For the other intangible assets, we considered managements assessment of whether there is any indication of an impairment trigger, considering both internal and external sources of information.
We assessed the sufficiency of the sensitivity analyses performed by management, focusing on what we consider to be reasonably possible changes in key assumptions.
Overall we considered the assumptions adopted by management to be within a reasonable range.
We also considered the appropriateness of the disclosure in note 12.
As a result of our work, we determined that the conclusions reached by management in the reallocation of goodwill between CGUs, and that there was no impairment of goodwill or the acquired finite-lived intangible assets, were supportable.
Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill in Global Services We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness As at 31 March 2017, goodwill relating to the Global Services of managements controls in assessing the carrying value of CGU amounted to 571m out of a total goodwill balance of goodwill.
We determined that the controls were designed and 8bn.
Management prepared an impairment assessment for the operating effectively.
Global Services CGU, as required under accounting standards, We focused on the key assumptions included in the impairment which was based on a value in use calculation.
Similar assessments assessment, being the cash flows for each year of managements were performed by the directors for the other goodwill balances.
detailed forecast, the long-term growth rate and the discount Management concluded that there was no impairment of goodwill in rate.
any CGU, including Global Services.
We focused on the impairment assessment for Global Services as To determine the appropriateness of the future operating cash the headroom of value in use over carrying value was limited and flows, we: the assessment is sensitive to changes in assumptions in particular A greed the cash flow forecasts used in the impairment model the long term growth rate, the discount rate and the assumptions to Board approved forecasts: underlying future operating cash flows.
C onsidered managements expectations in respect of developments in the business and corroborated certain information with third party sources.
We considered planned operational improvements and the reasonableness of these in generating future cash flows and whether these were appropriately reflected in the cash flow forecasts: and Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 155
