Strategic report RESOURCES, RELATIONSHIPS AND RESPONSIBILITIES We value the views of our employees and will Our people continue to increase engagement with them through NEX employs more than 1,900 people and we recognise our internal communications programme.
Ournew that our success depends on their quality.
We make a global intranet and our regular employee newsletters significant investment in training to develop the and communications have been welcomed across capabilities of our people and to ensure that each thebusiness.
employee is aware of their responsibilities.
We have traditionally brought talent into our businesses Our technology through our graduate recruitment programme, Our position as a leading provider of market infrastructure internships and apprenticeships.
We continue to be to the global financial markets has beenachieved through passionate about hiring early career talent and are significant investment in technology over many years.
redesigning and widening the scope of our talent We operate technology research and development hubs programme to help employees at all stages of their in New Jersey, Stockholm and Tel Aviv and also work with career to take control of their development.
We continue to enhance the security approach to recruitment at all levels is focused on of our global systems to mitigate the risk of cyber attack, identifying people who will help drive outstanding which is ever evolving in sophistication and scope.
business performance, while also demonstrating the crucial qualities of integrity and the ability to deal with Our relationships constant change.
We build trust with our clients, partners, investors We recognise that a mix of backgrounds, skills and andregulators, and we engage with our stakeholders experience within teams improves adaptability and inan open and co-operative way.
This transparency agility, and we aim to appeal to a broad range of people.
encourages the growth of mutually rewarding .
Gender ratio Male Female Board of directors 6 100% 0 0% Senior management 35 73% 13 27% All other employees 1,215 64% 531 28% 1,256 65% 544 28% 141 employees are categorised as undisclosed.
Our culture Our ability to adapt to change in our markets and in our business is a direct result of our culture, underpinned by the principles of professional conduct.
The board and senior management define the cultural agenda and are engaged in ensuring that we are a values-driven organisation.
Aspart of the rebranding to NEX, we are redefining ourcorporate values and the behaviours that support them, and we have consulted with our management teams, employees and clients as part of this process.
These values and behaviours are the bedrock of our organisation and are embedded through leadership, governance, communication, talent management and compensation.
16 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions One of our key strategic priorities is to grow, expanding Reducing environmental impact and diversifying our client base outside our traditional Our environmental policy is approved by the board and areas.
Weknow that client experience is ultimately the owned by the Group Chief Financial Officer.
most important driver of our brand reputation and Most of our greenhouse gases arise from the running of strength.
Our clients rely on us to provide them with our offices and employee travel commitments, and we insight intothe marketplace and to use our expertise mitigate our total carbon emissions through investment to their advantage.
They require us to be absolutely in carbon reducing projects.
trustworthy and professional in everything we do.
Emissions associated with electricity consumption We work with governments and regulatory authorities decreased from 14,685 tonnes of CO e during 2015 16 2 to maintain a current and detailed understanding of the to 11,422 tonnes of CO e in 2016 17, a favourable drop 2 legislation and regulation that affect us and our clients.
Emissions from air travel decreased by 8.8% These relationships give us insight into the policy from 4,930 tonnes of CO e during 2015 16 to 4,495 2 process and enable us to respond efficiently to change.
2 Doing business responsibly Tonnes of CO e 2 Change We aim to do business in a socially responsible way and Year-on-year comparison 2016 17 2015 16 % to contribute to the communities of which we are part.
Emissions from: We are committed to the highest ethical standards Scope 1 207 276 -25% in our business.
As a key part of the global financial Scope 2 11,422 14,685 -22% infrastructure, we adhere to the spirit and the letter Scope 3 10,401 12,977 -20% of the law within our control, compliance and Total 22,030 27,938 -21% assurance environment.
Our compliance and Intensity metric: control risk infrastructure includes trade surveillance, tonnes CO e FTE 6.06 6.3 -3.8% communications monitoring, comprehensive training 2 and a whistleblowing hotline.
Scope 1 includes direct greenhouse gas emissions from sources owned or controlled by the Company, such as natural gas combustion and We have a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct policy company-owned vehicles which is approved by the board.
Clear ethical guidelines Scope 2 accounts for greenhouse gas emissions from purchased electricity, heat and steam generated off-site are issued to all Group companies, and compliance Scope 3 includes all other indirect emissions such as waste disposal, with these guidelines is monitored through the Groups business travel and employee commuting internal control framework.
We have a zero-tolerance Total emissions per full-time employee FTE reduced attitude towards money laundering, bribery and from 6.3tonnes of CO e in 2015 16 to 6.06 tonnes of corruption, and an ongoing programme ofinternal 2 CO e in2016 17. training is in place to ensure all employees are aware 2 of these policies.
These estimates were provided by Natural Capital Partners, an environmental consultancy.
Natural Capital We promote equal access to jobs and promotion Partners assessment was carried out in accordance with opportunities as we believe that differences in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and background and outlook are key to creating a healthy Reporting Standard.
Responsibility for emissions sources and dynamic organisation.
We expect our employees was determined using the operational control approach.
and all those who work with us to show tolerance, respect and dignity for all.
No employee, applicant, Working for society contractor or temporary worker is treated less Our business performs a useful role in society: favourably, victimised or harassed on any grounds.
Consideration is always given to human rights by contributing to the stability and prosperity of principlesas part of our working practices.
economies by helping governments and companies to raise capital and manage risk: The Groups health and safety policy is approved by the by supporting the efficient functioning of global board and owned by the Global Chief Operating Officer.
markets by providing transparency for clients and Regional health and safety committees ensure there is helping to maintain the liquidity of markets: and an effective structure for delivering compliance with the by using our position as a leader in electronic trading policy.
It is the responsibility of managers to provide a in OTC markets to help make markets safer by healthy and safe working environment for employees.
enabling greater use of technology.
Asmost of our employees work in office environments, there are no significant areas of risk on which to report.
Although we have a small direct footprint in terms of social and community issues, we recognise that our behaviour and activities can have a positive effect.
Our annual Charity Day raises money for charities worldwide, and we also support employees wishing to volunteer.
NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 17
