Governance and directors report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Board governance framework UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE To ensure it maintains an appropriate level of oversight, the board As NEX is listed on the London Stock Exchange we apply the main principles delegatescertain roles and responsibilities to its five principal committees: of the Code and comply with the Codes provisions.
For the year ended Governance, Nomination, Audit, Risk and Remuneration.
Membership of 31March 2017, and at the date of this report, we complied with the 2014 these committees consists primarily of our non-executive directors and, Code.
A revised Code came into effect in 2016, applying to financial years insome cases, the Chairman.
The Nomination Committee makes beginning on or after 17 June 2016, and will apply to NEX in 2017 18. recommendations for appointments to the board, Audit and Risk Copies of the 2014 and 2016 Codes can be found on the FRCs website Committees.
Theboard makes all other committee appointments.
The activities of the principal committees in 2016 17 are explained in more detail on pages 43 to 49.
Each committee chairman reports back to the Code principle board and the board reviews the minutes of previous committee meetings Leadership at its next meeting.
Each committees terms of reference are documented and agreed by the board and available to view in the corporate governance Role of the board section of the Companys website www.
The board is the principal decision making body for all significant matters During the year, the board began a detailed review of the Groups affecting the Group and is accountable to shareholders for creating and governance framework in order to improve the boards oversight and delivering sustainable value.
From a commercial perspective, these matters understanding of the Groups governance arrangements.
The initial include debating and agreeing NEXs strategy, long-term business objectives outcomes of this review are discussed in more detail on page 43. and risk appetite as well as approving the Groups annual budget, dividend proposals and financial statements.
The board is also responsible for Group Company Secretary promoting the highest standards of corporate governance and ensuring All directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company theGroup has the necessary resources, processes, controls and culture Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that board procedures and inplace to deliver Group strategy and promote long-term growth.
The Group Company Secretary works closely with the Chairman and the chairmen of the boards principal committees Board members to setmeeting agendas and ensure the timely presentation of high-quality A clear division of responsibilities is maintained between the roles of the information to the board.
All directors have the power to propose items Chairman and the Group Chief Executive Officer.
It is the responsibility of the fordiscussion at board meetings and regularly did so during the year.
Chairman to lead and manage the work of the board.
Responsibility for the Groups executive leadership and day-to-day management of the Groups business is delegated to the Group Chief Executive Officer.
The Group Chief Executive Officer is supported in his role by the GEMG.
Further details of the Groups executive committee structure and GEMG members are provided onpages 50 and 51.
A summary of the board members key responsibilities is setout below.
Key responsibilities Title Responsibility Chairman Responsible for the leadership and management of the board and ensuring its overall effectiveness Encourages all directors to maximise their contributions to the board by drawing on their skills, experience, knowledge and, where appropriate, independence Promotes a culture of openness, challenge and debate, especially for complex and critical issues Engages and consults with major shareholders and principal stakeholders Group Chief ExecutiveOfficer Responsible for the Groups executive leadership and day-to-day management of the Groups business, within the authorities delegated by theboard Group Chief FinancialOfficer Responsible for providing strategic financial leadership of the Group and day-to-day management of the financefunction Senior independent director Acts as an experienced sounding board for the Chairman and a trusted intermediary for other board members and shareholders Leads the annual evaluation of the Chairman Non-executive directors Contribute sound judgement and objectivity and provide constructive challenge to board discussions and decision making Support the Chairman and the executive directors in instilling appropriate culture and values in the boardroomand beyond Determine appropriate levels of remuneration for the executive directors and scrutinise the performance ofmanagement 38 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Attendance at board meetings Board activities and discussions Six scheduled board meetings were held during the year in four locations: Throughout the year, the board received regular updates and reports London, New York, Hong Kong and Singapore.
The boards of NEX Group plc on the following key matters: and ICAP plc also convened a further six times during the year by review of progress of the Transaction and updates on separation conferencecall and held two ad hoc meetings, principally in connection work streams: with the Transaction.
Group Chief Executive Officers review of markets, strategic At the boards request, members of the GEMG attended certain board developments and investment opportunities: meetings during the year to provide updates on specific developments.
review of trading results and financial performance against agreed Their attendance provided a valuable opportunity for the non-executive budget and plans: directors to engage directly with the executive team and challenge investor reports and feedback from engagement with shareholders: managements thinking on discussion items, particularly strategic verbal reports by board committee chairmen of matters discussed investment reviews and acquisition proposals.
atcommittee meetings: legal, company secretarial and regulatory updates: The table below sets out the scheduled board meeting attendance of review of progress against agreed actions: and the directors who served on the board in 2016 17.
Due to unavoidable review of board and executive committee minutes.
circumstances, IvanRitossa was unable to attend one board meeting of ICAP plc on 10November 2016.
He did, however, receive the meeting papers and providedinput to the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
Board meeting attendance in 2016 17 Maximum possible Number of % of meeting meetings meetings attendance attended attended Executive directors Stuart Bridges 6 6 100% Michael Spencer 6 6 100% Non-executive directors Charles Gregson 6 6 100% Ivan Ritossa 6 5 83% John Sievwright 6 6 100% Robert Standing 6 6 100% NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 39 Governance and directors report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Key achievements in 2016 17 The boards key activities and achievements during the year are summarised below.
Linked to Topic remuneration Board discussions and activities Achievements Growth and Yes Debated and agreed a new strategy, focus and Completed the Transaction to combine ICAPs global protection vision for NEX hybrid voice broking business with TP ICAP, creating Focused on expanding NEXs addressable market significant value for NEX shareholders by developing new products and services which Approved the acquisitions of Abide Financial, e-MID will cater for a wider client base and ENSO People and Yes Undertook a strategic review of the boards Launched a targeted recruitment process for culture composition and skill set additional non-executive directors, based on Discussed the importance of effective succession thespecific skills and experience required to planning as a key component of talent complement and strengthen the board management Finalised a succession plan for theboard, key Debated the key principles of a Group reward executives and senior management strategy to ensure NEX remains competitive Launched a remuneration review for business andcontinues to recruit, retain and motivate levelexecutives, senior management and the theright talent wideremployee population Continued engagement with global cultural Furthered the non-executive directors knowledge initiatives in order to provide a better and and understanding of our global operations and sustainable business environment in line with culture by meeting with local management in NEXstrategy Stockholm and Tel Aviv Controls and Yes Regularly reviewed the Groups risk appetite Maintained close oversight of the Groups key and governance statements and principal risks emerging risks, with an increased focus on the Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups information risk profile of the Group and potential externaland internal audit functions, risk cyber and technological threats management and internal control frameworks Enhanced the Governance Committees oversight Commenced a detailed review of the Governance andunderstanding of the Groups governance Committees activities and responsibilities in order arrangements, including updates to the committees to shape and form an improved governance terms of reference framework for the Group Profitability Yes Monitored and assessed the Groups financial Challenged and approved the Groups performance in line with budget and market 2017 18budget expectations Reviewed the Groups dividend policy Reviewed and approved the 2016 preliminary Following completion of the Transaction, delivered results, half-year results and Annual Report a revised Group structure to achieve a focused cost Regularly reviewed the Companys share price base and deliver savings versus the prior year andperformance metrics Stakeholder No Regularly reviewed and discussed shareholder Provided quarterly presentations to analysts and relationships andinvestor feedback including in relation to keyindustry personnel regarding the Groups theTransaction and executive director financial results and future vision for NEX remuneration 40 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Code principle Relations with shareholders SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT The Companys annual general meeting is a key date in the diary for the 2017 NEX Group plc annual general meeting board.
Shareholders who attend the meeting will receive an update from the The first annual general meeting of NEX Group plc was held on Group Chief Executive Officer on the activities and performance of the Group 14September 2016 prior to its listing on 15 December 2016. since the prior financial year end.
All directors attended the 2016 ICAP plc The 2017 annual general meeting will be held on Wednesday 12 July 2017 annual general meeting and were available to answer questions from at 2 Broadgate, London EC2M 7UR.
In accordance with the Code and the shareholders on matters put to the meeting.
Companys articles of association, all directors will stand for appointment For those shareholders who are unable to attend annual general meetings, orre-election in July.
particularly our overseas shareholder base, NEX has put in place systems to Full details of the resolutions to be proposed at the 2017 annual general allow for electronic proxy voting through the NEX shareholder portal website meeting are set out in the notice of annual general meeting.
The proxy votes received on annual general meeting ismade available to shareholders on www.
com or sent to them, if resolutions are published on the Companys website www.
com theyhave elected to receive hard copies, at least 20 working days before following the meeting.
The board gives high priority to shareholder and investor communications.
Details of proxy votes for and against each resolution, together with votes Itreceives regular investor reports which detail the feedback from investor withheld, will be made available after the vote has been dealt with on a show meetings.
It also receives the results of investor perception studies which of hands and the results of the meeting will be published on www.
2016 ICAP plc annual general meeting Subject to regulatory constraints, the directors and members of senior All resolutions proposed at the 2016 annual general meeting were duly management hold regular meetings with investors and analysts to update passed and the board was pleased to note that the total number of proxy them on the Groups strategy and performance.
In 2016 17 these meetings votes received for all resolutions at the 2016 annual general meeting included presentations from the Group Chief Executive Officer and other represented more than 85% of the total voting rights of ICAP plc senior executives to take analysts and investors through the Groups 2015ICAPplc annual general meeting: more than 83%.
half-year results and future vision for NEX.
The senior independent director and non-executive directors are available Shareholder approval of the Transaction tomeet with shareholders during the year.
The Chairman and non-executive On 9 September 2016, ICAP plc held two shareholder meetings to approve directors hosted an investor lunch following the 2016 ICAP plc annual the Transaction: a court meeting and a general meeting.
This was a valuable opportunity for the non-executive were conducted on a poll and passed with at least 96% of shareholder directors to engage with key investors and stakeholders, particularly in votesin favour of all resolutions.
The total number of votes received for both relation to the Groups dividend policy, measurements of success and meetings represented more than 86% of the total voting rights of ICAP plc.
approach to executive director remuneration.
The original terms of the Transaction received ICAP plc shareholder approval on 24 March 2016.
Further information regarding the Transaction is available on www.
NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 41 Governance and directors report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Code principle Effectiveness EFFECTIVENESS The composition of the board and its committees is regularly reviewed Performance evaluations toensure there is the right mix of skills, experience and knowledge of The board considers the outcomes of its evaluations as fundamental to theCompany to enable board and committee members to perform driving performance and engagement.
Key recommendations from each their roles effectively.
years assessments are prioritised as actions for the following year.
With asignificant proportion of the boards time and activities having been Time commitment committed to the Transaction in 2016 17, the board agreed that an external In order to effectively discharge their responsibilities, the non-executive assessment, which had been scheduled to be undertaken in 2016 17 directors must commit sufficient time to their role which, at a minimum, following completion of the Transaction, would be deferred to 2017 18. theboard considers to be between 30 and 36 days each year.
The Chairman Thisapproach remains in line with the Code.
has confirmed that, in his view, each non-executive director continued to In prioritising its evaluation actions from 2015 16, the board had agreed demonstrate commitment to their role during the year, particularly in light thata detailed review of its composition was a key action for 2016 17 and of the significant time impact of the Transaction.
None of the non-executive ensured that proposed changes to the balance of the board would form directors took on further significant commitments during the year.
The partof the boards 2017 18 assessments.
Further details of this review are Chairman, who is based at NEXs London office, continued tocommit as included in the Nomination Committee report on page 44.
Theboard much time as was necessary to fulfil his duties with his responsibilities to confirmed it had received good-quality and relevant information throughout NEX taking priority over other business commitments.
the year and agreed it had benefited from enhanced engagement with NEXs In addition to the time spent preparing for and attending board and senior management team as part of NEX strategy discussions.
During the committee meetings, during the year the Chairman and the non-executive year, the board committees also implemented a number of theirprior year directors allocated sufficient time to further their understanding of the evaluation actions, as discussed in more detail on pages 43 to 49.
This took the form of briefing meetings with executive and local With support from its principal committees, the board has agreed that management in our Stockholm and Tel Aviv offices as well as regular itskey priorities in 2017 18 should include further development and trainingsessions to ensure ongoing business awareness.
communication of NEXs strategy, setting appropriate performance The table below summarises the directors attendance at board committee metricsfor executives and evaluating the talent that the Group has meetings during the year.
or requires to successfully achieve its objectives.
Led by John Sievwright, our senior independent director, the non-executive Governance Nomination Audit Risk Remuneration directors provided input for the Chairmans 2016 17 performance evaluation.
Executive Taking into account the views of the executive directors, the evaluation directors concluded that the Chairman had fully discharged his duties in terms of Stuart leadership and ensuring the effectiveness of the board during the year.
Bridges 4 4 Inparticular, the Chairman had played a crucial role in the context of the Michael Transaction, through his support of the Group Chief Executive Officer Spencer 4 4 2 2 andensuring that the board was kept fully informed as the Transaction progressed.
The evaluation also recognised the Chairmans strong lines of Noncommunication with many executives in the Group and his excellent grasp executive ofday-to-day operations, both areas which he regularly discusses and shares directors with the non-executive directors.
Charles Gregson 4 4 2 2 Ivan Ritossa 2 2 4 5 6 7 4 5 John Sievwright 4 4 2 2 5 5 7 7 5 5 Robert Standing 2 2 2 2 5 5 7 7 5 5 Due to unavoidable circumstances, Ivan Ritossa was unable to attend the Audit, Risk and Remuneration Committee meetings held on 9 and 10 November 2016.
He did, however, receive the meeting papers and provided input to the chairmen of these committees in advance of the meetings Robert Standing was appointed a member of the Governance Committee on 9 February 2017 42 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Code principle Accountability GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE Independence In order to facilitate efficient and effective management and deliver During the year, the board carried out a formal review of the independence long-term shareholder value, the role of the Governance Committee is to of its non-executive directors.
The review considered the nature of the review, recommend and make decisions in relation to all aspects of the non-executive directors other appointments, any other positions theyhold Groups governance environment.
The committee reports to the board.
within the Group, any potential conflicts of interest they have identified Members andtheir length of service including in their capacity as former directors The Governance Committees membership is made up of the Chairman ofICAP plc.
Their individual circumstances were also assessed against the ofthe board, the senior independent director, a non-executive director, independence criteria set out in the Code.
Following this review, the board theGroup Chief Executive Officer and the Group Chief Financial Officer.
determined that all non-executive directors continue to be independent Thecommittee is chaired by the Chairman of the board.
The Group General incharacter and judgement, particularly in their thinking and challenge Counsel and Global Chief Operating Officer have standing invitations to ofmanagement.
Board inductions The table on page 42 sets out the directors who served on the Based on their background, knowledge and skill set, all new directors receive GovernanceCommittee during the year and their meeting attendance.
a comprehensive and tailored inductionfollowing appointment to the board.
Through a combination of office visits, technical briefings and introductory Key activities meetings, the NEX board induction programme is designed to broaden A key action identified by the committees performance evaluation in directors understanding of the Groups business operations, strategic 2015 16 was for the committee to undertake a detailed review of the priorities, people, culture and clients.
Groups corporate governance framework in 2016 17.
Driven by the committees responsibility to ensure effective corporate governance Training and development throughout the Group, this review began inMay 2016.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all directors receive ongoing With assistance from the Groups internal audit, legal and company training and development to enhance their roles as board and committee secretarial functions, the committee debated how best to evaluate Group members.
Our non-executive directors engage fully in this process.
Recognising developments in best practice and Throughout the year, the directors were kept fully apprised by external the importance of accountability to shareholders, the review focused on advisors of their legal and fiduciary duties in the context of the Transaction.
oversight of the Groups regulated subsidiaries and an evaluation of the They also received strategic business updates and detailed briefings on role and activities of the committee.
corporate governance, regulatory and legislative developments, including changes required by the EU Market Abuse Regulation.
Identified improvements included an enhanced framework for robust and regular performance evaluations of subsidiary level boards and committees External advice and improved circulation of regulated entity board minutes to relevant Where appropriate, the directors may obtain independent professional stakeholders.
In order to ensure board composition and business advice in respect of their duties to the board and its committees at the oversightremain effective throughout the Group, all subsidiary board Companys expense.
No directors sought external advice in 2016 17. appointments willrequire the committees prior approval going forward, including an assessment of the value and experience which each nominated Directors conflicts of interest board member will bring to the board.
The board has procedures in place for the disclosure of conflicts of interest.
The directors are aware of their responsibility to avoid a situation whereby The committees terms of reference were updated in July 2016 and they have an actual or potential conflict of interest and the requirement to March2017 to reflect these changes.
The review remains ongoing inform the Chairman and the Group Company Secretary of any change in andwelook forward to reporting on any further enhancements to their situation.
An effective procedure is in place for the board to authorise ourgovernance structure in next years report.
conflict situations should they arise, in accordance with the Companies Act and the Companys articles of association.
The Group Company Secretary is responsible for keeping appropriate records, including the scope of any authorisations granted by the board.
Theboard undertakes an annual review of conflict authorisations.
No additional conflicts of interest were required to be authorised during the year.
Compliance with the Code It is the boards view that, for the year ended 31 March 2017, the Company has applied all the main principles and been fully compliant with all provisions set out in the 2014 Code.
NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 43 Governance and directors report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Code principle Code principle Effectiveness Accountability NOMINATION COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Nomination Committee is primarily responsible for reviewing the Chairmans overview structure, size, composition and succession planning of the board.
It also As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to introduce this report ensures that a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure exists for the which sets out how the committee has discharged its responsibilities during appointment of new directors.
In line with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services Order, the Members committees terms of reference were updated during the year to reflect Members of the Nomination Committee are appointed by the board the committees increased responsibilities for approval of audit fees and andcomprise a majority of independent non-executive directors.
oversight of a tender process for the Groups external audit contract at Thecommittee is chaired bythe Chairman of the board.
The table on page 42 sets out the directors who served on the We issued a competitive tender for our external audit contract in 2015 16 NominationCommittee during the year and their meeting attendance.
and this resulted in a recommendation from the committee that Deloitte be appointed as the Companys auditor for the year ending 31 March 2018.
Key activities Throughout the year under review, PwC and Deloitte have worked together In line with the output from its 2015 16 performance evaluation, the to ensure a smooth transition of the audit contract with minimal disruption committee focused on areview of the boards composition during the to the business.
In line with prevailing independence rules in the UK, the US year.
The committee agreed that a diversity of gender, race, experience Securities and Exchange Commission SEC and upcoming changes to EU and approach are powerful drivers for board effectiveness and determined rules, a detailed independence transition plan was prepared and launched in that the board, as composed, was not considered to be sufficiently diverse.
The plan enabled Deloitte to familiarise itself with NEX and In addressing this, the committee was assisted by the Group Head of HR receive astructured and formal handover from PwC.
Deloitte has regularly andappointed Heidrick & Struggles as external search consultants.
reported to the committee on the progress of the transition and has met Heidrick& Struggles is an experienced and reputable executive search with senior management in London, New York, Stockholm and Tel Aviv.
firmand a signatory to the voluntary code of conduct on gender diversity I would like to take this opportunity to thank PwC, Deloitte and the NEX forexternal search consultants.
management team for theirhard work in ensuring a successful transition.
The committee evaluated the specific skills and experience required for A resolution to propose the appointment of Deloitte asthe Groups new theboard, taking into account the future of NEX as a forward-thinking, external auditor will be put to the 2017 annual generalmeeting.
The committee determined that a While recognising that 2016 17 was its final year of audit, as required by the strong technology background would be a key skills requirement for future Code and in accordance with the committees terms of reference, during the appointments and, on that basis, a short list of suitable board level year the committee evaluated the effectiveness of the Groups external candidates was prepared for the committees review.
The committee audit process for the prior year.
The evaluation process is discussed in more evaluated each of these candidates and refined the list further.
Potential detail on page 46 but I am pleased to report that PwCs performance in candidates were invited to meet with the full board and key members of 2015 16 was rated positively overall and I wish to take this opportunity theexecutive team.
to thank PwC for its services to the Group throughout the years.
In line with NEXs board appointment policy, final recruitment decisions Finally, the board is required to provide a statement that, taken as a whole, are made bythe board based on merit and we are pleased that Anna Ewing itbelieves the Annual Report and financial statements to be fair, balanced will be joining the board as a non-executive director in May 2017.
The governance framework to provide such assurance previously worked for Nasdaq and Merrill Lynch, she brings significant to the committee and to the board is set out on pages 45 and 46.
The technology and operations experience to the board which we are confident statement itself is on page 54. will support our development and growth as a financial technology company.
During the year, and particularly following completion of the Transaction, we also considered the importance of effective succession planning as a key John Sievwright component of talent and resourcing risk management.
These discussions Chairman, Audit Committee resulted in a detailed succession plan being finalised in February 2017 for 15 May 2017 the board, key executives and senior management team.
Aside from recruitment services, Heidrick & Struggles had no other connection with the Company during the year.
44 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions During the year, the committee considered certain accounting and financial Audit Committee reporting areas to be of a more subjective nature.
Throughout the year, The Audit Committee is responsible for the effective governance of the management presented to the committee its position on those areas that Groups financial reporting, including the adequacy of financial disclosures were material in nature and involved significant management judgement and both the external and internal audit functions.
It is authorised by the and assumptions.
In reviewing managements judgements and estimatesin board to carry out any activity within its terms of reference.
The Audit these areas, where appropriate, the committee discussed thesejudgements Committee reports to the board.
and estimates with the external auditor.
Members The committee discussed and approved the appropriateness of items that The Audit Committee members are all independent non-executive directors were presented in the exceptional items column in the consolidated income and the committee is chaired by John Sievwright.
The board issatisfied that statement, considering their nature and materiality.
Management presented at least one member of the committee has recent and relevant financial financials attributable to the IGBB business and to the retained Group experience and that all members bring extensive expertiseto the committee.
separately in the consolidated income statement.
The committee The table on page 42 sets out the directors who served on the Audit considered and approved managements presentation of items, including Committee during the year and their meeting attendance.
discontinued operations and a 1,162 million gain on the disposal of IGBB: see note 5 to the financial statements.
Meetings are attended by the Chairman, the Group Chief Financial Officer, theGlobal Chief Operating Officer, the Group General Counsel, the CFO Group The committee considers the annual goodwill impairment review to be a Finance, the Group Head of Internal Audit and the external audit partner.
significant judgement area and, as such, reviewed the impairment testing which was undertaken by management during March 2017.
The impairment The Chairman of the Audit Committee maintains contact with attendees test identified that there was no impairment.
In reviewing this area, the throughout the year.
There were two meetings during 2016 17 when the committee considered the appropriateness of managements judgements committee met with the Group Head of Internal Audit and the external audit and estimates: see note 15 to the financial statements.
partner without any executive director or management present.
The committee considered and approved the Groups significant accounting Key activities policies, including a new accounting policy for technology development An annual work plan is agreed to ensure all areas of significance are revenue and a change to the segmental reporting accounting policy.
considered by the Audit Committee and that business and reporting Thecommittee also considered and approved a change from trade date requirements are met.
The committees key activities during the year accounting to settlement date accounting for matched principal receivables included reviewing and discussing: and payables.
a transition plan in respect of Deloittes appointment asthe Companys The committee noted that management considered investment in joint external auditor in 2017: ventures and associates, provisions, contingent liabilities and technology approval of the 2016 17 external audit fee: development revenue to be other significant areas where increased the appropriateness of the Groups half-year and annual financial judgement is required.
The committee reviewed managements statements and financial announcements to the London Stock Exchange: assessments and discussed the appropriateness of managements accounting treatment of the Transaction: estimates with the external auditor.
The committee approved the viability assessment and viability statement on page 55: managements conclusions.
the going concern statement on page 54 and the appropriateness of The committee considered managements going concern statement and preparing the Groups half-year and annual financial statements on the appropriateness of preparing the Groups annual financial statements on a going concern basis: a going concern basis.
It also considered managements viability statement reports from the external auditor: and the appropriateness of managements judgements, estimates and the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems for financial assumptions made in assessing the viability of the Group.
The committee, reporting: on behalf of the board, is satisfied that an assessment of the solvency and an annual schedule of work to be conducted by the external and liquidity of the Group over a period of three financial years up to 31 March internalaudit teams: and 2020 has been carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Code.
the effectiveness of the external and internal audits.
The viability statement is disclosed on page 55 and should be read together with the Groups risk management framework and principal risks as set out Financial reporting in the risk management section of the strategic report on pages 20 to 23.
The Audit Committee reviews the Groups accounting policies and monitors the integrity of the Groups financial statements, including the half-year and annual reports, and other announcements relating to the Groups financial performance to ensure that they present a balanced and clear assessment of the Groups financial position and outlook.
NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 45 Governance and directors report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Additionally, auditing standards require the external auditor to presume risks Non-audit services of fraud in revenue recognition as a significant audit risk area and to perform In line with best practice, the Audit Committee is responsible for procedures to address those risks.
The committee concluded that, based on determining the non-audit services that the external auditor may or may the findings reported by the external and internal auditors and from its own notprovide to the Group and monitoring the balance of spend on audit review of the Groups internal control and risk management frameworks, the andnon-audit fees to ensure the continued independence of the Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2017 were not exposed to external auditor.
A policy is in place whereby the expenditure with the a material risk arising from this risk area.
Groups auditor for non-audit work should not exceed 75% of the audit fee.
Any proposed non-audit assignments with fees in excess of 100,000 are The committee has delegated responsibility for the day-to-day financial subject to the Audit Committees prior approval.
Fees below this limit are management and monitoring of financial controls to the GFC.
approved by the Chairman of the Audit Committee and reported to the The work described above, together with a review of the content of the committee.
All non-audit services provided to the Group are in accordance strategic report, provided the assurance to the committee, and to the board, with applicable legislation.
that the Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017, taken as a whole, The total spend on non-audit services during the year was approximately is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary 1.2 million, being approximately 38% of the audit fee 2015 16: 90%.
for shareholders to assess the Groups and the Companys position and Thenon-audit fee was mainly in relation to corporate finance and other performance, business model and strategy.
assurance services required in connection with the Transaction.
Note3 tothe financial statements provides further details of the fees paid for Internal audit audit and non-audit services during the year.
The internal audit function consists of a small in-house team supported by KPMG as outsourced providers.
Internal audit establishes an annual audit Effectiveness plan based on discussions with management and an assessment of the An evaluation of the effectiveness of the external audit process in 2015 16 risks inherent in the Groups activities.
The activities of internal audit are was carried out through a questionnaire.
Key stakeholders across the Group reported to the Audit and Risk Committees and provide assurance to both were asked to participate in the evaluation.
While mindful that 2016 17 management and these committees that the system of internal control would be its last year of external audit, the questionnaire was designed to achieves its objectives and highlights gaps and areas for improvement.
evaluate PwCs audit process in its entirety and addressed PwCs quality of During the year, an evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal audit planning and communication, sufficiency of audit firm resources, technical function was carried out through a questionnaire and key stakeholders knowledge, independence and objectivity and PwCs understanding of the across the Group were asked to participate.
A subsequent report to the Audit Committee provided empirical thefunctions quality of planning and communication, understanding of data on which the committee assessed the audit process.
It also included thekey risks and controls within the business, resourcing, engagement specific comments made by respondents, providing valuable insight into andindependence.
A subsequent report to the Audit Committee provided managements views.
The results of the evaluation concluded that PwCs empirical data on which the functions overall performance was assessed.
performance in 2015 16 was rated positively overall, particularly its The report also included specific comments made by respondents, independence and objectivity.
Specific learnings from the feedback received providing valuable insight into managements views.
The results of the will be shared with Deloitte going forward.
evaluation concluded that the functions performance in 2016 17 was rated positively overall, particularly its independence, quality of reporting tothe Whistleblowing Audit Committee and high levels of engagement across the Group.
The Group maintains a global whistleblowing hotline through which employees may raise issues of concern, report suspected wrongdoing, External auditor or seek clarification on ethical dilemmas in confidence.
The service is As reported on page 44, a recent tender of the Groups external audit administered through an independent third party vendor.
The Audit contractconcluded that Deloitte be appointed as the Companys external Committee receives reports of notifications made through the system.
auditor for the year ending 31 March 2018.
Resolutions proposing Deloittes No such notifications were submitted during the year.
appointment and giving authority to the Audit Committee to determine theirremuneration will be proposed at the 2017 annual general meeting.
Statutory Audit Services Order PwC will not be proposed for re-appointment.
Following the tender of the Groups external audit contract in 2015 16, theCompany confirms its compliance with the requirements of the Statutory Audit Services Order for theyear ended 31 March 2017.
46 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Code principle Accountability RISK COMMITTEE Chairmans overview Risk Committee I am pleased to introduce the Risk Committee report for 2016 17.
My role The Risk Committee reports to the board and is responsible for setting the asChairman of the Risk Committee is to safeguard the independence and overall risk strategy, risk appetite and risk tolerance for the Group in order oversee the performance of the Group Risk function.
toensure that the risk management function within the Group promotes thesuccess of the Company.
The committee is authorised by the board to Based on the work the committee has undertaken during the year, which carry out any activity within its terms of reference.
Its principal areas of isdescribed in more detail on the following pages, I believe that the Groups responsibility include: risk management and internal control systems remain effective.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified during the year.
In addition, ensuring that the Groups principal risks including key and emerging I and the other committee members believe we have regularly received risks are properly identified, assessed and mitigated on an ongoing basis: high-quality information and that the key executives we rely on have acted regularly reviewing the quality and effectiveness of the Groups risk with skill, independence and transparency.
management and internal control frameworks: and reviewing the internal audit programme as part of integrated assurance.
Such an assessment is important from a governance perspective but itisasimportant to ensure that the Group is always looking forward, Members continuallyensuring its effectiveness and taking steps to enhance its risk The Risk Committee members are all independent non-executive directors management and internal control systems.
With the Transaction now and the committee is chaired by John Sievwright.
complete, both the committee and the executive team will continue to beparticularly vigilant to ensure that our risk management systems and The table on page 42 sets out the directors who served on the Risk internal controls are properly tailored to the principal risks of the Group.
Committee during the year and their meeting attendance.
We are particularly attuned to information security and business resiliency The Chairman of the board, the Group Chief Financial Officer, the Global risk from cyber security and other events and these will continue to be key Chief Operating Officer, the Group General Counsel, the Chief Risk Officer, areas of focus.
In addition, there are significant changes occurring both the Global Head of Compliance, theGroup Head of HR, the Group Head of internally and externally that we will need to be prepared for, including the Internal Audit and the external audit partner regularly attend meetings of impact of Brexit, MiFID II, the General Data Protection Regulation in Europe the committee.
and the change in administration in the US.
All of these developments, and The Chairman of the Risk Committee maintains contact with attendees the Groups business strategic priorities, are likely to have implications for throughout the year and has met with the Group Head of Internal Audit, our risk management and internal control systems and we will need to theChief Risk Officer and the Global Chief Operating Officer without any ensure the consequences of such change are addressed in a timely and executive director or management present.
Key activities An annual work plan is prepared to ensure all areas of significance are John Sievwright considered by the committee and that business and reporting requirements Chairman, Risk Committee are met.
The committees key activities during the year included reviewing 15 May 2017 and discussing: regular and robust assessments of the principal risks facing the Group: key and emerging risks and Group risk appetite breaches: separation planning and governance arrangements surrounding theTransaction: annual review of the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control frameworks: information risk reporting, key risk indicator metrics and remedial actions: compliance reporting and key regulatory updates affecting the Group: a review of the Groups interactions with global regulators, compliance examinations and routine and non-routine regulatory enquiries: an organisational review of the Groups Risk and compliance functions: and levels of mandatory training in risk and compliance matters, identifying and escalating any non-adherence.
NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 47 Governance and directors report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Risk control and management framework Internal control The board reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups risk The board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control frameworks on an annual basis.
This management and internal control systems, which management is review is supported by the Groups independent control functions.
Any responsible for maintaining, and it does this through the Audit and Risk remediating actions identified are reported to the board.
The principal risks faced by the Group are detailedon pages 21 to 23.
No significant failings or weaknesses in the Groups systems of risk management or internal control were identified during the year, or when The day-to-day business of the Group is managed through a system of examining these systems for NEX following completion of the Transaction.
financial, operational and compliance controls and monitored by a series The Group complies with FRC guidance.
Internal controls are designed to manage rather than eliminate risks and can provide only reasonable and not absolute All commercial and support managers are responsible for the identification, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The effectiveness of the management and mitigation of the risks in the areas for which they are internal control system is reviewed regularly by the internal audit function.
Employees are expected to take a prudent approach to the management of risk, and to be committed to transparency, escalation of The Group has investments in a number of joint ventures and associates.
Prudent risk management is not Internal control procedures for joint ventures and associates rest with the senior something that is the province only of certain control functions: it is management of those operations and the Company seeks to monitor such everyones responsibility.
investments and exert influence through board representation.
The boards review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control in those entities The Groups internal control and risk management systems in relation isconsequently less comprehensive than in its directly-owned subsidiaries.
to financial reporting are described on pages 45 and 46.
Risk management The Group maintains an independent risk management function responsible for providing expertise, challenge and analysis of risk-related developments.
Among the key responsibilities of the Group Risk function are: serving as a central repository for the reporting of risk events, providing challenge and analysis of such events and their remediation, and presenting such events to the Risk Committee at its standing meetings: assisting with the development and implementation of risk management policies and standards: administering a board approved credit matrix for the assignment of counterparty credit limits to clients and the monitoring of exposure and potential breaches: identifying and reviewing key and emerging risks on a regular basis and reporting updates to the Risk Committee at its standing meetings: assisting with the preparation of ICAAPs for EU regulated subsidiaries of the Group: and conducting targeted deep-dives of important and emerging risk issues.
48 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Code principle Remuneration REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee is authorised by the board to review and approve proposals to ensure that NEXs global reward and employee benefits approach supports the business strategy of the Group.
The committee is responsible for the oversight of the Groups remuneration strategy, to ensure that NEXs approach to remuneration is aligned with the interests of employees and shareholders and to comply with current best practice and regulatory requirements.
Members The Remuneration Committee members are all independent non-executive directors and the committee is chaired by Robert Standing.
The chairman of the committees statement for 2016 17 is set out on pages 56 and 57.
The table on page 42 sets out the directors who served on the Remuneration Committee during the year and their meeting attendance.
Key activities The committees external evaluation in 2015 16 noted that continued alignment of executive managements interests with Group strategy and culture is key to driving appropriate outcomes for shareholders, particularly in light of the Transaction.
The committee incorporated these principles into its key activities during the year, which included reviewing and discussing: the directors remuneration policy and the remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2017: the implications of the Transaction on incentive plans and share awards: approval of the executive directors bonuses for the year ended 31 March 2017, including assessment of the level of achievement of the executive directors objectives for the year: performance against the EPS performance target for 2014 share awards: and the highest earners compensation arrangements across the Group.
The directors remuneration policy and the remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2017, which will be put to shareholders for approval at the 2017 annual general meeting, are set out on pages 56 to 72.
NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 49
