AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Audit Committee Report For the year ended 31 March 2017 Audit Committee composition and attendance at Meetings 1 Chris Taylor : Committee Chairman 3 3 Kay Chaldecott 3 3 1 Alastair Miller 3 3 The following were invited to attend the Meetings: Mark Davies Chief Financial Officer The Group Financial Controller The Head of Finance Representatives of Deloitte, the Companys auditor Matthew Jones, the Company Secretary, acts as secretary to the Committee.
Chris Taylor served as Committee Chairman at all meetings held in the Robust risk management is an financial year and then stood down as Committee Chairman after its March 2017 meeting, prior to his resignation as a director on 9 April 2017. essential element of the rigorous Alastair Miller was appointed as Committee Chairman in his place.
management processes followed by NewRiver.
The Audit Committee is committed to monitoring the effectiveness and integrity of these processes which include the accurate preparation of financial statements.
Alastair Miller Committee Chairman Key activities in 2016 17: Reviewing and monitoring the Groups risk management processes Monitoring the integrity of the preparation of half-year and annual financial statements before submission to the Board Reviewing the FPPP process as part of the move to the Main Market Meeting with the Property valuers to review their valuation processes Areas of focus for 2017 18: Consider the best timing to commence an audit tendering process Review the risk management and internal control processes NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 72 72 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Dear Shareholders, How the Committee operates I am pleased to present my first report on behalf of the Audit The Committee meets at least three times a year but also holds Committee having succeeded Chris Taylor who stood down in ad-hoc meetings when required.
It met three times during the March of this year.
I would like to thank Chris for his invaluable year to discuss the half-year and annual financial statements, contribution to this committee since becoming Audit risk management reviews and internal control processes.
Only members of the Committee are entitled to attend the The principle role for the Committee is to provide meetings, however a standing invitation is extended to Mark independent review and monitoring of the risk management Davies, CFO: the Head of Finance and representatives of and control procedures within the Company.
The risk Deloitte LLP Deloitte, the Companys external auditor.
management process reviews both external risks as well as Matthew Jones, as Company Secretary, attends each meeting internal control risks and ensures that risks are being properly and acts as secretary to the Committee.
identified, their potential impact on the company measured Responsibilities of the Committee during the year and then adequately managed and mitigated.
Each identified During the year, the Committee was responsible for: risk is assigned to a specific Director or Directors who and then responsible for monitoring that risk and taking overseeing the Groups relationship with Deloitte, including mitigating actions.
its remuneration: The Audit Committee is also responsible for reviewing the monitoring the integrity of the half-year and annual financial half year and annual financial statements and the process statements before submission to the Board: that is used to produce them.
As part of this process the discussing any issues arising from the half-year review and Committee meets with the Companys auditors, Deloitte, who year-end audit of the Group: produce a detailed report covering their audit plans, materiality reviewing significant financial reporting matters and criteria and any issues identified during the course of their judgments, with a particular focus on matters of material audit together with recommendations for improving accounting financial impact on the Group: processes.
There have been no material issues raised.
reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system In common with other property companies, asset valuations of internal controls: are a key focus in preparing the financial statements.
During reviewing and monitoring the Groups risk management the year, independently of the Companys management, the processes: Committee met in April with the Companys valuer, Colliers conducting an annual review of the need to establish an International, to ensure that it was comfortable with the process internal audit function: followed and to ensure their independence.
I can confirm that monitoring and annually reviewing the auditors a robust valuation process has been followed.
independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the audit Committee Members & Discharge of Responsibility process: and Each Committee member is independent and has broad evaluating the Committees own performance, which was commercial experience as a director.
Chris Taylor and Kay undertaken as part of the Board evaluation process referred Chaldecott have provided strong and relevant property to on page 70. experience which has complimented my relevant financial experience thereby ensuring that the Committee has the right The Company has not had any interaction with the Financial balance of skills and experience to properly discharge its Reporting Councils corporate reporting team.
As a Chartered Accountant and, until recently, The principal matters discussed during the year were as follows: being the Chief Financial Officer of New Look Group, the Board considers that I have significant, recent and relevant financial Valuation of assets.
The 2017 year-end balance sheet experience as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
shows assets under management of 1.3bn.
The Committee, independently of management, met with I consider that the regular discussions and meetings that are Colliers International at the end of April 2017 to discuss held by the Committee, and the challenge that the Committee with them the valuation of the assets, to understand the has with the Companys management, the auditor and process that was followed and to ensure that a robust and property valuer, together with the quality of the reports and independent valuation had taken place.
information prepared for the Committee meetings, has Risk management.
The Committee reviews the risk register enabled the Committee members to discharge their duties at each meeting and, as part of the process of moving the and responsibilities.
Companys listing from AIM to the Main Market, the registers format was revised to make it easier to highlight the key risks within the business.
Alastair Miller Committee Chairman Accounting treatment and revenue recognition for the acquisitions of Bexleyheath and Sheffield.
15 May 2017 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 73 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 73 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Taxation and REIT compliance: The Committee was aware surrounding Board and Committee meetings, IT, forecasting & that, should the Group not comply with the REIT regulations, budgeting and management reporting.
it could incur tax penalties or ultimately be expelled from the Even though the Company was listed on AIM, it had been REIT regime which would have a significant effect on the conducting itself as a Main Market company and the FPPP financial statements.
The Committee noted the frequency review concluded that all of the necessary internal controls and with which compliance with the regulations was reported to procedures were in place and were being followed.
the Board and considered the margin by which the Group complied.
Based on this and the level of headroom shown External auditor in the latest Group forecasts the Committee agreed that no The Committee considers the nature, scope and results of the further action was required for the current year.
external auditors work and reviews, develops and implements Audit process.
The Committee and the auditor, Deloitte, policy on the supply of any non-audit services that are to be discussed the resourcing required to audit a FTSE250 provided by the external auditor.
It receives and reviews company.
Deloitte provided additional resource and the reports from the Groups auditors relating to the Groups audit process commencenced earlier.
annual report and accounts and the external audit process.
Risk Management Audit Plan The Board overseas the Groups risk management and internal In respect of the audit for the financial year ended 31 March controls and determines the Groups risk appetite.
The Audit 2017, Deloitte presented their audit plan prepared in Committee at each of its meetings monitors the effectiveness consultation with management to the Committee.
The audit of the Groups risk management and internal controls systems plan took into account key changes in the business, materiality at each Committee meeting.
levels, valuation of the portfolio, especially focusing on how the pub element was valued, and the development pipeline.
Further details of the Companys risk management process, together with the principal risks, can be found in the Risk Following discussions with both Deloitte and management, the Management report on pages 55 to 57.
Details of the Committee approved the implementation of the plan.
Companys internal controls are below.
Audit & Non-audit Fees Internal Control Structure The Company paid 287,000 in audit and audited related fees The Group does not have an internal audit team.
The need for for the financial year ended 31 March 2017. this is reviewed annually by the Committee, however due to The Company has a non-audit services policy in place which the Groups size and relative lack of complexity, it is felt that limits Deloitte to working on the audit or such other matters there is no requirement for such a team just yet.
where their expertise as the Companys auditor makes them However, while there may not be an internal audit team in the logical choice for the work.
This is to preserve their place, BDO UK LLP, as an independent third party, are independence and objectivity.
The Company paid 220,000 engaged to undertake an annual review of the Groups internal in non-audit fees to Deloitte for the financial year ended control system to ensure that the Company has sufficient 31 March 2017.
The amount paid in non-audit fees is high this controls in place and they did this during February 2017.
The year because Deloitte were engaged in undertaking the FPPP results of the review were encouraging and stated that there review and other reporting accountant work required as part was an appropriate system in place to achieve the current of the process of moving the Company from its AIM listing to financial and operational controls required and to ensure that its Main Market listing.
the Companys compliance obligations were met.
While all of BDO UK LLP has been engaged to provide tax advice to the the necessary checks and balances were being done, the Company and to undertake the annual internal control review.
documentation confirming this was not always completed in a timely manner and this will be addressed during the current year.
Effectiveness and Independence In addition, as part of the Companys move from AIM to the The Chair of the Committee speaks regularly to the audit Main Market in August 2016, Deloitte were engaged to partner to ascertain if there are any concerns, to discuss the undertake a Financial Position and Prospects Procedures audit reports and to ensure that the auditor has received review the FPPP review.
The FPPP review documented support and information requested from management.
the nature of the Groups financial position and prospects The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the 2016 procedures and the steps taken by the Directors to enable external audit process by considering the extent to which the them to make their confirmation, in the prospectus for the audit plan was met, the degree of challenge involved in the move to the Main Market, that they had established process, the depth of understanding, the review of key procedures which provided a reasonable basis for them accounting policies and audit judgements, and the content of to make proper judgements on an ongoing basis as to the auditors reports to the Committee.
It was noted that the the financial position and prospects of the Group.
audit had been completed to a high standard, however The FPPP review was very thorough and took about three additional resource allocated to the audit would be beneficial months to complete.
It covered all functions and processes to the process.
within the Group, including internal controls, governance NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 74 74 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Having considered the effectiveness and independence of Viability Statement the auditors in both the audit and non-audit services it The Committee provides advice to the Board on the Viability provides, the Committee has recommended to the Board that Statement which can be found on page 104. a resolution is proposed at the forthcoming Annual General The Committee ensured sufficient review was undertaken Meeting to reappoint Deloitte as the Groups external auditor.
of the adequacy of the financial arrangements, cash flow forecasts and lender covenant compliance.
Accordingly, the Tenure Committee recommended to the Board that the statement Deloitte LLP has been the Groups auditor since 2010.
Becker is the audit partner from Deloitte and he was appointed in 2015.
Under the regulations, the last audit that he could sign off would be the 2019 audit and he would have to rotate off in 2020.
Under The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014, the audit should be tendered every ten years.
No tender has been undertaken since Delloittes appointment as auditor.
As such, the Committee will give consideration in due course to such a tender, taking into account the complexity and time that such tenders take.
Statement of Compliance The Company confirms that is has complied with terms of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory User of Competitive Tender Processes an Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 the Order throughout the year.
In addition to requiring mandatory audit re-tendering at least every ten years for FTSE 350 companies, the Order provides that only the Audit Committee, acting collectively or through its Chair, and for and on behalf of the Board is permitted: to the extent permissible in law and regulation, to negotiate and agree the statutory audit fee and the scope of the statutory audit: to initiate and supervise a competitive tender process: to make recommendations to the Directors as to the auditor appointment pursuant to a competitive tended process: to influence the appointment of the audit engagement partner: and to authorise an auditor to provide any non-audit services to the Group, prior to the commencement of those non-audit services.
Fair, Balanced and Understandable The Directors are required to confirm that they consider, taken as a whole, that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee has satisfied itself that the controls over the accuracy and consistency of information presented in the Annual Report are robust and has confirmed to the Board that the processes and controls around the preparation of the Annual Report are appropriate allowing the Board to make the fair, balanced and understandable statement which is on page 105.
NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 75 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 75
