PIGIT pp17 34 01 06 2017 10:44 Page 18 GOVERNANCE THE COMPANYS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The Board and Committees Responsibility for good governance lies with the Board.
The governance framework of the Company reflects the fact that as an Investment Company it has no employees and outsources investment management to the Manager and administration to the Manager and other external service providers.
The Board Six non-executive directors Chairman Bill Alexander Key objectives: to set strategy, values and standards: to provide leadership within a framework of prudent effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed: and to challenge constructively and scrutinise performance of all outsourced activities.
Management Audit Nominations Remuneration Engagement Committee Committee Committee Committee Function Function page 20 page 24 page 24 page 24 Chairman Chairman The Board as a whole The Board as a whole performs this function performs this function Bill Alexander Richard Laing Other members: Other members: Vivian Bazalgette Bill Alexander Victoria Cochrane Vivian Bazalgette Key objectives: Key objective: Alan Giles Victoria Cochrane to review regularly to set the Richard Laing Alan Giles the Boards remuneration policy structure and of the Company.
Key objective: Key objectives: composition: and to review regularly to oversee the to make the management control environment recommendations contract and the and financial for any changes or performance of the reporting: and new appointments.
to review other service providers, including the auditor.
The Portfolio Manager The portfolio manager, Mark Barnett, is based in Henley-on-Thames.
Mark is Head of UK Equities and the teams most experienced fund manager, specialising in UK equity income investing.
In this role, Mark is responsible for the management of a number of UK equity portfolios, which comprise both open and closed ended vehicles.
Mark joined Perpetual in 1996 and has been the investment manager of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust since 1999.
Mark started his investment career in 1992 at Mercury Asset Management.
He graduated in French and Politics from Reading University in 1992 and has passed the associated examinations of the Association for Investment Management and Research AIMR.
Martin Walker has been appointed deputy portfolio manager for this Company.
He a member of Mark Barnetts UK Equities team and is responsible for the management of a number of UK equity portfolios.
He began his investment career in 1997 after previous experience as an investment analyst with BWD Rensburg.
Martin joined Invesco in 1999 and has managed UK equity portfolios since 2003.
Martin holds a BA in Financial Economics from Liverpool University and has also attained the Securities Institute Diploma.
