Strategic Report Key Strategies E-COMMERCE LEADERSHIP From digital prowess to e-commerce leadership.
Burberry is recognised as a digital leader in the luxury Leverage third-party relationships sector.
With an estimated 70% of its retail sales having Burberry continued to develop best-in-class involved support from digital technology at some point relationships with retailers online.
This included in the customer journey, its ambition is for digital to Burberrys collaboration with Barneys to develop remain a clear point of differentiation with scope to be unique products for its in-store and digital customers, more ambitious commercially.
This includes enabling which helped to elevate the brands positioning.
seamless customer journeys across digital platforms Burberry also continued to innovate in social commerce, and using technology to service customers in-store, while leveraging new technologies to collaborate with new ensuring that these online and offline worlds are linked.
This included the opportunity for consumers Key areas of focus include the following.
to buy the Bridle bag on social media platform WeChat after the September show.
This was expanded for the Grow Burberry.
com: Continuing to develop the February show, with the collection made available to commercial success of Burberrys digital channel purchase through social media platforms Line, Kakao through improved customer experiences, enhanced and Facebook Messenger.
service propositions and new technologies.
Deliver innovative omni-channel journeys Leverage third-party relationships: Strategically Burberry focused on creating an enhanced digital growing Burberrys partnerships to extend its experience around its runway shows and key purchase digital presence, while ensuring a consistent moments such as Festive.
This included the Facebook brand experience.
Messenger experience, which enabled customers Deliver innovative omni-channel journeys: to explore the collection in an interactive way via a Ensuring that customers can browse, buy and receive Facebook Messenger Bot for the September show, customer support seamlessly across any device the development of the virtual reality experience for the or channel, globally.
February show, and the launch of new payment options.
Progress during the year During the second half of the year, Burberry softGrow Burberry.
com launched a new customer app, providing a more The key focus for 2016 17 was the development personalised shopping experience by connecting of Burberry.
com with a relaunch both on desktop customers more effectively to Burberry stores and and mobile.
The new site offers richer brand and associates.
The app offers seamless mobile commerce product storytelling experiences and elevated product and a platform for interactive storytelling.
The app photography, as well as improved functionality with will be rolled out globally in 2017 18. simplified navigation and increased localised payment As referenced in Productive Space, a major initiative has methods including Apple Pay.
Digital traffic on been the creation of an effective single pool of inventory Burberry.
com has increased year-on-year, with to allow Burberry.
com sales to be fulfilled by inventory conversion improving in both desktop and held in hubs and stores.
com in China was launched both for desktop and mobile, so that it is better aligned for local customer behaviours and preferences, driving an increase in direct-to-consumer sales of around 70%.
