INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 59 SIGNIFICANT ISSUES The issues considered by the Committee that are deemed to be significant to the Group are set out below.
Revenue recognition The Group generates revenue from sales of the Groups Network and Enduser products through subscriptions, hardware and the rendering of enhanced support or professional services.
There is a risk that revenue is inappropriately recognised if revenue is incorrectly apportioned to a product or service.
The Group has a revenue recognition policy in place that details the application of relevant standards to the products and services sold by the Group.
The policy includes rules for applying fair value to components of multiple element arrangements and timing of recognition dependent upon the individual nature of the goods or services sold.
At half-year and year-end management also provide to the Committee an accounting paper on revenue recognition, any changes arising from updated standards, and a commentary on the revenue recognised.
The Groups external auditors have also reported to the Committee that they have reviewed the revenue recognition policy and processes as well as performing detailed testing of revenue recognition across the year and found revenue to be appropriately accounted for.
Having provided appropriate challenge to management and the external auditors, the Committee has concluded that the revenue recognition for the Group is appropriate.
Reporting requirements The Group makes use of certain non-GAAP measures and discloses certain items and presentation separately within the consolidated statement of profit or loss as exceptional items which, in the opinion of the Directors, enables a better understanding of the performance of the Group.
The use of these measures and disclosures is judgemental in nature.
The use of non-GAAP measures and the classification of certain income statement items as exceptional by the Group have been reviewed by the Committee during the year with reference to authoritative guidance and regulations as well as through discussions with management and external advisors.
The Committee is satisfied that the use of such measures is appropriate and enhances the understanding of the Groups financial performance and its prospects.
Furthermore, to ensure such measures remain relevant, the Group is proposing a change to the non-GAAP measures that it publishes, as explained further in note 6 to the financial statements.
The Committee has also reviewed the disclosures made in this annual report and has discussed them with the external auditors: so as to ensure that it is comfortable with the content and presentation made in the annual report.
INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK MANAGEMENT During the year, the Committee received and reviewed reports regarding progress on risk management and the principal risks identified across the Group.
The Committee was satisfied with the risk management process and with the relevance of the risks identified.
It was also satisfied with the level of assurance provided by the Groups Internal Audit & Risk Management function, which is supported by EY.
The Committee has concluded that sound risk management and internal control systems have been maintained throughout the year.
During the current year, management have further enhanced the Companys approach to risk management through the alignment of the risk identification and budgetary planning processes.
Through this alignment management can ensure appropriate and targeted investment by the Company to address and, where appropriate, to control and mitigate the identified risks.
Whilst the Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups systems of risk management and internal control, each of the individual functional leaders are recognised as key drivers of the process through which risks and uncertainties are identified.
The Board recognises that rigorous internal control systems are critical to managing risk and fundamental to the achievement of its strategic objectives.
The Board further acknowledges that these systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk in the Group.
60 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The formal process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group is overseen by the RCC in association with the work performed by the Internal Audit & Risk Management function.
The RCC has designed the risk framework in order to capture and evaluate control weaknesses and risks facing the business.
Where the Board defines an identified risk as significant, procedures exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to rectify or mitigate as appropriate.
These aforementioned functions provide additional assurance to the Audit and Risk Committee who have ultimate responsibility for the oversight and review of the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls.
The external auditors provide a supplementary, independent and autonomous perspective on those areas of the internal control system which they assess in the course of their work.
Their findings are regularly reported to both the Committee and the Board.
Key elements of the control environment are: Annual budgets and strategic plans performed for all business units and the Group as a whole Monitoring of performance against budget and subsequent forecasts with reporting to the Board on a regular basis Monthly review of detailed key performance indicators All contracts are reviewed at a level of detail appropriate to the size and complexity of the contract Timely reconciliations are performed for all significant balance sheet accounts Clearly defined organisational structure and authorisation lines The management Risk and Compliance Committee that oversees the risk management process The Board Audit and Risk Committee that approves audit plans and assesses the overall appropriateness of the Groups internal control environment The preparation and issue of financial reports is managed by the Groups finance department, as delegated by the Board.
The Groups financial reporting process is controlled using the Group accounting policies and reporting systems.
The Group finance department supports all reporting entities with guidance on the preparation of financial information.
Each legal entity has a Finance Director or Controller who has responsibility and accountability for providing information which is in accordance with agreed policies.
The financial information for each entity is subject to a review at reporting entity and Group level by the Chief Financial Officer alongside the Vice President of Finance.
The Annual Report is reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee in advance of presentation to the Board for approval.
Additionally, the Finance Director or Controller of the reporting entity completes a self-certified quarterly Financial Reporting Review Questionnaire which is used to identify control strengths and weaknesses across all financial areas with any weaknesses being subsequently addressed.
The Group also maintains a consolidated Risk Register which sets out the nature and extent of the significant risks facing the Group.
Each of the risks are prioritised according to likelihood of occurrence and potential impact to the Group and the register ensures that all risks are identified, measured and either mitigated or managed by an appropriate owner.
The Directors, through the use of appropriate procedures, systems and the employment of competent personnel, have ensured that measures are in place to secure compliance with the Companys obligation to keep adequate accounting records.
The accounting records are kept at the registered office of the Company.
HOW WE MANAGE RISK The Sophos Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring effective identification, assessment and management of risk across the Group.
Central to the risk management process is the Groups culture of openness, transparency and accountability.
The Internal Audit & Risk Management function manages and drives the risk management framework and operates on an independent basis providing further assurance to the Board around risk management.
The risk management framework enables a robust assessment of risk appropriate to the achievement of the business strategy, as well as being simple and easy to follow to ensure it is embedded into the day-to-day business processes across the Group in order to facilitate risk awareness.
This function also ensures that all relevant and significant risks identified across the business are mapped to the internal audit plan for the year.
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 61 Identify Risk Analyse & Re-evaluate Management evaluate Process Develop & implement Risk Management Plan On a quarterly basis, the RCC reviews the status of risk exposures and risk management throughout the business as managed by the Internal Audit & Risk Management function.
The RCC is a committee of senior leaders authorised by the Board to provide an additional level of assurance to the Audit and Risk Committee in overseeing risk management and internal control activities.
On behalf of the Board, the Committee reviews and challenges the effectiveness of the risk management process.
The Group takes a two-pronged approach to identifying risks: 1 A b ottom-up approach at the business function level: these risks are managed at the operational level with an appropriately defined escalation process in place for those risks rated as high.
2 A t op-down approach at the senior leadership team level: these are the principal risks which could have a serious impact on the strategic business plan of the Group and may encompass several of the risks identified in the bottom-up approach.
A series of risk identification approaches are used such as risk identification and horizon scanning workshops: interviews and inclusion of risk discussions in team meetings.
Risk registers are fully owned at the business function level and registers are maintained and reviewed on a quarterly basis.
All identified risks are assessed against our pre-defined scoring matrix and prioritised accordingly.
Any risks identified in the bottom-up approach deemed to be rated as higher risk are escalated in line with pre-defined escalation procedures for further evaluation.
Following the identification of risks, a risk management plan is developed and implemented: this is managed by the assigned risk owner with regular feedback to the RCC.
Regular reporting of risk management ensures each risk is re-evaluated on a timely basis to ensure that all relevant risks are identified and managed appropriately and that the Board is focused on the principal risks identified.
WHISTLEBLOWING A whistleblowing policy is in place in the Group enabling employees to confidentially report matters of concern directly to Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee receives details of any matters raised.
62 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED INTERNAL AUDIT EY continue to support the Sophos Internal Audit & Risk Management function.
The Groups Chief Financial Officer provides oversight and coordination of Internal Audit with support from the RCC.
In order to ensure independence, the Internal Audit function has a direct reporting line to the Committee and its Chairman.
The nature and scope of the Internal Audit plan using a risk-based approach, was approved by the Committee, with any subsequent changes to the plan requiring further approval.
The results of the audits were assessed alongside responses from management.
Any outcomes graded as requiring improvement were considered in detail by the Committee along with the appropriateness of mitigation plans to resolve the issues identified.
At each meeting, the Committee received audit reports and updates from the Internal Auditors, in order to ascertain progress in completing the internal audit plan and to review results of the audits.
The Internal Audit plan continues to be developed through a review of formal risk assessments, together with consideration of the Groups key business processes and functions that could be subject to audit.
The Committee have monitored and reviewed the scope and results of the Internal Auditors activities as well as the effectiveness of Internal Audit during the financial year.
REVIEW OF EFFECTIVENESS The Board, through the Committee, has reviewed and considered the effectiveness of the risk management and system of internal controls in operation across the Group.
The main objectives of the Groups internal control systems are: To ensure its aims and objectives are met To ensure adherence to management policies To ensure compliance with statutory requirements To safeguard assets To ensure the relevance, reliability and integrity of information, so ensuring as far as possible the completeness and accuracy of records Any system of control can only ever provide reasonable and not absolute assurance that control weaknesses or irregularities do not exist, or that there is no risk of material errors, losses, fraud, or breaches of laws or regulations.
Accordingly, the Group is continually seeking to improve the effectiveness of its systems of internal control.
The Committee has concluded that the Groups risk management and system of internal controls is deemed effective.
This is informed by a number of sources: The audit work undertaken by the Internal Audit function during this financial year Risk management procedures managed and overseen by the Risk and Compliance Committee Reports issued by the Groups external auditors A detailed review of the Groups management of each principle risk or uncertainty is explained on pages 34 to 37.
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 63 EXTERNAL AUDITOR The Committee reviews and makes recommendations with regard to the appointment and reappointment of the external auditors.
In making these recommendations, consideration is given to auditor effectiveness and independence, partner rotation and any other factors that may impact the reappointment of the external auditors.
There are no contractual restrictions on the choice of external auditors and the Committee considers on an annual basis the need for a formal tender process in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Groups auditors, KPMG LLP, were appointed for the year-ended 31 March 2001 with the audit engagement partner rotation last occurring for the year-ended 31 March 2011.
As the Group listed during the prior financial year, in accordance with Ethical Standard 3, the audit engagement partner could continue to serve for not more than two years after the listing occurred with a maximum term of seven years in total.
On that basis the audit engagement partner is to be rotated for the year-ending 31 March 2018.
The external auditors may perform certain non-audit services for the Group, any such non-audit services require pre-approval by the Audit and Risk Committee and are only permitted to the extent allowed by relevant laws and regulations.
During the year-ended 31 March 2017 the non-audit services provided by KPMG related primarily to tax compliance activities.
In the year-ended 31 March 2016, the non-audit services provided by KPMG primarily related to their role as reporting accountant for the Initial Public Offering of the Companys shares and as a result their non-audit fees exceeded their audit fees for that year.
Non-audit fees for the year ended 31 March 2017 were 33 percent of the audit and audit related fees, in the year-ended 31 March 2016, excluding fees associated with the Initial Public Offering, the non-audit fees were 47 percent of the audit and audit-related fees.
Full details of auditor remuneration is shown in note 9 to the Financial Statements.
REVIEW OF EFFECTIVENESS OF EXTERNAL AUDITORS An important role of the Committee is to assess the effectiveness of the external audit process.
In performing this assessment the Committee: reviewed the annual audit plan and considered the auditors performance against that plan along with any variations to it: met with the audit engagement partner to review the audit findings and responses received to questions raised by the Committee: held regular meetings with the audit engagement partner, including with the absence of executive management: considered their length of tenure: reviewed the nature and magnitude of non-audit services provided: and reviewed the external auditors own independence confirmation presented to the Committee.
Based on the assessment performed, the Committee has recommended to the Board that a resolution to reappoint KPMG LLP be proposed at the next Annual General Meeting.
Edwin Gillis Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee 16 May 2017 64 DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMPOSITION AND MEETING ATTENDANCE Kris Hagerman Chairman Nick Bray Attended of those eligible Not attended of those eligible All appointments stated are as at 31 March 2017 The Committee was established by the Board on 8 November 2016 and is chaired by Kris Hagerman, the CEO.
A quorum of two members, including at least one Executive Director is required for the transaction of business.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee and attends all meetings.
ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES The Committee is responsible for the implementation and monitoring of systems and controls in respect of the identification, management and disclosure of inside information and for ensuring that regulatory announcements, shareholder circulars, prospectuses and other documents issued by the Company comply with applicable legal or regulatory requirements.
The primary responsibilities of the Committee include: review of the preliminary results announcement, the interim management statements, the half-year results and any other trading statements: review of information provided to the Committee, consideration of its potential categorisation as inside information and determination of the date and time at which that inside information first existed within the Company: determination of whether any identified inside information gives rise to an immediate disclosure obligation, or whether it is permissible to delay disclosure: and, review and approval of announcements in respect of disclosable projects.
At each Board and Senior Management Team meeting, transactions or events are considered against the disclosure obligations of the Company and whether any matter is considered to be price sensitive.
MAIN ACTIVITIES Key issues reviewed by the Disclosure Committee since its inception, include: the interim dividend: the announcement in respect of the interim results for the six-months ended 30 September 2016: the trading update for the three-months ended 31 December 2016: the announcement of the acquisition of the commercial software products business of Invincea, Inc. : the proposed final dividend: and the preliminary results announcement.
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 65 ANNUAL STATEMENT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN DEAR SHAREHOLDER, As Chairman of Sophos Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the year-ended 31 March 2017 which has been prepared by the Committee and approved by the Board.
In line with the UK reporting regulations, this report is divided into three sections: The Annual Statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman: The Directors Remuneration Policy, which was approved by shareholders at the 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM and details of Sophos remuneration policies and their link to Group strategy, as well as projected pay outcomes under various performance scenarios: and The Annual Report on Remuneration, which focuses on our remuneration arrangements and incentive outcomes for the year under review and how the Committee intends to implement the Remuneration Policy in FY18.
We will be seeking shareholder approval for the Annual Report on Remuneration at the AGM on 7 September 2017.
REMUNERATION DECISIONS IN FY17 Sophos achieved strong results in the year-ended 31 March 2017, with billings of $632 million and cash EBITDA of $150 million.
As a result, Kris Hagerman and Nick Bray will receive bonuses of 110 percent and 88 percent of salary, respectively.
During the year, Kris Hagerman and Nick Bray were granted awards of 500 percent and 390 percent of salary, respectively, under the Sophos Group Long-Term Incentive Plan 2015 LTIP in the form of performance share units 75 percent of the awards vesting over three years subject to achievement of annual billings and cash EBITDA targets and in the form of restricted share units 25 percent of the awards vesting over four years subject to continued employment only.
No performance share units were due to vest in the year under review.
REMUNERATION FOR FY18 Following a review of Group performance and their personal contribution, the salaries of the Executive Directors will be increased by 3 percent, effective from 1 July 2017.
This is in line with the average increase expected for the wider employee population c. 4 percent.
The Committee will operate the annual bonus on the same basis as in FY17.
Billings and EBITDA targets have been set by the Committee and will require Executive Directors to deliver significant stretch performance to achieve full payout.
The bonus will continue to be paid in cash.
In FY18, the Committee intends to grant long-term incentive awards to Executive Directors in line with the stated remuneration policy and using the same measures as were used in FY17 billings and cash EBITDA.
Awards will be made over performance share units at least 75 percent of the total award and restricted shares, within the normal policy limits.
SHAREHOLDER CONSULTATION The Remuneration Committee consulted with a number of our major shareholders in advance of the 2016 AGM to provide additional context surrounding our remuneration arrangements, recognising that a number of features are out of line with typical UK market practice.
We believe that this contributed to a number of the votes against both our Policy and implementation of that remuneration framework last year.
The Committee values all of our shareholders feedback and we have provided additional rationale for our remuneration arrangements below.
Sophos is also committed to improving the disclosure in our remuneration reporting, in particular in the disclosure of our short and long-term incentive targets.
Details of the result on the binding vote on the remuneration policy and the advisory vote on the 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration are set out on page 85 of this report.
The policy approved by our shareholders at the 2016 AGM was broadly unchanged from that outlined in our IPO prospectus, and our remuneration arrangements reflect that we compete for talent in a competitive market against other high-technology US West Coast companies.
A number of our shareholders highlighted that the linking of some of our long-term incentive 25 percent of the total to time-only vesting shares is not typical FTSE market practice.
The Committee has been conscious of UK institutional investors preference for packages to be weighted towards performance-related pay.
However we believe that an element of the long-term incentive in restricted stock was necessary to provide a competitive package of fixed and variable pay that will enable the Group to attract and retain executives in the relevant geographies with the right skills and experience to drive the long-term success of the Company.
We believe that, in addition to the performance-based long-term incentive awards, the exposure to the share price in combination with shareholding guidelines and the fact that our Executive Directors hold shares in excess of these guidelines provides further alignment with shareholders interests.
