PIGIT pp17 34 01 06 2017 10:44 Page 19 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2017 The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of Corporate Governance and is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
The Directors have considered the principles and recommendations of the latest AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to investment companies.
The AIC Code is available from the Association of Investment Companies website www.
The UK Code is available from the Financial Reporting Council website www.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code, except the provisions relating to: the role of the chief executive: executive directors remuneration: the need for an internal audit function: and the evaluation of the Board of FTSE 350 companies being externally facilitated at least every three years.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Code, the Board considers the first three of these provisions are not relevant to the position of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc, being an externally managed investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day management and administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no executive directors, employees or internal operations.
As to the fourth, the evaluation of the Board this year was conducted internally for the third successive year, as explained on page 25.
The next evaluation will be externally facilitated.
Information on how the Company has applied the principles of the AIC Code and the UK Code follows: The composition and operation of the Board and its committees are summarised on page 18, and pages 20 and 21 in respect of the Audit Committee.
The Companys approach to internal control and risk management is summarised on page 21.
The contractual arrangements with, and assessment of, the Manager are summarised on pages 26 and 27.
The Companys capital structure and voting rights are summarised on page 29.
The most substantial shareholders in the Company are listed on page 29.
The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association and are discussed on page 25.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors concerning compensation for loss of office.
Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association and powers to issue or buy back the Companys shares, which are sought annually, require shareholders approval.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19
