NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Nomination Committee Report For the year ended 31 March 2017 Nomination Committee composition and attendance at Meetings Paul Roy: Committee chairman 3 3 Kay Chaldecott 3 3 Alastair Miller 3 3 Chris Taylor 2 3 Chris Taylor was not able to make the February 2017 meeting due to another business commitment.
David Lockhart, Chief Executive Officer, is invited to attend Meetings.
Matthew Jones, Company Secretary, acts as secretary to the Committee.
Dear Shareholders, In August 2016, the Company successfully moved its listing Succession planning, both at the from the AIM market of the London Stock Exchange to the Main Market.
In preparation for that move, the Committee Board and senior management reviewed the Board composition to ensure that it was fully levels, will continue to be a key compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code and area of focus for the Committee had a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
In light of the move to the Main Market, the Committee also reviewed its Board evaluation process.
As an AIM-listed Paul Roy company, NewRiver Retails Board did not have to undergo regular evaluations.
It nonetheless undertook such evaluations Committee Chairman annually by means of an internal questionnaire.
For NewRiver REIT, as a Main Market company and constituent of the FTSE250 index, such evaluations are required under the Principle Roles: UK Corporate Governance Code, with externally led reviews to review the succession planning requirements for required every three years.
The Committee decided to appoint the Group: an external evaluator to undertake its first Board evaluation.
to ensure that it operates a formal, rigorous and This decision was designed to establish firm foundations transparent procedure for the appointment of new for future evaluations and thus to ensure continuing high Directors to the Board: standards of governance for the Company.
Further details of the process and its results are to be found in the to regularly review the composition of the Board and its Corporate Governance report on page 70. various committees including their chairmanships : and to evaluate the performance of these committees and In January 2017, the Company announced that Chris Taylor that of the Board as a whole.
would stand down as a Non-Executive Director in April 2017.
The Company is currently in the process of searching for a Key activities in 2016 17: suitable candidate to succeed Mr Taylor.
The details of this review of the Board Evaluation process, in light of process are to be found on the following page.
joining the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, During the current year, the Committee will continue to and appointment of an external evaluator to lead focus on succession planning and on implementing the that process: recommendations of the Board evaluation.
implementation of the process to appoint a new independent Non-Executive Director: and review of the Boards succession plan.
Paul Roy Committee Chairman Areas of focus for 2017 18: 15 May 2017 appointment of an independent Non-Executive Director: support the implementation of the recommendations resulting from the Board evaluation process: continue the focus on succession planning: and consider the Groups diversity policy.
NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 76 76 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE How the Committee operates future cohesiveness of the Board following the new The Committee meets at least twice a year and holds ad-hoc appointment.
The Company will inform the market as and meetings when required.
It met three times during the year to when an appointment is made.
discuss succession planning, Board evaluation and the process Diversity Policy to be followed in the search for a new Non-Executive Director The Company has developed a culture which recognises the following the resignation of Chris Taylor.
benefits of diversity and has been successful at recruiting key Only members of the Committee are entitled to attend the members of its team from a range of different backgrounds.
meetings, with the Companys Chief Executive Officer, David Before the Company became a REIT in 2010, 50% of its Board Lockhart, having a standing invitation to attend.
This is so directors were female and the culture and discrimination that the Committee can understand the views of executive policies the Company has adopted since this time have always management when making its deliberations, especially on embraced all aspects of diversity.
Matthew Jones, Company Secretary, The Board currently comprises one female non-executive attends each meeting and acts as secretary to the Committee.
Recognising the benefits of diversity Activities of the Committee during the year the Company would like to see the female Board representation Succession planning increase further.
The Committee considers succession planning a key part When recruiting, the Company has always considered all of its remit.
It recognises the importance of creating robust aspects of diversity during the process.
The Company ensures succession plans for both the Board and the internal talent there is a selection of candidates who have a good balance of so that it can fulfil the Companys long-term strategy.
The Company aims to recruit The Committee acknowledges that the plans should be the best candidates on the basis of their merit and ability.
regularly reviewed to ensure that employees and Board Recognising the current ongoing debate around diversity members have sufficient skills and experience to ensure the the Company is intending to draft a policy in the future that continuing success and good governance of the Company.
will give regard to updates to best practice and the The Committee also works with the Executive Directors to recommendations of the Hampton Alexander and McGregor nurture a pipeline of talented employees below board level Smith reviews when doing so.
who will be able to serve as the next generation of plc Board directors.
Composition of the Board during the year As part of the current years review of the plans, short, medium and long-term horizons will be considered to ensure that the plans allow for sudden and unforeseen departures, for the orderly replacement of Board members and senior members Independent Directors: 3 of staff, and to ensure that sufficient skills and experience Executive Directors: 3 remain in the business to ensure that the Companys Non-executive Chairman independent : 1 strategy and objectives are met going forward.
Recruitment of a new Non-Executive Director In January 2017, Chris Taylor advised the Company that he Length of Directors tenure would be resigning as a director and standing down from the Board with effect from April 2017, triggering the process to identify and appoint a suitable successor.
Less than three years: 1 The Chairman, CEO and Company Secretary were delegated to meet two executive search firms, both of whom were Three Six years: 2 signatories to the Revised UK Voluntary Code of Conduct for Seven to Eight years: 4 Executive Search Firms.
The appointment of Spencer Stuart, which had not undertaken any work for the Company before and was therefore deemed independent, was recommended.
Directors core area of expertise The Board approved a detailed brief to be used to compile a short list of candidates.
The brief specified that candidates needed a good range of experience that did not necessarily have to come from the property or retail sectors.
Real Estate experience: 4 Spencer Stuart is currently in discussions with proposed Finance experience in the line candidates with a view to putting five forward for the Boards management or audit capacity: 2 consideration.
Each member of the Board will have the Banking City experience: 1 opportunity to meet with the proposed candidates prior to a final appointment being made.
This is designed to ensure the NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 77 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 77
