Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance report Dear Shareholder, particularly in the context of significant management This has been an important year of change for Burberry change.
The composition of the Board has evolved with the implementation of the programme announced significantly over the past few years with the appointment in May 2016, to accelerate our productivity and efficiency of four new non-executive directors and one longer-serving agenda, and the change of executive management director stepping down.
Further changes are planned during the year.
As a Board we have spent a significant amount of time Following a previous review of the Board Committees, during the year monitoring progress of the implementation changes were implemented during the year.
This included of this programme and the impacts on the organisation the appointment of Jeremy Darroch as Chair of the arising from changes in ways of working.
In particular, the Audit Committee and Fabiola Arredondo as Chair of Board considered the leadership roles required to maximise the Remuneration Committee, as well as changes to Burberrys ability to successfully implement these plans.
It the composition of those Committees.
was identified that there was a need for a new chief executive with strong luxury retail experience to lead on the commercial, As Chairman I am responsible for leading and ensuring operational and financial elements of the business, who could an effective Board.
I am pleased to advise that the partner closely with Christopher Bailey, who would continue Board has operated very effectively during the year.
In his leadership of the brand and design elements of the particular, directors have contributed important insights business as President and Chief Creative Officer.
These and constructive challenge in support of the important joint leadership roles would share responsibility for strategy changes taking place in the organisation and executive and would report jointly to the Chairman.
Our annual Board effectiveness review confirmed that the Board is comprised of high quality As Carol Fairweather had signalled her intention to step non-executive directors with the right mix of skills, down as Chief Financial Officer and John Smith as Chief experience and the right focus.
I would like to thank the Operating Officer, focus was also on the succession of Board for its hard work and support during the year.
To align with the transformation programme, the aim was to seek an individual with a strong financial and It is also important to have an open and ongoing dialogue commercial background who could combine these roles.
with our shareholders and other stakeholders, particularly during times of change.
During the year, a combination of The Board unanimously supported the appointment of myself, individual non-executive and executive directors Marco Gobbetti as Chief Executive Officer who will join and other members of senior management participated the Board on 5 July 2017, and Julie Brown who joined in around 166 meetings with investors, including with the the Board as Chief Operating and Financial Officer on Groups 25 largest investors.
Marco has more than 20 years experience in the luxury industry and has a proven track record for Our new Remuneration Policy will be presented to growing and developing brands through his strong retail shareholders for their vote at our upcoming AGM, and and customer-focused strategies.
He joined Burberry in so our Remuneration Committee Chair Fabiola Arredondo January as Executive Chairman, Asia Pacific and Middle has been meeting with our shareholders and consulting East enabling him to familiarise himself with this very with them on the proposed Policy.
You can read more important region for the Company and we look forward to about the Policy in the Directors Remuneration Report him joining the Board in July.
Julie has an outstanding track on pages 87 to 111. record in the commercial and financial aspects of a global business as well as business transformation and has I commend this report to all of our shareholders as it details already made a strong impact since joining in January.
the work of the Board and its Committees during the year along with the assessment of its performance.
During the I would like to express my gratitude to both Carol and John coming year the Board will continue to focus on supporting for their dedication and service to Burberry over the years the change programme and the leadership team as they and their professionalism and support in facilitating an settle into their new roles.
Sir John Peace Board succession and composition will continue to remain Chairman a priority for the coming year as the Board continues to execute on its succession plan.
The aim is to continue to refresh the Board while ensuring stability and continuity, 70 Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report Governance The Chairman is also responsible to shareholders for the Companys performance and he makes himself available The Board is collectively responsible for promoting Burberrys to meet with the Companys main institutional shareholders.
long-term success, for setting its strategic aims and ensuring a The major commitments of the Chairman are detailed in framework of prudent and effective controls.
This report sets out the Boards approach and work during the financial year 2016 17 and, together with the Directors The Senior Independent Director, Philip Bowman, Remuneration Report on pages 87 to 111, includes details supports the Chairman in his role and leads the nonof how the Company has applied and complied with the executive directors in the oversight of the Chairman.
principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance The Senior Independent Director is also available Code issued in September 2014 the Code.
The directors as an additional point of contact for shareholders.
consider that the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the year.
The non-executive directors provide strong experience, an independent perspective and constructive challenge Our Board and monitor the performance and delivery of the strategy The Board currently consists of ten members the within the risk parameters set by the Board.
Chairman, the Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating and Financial Officer and seven The Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer, independent non-executive directors.
A list of directors Christopher Bailey, is responsible for the management of and their biographies is set out on pages 68 and 69. the business, developing the Groups strategic direction for consideration and approval by the Board and implementing The Chairman, Sir John Peace, has led the Board as the agreed strategy.
The Chief Creative and Chief Executive Chairman since 2002.
The Chairman is responsible for Officer is assisted by members of his Senior Leadership leading and managing the business of the Board and Team who meet regularly.
ensuring its overall effectiveness and governance.
He also ensures the effective communication between the On Marco Gobbetti taking up his role as Chief Executive Board, management and with shareholders and the Officer on 5 July 2017, Christopher Bailey will transition to Groups wider stakeholders.
the role of President and Chief Creative Officer at that time, creating a shared leadership framework, with both Marco The Chairman works collaboratively with the Chief Creative and Christopher reporting directly to the Chairman.
Marco and Chief Executive Officer, Christopher Bailey, in setting will be responsible for all commercial, operational and the Board agenda and ensuring that any actions agreed financial elements of the business, with Christopher by the Board are effectively implemented.
responsible for all elements of brand and design, and shared responsibility for people and strategy.
During the year, the Chairman maintained regular contact and met with the Senior Independent Director and other The Company Secretary, Catherine Sukmonowski, acts non-executive directors outside of formal Board meetings.
as Secretary to the Board and all the Boards Committees The Chairman also met with the non-executive directors and is responsible for supporting the Chairman in the without the executive directors being present.
delivery of the corporate governance agenda.
71 Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report Role of the Board Role of the Board Committees The Board is supported in its activities by a number It is the responsibility of the Board to support management of committees including the following principal in its strategic aims to enable the Company to continue to committees: Audit Committee: Nomination Committee: perform successfully and sustainably for our shareholders and and Remuneration Committee.
The terms of reference wider stakeholders.
of each of the principal committees can be viewed on the Companys website at www.
The Board is ultimately responsible for promoting the long-term success of the Group.
The Board leads and The Committees can engage third-party consultants provides direction for management by setting strategy and and independent professional advisers and can call overseeing its implementation by management.
The Board upon other resources of the Group to assist them in is also responsible for oversight of the Groups systems discharging their respective responsibilities.
of governance, internal control and risk management.
In addition to the relevant committee members and the Specific key decisions and matters have been reserved Company Secretary, external advisers and, on occasion, for approval by the Board.
These include decisions on the other directors and members of the senior management Groups strategy, the annual budget and operating plans, team, attend committee meetings, but only at the invitation major capital expenditure and transactions, financial of the Chair of the relevant Committee.
results, the dividend and other capital returns, the approval of the Groups risk appetite and other governance issues.
Set out on pages 81 to 86 are reports from the Audit and The matters reserved for the Boards decision are available Nomination Committees.
The report of the Remuneration on the Companys website at www.
Committee is set out on pages 87 to 111.
Board Chief Creative and Nomination Remuneration Audit Chief Executive Committee Committee Committee Officer Risk Senior Committee Leadership Team Global Health and Global Ethics Safety Committee Committee 72 Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report Board effectiveness The Board and Committee agendas were shaped to ensure that discussion was focused on the Groups key The Board has operated very effectively during the year, strategies and monitoring activities, as well as reviews particularly to support the important changes taking place of significant issues arising during the year.
The Groups in the organisation.
ongoing financial and strategic performance is reviewed at every meeting and the Chief Creative and Chief Executive Highlights of Board activities during 2016 17 Officer and the Chief Operating and Financial Officer During the financial year the Board held six scheduled comment on current trading, the market, products, meetings, including an in-depth two-day session on key brand moments and Group culture.
strategy, and an additional meeting to discuss the productivity and efficiency programme and ways of In addition, to allow for opportunities for the Board working review, which was announced by the Group in to engage with senior management to discuss key May 2016.
In connection with this programme the Board elements of the business, individual Board members spent a significant amount of time during the year on are offered meetings with senior management and a matters relating to the implementation of the programme, number of Board dinners were held during the year.
as well as on key strategic decisions such as the strategic partnership for the Groups Beauty business.
A significant The table below gives the highlights of how the Board amount of time was also spent, including outside of and its Committees spent their time during the FY 2017 scheduled meetings, to consider the appointment of the financial year but it is not an exhaustive list of topics new Chief Executive Officer, and Chief Operating and covered.
Further information on the Groups strategic Financial Officer.
focus during the year is set out in the key strategies section starting on page 33.
The more detailed work of the Committees is set out in this report.
Strategy and CC and CEOs regular updates on current trading, the business and operations.
Business Focus Annual strategy session two days.
Consideration of progress of the Groups productivity and efficiency programme and ways of working review announced May 2016.
Discussed and approved the strategic partnership with Coty for the Group's Beauty business.
Received briefings on key areas of the business, the external economic environment and the luxury sector.
Consideration of the Groups capital structure, balance sheet strategy and returns to shareholders.
Year end review of the business sector outlook and consideration of the 2017 18 budget in the context of the three-year plan.
Oversight and Risk Review of the Interim and Preliminary results announcements, 2016 17 Annual Report and Accounts.
Review of risk assessments, internal controls framework, business controls and consideration of risk appetite.
Consideration of the strategic risks and impact on the three-year plan.
Consideration of the Groups viability statement and the viability assessment and stress testing underpinning the statement.
Review of audit plan for the year, reappointment of auditors and non-audit fees.
Review of the simplification of the Groups operating processes including the upgrades of the Groups IT systems.
Review of IT general controls and cyber-security plans and activities.
Consideration of various treasury matters and amendments to the Treasury Policy.
Consideration of Group tax matters including the Groups approach to tax risk.
Governance and Approved the appointment of the new Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Operating and Financial Officer.
Engagement Received reports from Board Committees.
Consideration of the UK Corporate Governance Code and other regulatory requirements for the Annual Report.
Preparation for, and review of, the Notice of AGM.
Discussed regular updates from Investor Relations on share price, performance metrics, register activity, and investor and analyst sentiment.
Engaged with investors throughout the year and responded to retail shareholder questions at the AGM.
Considered progress in relation to management succession, the Board succession plan, Committee roles and composition.
Assessed the outcome of the Board Committee effectiveness review.
Consideration of director indemnification and Directors and Officers insurance renewal.
Consideration of director conflicts of interest.
People, culture CC and CEOs regular updates on key brand moments and culture.
and values Consideration of updates on progress with the Inspired People strategy.
Consideration of regular updates from the management Ethics Committee.
Consideration of the Groups charitable activities, including the Burberry Foundation.
73 Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report Evaluating our performance in 2016 17 performance see Directors performance on page 75.
The Board undertakes a formal review of its performance The Chairman reported to the Board on the key themes and that of its Committees each financial year, and is and recommended actions arising from this review.
required to conduct an external evaluation once every three years.
This years review of the Boards and Committees The overall view from the feedback was that the Board effectiveness was facilitated internally by the Company had operated very effectively during the year, particularly Secretary.
The Boards next external evaluation is due to to support the important changes taking place in the take place during FY 2018. organisation including executive management.
The Board was comprised of high quality non-executive directors with This has been an important year of change for the Group the right mix of skills and experience, and the right focus.
with the productivity and efficiency programme and ways During the coming year the Board should ensure that it of working review announced in May 2016 and the change continues to focus on important strategic matters and of executive management during the year.
Against this continues to track the Groups progress with its key backdrop the Chairman held one-to-one meetings with strategies and its productivity and efficiency programme.
each of the directors to facilitate a wide-ranging discussion Progress with the Boards succession plan should and, in particular, to ascertain directors reflections continue to be a priority.
on events over the past year and views on the future composition and operation of the Board Committees, Below is a summary of the key themes and including what areas of future priority the focus should recommendations actions identified from the 2016 17 be.
The Chairman also discussed directors roles and review and progress against the actions arising from last years review.
Key themes 2016 17 review 2015 16 review Views Actions Progress against prior year actions Board The Board was comprised of high quality The Board succession plan would Previous action: Specific areas for further composition non-executive directors, with the right continue to be a priority with the aim deep dives into the business and and ongoing skills and experience and the right focus.
of appointing additional non-executive competitive landscape were identified.
NED support directors in the coming year, to enable Continuing the Board succession The in-depth two day session on strategy longer-serving members to step down.
The pace of change had focused on specific areas of the should continue to be balanced by business, the luxury sector and the the need to ensure stability given Groups peers.
In addition, deep dives the significant management and were given on the Groups key strategies organisational changes.
as part of the Boards consideration and monitoring of progress with the Groups productivity and efficiency programme.
Previous action: The Board should continue to focus on its succession plan.
The Nomination Committee had actively engaged in progressing the Boards succession plan, meeting a number of potential candidates during the year.
Board The Board should ensure that it continues These specific areas of Board focus Previous action: Future Board focus would Committee to focus on important strategic matters would be incorporated into the Board continue to be on ensuring that its strategic focus and continues to track the Groups agendas during the coming year.
focus reflected luxury sector dynamics.
progress with its key strategies and its See above: Board composition and productivity and efficiency programme.
ongoing NED support, progress against prior year actions.
Board The Board Committees work very well, The format for regular updates to the Previous action: The approach to Board Committee with the right focus and good meeting Board would be reviewed including meeting agendas, papers and timings effectiveness dynamics.
It is important that the Board how these are woven into future would be reviewed to ensure that the is regularly updated on the progress of Board agendas.
directors time together was maximised.
A review of the Board and Audit Committee agenda formats took place during the year which included input from the Groups advisers and a review of other FTSE 100 practice.
As a result, the agenda formats were revised to prioritise the discussion on key items and to generally improve the overall effectiveness and efficiency of the meetings.
Following a review, the Board implemented changes to the composition of its Committees and rotated the Audit and Remuneration Committee Chairs.
74 Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report Directors performance Chairmans performance The Chairman held discussions with each of the directors The non-executive directors reviewed the Chairmans to discuss their individual performance and to raise any performance.
The feedback was that the Chairman had top-of-mind issues they may have including in relation done an excellent job in leading the Board during this to any matters of Board Committee effectiveness.
time of significant change for the Company and his This assessment is used as the basis for recommending leadership provided important stability in the context the re-election of directors by shareholders.
The table below gives details of directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year ended 31 March 2017.
1 2 Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Sir John Peace 7 7 3 3 3 Christopher Bailey 6 7 4 Julie Brown 2 2 6 Fabiola Arredondo 7 7 2 2 3 3 5 5 5, 6 Philip Bowman 5 7 1 2 3 3 4 5 6 Ian Carter 7 7 2 2 3 3 5 5 6 Jeremy Darroch 7 7 3 3 3 3 2 4 6 Stephanie George 7 7 2 2 3 3 4 5 6 Matthew Key 6 7 3 3 3 3 3 4 6 Dame Carolyn McCall 7 7 3 3 3 3 3 4 John Smith 7 7 4 Carol Fairweather 5 5 1 B oard meetings included six scheduled meetings and one additional meeting to consider the productivity and efficiency programme announced in May 2016.
Matthew Key and Philip Bowman were unable to attend the additional meeting due to prior commitments.
2 R emuneration Committee meetings included three regular scheduled meetings and two additional meetings, to discuss 2015 16 target setting on the measures under the Groups Executive Share Plan.
Philip Bowman, Matthew Key and Dame Carolyn McCall were unable to attend one of the additional meetings, and Jeremy Darroch was unable to attend both of the additional meetings, due to prior commitments.
3 Christopher Bailey was unable to attend one Board meeting due to illness.
4 J ulie Brown was appointed to the Board as Chief Operating and Financial Officer on 18 January 2017.
Carol Fairweather stepped down as Chief Financial Officer on that date.
John Smith stepped down as Chief Operating Officer on that date but continued on as an executive director until 31 March 2017.
5 P hilip Bowman was unable to attend one Board and Audit Committee meeting scheduled the same day, due to a prior commitment, and the additional unscheduled Board meeting referred to in note 1 above.
6 O n 1 February 2017, Jeremy Darroch, Dame Carolyn McCall and Matthew Key stepped down as members of the Remuneration Committee, and Fabiola Arredondo, Philip Bowman, Ian Carter and Stephanie George stepped down as members of the Audit Committee.
See pages 82 and 109 for further information on these Committee changes.
Time allocation Outside of formal meetings, the non-executive directors Each of the non-executive directors has a letter of spent significant additional time during the year on matters appointment which sets out the terms and conditions relating to the implementation of the Groups productivity of his or her directorship.
The Chairman and the nonand efficiency programme and to management succession.
executive directors are expected to devote such time as In addition, individual Board members spent time visiting is necessary for the proper performance of their duties.
the Groups business in its key regions and various This is expected to be approximately 20 days each year operating facilities in the UK.
The Board considers that for basic duties.
The Chairman and Senior Independent it met sufficiently often to enable the directors to discharge Director are expected to spend additional time over and their duties effectively.
above this to discharge their added responsibilities.
External directorships During the financial year the Board held six scheduled The Boards executive directors are permitted to hold meetings including an in-depth two-day session on only one non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 strategy, and one additional meeting to discuss the company.
Details of the directors other directorships productivity and efficiency programme and ways of working can be found in their biographies on pages 68 and 69. review which was announced by the Group in May 2016.
The Remuneration Committee held three scheduled Board and Committee composition and succession meetings and two additional meetings.
These additional In the context of the Boards consideration of the Groups meetings were to consider 2015 16 target setting for the areas of future growth and its productivity and efficiency measures under the Groups Executive Share Plan which programme, the non-executive directors spent a had been postponed to enable alignment with the considerable amount of time considering the executive programme, and to deal with matters relating to the leadership roles required to maximise Burberrys executive management changes.
ability to successfully implement these plans, with the announcements during the year of the appointments of the new Chief Executive Officer, and Chief Operating and Financial Officer and the transition of Christopher Bailey to President and Chief Creative Officer.
Please see the Report from the Nomination Committee on pages 85 to 86.
75 Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report In relation to its non-executive directors, the Board Diversity split of male female Board members: continued to focus on building on its relevant skills and competencies for the future under its succession plan.
The aim is to continue to refresh the Board while ensuring stability and continuity particularly in the context of significant management change.
The composition of the Male Board has evolved significantly over the past few years Female with the appointment of four new non-executive directors, with one longer-serving non-executive director stepping down.
The Board plans to continue to execute against its succession plan and it is anticipated that there will be further changes to the Board in the coming year.
Board succession planning is focused on ensuring the right The current non-executive directors are drawn from mix of skills and experience for the Board.
All new Board a wide range of industries and backgrounds, including appointments are based on merit, keeping in mind the mobile, digital, technology, media, retail, financial services, Board composition principles.
These principles are to: consumer travel, hotels and hospitality, marketing, accountancy and general management expertise.
They maintain current core competencies: have extensive experience of complex organisations with add new competencies which reflect the evolution global reach, including experience of the Groups key of the Groups business: markets of Europe, the Americas and Asia, reflecting the Groups strategy.
Their varied yet relevant experience ensure compatibility with Burberrys culture and brings a diversity of perspective and useful insight to Board values: and discussions and important support to the management promote diversity, including in terms of gender.
The biographical details of the current directors can be found on pages 68 and 69.
Please see the Report from the Nomination Committee on pages 85 and 86 for more information on the As part of its succession planning the Board also keeps appointment process.
under review the composition of its Committees and the tenure of the Committee Chairs to ensure that these The Board believes in the importance of diverse Board roles are refreshed from time to time.
Following a review membership, including in relation to gender.
The Board last year, the Board implemented key changes to its is supportive of the Lord Davies Report and the HamptonCommittees during the year.
This included the appointment Alexander review target for women to represent 33% of Jeremy Darroch as Chair of the Audit Committee of boards by 2020.
Currently, four out of our ten Board and Fabiola Arredondo as Chair of the Remuneration members are female including our Chief Operating Committee.
It also included a variation of Committee and Financial Officer, comprising 40% of our Board membership, evolving away from the past practice of all membership.
The Board will continue to monitor diversity non-executive directors sitting on all Committees.
This and take such steps as it considers appropriate to maintain change was to enable a fresh perspective and reflects Burberrys position as a meritocratic and diverse business.
the increased time commitment and focus required from Committee members due to the expansion of the Group The Board believes that it is critical that women are able over the past few years, and the increasing complexity to succeed at all levels of the organisation.
Currently, of of the remit of the Committees in terms of regulatory and a total workforce of approximately 10,000, approximately other requirements.
70% 7,000 is female and approximately 39% of senior management is female.
To ensure that the appropriate linkage remains, regular Committee updates are provided to the Board.
In addition, More broadly, diversity is at the heart of Group culture all non-executive directors continue to receive papers which is characterised by a meritocratic and collaborative relating to all Committee meetings and are invited to ethos.
At our London headquarters, 58 different attend Committee meetings whenever they wish.
The Company continues to focus on evolving its strategies for recruiting and developing key talent within the business in a way which promotes the Groups cultural values and diverse and meritocratic environment.
See the Inspired People section on page 44.
76 Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report Board tenure briefings from senior managers across the Group on key business areas and operations, the luxury market, strategy, the corporate functions, and the Burberry brand and culture.
In addition, non-executive directors are provided with opportunities to visit key stores, markets and facilities.
This includes visits to the Groups various 0 5 years operating facilities in the UK.
The Chairman considers the 10 years or above training needs of individual directors on an ongoing basis.
The Board has direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
Directors may also obtain, in The balance of tenure of service of the directors is set out the furtherance of their duties, independent professional in the Board tenure diagram.
At the time of the 2017 Annual advice, if necessary, at the Groups expense.
General Meeting, Sir John Peace and Philip Bowman will have served on the Board for 15 years, Stephanie George Re-election of directors will have been on the Board for 11 years and Ian Carter At the Annual General Meeting in 2016, all continuing will have served for ten years.
The performance of Philip directors offered themselves for re-election.
Each director Bowman, Stephanie George and Ian Carter has been was re-elected and no director received less than 91% in subject to a rigorous review, including with regard to their favour of the votes cast.
At the Annual General Meeting independence.
Their in-depth knowledge of the Group in 2017, all of the directors will again retire and all will combined with the consistency they provide through their offer themselves for re-election or, in the case of the newly continued service, remains invaluable to ensure a smooth appointed directors, for election.
As Marco Gobbetti will transition of the Board and its Committees.
Each of these be joining the Board on 5 July 2017 he will offer himself individuals continues to demonstrate the attributes of an for election at the Annual General Meeting.
independent non-executive director, including contributing to constructive challenge and debate at meetings, and The Board believes that each of the directors standing there was no evidence that their tenure has impacted for re-election or election are effective and, accordingly, on their independence.
the Board recommends that shareholders approve the resolutions to be proposed at the 2017 Annual General The Board is satisfied that all of its non-executive directors Meeting relating to the re-election or election of bring robust independent oversight and continue to remain the directors.
Managing conflicts of interest Information flow and professional development All directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 The Chairman works closely with the Company Secretary to avoid a situation in which they have, or could have, in the planning of the agendas and schedule of Board and a direct or indirect conflict of interest or possible conflict Committee meetings, and in ensuring that information is of interest with the Company and the Group.
made available to Board members on a timely basis and is of a quality appropriate to enable the Board to effectively Under the Groups Articles of Association, the Board has discharge its duties.
the authority to approve situational conflicts of interest and has adopted procedures to manage and, where As set out in the table Highlights of Board activities during appropriate, to approve such conflicts.
Authorisations 2016 17 on page 73, the Board is kept up to date on legal, granted by the Board are recorded by the Company regulatory, compliance and governance matters through Secretary in a register and are noted by the Board at advice and regular papers from the Company Secretary its next meeting.
A review of situational conflicts which have been authorised The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in designing is undertaken by the Board annually.
Following the last and facilitating an induction programme for new directors review, the Board concluded that the conflicts had been and their ongoing training.
Each newly appointed director appropriately authorised, no circumstances existed which receives a formal and tailored induction programme to would necessitate that any prior authorisation be revoked enable them to function effectively as quickly as possible, or amended, and the authorisation process continued to while building a deep understanding of the business and operate effectively.
Each induction typically consists of meetings with both executive and non-executive directors, 77 Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report Engagement with shareholders functions is overseen by executive management, The Board recognises the importance of regular open particularly the work of Group Risk and Internal Audit and constructive dialogue with shareholders and other and the management Risk Committee.
Further assurance stakeholders, not just ahead of the Annual General Meeting, is provided by the reviews conducted by the external but throughout the year.
Regular reports on these activities are provided to the Audit Committee as reflected in the standing items The Investor Relations team participated in around on the Audit Committee agenda, with further objective 450 investor meetings and events during the year.
A reporting provided by the external auditors.
combination of the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, Chair of the Remuneration Committee, other The Board, through the Audit Committee, has conducted individual non-executive directors, executive directors a robust assessment of the Groups principal risks and the and other members of senior management participated in Groups internal control framework and has considered the around 170 of these meetings.
This engagement included effectiveness of the system of internal controls in operation presentations to institutional shareholders and analysts across the Group for the year covered by the Annual Report following the release of the Groups Interim and Full Year and Accounts and up to the date of its approval by the results which are available on the Groups website at Board.
This covered the material controls including www.
com, as well as meetings with the financial, operational and compliance controls and risk Groups 25 largest investors.
Topics discussed included management arrangements.
The system of internal controls but were not limited to the executive management is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of changes, luxury sector growth dynamics, the Groups not achieving business objectives, and can only provide performance and strategy, productivity and efficiency reasonable and not absolute assurance against material agenda, the Directors Remuneration Policy and the misstatement or loss.
strategic partnership for the Groups Beauty business.
The process followed by the Board, through the Audit The Groups Investor Relations and Company Secretariat Committee, in reviewing regularly the system of internal departments act as the centre for ongoing communication controls and risk management arrangements accords with with shareholders, investors and analysts.
The Board the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and receives regular updates on the views of the Groups major Related Financial and Business Reporting issued by the shareholders and stakeholders from this engagement or Financial Reporting Council FRC.
It also accords with direct contacts.
the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Group also conducts regular independent investor Control environment audits of its major investors through Makinson Cowell, a The Groups business model is based primarily on a central capital markets advisory firm, to gauge investor perception.
design, supply chain and distribution operation to supply The investor audit findings are discussed with the Board.
products to global markets via retail including digital and wholesale channels.
This is reflected in the internal control Evaluation of internal controls framework which includes centralised direction, resource The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system allocation, oversight and risk management of the key of internal controls and risk management and it discharges activities of marketing, inventory management, brand and its duties in this area by: technology development.
The Group has also established procedures for the delegation of authorities to ensure determining the nature and extent of the principal risks that approval for matters that are considered significant it is willing to accept in achieving the Groups strategic is provided at an appropriate level, either because of objectives the Boards risk appetite : and their value or their materiality to the Group.
In addition, challenging managements implementation of effective the Group has policies and procedures in place that are systems of risk identification, assessment and mitigation.
designed to support risk management across the Group.
These include policies relating to treasury, the conduct The Audit Committee has been delegated the responsibility of employees and third parties with which the Group for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal conducts business including prohibiting bribery and controls and risk management arrangements.
These authorities, policies and procedures review of these controls is provided through internal are kept under regular review.
governance processes and the work of the Group 78 Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report The Group operates a three lines of defence model The Group Risk and Security Officer, who reports to the which helps to achieve effective risk management and Chief Operating and Financial Officer, is responsible for internal control across the organisation.
This comprises ensuring that the Boards requirements relating to risk the following.
This includes the design and facilitation of the risk assessment process, the risk The first line of defence: management owns and appetite framework and providing oversight of key business manages risk and is also responsible for implementing change processes.
As part of the Boards consideration corrective actions to address process and control of the principal risks facing the Group, the Group Risk deficiencies.
and Security Officer facilitates a risk assessment process The second line of defence: to help ensure the first in each key business area and global support function to line is properly designed, established and operating review the principal risks facing its operations and any appropriately, management has also established various actions in place to further mitigate the risks.
The materiality risk management and compliance functions to help of the risk is measured based on financial and non-financial build and or monitor the first line of defence.
These criteria, and the probability of the risk arising is also include, but are not limited to, functions such as Group mapped.
The detailed assessments are then consolidated Risk, Financial Governance, Health and Safety, Asset to provide input into the Group risk assessment which and Profit Protection and Business Continuity.
is discussed and agreed by management at the Risk Committee prior to review by the Board.
The third line of defence: Internal Audit provides the Audit Committee and management with independent and The management Risk Committee meets at least three objective assurance on the effectiveness of governance, times per year and reports any key findings to the Audit risk management and internal controls including the Committee.
The Risk Committee evaluates risk through manner in which the first and second lines of defence reports made to it by Group Risk, Internal Audit and other achieve risk management and control objectives.
assurance teams and management committees.
The Committee benefits from cross-functional attendance Risk management encompassing senior management of key areas such The Group has an integrated approach to risk management as IT, finance, legal, brand protection, corporate and internal controls to ensure that its review of risk is responsibility, human resources, supply chain, asset used to inform the internal audit process and the design and profit protection, information security and health of internal controls.
The Risk Committee is chaired by the Chief Operating and Financial Officer and its members include A detailed three-year strategic plan and annual budget the Chief People and Corporate Affairs Officer, the General process provides the principal metrics against which the Counsel, the Company Secretary, the Group Risk and performance of the Group is measured.
The strategic plan Security Officer, the Vice President of Internal Audit and and budget are agreed with the Board together with defined other members of senior management.
Key findings of performance targets and risks.
The plan and the principal the Risk Committee are reported to the Audit Committee.
risks for delivering the strategy also form part of the Boards annual review of Group strategy.
The plan, and the Further details on the Groups risk management approach assessment of the impact of the principal risks on the plan, and its management and mitigation of each principal risk forms the basis of the Boards assessment of the viability of together with the Groups viability statement, is set out the Group as required by the Code.
The executive directors in the Principal Risks section on pages 60 to 65. also meet with senior management on a regular basis to discuss performance, operational and budget issues to identify any emerging risks to achieving the budget and strategic plan.
79 Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report Internal audit The Group has comprehensive planning, budgeting, All Internal Audit activity is conducted by the Internal Audit forecasting and monthly reporting processes in place.
team under the leadership of the Vice President of Internal A summary of the Groups financial results supported Audit, who reports to the Chief Operating and Financial by commentary and performance measures is Officer but has an independent reporting line to the provided to the Board each month.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Internal Audit adopts a risk-based approach to developing the annual audit plan In relation to the preparation of the Group financial which involves undertaking a mapping exercise between statements, the controls in place include: the principal risks, the potential impact on the achievement a centre of expertise responsible for reviewing new of the Groups strategic objectives if those risks were to developments in reporting requirements and standards materialise and the extent to which other sources of to ensure that these are reflected in Group accounting assurance exist and can be relied upon to mitigate the policies: and principal risks.
The output of this, together with a number of other factors, helps to identify areas of focus for the annual a global finance structure consisting of employees audit plan.
Internal Audit stays abreast of any changes to with the appropriate expertise to ensure that Group the Groups risk profile on an ongoing basis and will reflect policies and procedures are correctly applied.
Effective this through changes to the audit plan as necessary during management and control of the finance structure is the year.
Any proposed changes to the plan are discussed achieved through the finance leadership team, consisting with the Chief Operating and Financial Officer and reported of key finance employees from the regions and to the Audit Committee.
Ongoing visibility of the internal control environment is The reporting process is supported by transactional and provided through Internal Audit reports to management consolidation finance systems.
Reviews of controls are and the Audit Committee.
These reports are graded to carried out by senior finance management.
The results reflect an overall assessment of the control environment of these reviews are considered by the Board as part under review, the significance of any control weaknesses of its monitoring of the performance of controls around identified, and also include any remedial actions which have financial reporting.
been identified and agreed with management.
Reports are also provided on the status of any open actions.
The Audit Committee reviews the application of financial reporting standards and any significant accounting It is noted that from FY 2017 18, to bring enhanced focus judgements made by management.
These matters on risk and on assurance over the execution of the Groups are also discussed with the external auditor.
productivity and efficiency agenda, the structure of the Internal Audit and Risk Management functions were Fair, balanced and understandable realigned under the leadership of a newly appointed The Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole, is Senior Vice President Risk Management and Audit.
required to be fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to Financial reporting assess the Groups position and performance, business Management is responsible for establishing and model and strategy.
The Board is satisfied that it has met maintaining adequate internal controls over financial this obligation.
A summary of the directors responsibilities reporting.
These controls are designed to provide for the financial statements is set out on page 118.
The reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial report of the Auditors on page 119 includes a statement reporting and the preparation of financial statements by the auditors concerning their reporting responsibilities.
80 Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report Report of the Audit Committee Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to present the 2016 17 report of the Audit period.
The Committee also reviewed the outcome Committee which describes how the Committee has of the stress testing performed by management and carried out its responsibilities during the year.
recommended that the directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group would be able The role of the Audit Committee is to monitor the integrity of to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they financial information and to provide assurance to the Board fall due over the three-year period of assessment.
that the Groups internal controls and risk management systems are appropriate and regularly reviewed, together The Committee also considered the significant matters with overseeing the work of the external auditors, approving set out in the table on page 83.
Where these significant their remuneration and recommending their appointment.
matters related to the financial statements for the year, In addition to the disclosure requirements relating to audit the Committee requested papers from management setting committees under the Code, the Committees Report sets out its approach, the key estimates and judgements applied out the areas of significant and particular focus for the and managements recommendation.
The Committee Committee over the course of the year.
reviewed and challenged these papers, together with the findings of the external auditors, in order to conclude on the During the year, the Committee continued to focus on appropriateness of the treatment in the financial statements.
the usual work of the Committee as set out in the table on page 82.
Some of the more in-depth areas of focus for the All the members of the Committee are independent nonCommittee during the year included the following matters.
Following a review of the composition of the Boards Committees as mentioned earlier in this Monitoring the Groups progress with its productivity Corporate Governance Report, Philip Bowman, Fabiola and efficiency programme and in particular, in relation Arredondo, Ian Carter and Stephanie George stepped to any risks arising from significant organisational change down from the Committee on 1 February 2017, with including in relation to the Groups systems of controls Philip Bowman having previously stepped down as Audit and mitigation of risk and other possible impacts on the Committee Chairman on 1 August 2016.
This will continue to be an area of regular focus thank them for their invaluable work on the Committee of the Committee in the coming year.
and in particular, Philip, for his contribution as Chairman With heightened global technology and information over a number of years.
security risks becoming an increasingly significant issue for companies, the Committee continued to spend a The Audit Committee confirms that during 2016 17 significant amount of time on the Groups progress with the Company has complied with the mandatory audit its information security improvement programme.
With processes and audit committee responsibilities provisions risks in this area continuing to evolve, the aim is to ensure of the Competition and Markets Authority Statutory that the Group continues to appropriately prioritise its Audit Services Order 2014, as outlined in this Report focus and resources towards this critical area of risk.
which describes the work of the Audit Committee in discharging its responsibilities.
The Committee considered the Groups viability statement as set out on page 61 and the assurance The Committee has a constructive and open relationship work conducted by management which underpins the with management and the auditors and I thank them on statement.
It was considered that three years continued behalf of the Committee for their assistance during the year.
to remain an appropriate timeframe on which to base an assessment of the long-term viability of the Group on the Jeremy Darroch basis that it aligns with the regular business planning Chairman, Audit Committee 81 Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee membership Regular attendees at Committee meetings include: the The following directors served as members of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Operating and Financial Committee during the year ending 31 March 2017: Officer, the Chief People and Corporate Affairs Officer, the Company Secretary, the Group Risk and Security Members Appointment date Officer, the Vice President Internal Audit, the Senior Vice President Group Finance, the Vice President Group Jeremy Darroch Chairman 5 February 2014 1 Financial Controller, the Senior Vice President Group Philip Bowman 21 June 2002 1 Tax, the General Counsel and the representatives of the Fabiola Arredondo 10 March 2015 external auditors.
1 Ian Carter 18 May 2007 1 Stephanie George 19 May 2006 The Board is satisfied that Jeremy Darroch, as Chairman, Matthew Key 26 September 2013 has recent and relevant financial experience and that Dame Carolyn McCall 1 September 2014 all other Committee members have past employment 1 P hilip Bowman, Fabiola Arredondo, Ian Carter and Stephanie George experience in either finance or accounting roles or broad stepped down from the Committee on 1 February 2017. experience and knowledge of financial reporting and or international businesses.
Details of their experience can The Audit Committee met three times during the year.
be found in their biographies on pages 68 and 69.
The attendance record of Committee members is recorded in the table on page 75.
In addition to the scheduled Role of the Committee meetings the Chairman of the Committee meets separately The main roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee with representatives of the auditor, the Chief Operating and are set out in written terms of reference, which are available Financial Officer, the Vice President Financial Controller on the Companys website at www.
The and the Vice President Internal Audit on a regular basis, Committee reviews its terms of reference annually.
In light including prior to each meeting.
In addition, he meets with of its key responsibilities, the Committee considered the other members of management on an ad hoc basis as following items of usual business during the financial year required to fulfil his duties.
as set out in the table below.
Key Committee roles and responsibilities Usual business conducted during 2016 17 Financial Reports Review of the Annual Report and Accounts, annual financial statements, Preliminary announcement, The integrity of the Groups financial and Interim announcement.
On behalf of the Board the consideration of whether the processes and procedures in place ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced statements and formal announcements and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups of the Groups performance.
position and performance, business model and strategy.
Assessment of the Groups viability and the appropriateness of the going concern basis for reporting.
Consideration of the report of the external auditors on the financial statements for the year, and on the year end audit.
Ensuring compliance with relevant regulations for financial reporting and the Code.
Risks and Internal Controls Review of the Groups statement in the Corporate Governance Report on internal controls The Groups internal financial, and risk management.
operational and compliance controls Review of financial and operational control frameworks.
and risk identification and management Review of IT and cyber-security control frameworks.
Review of Group policies for Review of business risk assessments.
identifying and assessing risks and arrangements for employees to raise Treasury Policy review and compliance.
concerns in confidence about Review of the Group's tax strategy.
Risk Committee and Ethics Committee updates including Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy compliance.
Internal Audit Consideration of the result of internal audits and management responses to the findings.
Review of the annual internal audit Approval of the internal audit plan for 2017 18. programme and the consideration of findings of any internal investigations and managements response.
Review of effectiveness of the internal audit function.
Review and approval of the proposed audit fee and terms of engagement for the Groups external External Auditors Recommending the appointment auditors,  LLP PwC, for the 2016 17 financial year.
of external auditors, approving their Review and approval of the audit plan for the year presented by the Groups auditors.
Consideration remuneration and overseeing their of the key areas of risk and the audit approach applied to these areas, the proposed areas of coverage work.
Policies on the engagement of the audit, changes of scope and areas of risk in the current year plan and the resource plan.
of the external auditors for the supply Review of all non-audit services provided by the Groups auditors during the period and the fees of non-audit services.
relating to the services provided.
82 Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report Significant matters The significant matters considered by the Committee during the year are set out below.
Significant matters for the year ended 31 March 2017 How the Audit Committee addressed these matters Acquisition of non-controlling interests During the year the Group exercised its call option to acquire the non-controlling interest in its in the Groups businesses in China and business in China.
The Group also acquired the non-controlling interest in its business in the the Middle East.
The Committee reviewed managements proposals on how these transactions should be accounted for, including the derecognition of the put option liability, the treatment of deferred consideration arising from the acquisition of the Middle East non-controlling interest and the disclosure of these transactions in the financial statements.
Accounting for these acquisitions is set out in note 29 of the Financial Statements.
Impairment assessment of The Committee considered managements assessment of the recoverability of the intangible asset intangible assets.
relating to the termination of the fragrance and Beauty relationship with Interparfums SA, using the latest projected sales and margins for the business.
The reasonableness of these projections was considered, taking into account the current performance of the business.
As a result of a reduction in projected sales since the last review, the asset was fully impaired in the period.
The Committee considered the proposed disclosure relating to this impairment.
Further details of the intangible asset are provided in note 12 of the Financial Statements.
Impairment assessment of property, The Committee considered managements assessment of the recoverability of the carrying value plant and equipment and onerous of retail assets held in property, plant and equipment, and, where applicable, the potential need for lease provisions.
provisions relating to onerous lease contracts.
The Committee considered the approach applied by management to review for potential indicators of impairment and the assumptions applied in this review.
Where impairments were identified, the Committee considered the reasons for the impairment and managements quantification of the impairment.
The Committee requested management carry out a review across the property portfolio to identify any areas of risk in relation to potential future impairments.
This review did not result in any change to the approach to the measurement of impairments within the current period.
Further details of the impairment assessment are provided in note 13 of the Financial Statements.
The recoverability of the cost of The Committee considered the Groups current provisioning policy, the historical loss rates incurred on inventory and the resulting amount inventory held at the balance sheet date and the nature and condition of current inventory.
At the request of provisioning required.
of the Committee, management carried out a Group-wide review of the application of the policy and presented the findings to the Committee.
The Committee concluded the carrying value of the inventory was appropriate.
Movements in inventory provisioning are set out in note 16 of the Financial Statements.
Accounting for the licence and transfer On 3 April 2017, the Group entered into an agreement to licence its Beauty trade marks and transfer of the Beauty operation.
its Beauty operation to Coty.
The Committee considered managements assessment of how this transaction would be accounted for, including significant judgements regarding the appropriate treatment of receipts from Coty, the estimation of net realisable value of inventory being transferred to Coty and the timing of recognition of the transaction.
The Senior Vice President Group Tax, who reports to the Committee at each meeting, presented a detailed update of the Groups tax strategy, developments relating to discussions with tax authorities and the status of ongoing tax audits.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the appropriateness of assumptions and judgements applied in order to estimate the amount of assets and liabilities to be recognised in relation to uncertain income tax and deferred tax positions.
The Committee concluded that the assets and liabilities recognised and disclosures contained in the Financial Statements for the period were appropriate.
Details of movements in tax balances are set out in notes 9 and 14 of the Financial Statements and further disclosure of tax contingent liabilities is given in note 30.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Committee considered the Annual Report and Interim Report, on behalf of the Board, to ensure reporting.
that they were fair, balanced and understandable, in accordance with requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
As part of this review, the Committee reviewed the report from the Strategic Report Drafting Team, highlighting key considerations.
The Committee considered comments arising from the review of accounts by the executive directors.
The Committee also considered the use of alternative performance measures by the Group, including the appropriateness of their current use and their disclosure in the financial statements and Strategic Report.
The Committee concluded that their current use was fair, balanced and understandable.
At the May and November meetings, the Committee also considered managements papers on the following subjects: assessment of the carrying value of goodwill: accounting for contracts to buy back own shares: and consideration of the potential impact of supplier rebates, which concluded that amounts received from supplier rebates did not have a material impact on the Group results.
83 Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report External auditors The standard applies for Burberry from 1 April 2017, The Committee oversees the work undertaken by i. e. for the financial year ending 31 March 2018.
During the year overall objective being to ensure that the provision the Committee met with the external auditors without of non-audit services does not impair the external members of management being present.
This will include, but will not be limited to, assessing: Appointment and fees The Committee has primary responsibility for making any threats to independence and objectivity resulting a recommendation on the appointment, reappointment from the provision of such services: and removal of the external auditors.
The Committee any safeguards in place to eliminate or reduce these assesses on an annual basis the qualifications, expertise, threats to a level where they would not compromise resources and independence of the external auditors and the auditors independence and objectivity: the effectiveness of the previous audit process.
Over the course of the year, the Committee has reviewed the nature of the non-audit services: and the audit process and the quality and experience of the whether the skills and experience of the audit firm make audit partners engaged in the audit.
The Committee also it the most suitable supplier of the non-audit service.
reviewed the proposed audit fee and terms of engagement for the 2016 17 financial year.
Details of the fees paid to The provision of non-audit services by the external the external auditors during the financial year can be auditor will also be restricted if they exceed the cap found in note 7 in the Financial Statements.
on the level of permitted non-audit service fees which can be billed.
The cap on non-audit service fees is set PwC have remained in place as auditors since prior to the at 70% of the average audit fees for the preceeding IPO of the Company in 2002.
They were reappointed with three years.
The cap is calculated at two levels: a new lead audit partner following a formal tender process undertaken by the Group for the 2010 11 financial year.
Group calculation all fees billed by the external auditor As the external auditors are required to rotate the audit globally i. e. to any Burberry entity by any network firm engagement partner every five years, a new engagement of the auditor.
This is compared to the audit fees billed partner Paul Cragg commenced his appointment to the Burberry Group: and from the 2015 16 financial year.
As a result of the UKs UK calculation all fees billed by the UK firm of the implementation of the EUs mandatory firm rotation external auditor to any Burberry entity globally.
This requirements, the Company is required to replace PwC is compared to the audit fees billed by the UK audit with another firm of auditors no later than for the financial firm for the audits of those entities.
year commencing 1 April 2020, and considers the most practical and business-driven approach to be to conduct Burberry has chosen to early adopt some of the a competitive tender no later than 2019. requirements.
Burberry exercised judgement in its adherence to the list of prohibited non-audit services During the year, the Committee approved the reappointment, for FY 2016 17. remuneration and terms of engagement of PwC as the Groups external auditor.
The Committee recommended Burberry has already been adhering in principle to to the Board that it proposes to shareholders that PwC the 'Group calculation' fee cap since 2014 and formally be reappointed as the Groups external auditors at the adopted the Group calculation fee cap restrictions from Groups forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, irrespective of the nature of the work to be performed, Burberrys external auditors Non-audit services cannot undertake non-audit work which would result in The Committee recognises that the independence of this threshold being breached.
the external auditors is an essential part of the audit framework and the assurance that it provides.
The The UK fee cap restriction will be applied for the audit Committee has adopted a policy which sets out a for the year ending 31 March 2021, at which point it framework for determining whether it is appropriate will be based on the average of audit fees for the to engage the Groups auditors for non-audit services.
On 17 June 2016 the Financial Reporting Council The auditors may provide non-audit services up to the 'FRC' issued the final version of the Ethical Standards 70% threshold that do not prejudice their independence, for Auditors which is the means by which the FRC is subject to prior approval as set out in the policy.
The implementing the new restrictions on external auditors Senior Vice President, Risk Management and Audit, and when supplying non-audit services to organisations such the External Auditor will jointly monitor the level of nonas Burberry which, as a UK entity with securities traded audit services paid and approved throughout the year on an EU-regulated exchange, is considered a public to ensure that the expected non-audit spend for each interest company PIE.
year will not exceed the 70% threshold.
84 Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report Proposed fees above 100,000 must be approved by the The Committee recommended these appointments to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, and fees must be activity Board and following unanimous Board approval, they were based and not success related.
At the half year and year announced on 11 July 2016.
Julie joined the Board on 18 end, the Audit Committee reviews all non-audit services January 2017 and Marco will join the Board on 5 July 2017. provided by the auditors during the period and the fees Carol stepped down from the Board on 18 January 2017 relating to such services.
During the year, the Group spent 541k on non-audit The Committee continues to work diligently on assisting services provided by PwC being 27% of the average the Board on building on its relevant skills and competencies of Group audit fees received over the last three for the future under the Board Succession Plan.
Further details can be found in note 7 of the and Committee composition and succession and Diversity Financial Statements.
split of male female Board members on page 76.
The composition of the Board has evolved significantly over the past few years with the appointment of four new non-executive directors, and with one longer-serving Report of the Nomination Committee non-executive director stepping down.
It is anticipated Dear Shareholder, that there will be further non-executive director changes to the Board in the coming year.
This has been a busy year for the Committee.
Following a business review that targeted future growth opportunities, Following a review, the Committee Chairs were refreshed in May 2016 the Group announced a productivity and during the year with the appointment on 1 August 2016 efficiency programme including changes to ways of of Jeremy Darroch as the Chair of the Audit Committee working.
As part of this, with the full participation of all and Fabiola Arredondo as Chair of the Remuneration the non-executive directors, the Committee spent time Committee.
The review also resulted in changes to the considering the leadership roles required to maximise composition of those Committees effective 1 February 2017 Burberrys ability to successfully implement these plans.
see Board and Committee composition and succession It was identified that there was a need for a new chief on page 76. executive with strong luxury retail experience to lead on the commercial, operational and financial elements of the Board succession and composition will continue to remain business, who could partner with Christopher Bailey, a priority for the coming year.
who would continue his leadership of the brand and design elements of the business as President and Chief Sir John Peace Creative Officer.
These joint leadership roles would share Chairman, Nomination Committee responsibility for strategy and would report jointly to the Chairman.
As Carol Fairweather had signalled her intention to step down as Chief Financial Officer and John Smith as Chief Operating Officer, the Committee also focused Nomination Committee membership on the succession of these roles.
To align with the change The following directors served as members of the programme, the aim was to seek an individual with a strong Committee during the year ended 31 March 2017: financial and commercial background who could combine Members Appointment date these roles.
Sir John Peace Chairman 21 June 2002 The Committee engaged Egon Zehnder who specialises Fabiola Arredondo 10 March 2015 in the recruitment of high-calibre directors and to ensure Philip Bowman 21 June 2002 that the process could be truly global.
Egon Zehnder has Ian Carter 18 May 2007 no other connection with the Group.
A search was initiated Jeremy Darroch 5 February 2014 against an agreed profile and regular reports provided to Stephanie George 23 March 2007 the Committee as the process progressed.
This yielded Matthew Key 26 September 2013 a pool of candidates which was reduced to a shortlist of Dame Carolyn McCall 1 September 2014 potential candidates.
Shortlisted candidates were assessed and were met by key Board members first and then with the non-executive directors.
This culminated in one-to-one discussions with me and each of the non-executive directors to seek their views on the candidates.
I am very pleased that the Committee considered that the right candidate for the position of Chief Executive Officer was Marco Gobbetti, and for the combined role of Chief Operating and Financial Officer was Julie Brown.
85 Board and Governance Corporate Governance Report Role of the Committee The biographical details of the current directors can be The main roles and responsibilities of the Nomination found on pages 68 and 69 of this Annual Report.
The Committee are set out in written terms of reference, Chairman confirms that, following the evaluation conducted which are available on the Companys website at during the year and the review of individual director roles www.
The Committee reviews its and performance led by the Chairman, the performance terms of reference annually.
of each of the directors standing for election continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to their roles, The key areas of responsibility include the following.
including commitment of time for Board and Committee meetings and any other duties.
Accordingly, the Board To review the balance and composition of the Board and recommends that shareholders approve the resolutions its Committees, ensuring that they remain appropriate.
to be proposed at the 2017 Annual General Meeting To be responsible for overseeing the Boards succession relating to the re-election or election of the directors.
planning requirements in light of the Groups strategy and the Groups position on diversity and inclusion.
This The terms and conditions of appointment of the directors, includes the identification and assessment of potential including the expected time commitment, are available Board candidates and making recommendations to the for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Other governance disclosures To keep under review the leadership needs of, and Tax strategy succession planning for, the Group in relation to both The Group is committed to complying with global tax its executive directors and other senior executives.
regulations in a responsible manner with due regard to Activities during the year governments and shareholders, and to engage in open The Committee met three times during the year under and constructive relationships with tax authorities in the review.
The table on page 75 gives details of directors territories in which it operates.
The Groups tax planning attendance at these meetings.
is consistent with this responsible approach, and it will not enter into arrangements for the purpose of achieving a tax Other regular attendees at Committee meetings include the advantage.
The Group tax strategy is implemented through Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer, the Chief People the Groups tax policy which directs and aligns the activities and Corporate Affairs Officer and the Company Secretary.
of the various functions within the Group in order to achieve the strategys objectives.
Annual General Meeting and annual re-election of directors Tax governance framework As required by the UK Corporate Governance Code, the The Chief Operating and Financial Officer is responsible Notice of the 2016 Annual General Meeting was sent to for the Groups tax policy which is implemented with shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
the assistance of the Finance Leadership team.
This A poll vote was taken on each of the resolutions put before is reviewed on an ongoing basis as part of the regular shareholders.
All directors serving at the time of the 2016 financial planning cycle.
In addition, the Groups tax Annual General Meeting attended, and the Chairman of status is reported regularly to the Group Risk and the Board and the Chairs of each of the Committees were Audit Committees.
The Audit Committee is responsible available to answer shareholders questions.
for monitoring all significant tax matters including the Groups tax policy.
Audit Committee meetings are attended Voting at the upcoming 2017 Annual General Meeting by a number of Group officers and employees including will be by way of poll.
The results of the voting at the the Chief Operating and Financial Officer, the Senior Annual General Meeting will be announced and details of Vice President Group Tax, the Company Secretary, the votes will be available to view on the Groups website the General Counsel, and the Chief People and at www.
com as soon as possible after Corporate Affairs Officer, who oversees all corporate the meeting.
It is the intention that all directors, including the Chairs Share capital of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, Further information about the Companys share capital, will attend the 2017 Annual General Meeting and will be including substantial shareholdings, can be found in the available to answer shareholders questions.
All directors have, since the 2011 Annual General Meeting, offered themselves for annual re-election in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
At the 2017 Annual General Meeting, all of the directors will again retire and all will offer themselves for re-election or, in the case of any newly appointed directors, for election.
