48 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Risk: In conjunction with the recommendations of the Audit and Risk Committee, the Boards review of the Annual Report included detailed consideration of: the identified principle risks of the Company and the continued effective management of those risks in order to achieve the Companys strategic objectives: the ongoing appropriateness of the adoption of the going concern basis of accounting: the appropriateness of the Viability Statement disclosure: and that the Annual Report was fair, balanced and understandable and it provided the information necessary to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Governance: The Board took account of the changing corporate governance landscape and kept under review the ongoing effectiveness of its governance structure in FY17 in order to keep pace.
As a result, the Board considered and approved governance policies designed to ensure its compliance with MAR and the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, together with the establishment of a Disclosure Committee and the publication of the Sophos Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement.
Performance: In FY17, the Board undertook an evaluation of its own performance, the performance of its committees and each individual Director with the assistance of an external facilitator, Duncan Reed of Condign Board Consulting Limited.
As a result, a number of recommendations were made, and actions identified for the forthcoming year, and are set out on pages 52 to 53 of this Report.
BOARD COMMITTEES The Board has a number of committees that were established at the time of its IPO, and which support the effective discharge of its duties.
During the year, the Board also established a Disclosure Committee to oversee the disclosure of information by the Company and to assist it to meet its obligations under MAR and the FCAs Listing Rules and Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
The various committee reports can be found on pages 54 to 87 of this Report and each committees full terms of reference are available on the Companys website at https: investors.
com Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors meet without the Executive Directors present after each scheduled Board meeting, and at least once a year without the Chairman present.
Senior Management Team The Senior Management Team SMT is comprised of the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and 9 individuals who head up the key Group functions and each report to the Chief Executive, and support him in the leadership of the business.
Full biographical details of the SMT can be found on the Companys website at www.
com The structure of the Committees is set out below: BOARD OF DIRECTORS Audit & Risk Nomination Remuneration Disclosure Committee Committee Committee Committee Risk & Compliance Committee INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 49 TABLE OF ATTENDANCE The table below summarises the attendance of the Directors and committee members at the scheduled Board and committee meetings held during the year: Audit and Remuneration Nomination Disclosure Director Board Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee Peter Gyenes Kris Hagerman Nick Bray Sandra Bergeron Edwin Gillis Salim Nathoo Roy Mackenzie Steve Munford Paul Walker Vin Murria All appointments stated are as at 31 March 2017 Attended of those eligible Peter Gyenes is Chairman of the Board and of the Nomination Committee.
Not attended of those eligible Kris Hagerman is Chairman of the Disclosure Committee.
Edwin Gillis is Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Paul Walker is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
BOARD COMPOSITION, QUALIFICATION AND EXPERIENCE The composition, experience and balance of skills on the Board are periodically reviewed to ensure that there is the right combination on the Board and its Committees and they are working effectively.
At the date of publication, there are currently eleven Directors on the Board, which comprises a Non-Executive Chairman who, for the purposes of the Code was independent on appointment, two Executive Directors, five independent Non-Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors who are considered by the Board not to be independent for the purposes of the Code.
The current members of the Board have a wide range of skills and experience.
The Board believes that crucial to its ability to lead the Company successfully it requires a membership that combines detailed knowledge of: the Groups operations: the technology industry in which the Group operates: leading a global business: and, being listed on the London Stock Exchange.
KEY BOARD ROLES INTERACTION BETWEEN THE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF-EXECUTIVE The division of responsibilities between the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Senior Independent Director is clearly defined and agreed by the Board.
The Board supports the separation of the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive and the partnership between Peter Gyenes and Kris Hagerman is based on mutual trust, facilitated by regular contact between the two.
The separation of authority enhances independent oversight of the executive management by the Board and helps to ensure that no one individual on the Board has unfettered authority.
50 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED INTERACTION BETWEEN THE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF-EXECUTIVE continued The key responsibilities that are attributable to each role are summarised below: Chairman Chief Executive Officer Leads the Board Leads the management team Promotes a high standard of corporate governance Facilitates an effective management structure with appropriate delegation of authorities Facilitates effective contributions by the Non-Executive Directors Develops proposals for the Board to consider, including on Group strategy, annual plans and Promotes a culture of openness and debate commercial objectives Encourages constructive relations between Responsible to the Board for the operational Executive and Non-Executive Directors activity of the Company Facilitates effective communication by the Oversees implementation of all Board-approved actions Company with its shareholders Supports the Chairman to ensure that appropriate Leads the evaluation of performance of the governance standards spread through the organisation Board, its Committees and Directors in accordance with best practice.
Ensures that the Board is made aware of the employees views on relevant issues.
THE ROLE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Directors Acts as intermediary between Directors Constructively challenges management proposals whenrequired Help develop proposals on strategy Works closely with the Chairman, acting as a Have a prime role in appointing and, where necessary, sounding board and providing support removing Executive Directors Is available to shareholders and other NonHave an integral role in succession planning Executives to address any concerns or issues they Provide an external, diverse perspective and insight feel have not been adequately dealt with through the to consideration of management proposals.
usual channels of communication Chairs the Nomination Committee on consideration of succession for the role of Chairman of the Board.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE The Board considers and reviews the independence of each Non-Executive Director on an annual basis as part of the Directors performance evaluation.
In carrying out the review, consideration is given to factors such as their character, judgement, commitment and performance on the Board and relevant committees and their ability to provide objective challenge to management and an external, diverse perspective to the consideration of management proposals to support the Company achieve its strategic aims.
The Board considers its independent Non-Executive Directors bring strong judgement and considerable knowledge and experience to the Boards deliberations.
The Board considers that the appointments made during the year have only strengthened this position further.
The Code requires a company to state its reasons if it determines that a Director is independent in certain circumstances, including where a Director holds cross-directorships or participates in the Companys share option or performance related pay scheme.
Paul Walker, as noted in the annual report on Directors Remuneration on page 87, participates in a restricted share arrangement.
Notwithstanding this arrangement, the Board considers Paul to be independent in character and judgement.
This continues to be evidenced by his valuable contributions at Board and committee meetings, and in particular, the knowledge and experience he brings to his role as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Additionally, Peter Gyenes is a director of Carbonite Inc. to whose board Steve Munford was appointed Chairman in March 2016.
The Code provides that the Chairman of a company should be independent on appointment.
The Board considers that Peter Gyenes, the Chairman, was independent upon appointment and that he continues to be independent notwithstanding the cross-directorship described above.
Steve Munford was also Chief Executive of the Group between 2006 and 2012 and accordingly is not considered to be independent.
Roy Mackenzie and Salim Nathoo are shareholder appointed Directors and accordingly are not considered independent.
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 51 By the date of the 2017 AGM, Sandra Bergeron will have served on the Board for seven years.
In accordance with the Code, the Board has determined that Sandra Bergeron has retained independence of character and judgement and had not formed associations with the Company that might compromise her independent judgement, notwithstanding her length of service.
APPOINTMENT AND TENURE All Non-Executive Directors serve on the basis of letters of appointment which are available for inspection upon request.
The letters of appointment set out the expected time commitment of Non-Executive Directors who, on appointment, undertake that they will have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them.
This will include attendance at scheduled and emergency Board meetings, meetings of any committee to which they are appointed, site visits, board strategy away days, meetings with shareholders, meetings as part of the Board evaluation process, update meetings and training days and meetings of Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial three-year term and the continuation of their appointment is conditional on satisfactory performance and subject to annual re-election at the Companys Annual General Meetings.
Executive Directors serve on the basis of service agreements which are also available for inspection upon request.
Further details on the Executive Directors service agreements are included in the Directors Remuneration Policy, on page 75.
DIRECTOR INDUCTION AND TRAINING The Chairman, with the support of the Company Secretary, is responsible for the induction of new Directors and ongoing development of all Directors.
New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the Board, designed to provide an understanding of the Groups business, governance and key stakeholders.
The induction process includes the provision of an induction pack and past Board materials, operational site visits, meetings with key individuals and the Companys advisors, and briefings on key business, legal and regulatory issues facing the Group.
As the business environment changes, it is important to ensure the Directors skills and knowledge are refreshed and updated regularly.
Accordingly, the Company Secretary ensures that updates on corporate governance, regulatory and technical matters are provided to Directors at Board meetings and by means of communications or special sessions in between formal Board meetings.
In this way, Directors keep their skills and knowledge relevant so as to enable them to continue to fulfil their duties effectively.
Following the conclusion of the recent Board evaluation process, a new selection of training and development opportunities will be made available to the Board to address any identified areas for focus as well as topical corporate governance, regulatory and technical matters.
INFORMATION AND SUPPORT AVAILABLE TO DIRECTORS, THE COMPANY SECRETARY The Board and each Director has unlimited access to the General Counsel and Company Secretary, who advises the Board and the Board Committees on relevant matters, including compliance with the Companys policies and procedures, relevant legislation and regulation, including the Listing Rules and the Code and other governance standards.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary provides guidance to the Board and individual Directors regarding their duties, responsibilities and powers and ensures the proper administration of the proceedings and matters relating to the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Company Secretary work together to ensure that Board papers are clear, accurate, delivered in a timely and secure manner to Directors, and are of sufficient quality to enable the Board to discharge its duties effectively.
As well as the support of the General Counsel and Company Secretary, there is a procedure in place for any Director to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties, where considered necessary or advisable.
All Directors have access to an online portal to which Board materials are published and Board resources, including information about the Company and helpful guidance documents for their reference as Directors of a UK listed company, are available.
DIRECTOR ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION Following recommendations from the Nomination Committee and taking into account the results of the Boards performance evaluation process, the Board considers that each of the Directors proposed for election or re-election is fully competent to carry out their responsibilities as a Director and as set out earlier, is content that each independent Non-Executive Director is independent in character and there are no relationships or circumstances likely to affect his or her character or judgement.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association the Articles and provision B.
7.1 of the Code, all Directors will be subject to annual re-election.
All Directors will seek re-election at the Companys AGM in 2017 as set out in the Notice of AGM, with the exception of Edwin Gillis who has indicated his intention to retire at the conclusion of the AGM, and Vin Murria and Rick Medlock who will be standing for election for the first time.
52 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they have, or may have, interests that conflict with those of the Company, unless that conflict is first authorised by the Board.
This includes potential conflicts that may arise when a Director takes up a position with another company.
The Companies Act 2006 the Act and the Articles allow the Board to authorise such potential conflicts, and the Board has adopted a procedure to address these requirements, which includes the Directors completing detailed conflict of interest questionnaires.
The matters disclosed in the questionnaires are reviewed by the Board following the Directors appointments and annually thereafter and, if considered appropriate, authorised in accordance with the Act and the Articles.
The Board deals with each appointment on its individual merit and takes into consideration all the circumstances.
The following appointments have been authorised by the Board and have been included in the conflicts register for the relevant period.
Salim Nathoo is a partner at Apax Partners LLP and Roy Mackenzie is a partner at Apax Partners, LP.
Apax Partners, LP is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Apax Partners LLP.
Both Apax Partners, LP and Apax Partners LLP are advisors of the Apax Funds, which wholly own Pentagon Lock Sarl, Pentagon Lock 6-A Sarl, Pentagon Lock 7-A Sarl and Pentagon Lock US Sarl, and shares a common owner with Apax Global Alpha Limited collectively Apax.
Following the admission of the Companys shares to the London Stock Exchange in 2015, Apax controlled 35.2 percent of the voting rights in the Company and at 31 March 2017, continued to control more than 20 percent of the voting rights in the Company.
Steve Munford is chairman of Carbonite, Inc. which supplies cloud and hybrid data protection solutions, and a company on whose board Peter Gyenes is also a director.
Steve also sits on the board of Alert Logic, Inc. which supplies security and compliance solutions and until January 2017, sat on the board of Utimaco Inc, a subsidiary of Utimaco GmbH which supplies professional cybersecurity solutions.
Ed Gillis sits on the board of LogMeIn, Inc. a leading SaaS company.
Sandra Bergeron sits on the boards of F5 Networks and Qualys, Inc. suppliers of application delivery networking and cloud security and compliance management solutions respectively.
Vin Murria is a Non-Executive Director of Softcat plc, with whom the Company maintains an ongoing customer relationship, see note 32 of the Financial Statements for details of related party transactions.
BOARD EVALUATION AND EFFECTIVENESS In accordance with Principle B.
6.2. of the Code and corporate governance best practice, it is the Boards policy to invite external evaluation of the Board, its Committees and the role of individual Directors every three years.
During the year, it was agreed that the evaluation process for the current fiscal year would be externally facilitated and following a robust tender process, Duncan Reed of Condign Board Consulting Limited was engaged to conduct the evaluation.
His only connection to Sophos Group plc is his work with the Board evaluation.
The results of the evaluation concluded that the Board continued to operate in a functional, collegiate way which is committed, effective and purposeful in seeking to deliver value to shareholders.
In addition, the committee structure in place, together with orderly and thoughtful refreshment of the Board in the past year, has ensured that an appropriate level of specialist support and assurance is available to the main Board.
The Board evaluation process was led by the Chairman, in consultation with the Senior Independent Director and General Counsel and Company Secretary.
The approach adopted included observation by Mr Reed at the February 2017 Board Meeting and Strategy event, together with one to one discussions between Mr Reed and each Director, the General Counsel and Company Secretary and the Deputy Company Secretary.
During the year, the following activities were undertaken as recommendations adopted by the Board from the previous years internal evaluation: The Board received regular updates on corporate governance, regulatory and technical matters at Board meetings in order to build on their understanding of the applicable UK rules: With the support of the Nomination Committee and the SVP, Human Resources, the Board: considered the Companys succession plan for each role in the Senior Management Team: and monitored the Boards composition in light of Code provisions and agreed potential Board candidate profiles in order to secure the appointment of two new independent Non-Executive Directors during the year: INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 With the support of the Audit and Risk Committee and Head of Internal Audit, the Board placed additional focus on the consideration of Group risks and in particular, the identification, understanding and management of those risks: With the support of the General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Board undertook an evaluation of the Board, its Committees and the role of individual Directors in order to continue to assess and improve Board processes.
Following the conclusion of the current years evaluation, the Board agreed the following recommendations for improvement in the next fiscal year: Bring greater clarity and focus to the role of the Board, and individuals within it, by providing more directional board materials and through clearer allocation and management of the Boards time in disciplined discussions: Further promote focused debate at the Board by operating an annual strategic agenda in which the Directors will input, ensuring that each meeting considers key strategic issues at the most appropriate junctures, alongside the normal requirements of the quarterly reporting cycle: Support the Nomination Committee in crystallising and planning for future Board and Committee rotation, including scoping and clarifying specifications for key roles, in accordance with the provisions of the Code: and Continue working closely with management and the Companys advisers, to ensure that wider shareholder sentiment on Company matters is fully explored, understood and weighed.
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Responsibility for shareholder relations rests with the Groups Chief Financial Officer, supported principally by the Chief Executive, the Chairman and Senior Independent Director, as appropriate.
He ensures that there is effective communication with shareholders and is responsible for ensuring that the Board understands the views of shareholders.
Mr. Bray and Mr Hagerman are also supported by the Groups VP of Investor Relations and corporate brokers with whom they are in regular dialogue.
As a part of a comprehensive investor relations programme, formal meetings with investors are scheduled to discuss the Groups interim and final results.
In the intervening periods, the Company continues its dialogue with the investor community by meeting key investor representatives and holding investor roadshows.
Non-Executive Directors are invited to attend meetings in the investor relations programme and welcome the opportunity to meet with our major shareholders.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Companys next AGM will take place at 3:00 pm on Thursday, 7 September 2017 at the Companys registered office.
All shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote, in person or by proxy, at the AGM.
The Notice of AGM can be found on our website at https: investors.
com, and in a circular which is being mailed out at the same time as this Report.
The Notice of AGM sets out the business of the meeting and explanatory notes on all proposed resolutions.
Separate resolutions are proposed in respect of each substantive issue.
The AGM is the Companys principal forum for communication with private shareholders.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS The Audit and Risk Committee report explains the process carried out for the assessment of the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal control systems on page 62.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR KPMG LLP have expressed their willingness to continue as the Companys auditor.
As outlined in the Audit and Risk Committee report on page 63, resolutions proposing their reappointment and to authorise the Audit and Risk Committee to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the 2017 AGM.
By order of the Board Eleanor Lacey Company Secretary 16 May 2017 54 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER, I am pleased to present our second report on behalf of my fellow Nomination Committee members.
The Committee met three times during the year and has placed a significant amount of focus on the Companys search for additional independent non-executive directors, the attendant process for Board appointments and succession planning for senior management, Board and Committee appointments.
Here we set out the key aspects of the Committees role in more detail, together with our main areas of consideration and the activities we have undertaken during the year.
Since our last report to Shareholders, the Committee has also welcomed two new members, following the successful appointment of two new independent non-executive directors to the Board earlier this year.
Vin Murria and Rick Medlock joined the Company in January and April, respectively: and bring with them a wealth of experience in both the technology industry and globally-oriented UK listed companies.
COMMITTEE COMPOSITION AND MEETING ATTENDANCE Peter Gyenes Chairman Sandra Bergeron Edwin Gillis Roy Mackenzie Vin Murria Paul Walker Attended of those eligible Not attended of those eligible All appointments stated are as at 31 March 2017 The composition of the Committee is in compliance with the Code, which provides that a majority of its members should be independent non-executive directors.
The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee and attends all meetings.
Other attendees at Committee meetings may differ from time to time and, upon invitation from the Committee, include the Chief Executive and other members of the senior management team.
ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES The Committee is responsible for regularly evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board and its Committees, as well as the size, structure and composition of each.
It is also responsible for periodically reviewing the Board, Committees and senior management structure and succession plans, and identifying with management, the priorities for succession planning in respect of each position.
On an annual basis, the committee considers the re-election of Directors prior to their recommended approval by shareholders.
The full terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the Companys website at https: investors.
MAIN ACTIVITIES The Committee has an annual forward agenda, developed from its terms of reference, with standing items that the Committee considers at each meeting, in addition to any specific matters arising, and topical business or governance items on which the Committee has chosen to focus.
During the year, time was taken, to: review the composition of the Board and its Committees, including the chairmanship of each Committee: consider the implications for Board composition of the results of the Board performance evaluation process: review the succession plans for senior management, Board and Committee appointments: instigate and keep under review the search for at least one new Non-Executive Director: review the performance of external search consultants: review the annual time requirement of Non-Executive Directors: review the Companys Diversity Policy and the performance of the Company when measured against it: review the Committees terms of reference: review and approve the Committees report for inclusion in the Annual Report and Accounts: and review and recommend the appointment and re-appointment of directors at the Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company.
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 55 PROCESS FOR BOARD APPOINTMENTS The Committee is asked to lead, on behalf of the Board, the selection process for new Board appointments as and when they arise and to make recommendations in respect of such appointments.
Following the Committees review of the structure, size and composition of the Board and in particular, having regard to the principles of the Code and the results of the annual Board performance evaluation process relating to Board composition, the Company initiated a search for two new independent Non-Executive Directors during the year.
During May 2016, the Company engaged Heidrick & Struggles, independent executive search consultants, with whom the Company has no other connection, to assist with the search.
Heidrick & Struggles is a signatory to and abides by the voluntary Code of Conduct, on gender diversity and best practice.
Following a rigorous search process, the Company was delighted to appoint Vin Murria and Rick Medlock to the Board as independent Non-Executive Directors with effect from 3 January 2017 and 3 April 2017, respectively.
In addition, Edwin Gillis has confirmed to the Board his intention to retire and not stand for re-election at the Companys 2017 AGM.
The Committee is aware that following Edwins retirement, the Board will no longer be compliant with the provision of the Code, that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent Non-Executive Directors, and as outlined in my earlier statement the Company will continue its process to identify and recruit a further candidate to serve as an independent Non-Executive Director.
The process adopted for searches undertaken during the year is set out below: The Committee Chairman, with the consultants, submitted a short-list of candidates to members of the Committee and the Chief Executive Officer for them to review and, to enable them to suggest other candidates.
The Committee Chairman, Senior Independent Director, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer each met the short-listed candidates selected by the Committee.
Once it was determined that the Chairman wished to proceed with the selection process, the candidate was then invited to meet all members of the Board.
After all Board members had met the candidate, the Committee then determined whether to recommend the candidate to the Board for appointment.
Where the Company decides to appoint an Executive Director, the process it will adopt is set out below: The Committee Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer or, if engaged, search consultants, will submit a short-list of one or more candidates to the Committee.
The Committee Chairman, Senior Independent Director, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer will each meet the candidates selected for interview.
Once determined that the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer wish to proceed with the selection process, some or all of the Committee members will then meet the candidates selected for interview.
The Committees assessments will be reviewed with the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer, following which a candidate may be recommended to the Board for appointment.
SUCCESSION During the year, the Committee conducted a review of succession to SMT roles and identified individuals internally and externally, as appropriate who would be suited to take on each role.
Internal successors were categorised by their relative readiness to assume any such role and where it was not possible to identify a suitable internal successor, an external successor would be identified, as and when appropriate.
Management would look at the implementation of developmental plans to address any internal successors relative readiness to assume any such role.
Alongside the ongoing search process outlined above, the Committee had kept a watching brief on succession to Board roles during the year, and would continue to do so during the current financial year.
DIVERSITY The Companys Diversity Policy acknowledges the importance of diversity in its broadest sense, including gender and ethnicity, for the Group.
The Board does not feel it would be appropriate to set absolute targets as it believes all appointments should be made on merit, although it will take in to consideration the recommendations of the Davies and Hampton-Alexander reviews for female representation on the Board of at least one third by 2020, and for recruitment and promotion to the SMT, and their direct reports, to reflect this.
Details of diversity within our workforce, including at Board and at the senior management level, can be found on page 38.
