CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Corporate Governance Report NewRiver is an early adopter of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in April 2016.
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
As part of its commitment to high standards of governance, NewRiver maintains a regular, open dialogue with shareholders.
This dialogue was instrumental in the refinement of the Companys remuneration policy, which is included in this Annual Report for the first time.
The Board consulted with investors representing almost two-thirds of the Companys issued share capital before recommending the policy to shareholders.
The Board looks forward to building on its progress in creating Welcome to NewRivers Governance Report for the year a governance framework that recognises and respects the ending 31 March 2017.
This describes how the Board and interests of NewRivers stakeholders in a fair and balanced its Committees worked on behalf of shareholders and other manner.
The Board is grateful to those stakeholders for their stakeholders, driving the culture and discipline necessary contributions to this process to date and looks forward to for the Company to achieve its goals.
continuing engagement in the future.
NewRivers good financial results for the year in part reflect successful strategic leadership from the Board in the period to Paul Roy date and I would like to thank the Directors for their dedication Chairman and hard work, which was essential to this achievement.
Since NewRivers inception, the Board has regarded high 15 May 2017 standards of governance as a fundamental pre-condition for the Companys success.
I am pleased to report that the Company is an early adopter of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in April 2016 and that most of the requirements placed upon FTSE 350 companies under the Code had already been met by NewRiver before it decided to apply for a main listing, and that all Code requirements were met by the time of its joining the Main Market last August.
The Company tested the effectiveness of the Board with an independent evaluation in February 2017, the results of which are described on page 70.
The evaluation report was encouraging and provided positive feedback with regard to the strategy process, Board relationships, quality of external inputs and other key items.
Areas for improvement, as shown on page 70, have been noted and will be addressed in the coming year.
NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 66 66 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Board and Committee Structure: Board Responsible for leading & controlling the Group and has overall authority for the management and conduct of the Groups business, strategy and development Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Reviews and monitors the Groups Implements the remuneration Reviews the succession planning risk management processes policy of the Group which is to requirements of the Group and ensure that Directors and senior operates a formal, rigorous and Monitors the integrity of the management are rewarded in transparent procedure for the halfyear and annual financial a way that attracts, retains and appointment of new Directors statements before submission motivates them and aligns the to the Board to the Board interests of both shareholders Monitors the effectiveness of the and management audit process Executive Committee To assist the Chief Executive with the development & implementation of the Group strategy, the management of the business and the discharge of its responsibilities delegated by the Board Property Board Operations Committee To assist the Property Director with the management To assist with the day to day running of the office: of the Groups portfolio and development pipeline administration of its functions including IT in accordance and to discharge the responsibilities delegated to him with the responsibilities delegated to it by the by the Executive Committee Executive Committee NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board Membership Details of the Directors, including the skills and experience that they bring to the Board, are on pages 64 to 65.
During the year, the Board was comprised of a Non-Executive Chairman, three Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, each of the Non-Executive Directors was considered independent during the year.
The Chairman was independent on appointment and the Board still consider him to be independent.
Responsibilities of the Board The Board is responsible for leading and controlling the Group and has overall authority for the management and conduct of the Groups business, strategy and development.
The Board is also responsible for ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal controls and risk management including financial, operational and compliance controls and for reviewing the overall effectiveness of systems in place as well as for the approval of any changes to the capital, corporate and or management structure of the Group.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman, who is responsible for the leadership of the Board, and the Chief Executive, who is responsible for managing and leading the business.
A summary of the Directors responsibilities is shown below: Chairman: Paul Roys role is to lead the Board and ensure that it operates effectively.
His responsibilities include: setting the agenda, style and tone of the Board meetings to ensure that all matters are given due consideration: maintaining a culture of openness, debate and constructive challenge in the Board room: ensuring the Boards effectiveness and ensuring it receives timely information: ensuring effective communication with shareholders: ensuring a new Director receives a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the Board: and reviewing and agreeing training and development for the Board.
Chief David Lockharts responsibilities include: Executive: managing the business of the Group: recommending the Groups strategy to the Board: and implementing the strategy agreed by the Board.
Property Allan Lockharts responsibilities include: Director: the management of the Groups portfolio & development pipeline: and chairing the Property Board.
Chief Mark Davies responsibilities include: Financial implementing the financial strategy, including balance sheet capitalisation: Officer: overseeing the financial reporting and internal controls: and overseeing investor relations.
Senior Chris Taylors responsibilities included: Independent acting as a sounding board for the Chairman: Nonevaluating the Chairmans performance as part of the Boards evaluation process: Executive serving as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary: and Director: being available to shareholders should the occasion occur when there was a need to convey concern to the Board other than through the Chairman or the Chief Executive.
NonKay Chaldecott and Alastair Miller bring independent judgement, knowledge and varied commercial experience Executive to the meetings and in their oversight of the Groups strategy.
Kay and Alastair are Chairman of the Remuneration Directors: and Audit Committees respectively.
Company Matthew Jones responsibilities involve: Secretary: being Secretary to the Board and its Committees: under the direction of the Chairman, being responsible for maintaining good information flows within the Board and its Committees: under the direction of the Chairman and CEO, developing Board and Committee agendas, and collating and distributing papers: advising the Board on all governance matters: ensuring compliance with all relevant statutory and regulatory requirements: and supporting the Executive Committee.
NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 68 68 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Attendance All Directors are expected to attend Board and Committee meetings of which they are a member.
During the year, there were five scheduled Board meetings, including the strategy meeting, and four additional Board meetings relating specifically to the Companys move from AIM to the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange and the change in the Groups domicile from Guernsey to the UK.
Each of the Directors has committed to attend all scheduled Board and Committee meetings and would not do so only in exceptional circumstances.
Similarly, they would make every effort to attend ad hoc meetings either in person or by telephone when convened.
If a Director cannot attend a meeting, they are provided with the papers in advance of the Meeting as usual, and they have the opportunity to discuss them with the Chairman or Chief Executive and provide their comments.
Attendance at the Committee meetings is shown in the respective Committee reports and attendance at the Board meetings is shown below: Scheduled 7 Additional 4 Paul Roy 74 1 David Lockhart 64 Allan Lockhart 74 Mark Davies 74 2 Kay Chaldecott 72 3 Chris Taylor 52 Alastair Miller 74 1.
Unable to attend one Board meeting due to illness 2.
Unable to attend two of the additional meetings due to conflict with other scheduled business meetings 3.
Unable to attend one scheduled board meeting and two additional board meetings due to conflicts with other scheduled business meetings.
In addition, Chris Taylor did not attend the Board strategy meeting as this was held just before he stood down as a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
Business of the Board during 2017 Routine Business Q1 approval of the 2016 Annual Report approval of the 2017 budget quarterly review of the Groups portfolio Q2 Quarterly meeting moved to the beginning of third quarter due to the move to the Main Market Q3 2 meetings held in this quarter quarterly finance update quarterly review of the Groups portfolio investor roadshow review approval to offer a SCRIP dividend scheme to shareholders at the 2017 AGM Q4 2 meetings held in this quarter plus 1 strategy meeting quarterly finance update quarterly review of the Groups portfolio presentation from GlobalData on the future prospects for the retail market presentation from Prism Boardroom on the external Board evaluation refresher training on the Market Abuse Regulations and update on corporate governance regulations strategy meeting held NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 69 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 69 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Additional Business Q1 approval to move listing from AIM to the Main Market and to change the Groups domicile from Guernsey to the UK Q2 training given on Market Abuse Regulations and Directors Responsibilities as a Main Market company four additional meetings held to review the process of moving from AIM to the Main Market and for moving domicile from Guernsey to the UK Court and General Meetings to obtain shareholder approval for the proposals approval to acquire Sheffield Retail Park Board Evaluation Process In light of the move to the Main Market, the Nomination Committee also reviewed the Board evaluation process.
As an AIM-listed company, NewRiver Retails Board did not have to undergo regular evaluations.
It nonetheless undertook such evaluations annually by means of an internal questionnaire.
For NewRiver REIT, as a Main Market company and constituent of the FTSE250 index, such evaluations are required under the UK Corporate Governance Code, with externally led reviews required every three years.
The Nomination Committee decided to appoint an external evaluator to undertake its first Board evaluation.
This decision was designed to establish firm foundations for future evaluations and thus to ensure continuing high standards of governance for the Company.
The Nomination Committee delegated authority to the Chairman and the Company Secretary to review external evaluators and to recommend one for approval.
They selected Prism Boardroom which had not undertaken any work for the Company before and was therefore deemed independent.
Scope, key findings and recommendations The scope of the evaluation was discussed and agreed between the evaluator, the Chairman and the Company Secretary in the context of a three-year evaluation plan.
One-to-one discussions with each member of the Board and the Company Secretary were conducted in February with Prism Boardroom reporting its findings to the Board at its March meeting.
Scope Findings Recommendations Key Board relationships Participants were unanimous that the Continue as is Board was well balanced, committed and Director commitment cohesive team, with respected leadership Board balance Leadership Process used to develop and deliver the The process for delivering the strategy Executive management to consider the Companys strategy could be enhanced by focusing on what resource within the business required over resource might be necessary to deliver a five year period it over the long-term Effectiveness of Board and Committee All meetings were run efficiently, with There were a number of house-keeping meetings and what could be done to good quality discussion in which points identified which could enhance improve their effectiveness everyone felt able to give their views the effective management of the and opinions meetings The right mix of skills and experience The Nomination Committee could from the members was available on benefit from a greater degree of each Committee formality around its operation The Board is reviewing the report and its recommendations.
Actions taken by the Board as a result of this review will be reported in next years report.
Induction of New Directors No new Director was appointed to the Board during the year.
However, when a new Director does join, the Chairman and Company Secretary will implement an induction process which will ensure that the new Director is fully briefed about the Company and its operations: meets with its senior management: visits various assets and be briefed on their legal and regulatory obligations as a Director of a public limited company.
Directors Training During the year, the Directors were trained by the Companys advisers on their obligations as Directors of a Main Market listed company and also on the requirements of the Market Abuse Regulations which came into force during the period.
Corporate Culture Details of the Companys Corporate Culture can be found on page 58 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 70 70 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Shareholder Engagement The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and the Head of Investor Relations are the Companys principle spokesmen with investors, fund managers, analysts and the press.
The Property Director attends investor meetings and talks to the press as and when required.
The Board is committed to providing investors with regular announcements of significant events affecting the Group.
The Company organises a twice yearly investor roadshow after the half-year and full-year results whereby it meets its major institutional investors.
In addition, one-on-one and group meetings are held throughout the year as required.
During the year, the Company met with 204 investors during 168 meetings as per the chart below: April 2016 May June July August September Investor roadshow 2016 full-year results Equity sales Q1 2017 Company Investor asset tour JP Morgan in London presentation update Small Mid Cap Equity sales Conference, London presentations Investor roadshows Investor roadshow in Amsterdam, in London Investor roadshow in Investor roadshow in Edinburgh, Zurich London London & Brussels & Paris October November December January 2017 February March Investor asset tour 2017 half-year Berenberg Q3 2017 Company Investor asset tour Equity sales results European Corporate update presentation Investor roadshow Conference, Surrey in London Equity sales Equity sales Investor asset tour presentations presentation Peel Hunt Investor Conference, Investor asset tour Investor roadshows Liverpool in Munich & Investor roadshows Amsterdam in London, Edinburgh & Frankfurt UBS Global Real Estate Conference, London The Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are available to meet with shareholders to discuss governance or any other concerns that they may have and which is not appropriate to discuss through normal channels of communication or where normal channels of communication have failed to resolve the concern.
No shareholder has requested such a meeting to date.
The Chairman attends the financial results presentations to hear shareholder and analysts queries.
In addition, the Board is kept regularly updated of the meetings that the Executive Directors have with shareholders and analysts.
The Head of Investor Relations provides the Board with a weekly report updating them of the market for the Companys shares, what its peers are doing and any reports issued about the sector generally and the Company specifically.
Annual General Meeting AGM The AGM is the annual opportunity for all shareholders to meet with the Directors and to discuss with them the business and its strategy.
All Directors are available to meet informally with the shareholders before and after the meeting.
The Notice of AGM is posted to all shareholders at least 21 working days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed on all substantive issues and voting is conducted by a poll.
The Board believes this method of voting is more democratic than voting via a show of hands since all shares voted at the meeting, including proxy votes submitted in advance of the meeting, are counted.
For each resolution, shareholders will have the opportunity to vote for or against a resolution, or to withhold their vote.
Following the meeting, the results of votes lodged will be announced to the London Stock Exchange and displayed on the Companys website.
NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 71 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 71
