56 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The Board also established the measurable objectives set out below for achieving diversity on the Board and the Committee firmly believes that in the appointments made since our last report to Shareholders, the Board has delivered on each of these objectives: All Board appointments will be made on merit, in the context of the skills, knowledge and experience that are needed for the Board to be effective.
Ensure long lists of potential Non-Executive Directors include diverse candidates of appropriate merit.
Encourage the emergence of female candidates and candidates of diverse backgrounds among the senior management talent pool.
Only engage executive search firms who have signed up to the voluntary Code of Conduct on gender diversity and best practice.
During the year, the Committee, in recognition of their role in increasing diversity throughout the Group, considered diversity in its broadest sense when reviewing the succession plans for roles to the Board, Committees and senior management, and in assessing long-lists of potential candidates for appointment to the Board.
In addition to taking in to account gender, ethnicity and other forms of diversity, the Committee seeks to achieve the optimal balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of Sophos and the industry as a whole amongst the Board and senior management team, in order to support the Companys long-term objectives.
At 31 March 2017, the proportion of women on the Board was 20 percent and the proportion of independent Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman was 44 percent.
Following Rick Medlocks appointment, the proportion of women on the Board is 18 percent, and the proportion of independent Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman is 50 percent.
The Committee will continue to keep these measurable objectives under review and will make recommendations to the Board for their future adjustment, as appropriate.
The Committee is pleased with the Companys performance against these objectives to date, but acknowledges that progress is ongoing.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION The Nomination Committees performance was assessed as part of the Boards annual effectiveness review.
It was concluded that the Committee operated effectively.
In response to the findings of the review, Committee members will consider and develop the Board rotation and succession road map taking in to account the current and desired balance of skills and experience, together with, tenure, independence and diversity including as to gender and the international background of its Directors.
As referred to above, the Committee will also keep under review the Companys people policies, including Diversity Policy and recommend implementation or revision, where appropriate.
The Committee also undertakes a review of its terms of reference and composition each year.
This review last took place in November 2016, and the full terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the Companys website, at https: investors.
com Peter Gyenes Nomination Committee Chairman 16 May 2017 INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 57 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER, I am pleased to present our second report on behalf of my fellow Audit and Risk Committee members.
The Committee met five times during the year and kept under close review the risk management framework put in place following the Companys IPO in 2015.
Here we have set out the key aspects of the Committees role in more detail, together with the main activities we have undertaken and the significant issues we have considered during the year.
Following the year-end we have also welcomed a new member of the Committee who will become my successor as its Chairman, following the conclusion of the 2017 AGM later this year.
In Rick Medlock, the Committee has acquired a strong leader with a deep understanding and knowledge of financial management in the technology industry, and extensive experience with globally-oriented UK-listed companies.
COMMITTEE COMPOSITION AND MEETING ATTENDANCE Edwin Gillis Chairman Sandra Bergeron Paul Walker Attended of those eligible Not attended of those eligible All appointments stated are as at 31 March 2017 The composition of the Committee is in compliance with the Principles of the Code, which provides that all members should be independent Non-Executive Directors.
In line with the requirements of the Code and the FRCs Guidance on Audit Committees, Edwin Gillis, the Committee Chairman has recent and relevant financial experience through his previous employment in senior financial positions at large companies, including US listed companies, and is a CPA.
Rick Medlock, who will assume the role of Committee Chairman at the time of Edwins retirement, has recent and relevant financial experience through his current employment as CFO of Worldpay Group plc, and is a qualified chartered accountant.
The Board is also satisfied that all members of the Committee have extensive experience of the technology industry in which we operate, sufficient to enable the Committee to exercise its duties effectively.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee and attends all meetings.
Other attendees at Committee meetings may differ from time to time and, upon invitation from the Committee, include the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and other members of the senior management team.
The Committee will also invite representatives from the internal auditor Ernst & Young LLP EY and the external auditor KPMG LLP KPMG, as required.
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES The Committee has a fundamental role to play in reviewing, monitoring and challenging the integrity and effectiveness of the Companys financial reporting and internal control processes.
The Committee also oversees the relationship between the Group and its external auditors and makes recommendations to the Board on their appointment.
In addition, the Committee monitors and reviews the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into account relevant legal, professional and regulatory requirements.
The full terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the Companys website, at https: investors.
MAIN ACTIVITIES The Committee has an annual forward agenda, developed from its terms of reference, with standing items that the Committee considers at each meeting, in addition to any specific matters arising, and topical business or financial items on which the Committee has chosen to focus.
During the year, the work of the Committee fell in to three main areas as follows: 58 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED ACCOUNTING, TAX AND FINANCIAL REPORTING reviewed and approved the quarterly trading updates, half-year and annual financial statements and the attendant significant financial reporting judgements and disclosures: reviewed and approved the going concern and viability assessment, and external statement issued annually: reviewed updates on accounting matters, including consideration of relevant accounting standards and underlying assumptions, and in particular: the review and revision of alternative performance measures applied by the Company: the impact of changing accounting standards, in particular revenue recognition: the codification of accounting for exceptional items: and reviewed and approved the interim and full-year dividend proposals and adjudged them to be in line with the Companys Dividend policy.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for the year as well as longer-term objectives and received regular updates of the work performed by internal audit and EY, as the outsourced internal audit providers appointed by the Committee in 2015: reviewed and approved the risk assessment process and, in particular the identification and assessment of the Companys principal risks and the attendant disclosures: and received and noted regular updates from the Risk and Compliance Committee RCC, a management committee established following the IPO and which has a direct reporting line to the Committee, to provide an additional level of assurance to the Committee.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR met with the external auditors, KPMG, to review the annual audit plan and receive their findings and reports of the annual audit and interim review: reviewed with the auditor the outcome of a FRC Audit Quality Review of their 2016 audit of the Company, undertaken as part of the FRCs standard quality procedures for which the FRC noted limited planned enhancements to the audit approach: and reviewed and approved the external auditor evaluation paper prepared by management covering the auditors independence and objectivity, and evaluation of the effectiveness of the audit process, together with the attendant recommendation for reappointment.
Key issues covered by the Committee are reported to the subsequent meeting of the Board, and the Board also receives copies of the minutes of each meeting.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION The Audit and Risk Committees performance was assessed as part of the Boards annual effectiveness review.
In response to the findings of the review, Committee members will work closely with management and KPMG to address the forthcoming period of transition, including a new lead audit partner and a new Committee Chairman, from the conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
During the year, the Committee plans to focus on a number of key issues and in particular, review the Group risk appetite and continue to assess the major risks to the business.
This review last took place in November 2016, and the full terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the Companys website, at: investors.
