Corporate governance report Our values Board and Committee composition Chairmans report At a time when breaches of corporate trust The Board underwent some changes during and integrity are under the spotlight, resulting the year with Mick Barker and Brian Wallace in ever greater scrutiny, regulation and control, stepping down, whilst welcoming Richard we believe our values, which were put in place Adam, Jimmy Groombridge and Martha to promote the required culture for the delivery Poulter as new additions.
I would like to thank of our vision and the transformation of the Mick and Brian on behalf of the Board for their Group into a customer-focused entity, could commitment and contribution over their years not be more relevant: with the Group.
Committed to our customers In February 2017, Richard Adam was appointed as a Non-Executive Director, Dedicated to safety succeeding Brian Wallace as Chair of the Audit Supportive of each other Committee.
Richard has a wealth of financial acumen, M&A and international business Accountable for performance experience and we look forward to working Setting the highest standards with him.
Our values are recognised across the Group In May 2017, Martha Poulter joined the Board and are fundamental to the way we operate.
Marthas strong We see these values as key to the way we background and experience in customerwork with our customers, our suppliers, our I believe firmly that good focused, technology-led businesses will be of employees and our other stakeholders across immense value to the Board.
governance lies at the heart the Group.
We will not get everything right all of the time, but we will aim to learn where we Group Employee Director ofa successful and make mistakes, and our Board evaluation We are proud of our long history in bringing sustainable company.
assists us in highlighting areas in which thevoice of our colleagues into the boardroom improvements can be made.
Such a role TheBoard sets out the hasreceived significant focus over the year, Groups strategic aims, Understanding our business inparticular since the launch of the Corporate governance does not exist monitors the Groups strategic Governments consultation on corporate inisolation and cannot be reduced to governance reform.
Whether or not it objectives and oversees its compliance with checklists and codes.
becomes a requirement for all companies to Inorder for the Board to be able to review implementation by the have employee representation on the board, in strategy, to determine our approach to risk our experience, the perspectives and input of management team.
The andto respond to events, we need to have Employee Directors aid decision-making and Board is also responsible athorough understanding of our businesses.
demonstrate the Companys desire to hear forshaping the culture During the year, the Board visited our from our workforce.
operations in Miami and San Francisco.
These andvalues of the Group.
Mick Barker was our Group Employee Director visits provided us with an opportunity not only from January 2012 until his resignation on to see our businesses in action, but also to 17February 2017.
Mick was succeeded by meetour employees and understand their Jimmy Groombridge on 26 May 2017, with views and opinions on the Group.
The visits whom we look forward to working over the were combined with in-depth presentations coming years given his important and unique from our divisional management teams on perspective as an employee of the Group.
therisks, opportunities, performance, customer propositions and strategic initiatives Remuneration of their businesses.
There continues to be a great deal of focus on Directors remuneration and the way it is disclosed.
The Remuneration Committee has ensured that there is a clear line of sight for management between pay and performance in the areas most valued by our shareholders.
46 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Risk management We continue to adopt a risk-based approach Key achievements in establishing the Groups system of internal during the year control and in reviewing its effectiveness.
Delivery of the transformation plans Overall management of risks is vested in theBoard, with the Audit Committee having Development of the Groups strategy delegated authority for reviewing the Groups and business objectives risk management framework.
Further review of succession planning More detailed information on the Groups and talent management for the Board system of internal control and risk management and senior management can be found in the Principal risks and Review of recommendations arising uncertainties section on page 32 onwards and outof the internal Board evaluation in this Corporate Governance Report.
Further development of the Boards Engaging with shareholders understanding and approach to Engaging with shareholders and being fully riskappetite aware of their views is one of the key aspects Appointments of Richard Adam and of corporate governance.
My fellow Directors Martha Poulter as Non-Executive and I welcome open, meaningful discussion Directors, and Jimmy Groombridge with shareholders, particularly withregard to asGroup Employee Director governance, strategy and remuneration.
The Board and management have undertaken a number of activities in this regard during the year, many of which are detailed in this Annual Areas of focus in the Report and Accounts.
future The Board receives regular reports on investorrelations activities and, in particular, Disciplined growth and bidding onshareholder sentiment and feedback.
South Western rail franchise TheBoard continues to believe that ongoing mobilisation engagement with shareholders and other Strong cash management stakeholders is vital to ensuring their views and perspectives are fully understood and taken Ongoing development of into consideration.
This will remain a key focus Groupsstrategy for the Board.
At the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM, all Directors who are able to attend willbe available, as usual, to meet with shareholders after the meeting to discuss any issues they may have.
Iencourage as many shareholders as possible to attend the AGM on 18 July 2017.
Wolfhart Hauser Chairman Index to section Page Chairmans report 46 Nomination Committee report 56 Audit Committee report 58 Board Safety Committee report 62 Directors Remuneration Report 63 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 47 Corporate governance report continued including those regarding risk management as a whole.
The Board ensures that an Governance framework and internal control.
The Board also confirms appropriate balance between promoting The Annual Report and Accounts forthe year that we will detail innext years Annual Report long-term growth and delivering short-term ended 31 March 2017 has beenprepared and Accounts how we have applied the objectives is achieved.
in accordance with the UK Corporate principles and provisions of the Code, as Governance Code which was issued in April The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership revised by the FRCin April 2016.
2014 the Code by the Financial Reporting of the Group within a framework of prudent Council the FRC andisavailable toview at Leadership and effective controls for risk assessment www.
The role of the Board andmanagement.
The Board is primarily The Board is accountable to shareholders responsible for: determining strategic direction Code compliance and internal control formanaging the Company in a way which and demonstrating leadership: focusing on The Board confirms that throughout the year promotes the long-term success of the matters that consistently add value for the Company has applied the main principles Company for the benefit of the shareholders shareholders of the Company, both present and complied with the provisions of the Code, Shareholders Board of Directors Leadership, strategy, risk, governance, values and standards Board Safety Audit Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Overseeing a framework Financial reporting, Board composition and Remuneration framework of safety policies and internal control and succession planning and individual Director standards tomanage risk auditor relationship packages Executive Safety Committee Safety standards and sharing ofbest practice Strategy Principal Risks Budget Three-Year Plan Chief Executive Implementing the strategy determined by the Board Executive Committee Supporting the Chief Executive in the day-to-day running of the Group 48 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance and future: the governance and stewardship of management on their businesses performance, the Group to provide protection and security employees, opportunities, risks and strategy.
for the shareholders assets: the management In order to carry out its work, the Board has of the Groups employees: setting the Groups established a planned programme of agendas culture, standards and values, and ensuring to ensure all necessary matters are covered that its obligations to shareholders and other and to allow sufficient time for debate and stakeholders are understood and met: and challenge.
The Board also takes time to review determining the nature and extent of the past decisions where necessary.
At Board principal risks the Group is willing to take to meetings, the Board receives and considers achieve its strategic objectives.
Another key papers and presentations from management responsibility of the Board is to ensure that on relevant topics and senior executives are management maintains a system of internal regularly invited to attend meetings for specific control that provides assurance of effective and items.
Effective review and decision-making efficient operations, internal financial controls issupported by providing the Board with and compliance with laws and regulations.
Board visit to First high-quality, accurate, clear and timely Student operation in The Board is the decision-making body for information including input from advisers allmatters of such importance as to be where necessary.
San Francisco significant to the Group as a whole because Board meetings are structured around The purpose of the visit was to provide oftheir strategic, financial or reputational thefollowing areas: the Board with a full year review of the implications or consequences.
divisions performance to date and to divisional updates: Specific key matters have been reserved discuss major operational initiatives and strategy: forapproval by the Board.
These include future plans for the business, including approval of: financial and operational updates: an increased focus on growth.
the Groups strategy: assessment of risks and how they During the visit the Board toured shouldbemanaged and mitigated: risk appetite: thefacility, met and interacted with location personnel, and attended the other reporting items for approval, including major acquisitions, mergers or disposals: business briefing.
UK rail franchise bids: and UK rail franchise bids: reports from Committee Chairs.
The areas of greatest interest for the dealings with regulatory authorities Board were touring the maintenance Division of responsibilities onmatters of significance: area, and meeting employees and the The Board has agreed a clear division of capital and liquidity matters: locations routing team and local responsibilities between the Chairman and location management.
medium-term plan and annual budget: theChief Executive, and these roles, as well asthose of other Directors, are clearly defined Board and Committee membership: and sothat no single individual has unrestricted financial results, viability statement powers of decision.
ensures effective induction and development andgovernance.
of Directors: Roles and responsibilities Board meetings and visits Chairman ensures the performance of the Board, its The core activities of the Board are carried establishes the Groups values and Committees and individual Directors are outin scheduled meetings of the Board and standards and sets the tone from the top: formally evaluated annually, with an externally itsCommittees.
Additional ad-hoc meetings facilitated evaluation performed at least every promotes the interests of the Company and conference calls of the Board and its three years: withspecial regard to Group planning and Committees are arranged to consider development to secure the Groups future matterswhich require decisions outside facilitates effective and constructive and sustainable success: thescheduled meetings.
relationships and communications between Non-Executive Directors and Executive promotes the Board, ensuring it functions To ensure the Board sees the Groups Directors and senior management: efficiently and in conformity with the highest operations in action, the Board normally standards of corporate governance: ensures effective communication with holdsat least three meetings each year at the shareholders and other stakeholders, Groups sites in the UK and North America.
ensures Board meetings are effective and andthat their views are understood by This provides senior management from across open and constructive debate is promoted, theBoard: and the Group with the opportunity to present to the views of all Directors are taken into the Board and its Committees and to meet account and adequate time is available provides an appropriate balance of support Board members informally.
It also provides fordiscussion on all agenda items: and challenge to the Chief Executive in order the Board with the opportunity to review ensures that shareholders and the Board to maintain an effective working relationship.
For example, receive accurate, timely, clear and highduring the year the Board visited our quality information: operations in Miami and SanFrancisco, chairs the Nomination Committee: which included presentations from senior FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 49 Corporate governance report continued Chief Executive Non-Executive Directors exceptional circumstances that prevent promotes the creation and maintenance The NEDs provide a strong independent themfrom doing so.
Only members of the ofasafe working environment and a element to the Board and a solid foundation Committees are entitled to attend their safety-focused culture across the Group: for good corporate governance.
Although all meetings, but others may attend at the Directors are equally accountable under the Committees discretion.
leads the Executive Committee iin the law for the stewardship of the Companys day-to-day running of the Groups business: The terms of reference of each Committee are affairs, the NEDs fulfil a vital role in corporate available to view on the Companys website develops the Groups business objectives accountability.
They have responsibility for www.
com and on request andstrategy, having regard to the Groups constructively challenging the strategies fromthe Company Secretary.
The terms responsibilities to its shareholders, customers, proposed by the Executive Directors, ofreference are normally reviewed annually, employees and other stakeholders: scrutinising the performance of management asthey have been this year.
in achieving agreed goals and objectives, as ensures the business of the Group is well as playing a leading role in the functioning Executive Committee conducted, and results are delivered, of the main Board Committees.
Between The Executive Committee supports the Chief intheright way: them, the current NEDs have the appropriate Executive in the day-to-day running of the establishes and maintains an organisational balance of skills, experience, knowledge Group.
Its membership is shown on page 45. structure that enables the Groups strategy andindependent judgment gained through Itmeets every month to communicate, review tobe implemented effectively: experience in a variety of business sectors.
and agree on significant issues and actions.
leads communication with shareholders: Ithelps to develop, implement and monitor Group Employee Director strategic and operational plans, considers the ensures at all times that the Group conducts The Board considers that it is extremely continuing applicability, appropriateness and its business in accordance with the legal beneficial for its employees to be represented impact of risks and leads the Groups culture requirements of the countries in which it on the Board so that employee-related issues and safety programme.
operates and the Companys standards, are raised directly and providing a two-way ifhigher: communication between the Board and Effectiveness employees.
The Group Employee Director Board balance establishes a strong senior management GED is nominated by his fellow Employee Effective management and good stewardship team which has the knowledge, skills, Directors at the Forum, and serves a of the Group are led by the Board.
The Board attitude and motivation to achieve the maximum of three, three-year terms.
is currently comprised of the Chairman, two Groups business objectives and strategy, Executive Directors, one GED and six NEDs.
and with appropriate succession planning Board Committees The balance of Directors on the Board ensures toensure that this continues in the future: The four principal Committees of the Board that no individual or small group of Directors develops and maintains an effective are: Audit: Board Safety: Nomination: and can dominate the decision-making process framework of internal controls and risk Remuneration.
Board Committee members and that the interests of the minority management: and are appointed by the Board upon the shareholders are protected.
Biographies of all recommendation of the Nomination ensures the Board is kept appraised in current Directors are set out on pages 44 and Committee, which reviews the composition atimely manner of the issues facing the 45.
Mick Barker resigned on 17 February 2017 ofeach Committee regularly.
Committee Group and of events and developments and Brian Wallace retired on 24 February 2017. membership is spread between the NEDs asthey arise.
Richard Adam was appointed on andthe GED, drawing on each of their 24February2017 and Jimmy Groombridge Senior Independent Director relevantskills and experience.
and Martha Poulter were appointed on acts as a point of contact for shareholders Committee members are expected to attend 26May2017.
and other stakeholders to discuss matters each Committee meeting, unless there are ofconcern which would not be appropriate through the normal channels of communication with the Chairman, Chief Executive or CFO.
No such matters of concern were raised by shareholders Board Committee membership orstakeholders during the year ended Audit Board Safety Nomination Remuneration Director Committee Committee Committee Committee 31March 2017: Wolfhart Hauser C acts as a sounding board for the Chairman Tim OToole and serves as an intermediary for the other Matthew Gregory Directors when necessary: Richard Adam C M meets with the Non-Executive Directors Warwick Brady M NEDs without the Chairman being present Jimmy Groombridge M Drummond Hall M M at least annually and leads the Board in the Martha Poulter ongoing monitoring and annual performance Imelda Walsh M M C evaluation of the Chairman: and Jim Winestock M C M deputises for the Chairman, as necessary.
C: Chair of Committee M: Member of Committee 50 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance The attendance of Directors at scheduled Board and Committee meetings, which they were eligible to attend, and the number of meetings attended in the year ended 31 March 2017, is shown below.
Jimmy Groombridge and Martha Poulter were appointed on 26 May 2017 and are therefore not included.
Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Board Safety Committee Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of scheduled Number of scheduled Number of scheduled Number of scheduled Number of scheduled Number of meetings scheduled meetings scheduled meetings scheduled meetings scheduled meetings scheduled eligible meetings eligible meetings eligible meetings eligible meetings eligible to meetings Director to attend attended to attend attended to attend attended to attend attended attend attended Chairman Wolfhart Hauser 9 9 8 8 Executive Directors Tim OToole 9 9 Matthew Gregory 9 9 Non-Executive Directors 1 Richard Adam 1 1 1 1 2 Mick Barker 7 7 3 3 Warwick Brady 9 9 4 4 Drummond Hall 9 8 3 3 8 7 3 Brian Wallace 8 8 3 3 2 2 7 6 Imelda Walsh 9 8 3 3 8 7 3 3 Jim Winestock 9 9 4 4 8 8 3 3 1 Richard Adam was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 24 February 2017.
2 Mick Barker resigned on 17 February 2017.
3 Brian Wallace retired on 24 February 2017.
The Board is satisfied that each of the Board independence Commitment Non-Executive Directors is able to devote It is the Companys policy that at least half the All Directors are expected to attend each sufficient time to the Companys business.
Board should be independent Non-Executive Board meeting and each Committee meeting Non-Executive Directors are advised on Directors.
The Board carries out a review of for which they are members, save for in appointment of the time required to fulfil the the independence of its Directors on an annual exceptional circumstances.
To help enable role and are asked to confirm that they can basis.
The Board considers each of its current this, scheduled Board and Committee make the required commitment.
NEDs to be independent in character and meetings are arranged at least a year judgment.
In reaching its determination of inadvance to allow Directors to manage During the year the Chairman met on several independence, the Board has concluded othercommitments.
If a Director is unable occasions with the Non-Executives without thateach provides objective challenge to toattend a meeting because of exceptional the Executive Directors present, allowing for management, is willing to stand up and circumstances, they still receive the papers more informal discussions on a variety of defendtheir own beliefs and viewpoints in and other relevant information in advance issues.
The Senior Independent Director also order to support the ultimate good of the ofthe meeting and have the opportunity led the Non-Executive Directors in evaluating Company and there are no business or other todiscuss with the relevant Chair or the the performance of the Chairman, with the Company Secretary any matters they wish to relationships likely to affect, or which could Chairman showing effectiveness in leadership.
raise and to follow up on the decisions taken appear to affect, the judgment of Richard at the meeting.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Development Adam, Warwick Brady, Drummond Hall, and Company Secretary are always available On appointment, all new Directors receive Martha Poulter, Imelda Walsh or Jim to discuss issues relating to meetings or other acomprehensive and structured induction, Winestock.
Jimmy Groombridge, the GED, matters with the Directors.
Reasons for tailored to their individual requirements.
The isnot considered by the Board to be non-attendance are generally prior business induction programme, which is arranged by independent as he is an employee of one and personal commitments or illness.
the Company Secretary, includes visits to the ofthe Groups subsidiaries.
Groups businesses and meetings with senior managers and advisers, as appropriate.
Board composition Length of tenure Theprogramme is designed to facilitate their understanding of the Group, the key drivers Chairman 1 0-2 years 5 ofbusiness performance, the role of the Executive Directors 2 2-4 years 3 Boardand its Committees, the Companys Independent 4-6 years 1 corporate governance practices and Non-Executive 6-8 years 1 Directors 6 procedures, as well as providing them Group Employee withappropriate training and guidance as Director 1 totheir duties, responsibilities and liabilities asadirector of a public limited company.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 51 Corporate governance report continued To assist Directors in the performance of Directors are provided between meetings with breaching their duty if a conflict of interest theirduties, there are procedures in place relevant information on matters affecting the arises.
These provisions will only apply where toprovide them with appropriate and timely business.
Such updates were carried out by the circumstance giving rise to the potential information, including receiving information avariety of methods, including conference conflict of interest has previously been between meetings regarding Group business calls amongst the full Board or between the authorised by the Directors.
This Chairman and or the Chief Executive and the The Board considers that the formal enables the Directors to discharge their duties Non-Executive Directors, and by way of the procedures for managing conflicts of interest on strategic, financial, operational, compliance Company Secretary circulating monthly currently in place have operated effectively and governance issues effectively.
financial and operational reports as well as during the year under review.
papers and updates on relevant issues.
All Directors are provided with the opportunity Performance evaluation for, and encouraged to attend, training to Throughout the year a fully encrypted The Board undertakes regular evaluations ensure they are kept up to date on relevant electronic portal system was operated, which ofits own performance as well as that of legal, regulatory and financial developments enabled the Board and Committee papers to itsCommittees providing an opportunity orchanges in best practice.
Typical training for be delivered securely to the Directors.
This toconsider ways of identifying greater Directors includes attendance at seminars, enables a faster and more secure distribution efficiencies, maximising strengths and forums, conferences and working groups as of information, accessed using electronic highlighting areas for further development.
well as receiving updates from relevant bodies tablets, and reduced resource usage.
on various legal, regulatory and corporate Following an internal review in 2016, the Board The Company Secretary is Michael Hampson, governance matters.
conducted another internal review in 2017 who joined the Group in 2016.
Michael is ledby the Chairman with the support of the To ensure the Board as a whole remains fully secretary to the Remuneration and Company Secretary.
The 2017 evaluation was informed of the views of shareholders, the Nomination Committees and his deputy, carefully structured but pragmatic, designed Board receives regular reports on shareholder Silvana Glibota-Vigo, is secretary to the Audit tobring about a genuine debate on issues sentiment at Board meetings.
thatwere relevant, check on progress against Although not part of their induction Conflicts of interest matters identified in the previous evaluation programme, all Non-Executive Directors can The Directors have a statutory duty under the andassist in identifying any potential for attend shareholder meetings and analyst Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act to avoid improvement in the Companys processes.
presentations, and shareholders may meet situations in which they have or can have a Itentailed completion of a questionnaire to informally with Directors at the AGM.
direct or indirect interest that conflicts or may assess the effectiveness of the Board, its conflict with the interests of the Company.
Committees and individual Directors, and Information and support Thisduty is in addition to the existing duty thepreparation of a report.
The questionnaire The Company Secretary, through the thata Director owes to the Company to focused on the oversight responsibilities and Chairman, is responsible for advising the disclose to the Board any transaction or effectiveness of the Board, the role of the Board on all governance matters and for arrangement under consideration by the Chairman and the operation of the Committees.
ensuring that Board procedures are followed, Company.
The Companys conflict of interest The results of the performance evaluation were applicable rules and regulations are complied procedures are reflected in the Articles of presented and discussed at the May 2017 with and that due account is taken of relevant Association the Articles.
In line with the 2006 Board meeting and therefore will be disclosed codes of best practice.
The Company Act, the Companys Articles allow the Directors in next years Annual Report and Accounts.
Secretary is also responsible for ensuring to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of communication flows between the Board As set out in last years Annual Report and interest where appropriate.
The decision to andits Committees, and between senior Accounts, an internal Board performance authorise a conflict can only be made by management and Non-Executive Directors.
evaluation process was undertaken in 2016 non-conflicted Directors.
Directors do not AllDirectors have access to the advice of and the results were presented at the June participate in decisions concerning their theCompany Secretary and, in appropriate 2016 Board meeting.
It was concluded that ownremuneration or interests.
circumstances, may obtain independent the dynamics, culture and effectiveness of the professional advice at the Companys The Company Secretary minutes the Board had improved and that the individual expense.
The appointment and removal of consideration of any conflict or potential conflict members of the Board remained effective theCompany Secretary is a matter reserved of interest and authorisations granted by the intheir ability to discharge their duties and for the Board as a whole.
On an ongoing basis, the Directors responsibilities.
Each Director continued inform the Company Secretary of any new, tomake a valuable contribution whilst All Directors receive detailed papers and other actual or potential conflict of interest that demonstrating commitment to their role.
relevant information on the business to be mayarise or if there are any changes in Themain areas identified for improvement conducted at each Board or Committee circumstances that may affect an authorisation andcorresponding actions taken during meeting well in advance and all Directors have previously given.
Even when authorisation is 2016 17 are detailed in the table on page 53. direct access to senior management should given, a Director is not absolved from their duty they wish to receive additional information on to promote the success of the Company.
any of the items for discussion.
The head of each Division attends Board meetings on Furthermore, the Companys Articles include aregular basis to ensure that the Board is provisions relating to confidential information, properly informed about the performance attendance at Board meetings and availability ofthat Division and any issues that it faces.
of Board papers to protect a Director from 52 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Area identified Responsibility Action taken Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking On human rights, we continue our zeroReview the Board calendar, Chairman Rolling agendas were developed not only for tolerance approach to slavery and human information flows and the use of supported the Board but also for the Audit, Nomination trafficking, which extends to all business time when Directors are together byCompany and Remuneration Committees.
The dealings and transactions in which we are for Board and Committee Secretary Company Secretary and his team provide involved, regardless of location or sector.
meetings to determine how guidance to senior management on the Aspart of our contracting processes with better to optimise the use of structure and content of Board and Directors time Committee papers.
suppliers, we include prohibitions against theuse of forced, compulsory or trafficked Information flow and contact Chairman Informal contact in between meetings labour, or anyone held in slavery or servitude, involving the Chairman and increased.
We implemented theNon-Executive Directors our Code of Conduct on Anti-Slavery and between Board meetings Human Trafficking Prevention and published Prioritisation of agenda items Chairman Rolling agendas were developed and the our Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking and allocation of time for supported Company Secretary and his team monitor Statement across the Group.
The statement discussion in Board meetings byCompany thetime allocated on agendas in line with sets out the steps we have taken to address Secretary business priorities.
this issue during the previous financial year, and sets goals for the current one.
We will Aspects of strategy into the Chief Executive As the Group moves out the transformation publish an updated statement for the year planning cycle and Board phase, certain aspects of strategy now have ended 31 March 2017 on our Group websites programme aprominent place in the Board cycle.
We remain committed to Succession planning and Chairman The Nomination Committee, led by the strengthening our practices in this area, both talentmanagement Chairman and supported by the HR Director, within our own business and across our continued to keep under review the leadership supply chains.
Accountability Role and modus operandi of Chairman The Nomination Committee had previously The Board is responsible for promoting the theNomination Committee met on and ad-hoc basis.
Meetings are now long-term success of the Company for the scheduled one year in advance.
benefit of shareholders and other stakeholders.
Development of a positive safety Board Safety Proactive steps were taken across the Group This includes ensuring that an appropriate culture across the organisation Committee intraining, technology and management to system of governance is in place throughout promote the embedding of a safety culture.
To discharge this responsibility, theBoard has established a framework for riskmanagement and internal control which The review of the performance of the Anti-Bribery and Corruption identifies, evaluates and manages the principal Chairman, led by the Senior Independent The Group has implemented and refreshed its risks associated with the Groups achievement Director, concluded that Wolfhart continued existing compliance programmes and specific of its business objectives, with a view to tooperate to a high level.
policies around key legislation e. g. UK Bribery safeguarding the shareholders investment Act and the Modern Slavery Act.
The evaluation of the Board was externally policies upholding our zero-tolerance position facilitated in 2014 15 and it will be so again The Board considers the Annual Report on bribery and corruption, including on the in2017 18, in line with the requirements of andAccounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, giving and receipt of appropriate gifts, theCode.
balanced and understandable and provides hospitality or entertainment, have been the necessary information required for Election and re-election of Directors updated.
Colleagues in high-risk areas have shareholders to assess the Companys Directors newly appointed by the Board are received training and policy communications position and performance, business model required to submit themselves for election to support their ongoing awareness of these and strategy, and that the business continues byshareholders at the AGM following their polices and other regulatory risks.
There is also to operate as a going concern.
Richard Adam, who was an externally managed whistleblowing service ordination and review of the Annual Report appointed on 24 February 2017, and Jimmy available across the Group for colleagues, and Accounts follows a well-established and Groombridge and Martha Poulter, who were witha dedicated helpline for the anonymous documented process, which is conducted appointed on 26 May 2017, will retire and reporting of inappropriate conduct.
The inparallel with the formal audit process submit themselves for election at the anti-bribery steering committee has the undertaken by the external auditor and the forthcoming AGM.
primary and day-to-day responsibility to review by the Board and its Committees ensure that our internal control systems and In accordance with best practice and the Code, ofrelevant sections.
procedures are effective in countering bribery it is proposed that all other Directors will submit and corruption.
The Group continues to themselves for re-election at the forthcoming develop its effective systems to counter bribery AGM as, following the formal performance and corruption, including the introduction of its evaluation process, the Chairman is content integrated risk and compliance online tool to that all Directors continue to be effective and monitor the use and awareness of policies and demonstrate commitment to their role.
procedures and, to provide management data on compliance risks.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 53 Corporate governance report continued Internal control The Board has adopted a risk-based are presented to the Executive Committee The Board is responsible for determining the approach in establishing the Groups system prior to being assessed by the Audit nature and extent of any significant risks the of internal control and in reviewing its Committee: Group is willing to take in order to achieve its effectiveness.
To assist in the identification and an established methodology for ranking the strategic objectives and for maintaining sound management of key risks, the Board has: level of risk in each of its business operations risk management and internal control systems and the principal risk issues associated established a number of Group-wide to ensure that an appropriate culture is therewith: procedures, policies and standards: embedded throughout the Group.
The Board implementation of appropriate strategies set up a framework for reporting matters has established a Group-wide system of risk todeal with principal risks, including careful ofsignificance: management and internal control that internal monitoring and ensuring external identifies and enables management and the authorised the Audit Committee to review specialists are consulted where necessary: Board to evaluate and manage the Groups theGroups approach to risk management principal risks with a view to safeguarding the a centrally coordinated internal audit and the effectiveness of the Groups Groups stakeholders.
This system is bespoke programme to verify that policies and internal financialreporting, internal control and to the Companys particular needs and the control procedures are being correctly assurance systems: risks to which it is exposed and is designed to implemented and to identify any risks at an authorised the Board Safety Committee manage, rather than eliminate, risk.
Owing to early stage: tooversee the Groups framework of safety the limitations inherent in any system of internal reviewing and monitoring the confidential policies and procedures to manage risk: control, this system provides robust, but not reporting system to allow employees to raise absolute, assurance against material developed a system of regular reports from concerns about possible legal, regulatory, misstatement or loss.
The effectiveness of the management: and financial reporting or any other improprieties: Groups system of internal control is regularly reserved specific key matters for its decision.
regular reports to the Audit Committee on reviewed by the Board.
The process is designed to provide assurance the adequacy and effectiveness of internal The Board confirms that throughout the year by way of cumulative assessment.
controls: and ended 31 March 2017 and up to the date of a remuneration policy for executives Key elements of the Groups system of internal approval of this Annual Report and Accounts, thatmotivates them, without delivering control which have operated throughout the there have been rigorous processes in place excessive benefits or encouraging excessive year are: to identify, evaluate and manage the principal risk-taking.
risks faced by the Group, including those that a clearly defined organisation structure would threaten its business model, future Reviews of internal controls within operating withestablished responsibilities: performance, solvency or liquidity in units by internal audit have sometimes a focused business strategy, thus restricting accordance with the Guidance on Risk highlighted control weaknesses, which are potential risk exposures: Management and Internal Control published discussed with management and, where by the FRC.
Group financial, treasury, operating, appropriate, the Audit Committee, and compliance and administrative policies and remedial action plans are agreed.
Action plans To assist in the identification and management procedures which incorporate statements are monitored by internal audit and, in some of the Groups principal risks, the Board has ofrequired behaviour: cases, follow up visits to the operating entity established a risk management framework, are conducted until such time as the controls developed a system of regular reports from ongoing review of safety, operating that have been put in place are working management and reserved specific key andfinancial performance of the effectively.
No material losses, contingencies matters for its decision.
The Board has Groupsbusinesses: or uncertainties that would require disclosure authorised the Audit Committee to oversee the regular reports to the Board, Board Safety in the Annual Report and Accounts have been risk management framework and the Committee and Executive Safety Committee identified during theyear by this process.
effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting, on safety matters: internal control and assurance systems.
Twice The Board, in conjunction with management, monitoring by the Board of a comprehensive a year the Board is presented with an update continually reviews and develops the internal reporting system, including monthly results, for its robust assessment on the principal risks control environment.
No significant internal periodic short-term forecasts, annual facing the Group together with a risk map, control failings were identified during the year.
budgets and a medium-term business plan: highlighting any changes made since the Where any gaps are identified, processes are previous update and the reasons for any well-defined procedures for the assessment, put in place to address them and these are changes.
Each Committee that reports approval, control and monitoring of major continually monitored.
regularly to the Board provides an update on investments, with proposals being subject The Groups approach to risk management the status of risks considered within its remit.
torigorous strategic, financial and and how it profiles the risks identified is set Biannually, the Groups risk management commercial examination: outon pages 32 onwards.
framework is robustly reviewed by the Audit Divisions identifying and reviewing their Committee, together with the process for Financial and business reporting principal risks and controls for monitoring identifying and assessing risks and a detailed In its reporting to shareholders the Board and managing risks, which are reviewed by analysis of the risks identified in the previous recognises its responsibility to present a fair, senior executive management.
balanced and understandable assessment of divisional and Group risk profiles, which are the Groups position and prospects.
This reviewed by the Chief Executive and CFO, 54 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance responsibility encompasses all published be addressed.
It provides objective assurance The Company responds as necessary to information including, but not limited to: the on risk and controls to senior management, requests from individual shareholders on a year-end and half-yearly financial statements: the Audit Committee and the Board.
Internal wide range of issues.
There is regular dialogue regulatory news announcements: and other audits work is focused on the Groups with key institutional shareholders, fund public information.
The mandate and programme managers and sell-side analysts to discuss of work of the internal audit department is strategy, financial performance and investment The quality of the Companys reporting is considered and approved by the Audit activities throughout the Group.
General ensured by having in place procedures for Committee.
Based on the approved internal presentations to shareholders and the thereview of information by management.
audit plan, a number of internal audits took widerfinancial community are made by There are also strict procedures determining place across the Groups divisions to facilitate theExecutive Directors following the who has authority to release information.
improvement of the Groups internal controls announcement of trading updates and Astatement of the Directors responsibilities and findings were reported to relevant halfand full-year results.
for preparing the financial statements can be operational management and to the Audit found on page 84.
Investors are kept informed of key business Committee.
Internal audit follows up on the activities, decisions, appointments and other The Group adopts a financial reporting and implementation of recommendations and key announcements on an ongoing basis information system that complies with reports on progress to senior management viathe regulatory news service and generally accepted accounting practice.
and to the Audit Committee.
The Groups website AGroup Finance Manual details the Groups The Group Director of Assurance reports www.
com contains all of this accounting policies and procedures with regularly to the Chair of the Audit Committee information, together with financial reports, which subsidiaries must comply.
Budgets and attends each Audit Committee meeting presentations and other information on areprepared by subsidiary company topresent the internal control findings from theGroups operations.
management which are then consolidated into theinternal audits performed.
These are subject to review Annual General Meeting Committee reviews and discusses the by both senior management and the Executive The Notice of AGM is circulated to all effectiveness of internal audits on an annual Directors followed by formal approval by shareholders at least 20 working days prior basis with the Group Director of Assurance.
Regular forecast updates are tosuch meeting.
All shareholders are invited to This is done by the review of the internal audit completed during the year and compared attend the AGM where there is an opportunity plan of work for the year and monitoring against actions required.
Each subsidiary for individual shareholders to question the progress against the plan and actions unitprepares a monthly report of operating Chairman and, through him, the Chairs of the identified by internal audit.
The Group Director performance with a commentary on variances principal Board Committees.
After the AGM, of Assurance meets with the Audit Committee against budget and the prior year, which is shareholders can meet informally with the every time the Committee meets, without reviewed by senior management.
reports are prepared at a Group level.
Key At the 2016 AGM, the Chairman provided performance indicators, both financial and Relations with shareholders shareholders with a brief summary of the operational, are monitored on a weekly basis.
The Board welcomes the opportunity openly Companys activities for the previous year.
In addition, business units participate in and purposefully to engage with shareholders Allresolutions at the 2016 AGM were voted strategic reviews, which include consideration as it recognises the importance of a continuing onby way of a poll.
The procedure for voting of long-term financial projections and the effective dialogue, whether with institutional on a poll follows best practice and allows the evaluation of business alternatives.
shareholders, private or employee Company to count all votes, rather than just shareholders.
The Board takes responsibility Treasury operations those of the shareholders attending the meeting.
for ensuring that such dialogue takes place.
The Board has set a policy for the management The Chief Executive and CFO are closely As recommended by the Code, all resolutions of the risks from treasury operations and this involved in investor relations, and the Group proposed at the 2016 AGM were voted isset out in more detail in note 24 to the Corporate Services Director has day-to-day separately and the voting results, which consolidated financial statements.
A Group responsibility for such matters.
Feedback from included all votes cast for, against and those Treasury Policy has been formulated and shareholders is provided at Board meetings.
withheld, together with all proxies lodged prior adopted to ensure compliance with best to the meeting, were announced to the London practice and to control and monitor effectively The Executive Directors are available, through Stock Exchange and made available on the the risks attendant upon treasury and banking the Group Corporate Services Director, to Companys website as soon as practicable operations.
In addition, a treasury committee discuss the concerns of major shareholders at after the meeting.
As in previous years, the approves decisions regarding fuel, foreign any time during the year and the Chairman is Form of Proxy clearly advised that a vote exchange and other matters reserved for its available to discuss governance and strategy withheld is not a vote in law and is not used in decision as set out in the Group Treasury Policy.
The Senior calculating the votes for or against a resolution.
Independent Director is available to discuss Internal audit matters of concern that would not be Internal audit advises management on the appropriate through normal channels of extent to which systems of internal control are communication, including issues relating to the adequate and effective to manage business Chairmans performance.
Non-Executive risk, safeguard the Groups resources, and Directors make themselves available to attend ensure compliance with the Groups policies meetings with shareholders in order to develop and legal and regulatory requirements as well an understanding of their views.
as advising on ways in which areas of risk can FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 55 Corporate governance report continued When considering the recruitment of a new Role and responsibilities Nomination Committee Director, the Committee adopts a formal, The key roles and responsibilities of the rigorous and transparent procedure with Committee are to: dueregard to diversity.
Prior to making an review regularly the structure, size and appointment, the Committee will evaluate the composition including skills, experience, balance of skills, knowledge, independence, independence, knowledge and diversity experience and diversity ontheBoard and, ofthe Board and make recommendations inlight of this evaluation, willprepare a full tothe Board with regard to any changes: description of the role and capabilities identify and nominate for Board approval, required.
In identifying suitable candidates, candidates to fill Board vacancies having theCommittee: regard to, amongst other things, the benefits uses open advertising or the services of of diversity, including gender, as and when external advisers to facilitate the search: they arise: considers candidates from different genders recommend to the Board suitable candidates and a wide range of backgrounds: for the role of Senior Independent Director, considers candidates on merit and against and membership of the Board Committees: objective criteria ensuring that appointees have ensure that the Companys Board and sufficient time to devote to the position, in light executive leadership skills are fully aligned to The Committee is primarily of other potential significant positions: and the Companys long-term strategy: responsible for leading the engages from time to time with the oversee succession planning for Directors processfor Board appointments.
Groupsmajor shareholders on future and other senior executives, taking into skillsrequirements and ideas for The Committee also keeps under review the account the challenges and opportunities potentialcandidates.
balance of skills, experience, independence, facing the Company, and the skills and knowledge and diversity, including gender, on experience that will be needed on the Board Where the Committee appoints external the Board to ensure the orderly evolution of the in the future: advisers to facilitate the search, it ensures that membership of the Board and its Committees.
the rm selected has signed up to the relevant ensure any appointees have sufficient time In identifying and nominating candidates for industry codes for example, on diversity toundertake their role: approval by the Board, the Committee andhas no connection with the Company.
continues to take account of the Boards aims recommend the re-appointment of any The full terms of reference of the Committee in relation to diversity and succession, whilst Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of can be found on the Companys website ensuring that the right people with the right their specified term of office having given www.
range of skills and experience are on the regard to their length of tenure, performance Board and in senior management positions in and ability to continue to contribute to the Membership the coming years.
Board in the light of the skills, experience, The current members of the Committee are independence and knowledge required: the Group Chairman, who chairs it: the Senior We have seen further changes on our Board Independent Director: the Chair of the recommend the re-election by shareholders composition this year.
In February 2017, Remuneration Committee, and the Chair of of any Director in accordance with the MickBarker resigned and Brian Wallace the Board Safety Committee.
A majority of its provisions of the Code having due regard to retired from the Board.
During the year, we members are independent Non-Executive their performance and ability to continue to welcomed Richard Adam to the Board, who Directors, in accordance with the provisions contribute to the Board, taking into was appointed on 24 February 2017 and he ofthe Code.
consideration the skills, experience and succeeded Brian as Chair of the Audit knowledge required and the need for Committee.
Jimmy Groombridge was If a matter were to concern the Group progressive refreshing of the Board: and appointed as Group Employee Director Chairman, then he would leave the meeting andMartha Poulter also joined the Board report formally to the Board on how the and the Senior Independent Director would on26 May 2017.
We look forward to working Committee has discharged its responsibilities.
The Chief Executive attends meetings of the In the coming year, we will continue to monitor Committee at the invitation of the Committee.
the needs of the Board and its Committees, Members of the Committee took no part with the aim of ensuring the Groups inany discussions concerning their own succession planning policy is aligned to, membership of the Board or appointment andevolves to meet, the ongoing business asaChair of a Committee, but were involved objectives and strategic goals of the Group.
in the recommendations on Committee Wolfhart Hauser membership changes.
Chair, Nomination Committee 56 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Activities in 2016 17 Diversity At its meetings in 2016 17, the Committee The Company takes account of diversity when considered, amongst other matters, recruiting, including when it considers Board thefollowing: appointments, and will continue to do so in thefuture.
selecting and recommending to the Board the appointments of Richard Adam and The Board consists of Directors with a wide Martha Poulter as Non-Executive Directors: range of skills and business experience drawn from a number of industries, which is vital for recommending to the Board the bringing both the expertise required and to appointment of Jimmy Groombridge as enable different perspectives to be brought Group Employee Director: toBoard and Committee discussions.
reviewing the composition of the Board Furthermore, the Board comprises a range of andits Committees: nationalities, which bring cultural diversity as succession planning for the Non-Executive well as different geographical experiences and Directors and, in so doing, considering the viewpoints.
The combination of these factors tenure, mix and diversity of skills and means that the Board benefits from a diverse experience of existing Board members range of competencies, perspectives and andthose of prospective Board members thoughts, which provides a dynamic inthe context of the Group strategy, and environment for decision making.
reviewed the results of the performance Whilst the Board is currently below its target of evaluation of the Committee.
25% female representation at 20%, it remains Recruitment of Non-Executive committed to achieving that goal as soon as Directors practicable.
The Board remains of the opinion A comprehensive and rigorous search that appointments should be made on merit process was put in place with candidate and relevant experience, against the criteria profiles and position specifications.
Spencer identified by the Committee, having regard Stuart and MWM Consulting, external search tothe benefits of diversity, including gender.
consultancies who have no other connection Future appointments to the Board must also with the Company, were engaged to assist complement the balance of skills the Board with the selection process and conducted already possesses.
searches to identify suitable, qualified The Board recognises the need to create the candidates.
A number of interviews and conditions that foster talent and encourage meetings were held with shortlisted more women to achieve their full potential candidates.
Richard Adam and Martha Poulter intheir careers in the Group.
The Board were then recommended to the Board for alsowelcomes the recommendations of the approval as they fully metthe criteria required.
In that sense, as Group Employee Director part of an overall approach to HR management, Following the resignation of Mick Barker in a framework has been developed which February 2017, the Employee Directors Forum includes an Equality, Diversity and Inclusion met on 20 April 2017 to nominate a candidate Policy as well as practical training materials for this position.
Jimmy Groombridge was put and support for linemanagers to promote forward to the Nomination Committee, who itscommunication across the Group.
Further inturn was pleased to recommend his details on the Groups approach to diversity appointment to the Board.
are set out in the Corporate responsibility section on pages 38 to 42.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 57 Corporate governance report continued The terms of reference of the Committee Role and responsibilities Audit Committee canbe found on the Companys website The Committee acts independently of www.
management to ensure that the interests of shareholders are properly protected in relation Membership to financial reporting, the effectiveness of the The current members of the Committee are Groups system of internal control and risk Richard Adam, who chairs it, Warwick Brady management, and the relationship with the and Jim Winestock.
Richard Adam has recent and relevant The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: financial experience for the purposes of the Code, being a chartered accountant and monitor and challenge, where necessary, having held a number of senior finance roles.
theintegrity of the Financial statements of the The other Committee members have final and half-yearly results relating to financial significant current or recent executive performance, including a review of the experience in the transport and distribution financial reporting judgments which they industries.
This range and depth of financial contain and the methodology and and commercial experience enables the assumptions used in relation to them: Committee to deal effectively with the matters review and challenge, where necessary, it is required to address and to challenge theactions and judgments of management management when necessary.
taking into account the views of the external I am pleased to present my first auditor, in relation to the Companys Financial The Group Chairman, Chief Executive, the report as Chair of the Audit statements, Strategic report, financial review, Chief Financial officer, the General Counsel & Committee.
I succeeded Brian corporate governance statement insofar as Company Secretary, the Director of Finance, it relates to audit and risk management, Wallace on 24 February 2017 and the Group Director of Assurance, the Group half-yearly and final results announcements, Financial Controller and the external auditor Iam looking forward to continuing including the going concern assumption and are normally invited to attend Committee his good work.
the viability statement: meetings, as well as members of the Board.
During the year the Committee has continued The Deputy Company Secretary acts as review the Companys internal controls, to devote significant time to reviewing the Committee Secretary.
including financial controls and risk integrity of the Groups Financial statements, management systems: At the end of each meeting the Committee including the significant financial reporting normally meets with the external auditor and approve the internal audit plan and monitor judgments, as well as reviewing internal the Group Director of Assurance, without the role and effectiveness of the internal controls, and the effectiveness of both internal management present, to discuss any matters auditfunction: and external audit.
relating to their remit and any matters arising oversee the Companys relationship with In my role as Chair of the Committee, I intend from external and internal audits.
theexternal auditor, including monitoring tomeet and communicate regularly with our Activities in 2016 17 itsindependence and expertise, its external auditor, Deloitte, outside of the normal At its meetings in 2016 17, the Committee engagement terms and fees, and assessing meeting schedule and with various senior considered and discharged its responsibilities the effectiveness of the audit process with managers to further understand the way in on the following matters: due regard to relevant UK professional and which the Group operates, the risks it faces regulatory requirements: and its internal control framework.
These Financial Reporting agree the scope of the external auditors discussions help shape thought processes reviewed the Groups final and half-yearly annual audit plan and the output: and decision making, and promote a more results, and considered the significant rounded view of the Group.
accounting policies, principal estimates review and amend as necessary the policy andaccounting judgments used in their on the provision of non-audit services by Richard Adam preparation and the transparency and theexternal auditor with due regard to Chair, Audit Committee clarityof disclosures within them, and ethicalguidance: compliance with financial reporting consider and make recommendations to standards and governance: theBoard in respect of the appointment, reviewed the matters which informed the re-appointment, dismissal or resignation Boards assessment that it was appropriate to ofthe external auditor: prepare accounts on a going concern basis: review annually the Committees own reviewed the process for assessing the performance and terms of reference: and long-term viability of the Company: report formally to the Board on how the received reports from management and Committee has discharged its responsibilities.
theexternal auditor on accounting, financial reporting regulation and taxation issues: 58 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance reviewed reports from the external auditor on assessed the objectivity and independence permitted non-audit services there are a its audit in respect of the final and half-yearly of the external auditor.
In assessing number of projects or engagements where results prior to them being approved by the independence and objectivity, the the external auditor is best placed to perform Board: and Committee considered the level and nature the work due to their skills and knowledge of service provided by the external auditor as ofthe business, or experience and market reviewed and assessed the process by well as confirmation from the external auditor leadership in a particular area.
These are set which the Annual Report and Accounts, that it has remained independent: out in the policy and include providing tax taken as a whole, was fair, balanced and compliance advice in line with the Ethical understandable and provided the information received reports on the findings of the external Standard and other related corporate necessary for shareholders to assess the auditor during the half-yearly review and annual governance guidance, formalities relating Companys position and performance, audit, and reviewed the recommendations toshareholder circulars and various other business model and strategy.
made to management by the external auditor regulatory reports, and professional training.
and managements responses: Internal control, risk management and Before engaging in any work of this type, reviewed letters of representation to the internal audit approval is required from the CFO with external auditor: and reviewed the structure and effectiveness services likely to cost more than 125,000 ofthe Groups system of risk management requiring the approval of the Committee: recommended the re-appointment of the andinternal control and the disclosures external auditor.
other permitted non-audit services for made in the Annual Report and Accounts those projects or engagements that are not Other matters onthis matter: covered by the permitted non-audit services reviewed its terms of reference and the reviewed the Groups risk management category and where the external auditor is results of its performance evaluation: activities undertaken by the divisions and best placed to provide them, approval is received reports from divisional and atGroup level in order to identify, measure required from the CFO, with services likely functional management on a range of and assess the Groups principal risks and tocost more than 75,000 requiring the financial, operational, risk management, legal develop a risk appetite statement for approval of the Committee.
In addition, and corporate governance matters, including recommendation to the Board: theCommittee considers whether a tender a review on cyber security arrangements should be conducted before awarding such reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk across the Group, and GWR performance work to the external auditor: and management framework, and reports arising regime receipts: from the risk management process: not permitted services there are some received reports on the latest technical projects that are not to be performed by approved the annual internal audit plan and accounting, taxation and regulatory theexternal auditor because they would reviewed reports from the internal audit changes:and represent a threat to the independence department relating to control matters.
received reports on matters raised on ofthe audit team, for example where the Progress against the internal audit plan was theconfidential reporting system and the external auditor is remunerated through monitored and any deviations to the plan process for the investigation of such matters, asuccess fee or where the project could were agreed: ensuring that the arrangements in place were leadto the external auditor being in a position monitored and assessed the Groups appropriate for employees to confidentially of auditing their own work or making insurance arrangements: and raise concerns about possible legal, management decisions for the Company considered reports from the General Counsel regulatory or other improprieties.
& Company Secretary on litigation matters.
Policy on the provision of non-audit The policy requires that non-audit services External auditor services ofthe external auditor will only be used where approved the terms of engagement of The Committees policy on the use of the the Group benefits in a cost-effective manner theexternal auditor, the fees paid to it external auditor for non-audit services, which and the external auditor maintains the andthe scope of work carried out by it: has been updated to reflect the FRCs Ethical necessary degree of independence Standard revised in 2016, includes the andobjectivity.
performed an annual review of the policies identification of non-audit services that may be on the independence and objectivity of Twice a year the Committee is also provided provided and those prohibited, and a process theexternal auditor, the use of the external with a report on all non-audit assignments through which other non-audit services may auditor for non-audit services and the awarded to the external auditor and a be provided.
The policy can be summarised employment of former employees of the breakdown of non-audit fees incurred.
Details as follows: external auditor: of amounts paid to the external auditor for audit-related services the external auditor audit and non-audit services for the year reviewed the performance and effectiveness can be invited to provide services, which in ended 31 March 2017 are set out in note 6 of the external auditor in respect of the its position as external auditor, it must or is tothe consolidated financial statements.
previous financial year: best placed to undertake as it is clearly audit-related.
These include reviews of half-yearly and other interim financial information, adviceon correct accounting treatment of proposed transactions and reporting on regulatory returns: FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 59 Corporate governance report continued The Groups system of internal control and risk It remains the Committees intention to put the Auditor independence management was reviewed by the Committee external audit out to tender during the lead andobjectivity throughout the year.
Key external audit findings audit partners five-year tenure, which is due to The independence of the external auditor and management actions were discussed as expire at the conclusion of the 2019 20 audit.
isessential to the provision of an objective well as reports at each meeting on the This means that the external audit will be put opinion on the true and fair view presented in outcomes of Internal Audit planned activities.
out to tender in 2019 so that the process is the financial statements.
The external auditors The operation and effectiveness of Internal completed by the conclusion of the 2019 20 independence and objectivity are safeguarded Audit were also reviewed, including its focus, audit.
This approach is in accordance with the by a number of control measures: plans and resources.
The Committee EU audit reform legislation and the Statutory limiting the nature of non-audit services monitored the progress of action plans to Audit Services for Large Companies Market performed by the external auditor: ensure they were completed satisfactorily.
Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive placing restrictions on the employment Tender Processes and Audit Committee Assessing the effectiveness of the bythe Group of certain employees of the Responsibilities Order 2014. external audit process external auditor: The Committee manages the relationship with Significant issues monitoring the changes in legislation related the external auditor on behalf of the Board.
The external audit process identifies significant to auditor objectivity and independence to During 2016 17, the effectiveness of the issues and accounting judgments which help ensure the Company remains compliant: external audit process was reviewed by the arereviewed by the Committee.
These Committee and the findings reported to the aresummarised in the table on page 61. providing a confidential helpline that Board.
This involved an initial assessment of Management prepared papers and analysis employees can use to report any concerns, the delivery and performance of the external on the significant issues and judgments which including those relating to the relationship auditor against the external audit plan for the were discussed in Committee meetings during between Group employees and the year, which includes the reports and updates the year.
The Committee also discussed these externalauditor: provided to the Committee.
An annual issues with the external auditor at the half year the rotation of the lead auditor partner after assessment was then carried out by the and year end.
All the significant issues were five years: Committee, taking into account the results also areas of focus for the external auditor independent reporting lines from the external ofquestionnaires completed by each of the asdetailed in the auditors report.
auditor to the Committee and the opportunity divisions and Group management.
These to meet the Committee independently: and questionnaires covered a variety of topics including: the audit partners and team: the an annual review by the Committee of planning and execution of the audit approach: thepolicy in place to ensure the objectivity and insights and added value provided by and independence of the external auditor theaudit process.
Feedback from the annual ismaintained.
assessment was shared with the external Internal control and auditor so that any areas for improvement riskmanagement could be followed up.
The Committee During the year the Committee reviewed the concluded that the external audit process requirements of the Code in relation to the waseffective.
assessment and reporting of longer-term External audit tendering viability, risk management and internal control.
The current external auditor, Deloitte LLP, was The Committee assessed the Groups risk appointed in 1998 following a full tendering management methodology, which is used to process.
The Committee has undertaken a identify and manage the principal risks, as well review of Deloittes performance every year as the reporting and categorisation of Group since its appointment.
The Committee also reviewed the remains satisfied with Deloittes performance, process for assessing the principal risks believes that consistency of approach in the thatcould threaten the Companys business audit is of particular importance as the Group model, future performance, solvency or returns to a leadership position.
The Company liquidity in order to make the long-term viability will not, therefore, be putting its audit out to statement on page 83 and considered the tender in the next year, but the Committee appropriate period for which the Company willreview this annually.
60 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Significant issues and judgments How the Audit Committee addressed these issues Carrying value of First Student goodwill and intangible assets Management exercises a significant amount of judgment during the The Committee has considered the inputs for the impairment test impairment testing process as it is based on an estimation of future model.
The cash flow forecasts have been reviewed alongside past cash flows and a suitable discount rate.
performance and committed operational changes to the business.
The discount rate has been benchmarked to externally available data.
The growth rate assumptions have been applied in line with both market data and the macroeconomic environment in the UK and North America.
Sensitivities to the model inputs have been tested for reasonableness.
Further detail on impairment testing is provided in notes 2 and 11 in the consolidated financial statements.
North America self-insurance provisions Provisions are measured at managements best estimate of the likely The Committee has reviewed the provision and considered the settlement of all known incidents.
A valuation of the expense required assumptions used to calculate the liability.
Independent actuarial to settle the obligation and, where applicable, the discount rate is expert advice on the adequacy of the provisions against such used to calculate the expected settlement.
liabilities is sought on a regular basis and the discount rate has been benchmarked against external data.
Further detail on the assumptions used in determining the value is provided in notes 2 and 26 in the consolidated financial statements.
Pensions The Group participates in a number of defined benefit pension Management has engaged with external experts and the Committee schemes.
Management exercises significant judgment when has considered the assumptions used for calculating the liability.
determining the assumptions used to value the pension liabilities as Sensitivity analysis has been performed on the key assumptions which are: the discount and the inflation rates.
The overall liability has these are materially sensitive to changes in the underlying assumptions.
also been assessed for reasonableness.
Further detail on pensions is provided in notes 2 and 34 in the consolidated financial statements.
Revenue recognition Estimates are made on an ongoing basis when determining the The Committee has reviewed the revenue recognition policies.
These recoverability of amounts due and the carrying value of related assets policies and their application are in line with accounting standards.
and liabilities arising from franchises and long-term service contracts.
Regular forecasts are compiled on the outcome of these types In addition, revenue recorded may be subject to adjustment to reflect offranchises and contracts to assess the reasonableness of the the timing and valuation of revenue recognised, e. g. due to timing of assumptions applied.
Further detail on revenue recognition is travel or where amounts are unbilled at a period-end.
provided in note 2 in the consolidated financial statements.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 61 Corporate governance report continued assess the impact of safety decisions and Membership Board Safety Committee actions taken by the Group on its reputation, The current members of the Committee are Jim employees and other stakeholders: Winestock, who chairs it: Jimmy Groombridge, Group Employee Director and Imelda Walsh, monitor and assess the commitment Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
andbehaviour of management towards TheDeputy Company Secretary acts as safety-related risks: Committee Secretary.
review safety performance and significant Safety Governance safety incidents, considering the key causes The Committee meets at least three times thereof and ensuring actions are taken and peryear and reviews safety performance on communications made by management to behalf of the Board, providing oversight of the prevent similar incidents occurring in the future: management of the Group safety risk prole.
make proposals to the Remuneration The Committee promotes a positive safety Committee regarding appropriate safety culture throughout the business and reports performance objectives for Executive back to the Board on safety trends, actions Directors and certain senior managers: and and other deliberations.
review the findings of internal or external The Executive Safety Committee, chaired reports on the Groups safety, assessing any bythe Chief Executive, meets six times per strategies and action plans developed by The tragic tram incident in Croydon, year to review and oversee the Groups safety management in response to issues raised and, which resulted in the loss of seven strategy and the performance, procedures where appropriate, making recommendations and practices of the divisions and operating lives, highlights the importance of to the Board on such matters.
continuously reviewing and improving Activities in 2016 17 our safety strategy, procedures, Divisions and operating companies consider The Committees agenda during the year safety at executive level at monthly meetings systems and performance.
covered a range of matters including: toreview performance, agree divisional safety We continue to provide full support to the safety performance of the Group, its divisions plans and actions and drive safety performance.
ongoing investigations into the incident.
It is and operating companies and significant The overall structure of FirstGroups safety absolutely essential that we learn the lessons incidents across the Group: governance represents a balance between that emerge: all relevant recommendations lessons learnt and steps taken following delegated decision making to the operating from the investigations will be implemented.
significant incidents: company and retaining strategic direction, We welcome the roll out of the Be Safe oversight and challenge from theBoard.
safety targets for incentive plans and programme across the Group.
This is a highly approval of performance outturns: Our approach to safety governance is valuable investment that will change behaviours characterised by: key safety initiatives across the Group: and and culture, building on established compliance with safety management systems, processes, terms of reference and performance the Committee overseeing material procedures and practices to achieve the goal evaluation of the Committee.
safetymatters and risks across the Group, of zero harm.
The Board commends the as well as reviewing safety targets for In addition to the above, a key focus of the implementation of this forward-looking and remuneration purposes: Committee has been the Be Safe programme, innovative programme, which was sponsored management of the relevant operating which is designed to deliver a step change in by the Committee.
company having primary responsibility for safety performance through the enhanced The year nishes with the Group having the design and implementation of an safety behaviours of our employees.
Be Safe successfully improved the majority of its effective safety management system, and isa comprehensive programme which occupational performance indicators, with the accountability forsafety performance: and encompasses the safety management total number of staff injuries, days lost through system, includes safety rules enforcement and the safety function providing advice directly incidents at work, staff major injuries and promotes behavioural change using positive and through a series of networks across fatalities all reduced.
Initial indications from the theGroup.
reduced but major injuries and fatalities locations who were first to implement Be Safe For more information on the Groups approach increased and included those who were are encouraging.
to safety and activities in the year, see pages 40 injured and lost their lives in Croydon.
Also, to better understand the safety risk and 41 in the Corporate responsibility section.
Proactive steps are being taken across exposures and challenges faced by the Role and responsibilities theGroup in training, technology and divisions and the operating companies and The key responsibilities of the Board Safety management to ensure the safety of the actions being taken to address these, Committee are to: customers, employees and third parties.
during the year presentations were given by Safety is front of mind but we must accelerate the senior management teams of Greyhound, keep under review the development and our progress toward achieving zero harm.
First Rail and First Student.
maintenance of a framework of policies and standards for managing safety risks and Jim Winestock theirimpact on the Groups activities: Chair, Board Safety Committee 62 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017
