CoRPoRAtE GovERNANCE The work of the Board complements, enhances and supports the Chairmans introduction work of the Executive Committee.
We believe that effective governance is realised through leadership and team work.
As I mentioned in my Chairmans Collaboration across all levels within the Board structure drives a statement earlier in this report, culture of continuous improvement in standards and performance market conditions continued to be across our business.
The Board and its Committee structure is set out below.
Despite these, the Company has continued to focus on the on-going execution of the Groups Remuneration Nomination strategy of generating growth in our Committee Committee Group branded and functional ingredients Board Audit CR businesses, particularly following the commencement of Committee Committee manufacture of our new demineralised whey and GOS ingredients.
During the year the Management Board has been renamed the Executive Committee Executive Committee and this Committee continues to execute its responsibilities with the same membership and terms of reference.
Demand HR Finance Legal Supply In addition, following the implementation of the Modern Slavery Act 2015, the Group has published its first Modern Slavery transparency Board Committees: The Board has established five Committees: statement for the financial year 2015 16.
The statement for financial Audit Committee year 2016 17 will be published in September 2017.
Corporate Responsibility Committee Executive Committee The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance Nomination Committee and supports the principles laid down in the UK Corporate Remuneration Committee Governance Code published in September 2014 by the Financial Reporting Council Code.
A copy of the Code can be found at The terms of reference of these Committees can be found on our www.
The Board considers that the Group has complied website and the reports of each Committee are on pages 34 to 61. with all relevant provisions of the Code.
The Board delegates to the Executive Committee the execution of The Board recognises its collective responsibility for the governance the Groups strategy and the day-to-day management and of the Company.
Its strong governance framework is supported by a operations of the Groups business.
combination of clear values, appropriate policy, and an environment of transparency and accountability.
The Boards central role is to Board Composition: The Board consists of three Executive work alongside the executive team providing support, challenge, Directors and four Non-executive Directors including the Chairman.
I believe that the Board is well balanced A list of the current Directors, their roles on the Board and its with a broad range of skills, diversity and experience.
Committees and their experience is set out on pages 28 to 29.
Stephen Alexander Chairman Further details on the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and 17 May 2017 Chief Executive are in the document entitled Chairman Chief Executive Division of Responsibilities on the Groups website.
the Board Richard Macdonald is the Companys Senior Independent Director.
Role: The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the Group, corporate governance, strategy, risk management and independence of Directors: The Board reviews the financial performance.
The Board meets regularly throughout the independence of its Non-executive Directors as part of its annual year to approve the Groups strategic objectives, to lead the Group Board effectiveness review.
The Chairman is committed to ensuring that the Board comprises a majority of independent Non-executive within a framework of effective controls which enable risk to be Directors who objectively challenge management, balanced against assessed and managed, and to ensure sufficient resources are the need to ensure continuity on the Board.
The Board considers available to meet the objectives set.
that all the Non-executive Directors bring strong independent oversight and continue to demonstrate independence.
The Board There are a number of matters which are specifically reserved for the recognises the recommended term of appointment for NonBoards approval: strategy and management, structure and share executive Directors within the Code.
It is mindful of the need for capital, corporate governance, approval of dividends, remuneration, suitable succession, and therefore maintains a clear framework of approval of significant transactions, capital expenditure and the time each Non-executive Director has served the Company and contracts.
the skill sets that each provide.
In addition, the Board is responsible for ensuring appropriate values, The Chairman periodically meets individually or collectively with the ethics and behaviours for the conduct of the Company are agreed Non-executive Directors in the absence of the Executive Directors.
and that appropriate procedures and training are in place to ensure that these are observed throughout the Company.
30 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 Board meetings: A minimum of eight face to face meetings are Attendance: The attendance of the Directors at Board and planned throughout the year to consider for example, half year and Committee meetings during the year is shown in the table below.
full year announcements and the strategy of the Group.
Other ad The numbers in brackets show the maximum number of meetings hoc meetings are held as and when required.
Details of the Board Directors could have attended during 2016 17. and Committee meetings held during the 2016 17 year are set out in the table below.
Board and main Committee meetings The Directors named in the table below held office during the year.
The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by Directors inthe year is shown in the table below.
The numbers in brackets show the maximum number of meetings Directors could have attended during 2016 17.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Corporate Executive Responsibility Committee Mr M Allen 8 8 3 3 32 42 Mr t Atherton 8 8 3 3 35 42 Mr A Braithwaite 8 8 2 2 25 28 Mr S Alexander 8 8 5 5 6 6 2 2 Mr A Carr-Locke 8 8 5 5 6 6 2 2 3 3 Ms S farr 8 8 5 5 6 6 1 2 3 3 Mr R Macdonald 8 8 5 5 6 6 2 2 3 3 Board effectiveness review: Each year the performance of the The Board effectiveness review concluded that: Board and its Committees is reviewed.
The last externally facilitated All Directors perform well and all continue to make valuable review was carried out during the 2015 16 financial year with the contributions to the work of the Board assistance of Russell Reynolds Associates.
During the year, the Further enhancements to the skills and experience represented Chairman oversaw the implementation of various recommendations amongst the Directors in the area of FMCG marketing and or arising from the last review.
This year the Board and its Committees international ingredients businesses would be beneficial more carried out an effectiveness review without external assistance.
The detail of the continued work of the Nomination Committee in that use of questionnaires based on the framework provided by Russell regard can be found on pages 38 to 39 of this Annual Report Reynolds Associates last year ensured year-on-year consistency The Board, initially through the work of the Nomination Committee, and enabled progress against the previous year to be tracked and needed to ensure continued focus on the requirement in the near assessed.
They were completed by Directors in March 2017 and the future to ensure appropriate refreshment of Non-executive Director output from the questionnaires was used to inform a review appointments discussion at the Boards meeting in April 2017.
That discussion included an evaluation of the Chairman of the Boards performance, The effectiveness reviews of the Committees concluded that the without the Chairman present, which was led by the Senior Committees continue to perform well and to fulfil their briefs against Independent Director.
The review process identified, amongst other matters, and in particular: Evaluation questions for the Board were grouped into four key areas: The need for greater rigour in the reporting of all Committees to strategy, structure & process, people & composition, and the Board stakeholders.
Those four key areas were sub-divided into more That the importance of the Corporate Responsibility Committee specific areas of focus including, amongst other matters, the needed further emphasis so that it is demonstrably given as much performance of the Chairman of the Board, the performance of the prominence and focus as the longer standing Audit, Nomination Chairmen of the Committees and the performance of Directors and Remuneration Committees.
To that end it was decided that individually.
Directors were also asked to comment on progress progress by the Group against the four pillars of the CR strategy made against specific development opportunities identified for the should be added to the Executive Committees work programme Board in the 2015 16 effectiveness review.
Committee for quarterly review in addition to the existing regular reviews of questionnaires, which were also based on the framework used the health & safety and technical, quality & environmental prior year to allow consistency and for progress to be tracked, were performance.
Doing so will ensure continuous rigorous completed in March 2017.
Each of the Committees reviewed the operational focus on all of the pillars of the CR strategy.
In addition, output of the questionnaires alongside their terms of reference at on days when the Board has Committee meetings, the Corporate their meetings in May 2017.
Committee questionnaires focussed on, Responsibility Committee meeting shall be scheduled as the first amongst other matters: the quality of leadership, the quality of of the Committee meetings to ensure that it receives appropriate debate, performance against and suitability of Committee terms of focus and that sufficient time is devoted to it, equivalent to that of reference, and the quality of Committee reporting.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 31 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Director induction and training: All new Directors undergo a Shareholder engagement: The Company recognises its comprehensive induction programme on appointment.
In addition to responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue takes place equipping Directors with sufficiently detailed knowledge of the with shareholders.
This continued engagement is highly beneficial to operations of the Groups business to enable them effectively to all parties as it helps to build a greater understanding of our carry out their duties, the induction programme is tailored to their investors views, opinions and concerns.
The Chief Executive and experience, background and particular areas of focus.
On-going Group Finance Director have primary responsibility for investor training is provided for the Board by way of site visits, presentations relations.
and circulation of updates on, amongst other things, corporate governance, environmental, regulatory developments and investor Throughout the year the Board has continued to maintain an active relations matters.
programme of engagement with investors with regular meetings held with key institutional shareholders to discuss strategy, financial On appointment Adam Braithwaite received one to one training on performance and investment activities.
This year the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director met with over 90 investors in eleven directors duties and responsibilities from the Groups external major cities in the UK, Europe, North America and Canada.
solicitors, Eversheds Sutherland International LLP.
Analysts and investors are invited to our capital markets day each During the year the Market Abuse Regulation which came into effect year and this year it was held at our Davidstow creamery.
It focussed in July 2016 was a particular point of focus and the Board was fully on the dairy market, the Companys strategy and performance and briefed on the updated inside information and share dealing policies included a tour of the new demineralised whey and GOS and procedures arising from the new regulations.
The event was attended by the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Commercial Director and Conflicts of interest: The Companys Articles of Association other senior management.
In addition there were further shareholder Articles allow the Directors, where appropriate, to authorise visits to both Davidstow and our Nuneaton site.
conflicts or possible conflicts of interest between Directors and the Company.
In addition, Non-executive Directors letters of Presentation slides are made available in the investors section of the appointment require them to obtain the prior approval of the Board Companys website along with audio recordings, annual and interim to appointments external to the Company where those reports, interim management statements, trading updates and appointments might affect the time they are able to devote to their company announcements.
When considering conflicts or potential conflicts of interest, the conflicted or potentially conflicted Director is excluded from All the Non-executive Directors, and, in particular, the Chairman and participation in the Boards consideration of the conflict or potential Senior Independent Director, are available to meet with conflict situation.
Feedback from meetings with shareholders is provided to the Board to ensure that all Directors have a balanced Procedures are in place for Directors to disclose conflicts or potential understanding of the issues and concerns of shareholders.
As at April 2017 the Directors all confirmed that Board receives feedback from the Chief Executive and the Group they had no present or anticipated conflicts of interest.
No Director Finance Director on their meetings with shareholders, periodic had a material interest in any significant contract with the Company reports on investor relations and independent feedback from the or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
Companys brokers on the views of major shareholders.
Appointment and re-election of Directors: The Articles provide Risk management and internal control that the Directors or the members, by ordinary resolution, may The Board determines the nature and extent of the significant risks it appoint a Director to fill a vacancy or as an additional director.
The is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
It has overall Articles require all Directors to be re-elected annually.
All Directors responsibility for monitoring the Groups risk management and will stand for re-election at the Companys 2017 Annual General internal control systems and the effectiveness of those systems.
It is Meeting AGM except for Adam Braithwaite, who consistent with assisted in that task by the Audit Committee and the Group Internal the Articles, will stand for election having been appointed since the Audit function.
There is an on-going process for identifying, last AGM.
Having regard to the roles performed by each of the evaluating and managing the principal risks facing the Group.
The Directors, the individual input and contribution they make and their Board has delegated responsibility for management of day-to-day individual expertise and experience, the Board is satisfied that each operational risks to the Executive Committee.
The Audit Committee Directors performance justifies nomination for election or re-election conducts reviews of the internal control systems and the Board by shareholders.
The principal risks and uncertainties identified by the Group are set out on pages 16 to 17 along with the steps Service agreements and letters of appointment: Details of the which are taken to mitigate and manage them.
The Board has Executive Directors service agreements and the Chairman and satisfied itself that its systems accord with the FRCs Guidance on Non-executive Directors letters of appointment are published on the Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Companys website and appear in the Directors Remuneration Business Reporting and that satisfactory internal control procedures report on page 47.
These documents are available for inspection at and systems have been in place throughout the year and up to and the registered office of the Company during normal business hours including the date of this Report in compliance with the requirements or at the AGM.
independent advice: The Board has approved a procedure for A rolling audit programme conducted by Group Internal Audit across Directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys the Group forms a key facet of the Groups systems of internal expense if necessary.
No such advice was sought by any Director control.
The Head of Group Internal Audit reports independently to during the year.
In addition, the Directors have direct access to the the Chairman of the Audit Committee on assurance matters.
Under advice and services of the Company Secretary.
its terms of reference, the Audit Committee, amongst other matters, approves the appointment or dismissal of the Head of Group Internal 32 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 Audit and the Audit Committee Chairman approves the fair balanced and understandable: Provision C. 1 of the Code remuneration of the Head of Group Internal Audit.
It is not possible to requires the Directors to present a fair, balanced and understandable eliminate risk entirely.
Accordingly, although the Groups systems are assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
When the designed to manage risks they cannot provide absolute assurance provision was first introduced to the Code, the Audit Committee against material misstatement or loss.
They provide reasonable adopted a detailed process to enable the Board to report against assurance that potential issues can be identified promptly and this principle of the Code.
The resultant more structured approach remedied appropriately.
The key components of the risk see table below to the preparation of the Report and Accounts has management and internal control systems include: been applied in the production of this Report and Accounts which The adoption and communication of clearly documented values, the Board formally signed off at its meeting in May 2017. policies, procedures and processes, including, amongst others, January february March April May the Groups Business Conduct Policy initial content Agree key Review and formal sign off Reservation to the Board of control of, amongst other matters, all production messages sign off significant strategic, financial and organisational risks Consider level of Prepare content Start completing Confirmation from assurance A management structure which includes clear lines of not dependent on and collating contributors as to obtained over responsibility and documented delegations of authority with year end results, performance completeness of non-financial e. g. : business related content, appropriate policies, levels and rules for, amongst other matters, input.
information in the model, strategy, e. g. remuneration ARA.
incurring capital expenditure or divesting of the Groups assets Appropriate review corporate report.
of full content, for Where applicable The operation of comprehensive financial and strategic planning, governance Consider new consistency, Audit Committee to sections.
forecasting and review processes regulations and completeness and formally report to Exercise of oversight by the Audit Committee, with input from the Project Manager consistency with messaging: review the Board on how it PM considers key messages and and amend.
has satisfied itself Head of Group Internal Audit, over the Groups control processes whether content KPIs.
Sign-off by designed to ensure the integrity of internal and external financial collated is itself and PM considers section owners.
Board to minute collectively fair reporting whether content consideration of balanced and Bring together all The preparation of monthly management accounts packs for the collated is itself and FBU with Board understandable section owners to collectively FBU: paper showing the business, including KPI dashboards for each constituent part of FBU : review and agree that whole review and amend.
Annual Report and the Groups business, trading results, balance sheet and cash flow results.
Accounts ARA is Identify material information with comparison against prior year and budget, all of FBU.
events which are reviewed by the Executive Committee and the Board performance Consider formal Monthly scrutiny of performance against budget including issues that will sign off from need to be section owners to analysis of key trends, variances and key risks and plans for reported.
mitigation as well as the continued appropriateness of those risks in monthly meetings referred to as Accounts Reviews where each key constituent part of the Group and key departments report The Boards assessment of the fair, balanced and understandable performance year-to-date and forecast against budget to a panel nature of the Annual Report and Accounts is further assisted by, comprising the Executive Committee and other senior managers amongst other matters, the following: Formal documented financial controls and procedures including The Annual Report and Accounts is drafted by senior specific procedures for treasury transactions and the approval of management with overall coordination by the Company Secretary significant contracts & General Counsel.
Quarterly completion by each key constituent part of the Group of An internal validation process is undertaken by Group Internal a self-assessment controls questionnaire that requires the Audit to ensure factual accuracy.
approval of management Comprehensive reviews of the draft Annual Report and Accounts Preparation and refreshment of risk registers which are reviewed are undertaken by Executive Committee members and in relation by senior management, the Executive Committee and the Board to certain sections by the Companys external lawyers, the with the assignment of individual responsibility for the ownership external auditor and other advisers.
and mitigation of significant risks to members of the Executive The drafts of each relevant section are reviewed as they are Committee and independent assurance over the appropriate prepared through an iterative drafting process by the Chairmen of implementation and operation of mitigating activities provided by appropriate Committees of the Board and the final draft is Group Internal Audit reviewed by those Committees prior to consideration by the Review by the Audit Committee of the Groups risk register Board.
processes Review and approval of the audit plan for the Group Internal Audit At its May 2017 meeting, the Board reviewed and was satisfied that function together with progress against and revision of the plan as the Annual Report and Accounts for financial year 2016 17, taken as appropriate, throughout the year a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and the Board Receipt by the Audit Committee and the Executive Committee of believes that the information contained therein provides the all Group Internal Audit reports detailing audit issues noted, information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys corrective action plans and progress against those plans and Groups performance, position, business model and strategy.
The operation of an integrated business planning process with formal procedures for highlighting on a monthly cycle financial performance and risks to budgetary delivery together with associated opportunities to counteract or mitigate those risks to performance Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 33 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Summary of the more significant risks and financial Audit Committee report reporting issues The Committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the As Chairman of the Audit Groups framework for risk management and financial controls, and Committee, I am pleased to present ensuring that the Groups procedures are updated as and when the Audit Committees report for the required.
On behalf of the Board, the Committee has carried out a year ended 31 March 2017. robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company.
The Committee has discussed with management the key estimations During the year, the Committee has and judgements applied to the Groups financial statements and the continued to play a key role within impact of significant accounting matters arising during the year.
The the Groups governance framework main items discussed were: to support the Board in matters relating to internal control, risk 1.
Revenue recognition management and financial reporting.
The Groups accounting policy for promotional accruals provides that the Group accrues for agreed promotional funding, which is Over the following pages we provide insight into the workings calculated based on a number of estimates and judgements relating of the Committee and its activities during the year.
The Committee has reviewed the levels of provides an overview of the significant issues the Committee promotional accruals and considered the results of the interim has assessed and the Committees opinion on the 2017 Annual review and the audit conducted by EY which assessed the design of Report and Accounts as a whole, including how it has assessed controls around this area and tested samples to underlying the narrative reporting in the front of the report to accurately report documentation.
The Committee was satisfied with the judgements the financial statements in the back.
made by management in respect of the accounting policy for promotional accruals and that the revenue reported for the year had been appropriately recognised.
The Committee members as Directors of the Company have an in depth understanding and ownership of the Companys strategy.
Exceptional items They receive regular updates on strategic progress together with The Groups accounting policy on exceptional items provides that insight concerning day-to-day performance through the receipt of items of a material, one-off nature are classified as exceptional.
The the Executive Committee meeting minutes and monthly Committee considered the nature and levels of exceptional items management accounts.
This enables the Committee to determine associated with both the continuing and discontinued operations areas of focus in addition to its regular work programme.
During the together with the results of the interim review and the audit year we paid particular attention to controls following the major conducted by EY.
The Committee was satisfied that exceptional reorganisation arising from the disposal of the Dairies business and items had been appropriately classified and disclosed, treated the large scale investment programme at Davidstow.
consistently and that discussions with management were transparent.
Of specific importance this year has been the oversight of a formal 3.
Goodwill tender process for the Groups statutory auditor contract, following The goodwill held by the Group is reviewed for impairment on an the retirement by rotation of the Groups current auditor, Ernst & annual basis.
This exercise requires management to make an Young EY.
Following the audit tender and the recommendations of estimate of future cash flows.
The Committee has considered the the Audit Committee, the Board has appointed Deloitte LLP impairment review completed by management and the findings of Deloitte as its external auditor for the year commencing 1 April the external auditor: it is satisfied that the assumptions made in 2017.
The appointment will be subject to shareholder approval at the concluding that no impairment has been required are appropriate.
Retirement benefit obligations Looking forward to the next 12 months, the Committee will continue The valuation of the Groups retirement benefit obligations is made at to focus on the audit, assurance, and risks processes within the each reporting date in accordance with international financial business, as well as monitoring changes in EU and UK regulation, reporting standards.
The valuation is subject to a number of including the impact of Brexit.
We will also implement a more formal assumptions and estimates and the Committee is satisfied that appraisal process of the quality of our external audit.
those made at 31 March 2017 are appropriate.
I would like to thank the other members of the Committee and Dairy 5. other income property Crests Internal Audit and Finance teams for their on-going support.
I The Group recognises the profit on disposal of closed depots as would particularly like to record my thanks to EY for their contribution Other Income Property.
The Committee has considered this to the Committee and the Company over many years.
treatment: both the Committee and the external auditor are satisfied that it is appropriate.
Andrew Carr-Locke Chairman of the Audit Committee 17 May 2017 6.
Non-current assets held for sale The Group has classified some closed properties as non-current assets held for sale on the basis that they meet the criteria under international financial reporting standards.
The Committee is satisfied that the assumptions made around the timing of the disposals are appropriate.
Dilapidations liability Membership: The Committee is composed entirely of independent A contingent liability has been disclosed in respect of a potential Non-executive Directors.
The current members and details of their dilapidation liability relating to Chadwell Heath, a manufacturing site attendance at meetings are set out on page 31.
The Committee disposed of with the Dairies business.
The Committee has members have between them a wide range of business and financial experience appropriate to the sector in which the Company considered the Groups position and together with the external operates.
The Board considers that Andrew Carr-Locke has recent auditor is satisfied that the disclosure as a contingent liability is and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the Code.
invitations to attend meetings: A standing invitation is made to 8.
Litigation liability the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance There are a number of contractual disputes in relation to the Director and the Group Commercial Director to attend the demineralised whey and GOS capital project at Davidstow.
The Group Financial Controller, Head of claims made by, and against, the Group remain outstanding at 31 Internal Audit and representatives of the external auditor attend all March 2017.
The Committee has considered the Groups position meetings.
In addition, the Committee holds private meetings with the and both the Committee and the external auditor are satisfied that Head of Internal Audit and with the external auditor.
the disclosure as a contingent liability is appropriate.
Role: The Committee oversees and reviews the Groups financial 9. operating segments reporting processes, the consistency of the Groups accounting Management has judged that the Group operates as one segment policies, the effectiveness of the Groups accounting and business under international financial reporting standards.
This judgement has risk systems and the Groups Internal Audit function, the external remained unchanged from the prior year and the Committee is audit process and relationship with the external auditor, and the satisfied this is appropriate and supports the voluntary disclosure Groups process for monitoring compliance with applicable laws and provided in Note 1 to the Accounts.
Deferred tax terms of reference: The Committees terms of reference, which The Committee has considered the recoverability of tax losses that are reviewed annually by the Committee, take into account relevant have arisen from various unprofitable operations and rationalisation legislation and recommended good practice.
The terms of reference initiatives of the Group.
The Committee discussed with both were reviewed in March 2017 and can be found on the Groups management and the external auditor the key judgements which website.
had been made and was satisfied that the judgements were reasonable and that, accordingly, the deferred tax asset recognised in the accounts is appropriate.
11. fair balanced and understandable The Committee has considered whether the 2017 Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position, performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee was satisfied with the process which had been followed for the preparation of the 2017 Report and Accounts: it has reviewed and provided feedback on the content of the draft Report for consideration by the Board and the Report was amended to incorporate this feedback.
Following this review, the Committee was of the opinion that the 2017 Report and Accounts is representative of the year and presents a fair, balanced and understandable overview, providing the necessary information for shareholders.
Going concern The Committee reviewed managements assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in line with the guidance published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
The assessment included a review of the principal risks facing the Group, their financial impact, how they were being managed, together with a discussion as to the appropriate period for assessment.
The Groups viability statement is included in the Directors report on page 62.
Effectiveness of internal Audit The Committee engaged a third party to conduct a review of the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function.
Overall the Internal Audit function substantially meets key stakeholders expectations and provides a good source of assurance for the Committee.
The Committee supported the recommendations made and has worked with the Head of Internal Audit to implement them.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 35 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Meetings: The Committee has a regular work programme of External Auditor: activity agreed between the Chairman of the Committee, the The Committee considers that the relationship with the current Groups management and the external auditor.
The Committee auditor is working well and is satisfied with the effectiveness.
As undertakes additional work in response to the evolving audit reported in the 2016 Annual Report, the Committee concluded that landscape.
A summary of some of the key matters considered at a tender for the external audit contract should take place during each meeting during the year are set out below: 2016 to enable the appointment of a new external auditor for the start of the 2017 18 financial year.
EY has been the Companys and Groups external auditor since 1996 and the external audit Meeting Key matters considered appointment has not been tendered competitively since EYs appointment.
Accordingly EY is retiring by rotation and was not 12 May External auditor EYs 2015 16 year end final report 2016 invited to tender.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ending 31 March 2016 including fair balanced and understandable review External auditor tender process: External audit re-appointment of EY as external auditor Process and selection criteria and external control effectiveness The tender process was overseen by the Chairman of the Going concern review Committee and carried out in compliance with the provisions of the Competition and Markets Authority Audit Order 2014 CMA Order.
Group Internal Audits report on financial and operational A selection committee was appointed, comprising the Chairman of controls audits, whistleblowing notifications and work plan for 2016 17 the Committee, a Non-executive Director who is also a member of the Audit Committee, the Group Finance Director and Group 12 September Review of financial controls including failures Financial Controller.
The process was supported by the Groups 2016 EYs audit planning report third party procurement specialists.
The selection criteria adopted by the selection committee closely followed those detailed in the Audit Group Internal Audits report on financial and operational Tender notes of best practice set out by the FRC as at July 2013 controls audits and whistleblowing notifications namely, quality and clarity of approach, understanding of the External audit tender process update business and risks, appropriate geographic breadth, appropriate team structure and experience, cultural fit and approach to FRC audit quality review independence and conflict issues.
Committee training on forthcoming technical changes Due to the nature and size of the Groups business, a mid-tier 7 November Draft interim financial statements 2016 accountancy firm was invited to tender alongside other larger firms, Financial controls update but investors views were not sought on the list of tender participants.
External audit EYs interim review report External audit tender process update Process summary from 9 August 2016 to 2 December 2016 A Request for Proposal RFP was issued by the Chairman of the Group IT security update Committee to these firms on 9 August 2016. Review of the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function Knowledge and information meetings were held between RFP firms 2 December Recommendation of appointment of new external audit firm 2016 and senior management from key functions as well as the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and the Chairman of the 13 March Group Internal Audits report on financial and operational Committee.
In addition the firms all took up the opportunity to visit 2017 controls audits, whistleblowing notifications and budget for 2017 18 two of the Groups factories.
Review of Group Internal Audits audit universe to ensure alignment to the Groups risk management framework The firms submitted their final written tenders on 3 October 2016 which were measured against the selection criteria and agreed by External audit EYs update to planning report the selection committee.
This was followed by a formal presentation Transition plan for new external auditor to the selection committee on 24 November 2016 at which each firm was questioned in relation to its audit approach and on issues of Group IT security update independence.
Committees terms of reference and 2017 18 work programme An Audit Committee meeting was convened on 2 December 2016 to consider the outcome of the selection committees review of the Financial controls update tender responses.
The selection committee recommended Deloitte Impact of IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with customers as its preferred firm and Deloitte was invited to present to the Committee.
On the recommendation of the Audit Committee and Private meeting with Head of Internal Audit subject to shareholder approval, the Board appointed Deloitte as the Private meeting with external auditor, EY Groups new external auditor.
A resolution to appoint Deloitte as the Groups external auditor is included in the Notice of 2017 AGM.
36 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 Auditors independency policy: The Committee has an established policy to safeguard and support the independence and objectivity of the Groups external auditor, which complies with the provisions of the CMA Order.
The key principle of the policy is that the Groups external auditor may be engaged to provide services only in cases where those services do not impair its independence and objectivity, and provided that the total annual fees for non-audit services are below the sum of annual fees for audit and audit-related services.
The external auditor may not be engaged to provide services if the provision of such services would result in the external auditor: having a mutual or conflicting interest with any Group company: being placed in the position of auditing its own work: acting as a manager or employee of any Group company: or being placed in the position of advocate for any Group company.
The Committees assessment of EYs independence during the year was underpinned by the Groups policy on the use of the external auditor for the provision of non-audit services.
The policy contains a presumption against the use of the external auditor for non-audit services.
The external auditor may only be engaged for the provision of non-audit services in contravention of that presumption where those services are expressly permitted under the policy and where there is a demonstrable efficiency, audit enhancement or cost benefit resulting from the engagement of the external auditor.
Furthermore, before it may be engaged for the provision of such non-audit services, alternative providers must have been considered and discounted.
This policy has been updated to reflect the FRCs revised ethical standard 2016 and revised guidance on audit committees 2016, including an update to expand the list of prohibited non-audit services.
Services which the external auditor is prohibited from providing to the Group include, amongst others: Bookkeeping services and preparation of financial information The design, supply or implementation of financial information systems Appraisal or valuation services Internal audit services Actuarial services A breakdown of audit and non-audit fees paid to EY in 2016 17 is summarised in the following table, together with a comparison with fees paid in 2015 16: 2016 17 2015 16 m m total audit fees 0.5 0.4 Non-audit fees Taxation services 0.1 0.1 Other non-audit services 0.1 0.1 total non-audit fees 0.2 0.2 total fees 0.7 0.6 Details of the non-audit work undertaken by EY during the year are set out at Note 2 to the Accounts at page 84.
The Committee was satisfied that the overall levels of audit related and non-audit fees were not material relative to the income of the external auditor firm as a whole.
It was satisfied that the objectivity and independence of the external auditor was maintained throughout the year.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 37 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED he will have served 8 years on the Board and the Committee intends Nomination Committee report to conduct a search exercise for his replacement during late 2017 early 2018.
Andrew is an exceptionally able Audit Committee I am pleased to present my report Chairman and the Committee will be looking for candidates with for the 2016 17 financial year recent and relevant financial experience which will enable them to as Chairman of the Nomination take on the role of chairing the Audit Committee.
Last year I reported Committees intention to ensure that sufficient time is allowed for an that the Committees main focus appropriate hand-over period from Andrew to his successor.
would be on considering expanding Accordingly, it is the Committees intention to have concluded the the Board.
The Committees aim, search process in time to make recommendations to the Board so in particular, was to explore adding that an appointment may be made by April 2018 enabling the further relevant skills and experience incoming Audit Committee chairman to shadow the Audit to those of the existing Directors Committees activities related to the 2017 18 financial year-end reflecting the demands of our changing business following the process.
successful sale of the Dairies business and the establishment of our added value ingredients business.
In addition to the matters referred to above, during the new 2017 18 financial year the Committee will also be focussing on mapping out In addition to considering the need for additional skills and the succession requirements associated with other Non-executive experience to help us with the development of our business, on Directors.
In November this year, Richard Macdonald will have which I comment further below, the Committee has given completed 7 years service on the Board, including 3 years as consideration during the year to succession planning for Nonchairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee is executive Directors and to strengthening further the Executive conscious of the recommendation that before being appointed to Director presence on the Board.
As a result, in July, the Committee chair a remuneration committee, individuals should have served at made its recommendation to the Board that Adam Braithwaite least a year on a board as a non-executive.
The effect of that is to should be appointed to the Board as an Executive Director.
require even longer forward planning for the recruitment of remuneration committee chair successors than was previously the The Committee considered the benefit of bringing new talent onto case.
With that in mind, the Committee is conscious that the the Board as well as ensuring senior representation of the sales and recruitment of a successor for Richard would need to have been marketing function at the Board now and into the future.
Moreover, the Committee is promotion to the Board recognised that in his service to Dairy Crest conscious that the burden associated with chairing a remuneration of more than 14 years, during which time he has held a variety of committee has increased significantly over recent years.
As a result, senior management positions, Adam possesses a depth of the pool of individuals with the requisite experience for the role may knowledge of the business which would not be brought to the Board not be as broad as for other roles.
Accordingly, sufficient time needs through external recruitment.
He was appointed to the role of Group to be allowed for a longer more challenging search process.
Commercial Director in 2013 with responsibility for sales and Although there remains ample time to conduct a search, the marketing and his promotion to the Board recognised his deep Committee is thinking ahead and intends to start a search in mid knowledge of the business and his relationships with key 2018 to allow time for recruitment of the best possible candidate.
stakeholders, as well as the significance of his role and his valuable contribution to Dairy Crest.
The Committee is satisfied that it has performed its duties under its terms of reference, including: In addition to considering the bench strength of the Executive Directors the Committee considered the need to augment further Director appointments: The Committees primary responsibility is the experience of the wider Board.
The effectiveness review to consider and recommend to the Board candidates who are conducted with the assistance of Russell Reynolds Associates last appropriate for appointment as Executive and Non-executive year identified that the majority of Directors believed that it would be Directors.
Its objective is to maintain an appropriate balance of skills beneficial to increase the number of Non-executive Directors from and experience on the Board and to ensure progressive refreshment four to five.
The Nomination Committee has appointed the Zygos Partnership as Processes for Director appointments: The process for the headhunters to conduct a search for an additional Non-executive appointment of new Directors is rigorous and transparent.
The Zygos Partnership has been used by the Company in Committee ensures that the recruitment exercise for Directors is previous Non-executive Director searches but has no other conducted against a documented brief setting out the requirements connections with the Company.
They have been asked to prepare a of the role and the skills and experience required of the person to fill long list of candidates with international experience in either FMCG it.
In the past, the Company has engaged the services of external and or ingredients businesses.
The Committee will narrow the long search consultancies and as referred to above, it is anticipated, in list to a shortlist for interview and recommendation to the Board.
In the ordinary course, that it would do so in the future.
Were it not to compiling a long list Zygos has been instructed to include do so, open advertising would be used as an alternative.
Prospective candidates representing the most diverse range of backgrounds appointees are interviewed by the Committee and the Committee possible, including, but not limited to gender, ethnicity, nationality makes a recommendation to the Board.
The Board makes the and personal background.
decision whether to appoint the recommended individual.
The Committee reports the outcome of its meetings to the Board.
The Committee has also spent time during the year considering succession for Non-executive Directors in light of their length of Director commitments: The Committee evaluates the service and the requirements of the Code.
Andrew Carr-Locke is the commitments of individual Directors.
The Board believes that it is in longest serving of the independent Non-executive Directors having the best interests of the Company that Executive Directors take up been appointed to the Board in August 2009.
By the end of this year opportunities to act as non-executive directors in other appropriate 38 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 companies.
Unless the Board approves otherwise, Executive Directors may serve in a non-executive capacity on the board of one other company.
Non-executive Directors may serve as directors, executive or otherwise, on the boards of other companies or appropriate organisations.
Non-executive Directors letters of appointment require them to seek prior approval from the Board before accepting any additional commitment that might affect the time that they are able to devote to their role as a Non-executive Director of the Company.
The Board has the opportunity to satisfy itself that Non-executive Directors other commitments allow them to devote adequate time to their commitments to the Company.
The Board approved all new appointments of Directors during the year and is satisfied that all Directors continue to have sufficient time to devote themselves properly to their duties for the Company.
Diversity: The Committee monitors diversity on behalf of the Board.
The Group interprets diversity in its widest sense and aims to achieve the best possible leadership for the Group by ensuring an appropriate mix of skills, backgrounds, gender, experience and knowledge amongst its Directors, senior managers and other employees.
The Committee considers that first and foremost, appointments must be made based on an objective assessment of who is the best person to fill a role, with candidates drawn from a diverse range of backgrounds.
The Company has not adopted targets for female representation amongst the Directors.
The Group will continue to operate policies giving equal opportunities to all, irrespective of age, gender, marital status, disability, nationality, colour, ethnic origin, sexual orientation or religious affiliation.
Board effectiveness: The Board normally undertakes an annual effectiveness review.
In accordance with the Code, every three years, it uses the services of an external facilitator to facilitate its effectiveness review.
Last years review of the effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and of me as Chairman was conducted with the assistance of Russell Reynolds Associates.
This year I led a review of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees with the assistance of the Company Secretary and the Senior Independent Director, who led the review of my performance.
Details of that review can be found at page 31.
Stephen Alexander Chairman of the Nomination Committee 17 May 2017 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 39 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED We exceeded our target of 80% segregation of operational waste Corporate Responsibility Committee report on site by year end We achieved a 69% reduction in Accident Incident Rate in the last I am pleased to present the report year versus the 2013 baseline against which we measure of the Corporate Responsibility ourselves Committee to shareholders.
During 2016 17 we managed to achieve zero RIDDORS.
We are Full details of our corporate particularly proud of this achievement, especially as we have responsibility programme can continued to hold ourselves to account against the more be found at pages 22 to 27.
The stretching, but superseded, definition of a RIDDOR where Committee oversees the Groups incapacitation is suffered for more than 3 days rather than the corporate responsibility programme softer definition which the HSE has adopted where an incident and ensures that key social, needs to result in incapacitation for more than 7 days to be ethical and environmental issues classified as a RIDDOR are assessed and prioritised including reviewing the Companys 80% of the Groups employees attended a roadshow presented corporate responsibility pledges.
In addition to me as Chairman, by members of the Executive Committee which covered topics the Committee comprises Richard Macdonald, Mark Allen, Tom ranging from the Groups Vision and Values to our business plans Atherton, Robin Miller, Robert Willock, Adam Braithwaite and and progress against them Simon Hewitt Group Technical Director.
Lower fat variants of our products collectively achieved a retail sales value of 84.0 million an increase of 3.2% on the prior year During the year we have concluded our review of our corporate Last year I talked of the Committees recognition of the need responsibility strategy resulting in the approval by the Committee continually to evolve our corporate responsibility strategy in order to and the adoption by the Group of a simplified strategy centred meet the changing demands of our customers, employees and the around four key pillars: Climate, Colleagues, Consumers and consumers of the great products we make.
Having previously adopted the language of Business in corporate responsibility strategy and pledges as we have during the the Communitys corporate responsibility structure, we felt that our year the Committee has demonstrated that commitment to corporate responsibility programme was sufficiently established to evolution.
allow us to move away from slavishly aping that structure.
We also believed it was important to adopt language which would resonate A successful approach to corporate responsibility is, we believe, an better with our employees, hence the change to the four new essential part of securing a sustainable business which thrives both strategic pillars.
We have also re-affirmed ownership of each of the pillars by a Sue farr Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee member of the senior management team.
We felt that direct 17 May 2017 individual accountability for each of the pillars of our strategy would help to drive ownership within the business and thereby help to drive progress.
Mike Barrington our Group Supply Chain Director owns Climate, Colleagues is owned by Robert Willock our Group HR Director, Adam Braithwaite our Group Commercial Director owns Consumers and finally, Community is owned by Tom Atherton, our Group Finance Director.
In addition to adopting new pillars for Executive Committee our corporate responsibility strategy, we have adopted new simplified pledges which reflect the simpler structure of our business The Chief Executive chairs the Executive Committee which following the sale of the Dairies business.
We have been careful to comprises the other Executive Directors and senior members of the ensure though that with these key pledges we remain able to track Groups executive team.
Details of the members of the Executive progress from the beginning of our new five year corporate Committee can be found at page 29.
The Executive Committee is responsibility programme.
responsible, amongst other matters, for implementing the Groups strategic direction and monitoring the performance of the business More detail on our achievements and progress can be found on and its control procedures on a day-to-day basis, as well as the pages 22 to 27 of this Annual Report but I wanted to pull out the day-to-day operations of the Groups business, its performance following highlights for your attention: against forecasts and budgets and profitability.
The Executive We increased the amount of on-site renewable energy to 63% of Committee normally meets weekly.
fuel used by manufacturing sites in our business from 51% in the prior year information included in the Directors report Our focus on low carbon manufacturing has seen a 4% reduction Certain information fulfilling the requirements of the Corporate in relative energy use at our Kirkby, Frome and Nuneaton sites Governance report can be found in the Directors report at pages 62 compared to the prior year to 64 under the headings Substantial shareholdings, Rights and Around 80% of the heat required by our Davidstow creamery was obligations attaching to shares, Articles of association and produced from biomass with energy from biomass boilers Purchase of own shares and is incorporated into this Corporate representing more than 40% of the Groups total energy use in the Governance report by reference.
This means we met our pledge that more than one third of total energy used should come from on-site renewables By order of the Board Higher water recovery rates towards the end of the year meant that around 45% of water used in manufacturing by our business Robin Miller Company Secretary & General Counsel came from recycled sources 17 May 2017 40 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017
