Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Our Governance The Board Our Board is super connected.
They are highly skilled individuals who bring valuable and varied experience to the Boardroom.
The business benefits from their strong external networks, as well as insight drawn from regular engagement internally.
51Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The Board continued 5 1 3 4 2 Board engagement with the business During the year, the Board received regular internal reports, which In order to ensure good quality decision making and oversight, all helped to keep the Directors well informed about the business Directors need to stay up to date with events and developments in generally.
The Board will receive updates from the Chief Executive the business, as well as external factors, such as the changing Officer and Chief Financial Officer, covering an overview of the governance landscape, regulation and shareholder views.
business, the market in which it operates, together with the Groups financial performance and other financing matters.
The Company As part of their engagement with the business, the Board participates Secretary and external advisers will also update the Board, in an annual property tour where they meet centre staff and periodically, on regulatory changes.
In particular, the Board customers.
This allows them to see the strategy in action and assess considered the implications of the Market Abuse Regulations MAR, its effectiveness.
which came into force in July 2016.
To assist with meeting the Companys obligations under MAR, a Disclosure Committee of the In the Boardroom Board was established to monitor inside information and closed The Directors collectively have many years of experience gained in a periods.
Terms of Reference are available for the Disclosure wide range of businesses and sectors, as illustrated on pages 54 to Committee and Board members receive minutes of meetings.
Skills of the Board cover property, finance, retail, marketing, telecoms, media and general corporate experience.
One Executive The Board also engaged with Company advisors during the year.
Director also serves as a Non-Executive Director on an external There was a presentation from the Company brokers in July.
Groups Valuer, CBRE, also presented twice during the year at the Audit Committee meetings in May and November 2016.
Their The Board met formally throughout the year, with main meetings presentation covered the valuation of the property portfolio and the timed around the financial calendar and additional meetings wider market in which the Company operates.
convened to consider an annual cycle of topics, including the annual strategy day, key management and financial updates, review of risk as well as the approval of acquisitions and refurbishment programmes.
52Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Our Governance 6 Board tenure 1.
Female 14% The Board Board experience Present Absent 1.
May Jun Jul Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Chief Executive Officer 8.
Daniel Kitchen Jamie Hopkins Non-Executive Chairman 3.
Graham Clemett Chief Financial Officer Chris Girling 5.
Advisory 12% The Board met nine times during the year Non-Executive Director 6.
Utilities 6% Jamie Hopkins and Graham Clemett are also members of the 9 Executive Committee, alongside: 9.
Angus Boag Development Director 53Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The Board continued Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Jamie Hopkins Graham Clemett Daniel Kitchen Chris Girling Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Chairman Senior Independent and Chairman of the Non-Executive Director Nomination Committee and Chairman of the Audit Committee Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Jamie joined the Board in June Graham joined the Board as Daniel was appointed to the Chris was appointed to the 2010 as a Non-Executive Chief Financial Officer in July Board in June 2011 and Board in February 2013.
On Director and appointed Chief 2007. subsequently assumed the role the recommendation of the Executive Officer on 1 April of Chairman at the AGM in July Nomination Committee, the 2012.
On the recommendation Board agreed to extend his of the Nomination Committee, appointment for a further the Board agreed to extend his three years from February appointment for a further three 2016. years from June 2017.
Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Chairman of the Executive Member of the Executive Chairman of the Nomination Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Committee and a member of Committee, member of the Chairman of the Investment Member of the Investment the Remuneration Committee.
Chairman of the Risk Member of the Disclosure Current external Committee.
appointments: Current external Chairman of the Disclosure Daniel is currently Chairman of appointments: Committee.
Current external Hibernia REIT plc, Applegreen Chris, a Chartered Accountant, appointments: plc, a Non-Executive Director is currently a Non-Executive Current external Graham was appointed as of LXB Retail Properties Plc, Director and Chairman of the appointments: Non-Executive Director and Irish Takeover Panel Limited Audit Committees of Keller None.
Chairman of the Audit and Governor of St Patrick PLC and South East Water Committee for The Restaurant Hospital in Dublin.
Limited and Chair of Trustees Previous appointments: Group plc with effect from for the Slaughter and May Jamie was previously Chief 1 June 2016.
Executive and then a NonDaniel was previously Deputy Executive Director of Mapeley Previous appointments: Chief Executive at Heron Previous appointments: PLC and a Director of Chester Previously Graham was International plc and prior to Chris was Group Finance Properties.
Prior to that, Jamie Finance Director for UK that was Finance Director at Director of Carillion PLC from was a Director of Delancey Corporate Banking at RBS Green Property for eight years.
1999 to 2007 and Vosper Estates and Savills.
Prior to that, He retired as Non-Executive Thornycroft PLC from 1991 to Graham spent eight years at Chairman of Irish Nationwide 1999.
Skills and business Reuters Group PLC, latterly as Building Society in July 2011 experience: Group Financial Controller.
and as Non-Executive Director Skills and business Strategic development and of Kingspan Group PLC in May experience: deal execution experience.
CFO of FTSE 250 plcs for 17 Well-developed leadership, experience: years.
motivational and Significant experience of Skills and business Strong financial skills.
experience: Detailed knowledge of risk Entrepreneurial with strong With over nine years in the Detailed knowledge of the assessment and commercial skills.
Group he has a detailed Group.
Significant property knowledge of operations.
Strong strategic and Strategy development and and development projects.
Strong experience of commercial skills.
Strong experience of Strong financial skills and investor relations.
previously a CFO for eight years for a property development and investment company.
Experience of acquisitions and disposals.
54Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Our Governance Non-Executive Directors Company Secretary Maria Moloney Damon Russell Stephen Hubbard Carmelina Carfora Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Company Secretary and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Date appointed: Maria was appointed to the Damon was appointed to the Stephen was appointed to the Carmelina was appointed as Board in May 2012.
On the Company Secretary in March recommendation of the recommendation of the recommendation of the 2010.
Nomination Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Board agreed to extend her Board has agreed to extend Board has agreed to extend appointment for a further his appointment for a further his appointment for a further three years from May 2015. three years from May 2016. three years from July 2017.
Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Responsibilities: Chairman of the Remuneration Member of the Remuneration, Member of the Remuneration, Carmelina is Secretary to the Committee, member of the Audit and Nomination Audit and Nomination Board and its Committees, Audit and Nomination Committees.
ensuring compliance with its Committees.
procedures and providing advice Current external Current external Current external on governance matters.
At the appointments: appointments: appointments: direction of the Chairman, she is Maria is currently on the Board Damon holds advisory roles Stephen is currently Chairman responsible for ensuring the and a Trustee of the Northern for a number of smaller of CBRE UK.
He joined Richard Board receives accurate, timely Ireland Cancer Centre in companies in the digital media Ellis in 1976 and held the and relevant information.
He is currently position of head of EMEA and Belfast.
also co-ordinates the induction Chairman of New Telecom UK Capital Markets from 1998 of new Board members and the Previous appointments: Express Group, an interactive to 2012.
He is also Chairman of provision of ongoing training and Maria was previously on the media service provider he London Business Network, a development of the Board.
Board of the Belfast Harbour co-founded in 1989.
Telecom Non-Executive Director of LXI Commissioners, the Industrial Express was sold to AMV REIT PLC and a member of the Carmelinas other responsibilities Development Board for BBDO, part of the Omnicom advisory board for Redevco include: corporate governance, Northern Ireland, the Northern Group, in 1998.
In 2004, which is a pan-European monitoring and compliance with Ireland Transport Holdings Damon led a successful property holding company.
legislation, administration, Company, the Independent management buyout.
He has vesting and granting of awards Television Commission, more than 25 years Skills and business under the Companys share London and The Broadcasting experience in the industry.
Authority of Ireland Dublin Many years experience of Previous appointments: operating within the Background and relevant Skills and business Damon was previously property sector.
experience: experience: Non-Executive Director of Experience of regeneration She was previously Group Strong marketing and iannounce before its merger and development projects.
Company Secretary of commercial skills.
She has A lawyer by background transactions.
also worked in the construction with significant legal and Skills and business Detailed knowledge of risk industry and for a consultancy Corporate Governance experience: assessment and firm offering company experience.
Extensive digital and media management systems.
Business development and technology experience.
Strong strategic and Strategic business commercial understanding.
assessments across diverse Significant experience in market sectors.
Knowledge of service related industry requirements and key client relationships.
Executive Directors Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Directors 55Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
