Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Our Governance Risk Committee Activities in 2016 17 Role of the Risk Committee 1.
The Risk Committees responsibilities include, but are not limited, to Reviewed and Considered the Received the following: discussed the operational risk presentations from To drive and co-ordinate Workspace policy and procedure and strategic risks for registers for each Senior Management, training in relation to risk management.
circulation to the functional area and concerning controls To promote and communicate risk management awareness Audit Committee and agreed any changes.
over certain parts of throughout the organisation.
for inclusion in the the business or To challenge Executive Director review and appraisal of risk.
To co-ordinate and manage a planned annual programme of review and testing of risks and controls aligned to requirements.
To oversee and advise the Board on the current risk exposures of Agreed an annual Discussed cyber Discussed changes in the Company and future risk strategy.
internal control review security risks and the regulatory To consider the Viability Statement and the related sensitivity programme which is agreed to include it as environment and likely analysis and report to the Audit Committee.
also circulated to the a distinct item in the impact on the To engage internal or external resources for the review and Audit Committee.
testing of risks and processes as agreed in the annual plan, or as required.
To co-ordinate reports and papers for the Board and Audit The Risk Committee met nine times during Committee as required.
To consider any developments in the external environment or regulation, which may impact on risk considerations.
Composition of the Committee Jamie Hopkins, Chief Executive Officer 9 Chris Pieroni, Operations Director Carmelina Carfora, Company Secretary Vivienne Frankham, Head of Finance Kate Ankers, Chief Accountant David Rees, Finance Manager Claire Dracup, Head of Support Services The Risk Committee is chaired by Jamie Hopkins.
In addition, employees from across the business, specifically, Centre Managers, attend meetings of the Committee, by invitation, where they are asked to share any information which they feel is relevant, in order to assist the Committee in evaluating possible risks to the Company.
The following also attended meetings of the Committee during the year, again by invitation, in order to discuss their risk registers and to contribute to the discussions relating to their respective areas of expertise: Chief Financial Officer Development Director Other senior staff 81Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance report continued Nomination Committee Report Nomination Committee activities in 2016 17 1.
Succession planning Considered Board Reviewed the Agreed the extension Depth of experience and knowledge succession plans.
composition of the to letters of Board and its appointment for of the business underscores the Committees.
Daniel Kitchen and Boards effectiveness.
During the year, the Committee continued to focus on succession 4.
5. planning for both Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
In doing so, it Reviewed the Considered and considered the tenure, mix and diversity of skills and experience of Committees Terms of recommended the existing Board members and those required of prospective Board Reference.
re-election of each members in the context of the Groups medium and long-term strategy.
In doing so, the Committee agreed that as a general principle, new Non-Executive Directors would join the Board two years prior to existing members reaching the end of their relevant term.
This will The Committee meets as required and did provide for newer Board members to become fully established in their so on two occasions during the year ended role, whilst ensuring that plans are in place for the Board to secure the 31 March 2017. orderly and progressive refreshing of its membership.
The Nomination Committee will continue to take a keen interest in succession planning, which includes the Executive Directors, the 2 Executive Committee and Senior Management roles across the business.
Directors tenure as at 31 March 2017 Present Absent May Mar 2016 2017 Executive Directors Daniel Kitchen Jamie Hopkins Graham Clemett Stephen Hubbard Senior Independent Director Maria Moloney Chris Girling Chris Girling Non-Executive Chairman 1 Daniel Kitchen Damon Russell Non-Executive Directors Maria Moloney Damon Russell 2 Stephen Hubbard 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Initial term Duration of current term 12-month rolling contract.
Appointed Non-Executive Director in June 2010 and Chief Executive Ocer in April 2012.
Appointed Chief Financial Ocer in July 2007.
Daniel Kitchens second term expires in June 2017.
On the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, the Board agreed to extend his term to June 2020.
Stephen Hubbards initial term expires in July 2017.
On the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, the Board agreed to extend his term for a further three years, to July 2020.
For dates of letters of appointment and unexpired terms for Non-Executive Directors, see page 113.
For details of Executive Directors service contracts, see page 113.
82Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Our Governance Dear Shareholder Welcome to the report of the Nomination Committee for the year ended 31 March 2017.
Whilst there have been no changes to the Board during the financial year, the Nomination Committee has continued to support the Board during the year, in ensuring its composition has the right balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge to best service the business and fulfil the Boards responsibility to shareholders.
Succession planning An ongoing area of focus for the Committee is succession planning.
As Chairman of both the Committee and the Company, I am acutely aware of the need to ensure that there are no gaps in the skills or experience as members of the Board reach the end of their relevant terms.
This was discussed by the Nomination Committee during the year and the conclusions reached are summarised on page 82.
Role of the Committee The Nomination Committee considers the structure, size and Skills and knowledge of the Board composition of the Board, advising on succession planning and A key responsibility of the Committee is to ensure that the Board making appropriate recommendations to ensure that the Board maintains a balance of skills, knowledge and experience appropriate retains an appropriate mix of skills, experience and knowledge in to the operation of the business and required to deliver the strategy.
It is also responsible for reviewing the Groups As in past years, the Committee has reviewed the composition of the senior leadership needs.
Board and as part of this review the Committee considered: The size of the Board and whether it is of a sufficient size that the Composition of the Committee requirements of the business can be met: Daniel Kitchen Chairman Its independence and whether it has the right balance of Stephen Hubbard independent and Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors: Maria Moloney Whether Non-Executive Directors are able to commit sufficient Chris Girling time to the Company in order to discharge their responsibilities Damon Russell effectively: and The mix of skills, experience and diversity.
For full biographies see pages 54 and 55.
Following the review, the Committee is satisfied that the Board continues to have an appropriate mix of skills and experience to operate effectively.
Effective succession planning In addition, the Directors collectively have many years of experience, has been an ongoing priority all gained from a broad range of businesses.
They collectively bring a for the Nomination Committee range of expertise and knowledge of different business sectors to to ensure that the Board Board deliberations, which encourage constructive and challenging continues to be effective in debate around the Boardroom table.
The Board experience by sector is illustrated below.
Further Daniel Kitchen information on the biographies of the Directors can be found on Chairman of the Nomination pages 54 and 55.
83Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance report continued The Board Male 6 Diversity We are committed to diversity and recruitment decisions will always be based on merit.
Female 1 Senior Management Male 15 Female 10 All employees Male 94 Female 109 84Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Our Governance Diversity The Committee conducted a specific review of the independence of The Boards policy on diversity is that selection should be based on Stephen Hubbard in the year, as his three-year appointment is due to the best person for the role and to ensure that its composition has an expire on 16 July 2017.
Stephen was not present during the appropriate balance of skills and diversity to meet the requirements Committees discussion.
Having conducted its review, the Committee of the business.
The Board considers that quotas are not appropriate was satisfied that it was appropriate to recommend to the Board that in determining its composition, and has therefore chosen not to set Stephens appointment should be extended for a further three years, targets.
The benefits of diversity, including gender diversity, will subject to re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 14 July 2017. continue to be an active consideration whenever changes to the Boards composition are contemplated.
In accordance with the Code, all Directors wishing to continue in The Committee has noted the recommendations in the Hamptonoffice will retire and offer themselves for re-election by shareholders at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Alexander Review for a new voluntary target of a third of all Board members in FTSE 350 companies to be women by 2020.
Ultimately, Further biographical information on each of our Directors can be our recruitment decisions, at all levels, are driven by the need to ensure the longer-term success of the Company, by appointing the found on pages 54 and 55, which shows the breadth of experience brought to our Boardroom table.
person that most closely matches the requirements for the position, regardless of their background or gender.
Daniel Kitchen Further details on diversity can be found on page 28.
Gender Chairman of the Nomination Committee 6 June 2017 diversity of the Board and Company is set out on the page 84.
Corporate Governance During the year, the Committee also reviewed and agreed Terms of Non-Executive Chairmans performance review Reference for the Nomination Committee.
There were no significant changes made to the existing Terms of Reference.
These can be Dear Shareholder found on our website at www.
Daniel Kitchen was appointed to the Board in June 2011, and subsequently assumed the role of Chairman at the AGM in July 2011.
Non-Executive appointments and time commitments Consequently, Daniel will complete his six-year term in June 2017.
In making recommendations to the Board on Non-Executive Director Daniel has indicated his willingness to serve another term as appointments, the Nomination Committee will consider the expected Chairman.
Whilst there are no specific requirements about the time commitment of the proposed Non-Executive Director, and other tenure of the Chairman, consistent with the spirit of the Code and commitments they already have to ensure that they have sufficient best practice, it was agreed that it would be prudent to review time available to devote to the Company.
whether Daniels tenure on the Board continues to be effective.
As the Senior Independent Director, the Board asked me to lead this Prior to accepting any additional commitments, Non-Executive process.
Directors will, in the first instance, discuss these with the Company Chairman.
Agreement of the Board is then required to ensure that any As part of the review of the Chairman, I met with each Board conflicts of interest are identified and that they will continue to have member individually to discuss Daniels performance as Chairman.
sufficient time available to devote to the Company.
From those discussions, it became very clear that there was unanimous support for Daniel given his leadership style and the Independence and re-election to the Board depth of industry knowledge.
The composition of the Board is reviewed annually by the Nomination Committee to ensure that there is an effective balance of skills, On that basis, we support Daniel Kitchen seeking re-election as experience and knowledge.
Chairman of the Company at the AGM in July 2017.
Chris Girling Senior Independent Director 6 June 2017 85Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
