The Fuel Tank Executive Committee The Executive Team visited The Fuel Tank to assess progress on the redevelopment project, being carried out in partnership with L&Q.
ft. business centre, in the vibrant area of Deptford Creek, will be delivered in the second half of 2017.
Activities in 2016 17 Role of the Executive asset management, marketing, Committee: professional services, brand and 1.
The Executive Committee is business development.
Prior to responsible for the successful Developing the Group Reviewing and Monitoring of joining Workspace, he worked at strategy and budget approving capital operational and implementation of the Company KPMG specialising in real estate strategy and for the for approval by the expenditure within the financial results and infrastructure finance.
authorities delegated against plans and performance of the Group.
It began his professional career also reviews the effectiveness of by the Board.
teaching economics at our governance processes to Cambridge University.
6. ensure that they are embedded a Non-Executive Director of the Collectively Developing leadership Analyse and review within the Company.
Group from 2000 until his responsible for the skills and the future initiatives of particular retirement from the Board in day-to-day running of talent of the business interest to the Composition of the Executive August 2006.
so that strong Company and present Committee: Chairman of the Business Centre succession plans are these to the Board as 1.
Jamie Hopkins Association from 20142016. in place as the Group appropriate.
Angus Boag Strategic management: investor Development Director 7. relations: day-to-day operations: Specific responsibilities: Ensure the acquisitions and disposals: health Planning consents: effectiveness of risk and safety: staff: equal redevelopment and management and opportunities: remuneration: refurbishment projects: control procedures.
training and development: valuations: sustainability and Chairman of the Executive, environmental strategy: and Investment, Risk and Charity project management.
Committees: and development The Committee met 21 times during the of the brand.
Background and relevant year ended 31 March 2017. experience: 2.
Graham Clemett Angus joined the Group in June Chief Financial Officer 2007 as Development Director.
Specific responsibilities: He has extensive experience in 21 Finance: treasury: tax: company property and construction secretarial and compliance: management and is responsible investor relations: and for adding value to the Groups information technology.
assets through planning consents, development and joint 3.
Angus also manages all Operations Director the building works across the Specific responsibilities: portfolio and is responsible for Portfolio performance: asset the valuations of the Groups management: lettings: property portfolio.
Angus also marketing: rent reviews and sets the Groups corporate social renewals: new business responsibility and sustainability development: and charity and programme.
Before joining the social initiatives.
Group, Angus was Managing Director of Manhattan Loft Background and relevant Corporation and a Principal at experience: PA Consulting Group.
Chris joined the Group as Operations Director in October 2007.
Chris is responsible for 56Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
