Corporate governance Corporate governance Chairmans introduction An integral part of the Boards role is to define the long term strategic goals for the Group, whilst ensuring a strong corporate governance framework within which the Group can effectively operate in order to achieve its objectives.
As the Chairman, a fundamental part ofmy role is to ensure that I create a culture of transparency which enables the Company tohave an effective Board in which all members are able to contribute and challenge openly.
Our Board allows us to draw on a diverse range of professional skills and backgrounds which enables each Director to bring a particular and often unique perspective to every discussion, shaped by their backgrounds in a number of industries over many years.
This culture of openness in the Company always provides for the best collective outcome and helps underpin the Boards commitment as a whole to rigorous scrutiny and analysis of the Groups key issues andopportunities.
The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate the Company on 10 May 2017.
Except where it is appropriate, this governance and, in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Annual Report will refer to the structure of the Company during Authority, the Board confirms that in respect of the year ended theperiod and not to the new management structure which, 31March 2017 the Company has complied with the ongoing provisions asexplained above, will be detailed innext years Annual Report.
of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial As explained in the Companys prospectus in 2010 and again Reporting Council and available at www.
initsfirstAnnual Report in 2011, Sir Charles Dunstone was not However, the Chairman was not considered independent pursuant considered to be independent on his initial appointment as to Section A.
3.1 of the Code on his appointment to the Board in 2010 Chairman primarily because of the size of his shareholding in the as explained below under Board balance and independence.
Company and because hewas previously Chief Executive Officer This section of the Annual Report, together with the Strategic Report, ofThe Carphone Warehouse Group PLC in which the Company was provides details of how the Company has applied the principles and created.
In this regard, theCompany was not compliant with the complied with the provisions of the Code and its five key principles: Code at the date of Sir Charles Dunstones appointment and this leadership, effectiveness, remuneration, accountability and situation has not changed following his move to Executive Chairman.
However, the Board continues to believe that his appointment benefits the Group given he is the founder ofthe business and his detailed Board balance and independence knowledge of the business and the telecoms sector is important to the Taking into account the changes to the Board during the year which future development of the Group.
There will also continue to be a clear are described below, at 31 March 2017, the Board had twelve members.
division of responsibilities which is described further below between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer together with a clear In accordance with Section B.
1.2 of the Code at least half of the Board division with regard to the responsibilities of the Chief Operating Officer.
excluding the Chairman were considered independent Non-Executive Major shareholders were consulted on his initial appointment as Directors during the period being: John Gildersleeve Deputy Chairman, Chairman and on the recent change to Executive Chairman with each Ian West Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, John Allwood, receiving unanimous support.
The Company has also entered into Brent Hoberman, Cath Keers, Sir Howard Stringer and James Powell.
awritten and legally binding agreement with Sir Charles Dunstone Roger Taylor, also a Non-Executive Director, is not considered to be inrespect of his controlling shareholding in compliance with independent given he was previously Chief Financial Officer of The ListingRule 9.2.
2AR 1 which isexplained in further detail in the Carphone Warehouse Group PLC from which the Company was Directors Report.
demerged in March 2010, and was subsequently Deputy Chairman of the Company from January 2010 to July 2012.
The Chairman and the Executive Directors have service contracts that can be terminated by either the Company or the Director on On 20 July 2016, Brent Hoberman stepped down as a Non-Executive twelve months notice.
Further, the Non-Executive Directors are Director and on 1 August 2016 Cath Keers was appointed as a expected to serve for an initial period of three years, albeit either Non-Executive Director.
Further, on 1 February 2017, the Company party may terminate the appointment onthree months notice with announced certain other changes to the Board: on 1 April 2017, no compensation for loss of office.
These initial three year periods DidoHarding stepped down as Chief Executive Officer and, on commenced on 20 January 2010, with the following exceptions: thisdate, Sir Charles Dunstone became Executive Chairman, IanWest 8 February 2011 : Sir Howard Stringer 26 July 2012 : TristiaHarrison became Chief Executive Officer and Charles Bligh James Powell 26 July 2012 : Roger Taylor 11 November 2015 : became Chief Operating Officer.
Between 1 April 2017 and 10 May 2017 andCath Keers 1 August 2016.
After three years, the contracts there has been a period of transition between these four Directors automatically renew.
All Directors in any event stand for re-election towards the new management structure of the Company which is every year.
The terms of appointment for Non-Executive Directors referenced below and will be more fully described in next years are available for inspection during normal business hours or at the Annual Report.
This transition has now taken effect and Dido Harding Companys Annual General Meeting AGM.
stepped down as a statutory Director and left her employment with 36 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Leadership How the Board operates The Board has reserved certain matters requiringBoard approval, and delegated others to a Committee oftheBoard for approval.
Matters that were reserved for the Board include approving the Groups strategy, annual budgets and other longer term planning.
During the period, day to day management of the Company rested with the Groups Executive Committee, which was led by the Chief Executive Officer and was part of the operational management of theGroup.
From 1 April 2017 a newly formed PLC Committee has assumed responsibility for operational management alongside anexecutive committee comprising of senior heads of the main divisions of the Group, which will be more fully described in next years Annual Report.
Non-Executives did not form part of the executive management teams and their responsibilities include constructive challenge and help in developing proposals on strategy: scrutiny of managements performance in meeting agreed goals and objectives: satisfying themselves on the integrity of financial information: and ensuring that controls and risk management systems are robust anddefensible.
Board Committees The Board has established the four principal committees below, to which it has delegated certain matters these are separate from the newlyformed PLCCommittee described above : the first three are as required by the Code, and thefourth is to ensure the compliance ofthe Group within the consumer regulatory environment in which it operates.
In the period, the current members of each Committee are described below: Audit Remuneration Nomination Compliance John Allwood Chair John Gildersleeve Chair John Gildersleeve Chair John Gildersleeve Chair Ian West Ian West Ian West Charles Bligh James Powell Roger Taylor John Allwood Tristia Harrison Cath Keers Brent Hoberman Sir Howard Stringer Tim Morris Dido Harding 1 Cath Keers was appointed on 1 August 2016.
2 Brent Hoberman stepped down on 20 July 2016.
3 Dido Harding stepped down on 10 May 2017.
The work of each Committee is described in more detail in the section relating to it below: Audit Committee Nomination Committee A detailed description of the Committees remit and work during the The Committee is responsible for succession planning at Board period is contained in the Audit Committee Report on pages 41 to 43. level, overseeing the selection and appointment of Directors, Other Directors and senior management, including the Chief Financial regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board Officer, the Company Secretary and advisers, attend by invitation and making its recommendations to the Board.
It assists in evaluating ofthe Committee.
thecommitments of individual Directors and the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board.
The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board following each Committee meeting.
The Committee carries out a formal selection process of candidates, which includes nominees put forward by any member The Committees terms of reference, which are available on request ofthe Board, and then proposes and makes recommendations from the Company Secretary and are published on the Groups regarding appointments to the Board, whether of Executive or website www.
TheCommittee does from time to time Remuneration Committee use search consultants in accordance with the procedure agreed by the Board: however, during the period, the Committee has not had A detailed description of the Committees remit and work during to use any search consultants.
theperiod is contained in the Directors Remuneration Report onpages 44 to 62.
Other Directors, including the Chief Executive During the period the Committee has overseen the appointment of Officer, the Company Secretary, the Chief People Officer and Cath Keers as Non-Executive Director, and the new roles of each of advisers, attend by invitation of the Committee.
Sir Charles Dunstone, Tristia Harrison and Charles Bligh as set out above.
The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board following each The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board following each Committee meeting.
The Committees terms of reference, which are available on request The Committees terms of reference, which are available on request from the Company Secretary and are published on the Groups from the Company Secretary and are published on the Groups website www.
Other senior executives of the Group attend by invitation oftheCommittee.
Annual Report 2017 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC 37 Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Leadership continued Board Committees continued Diversity Compliance Committee When taking into account appointments, the Committee and the Board The purpose of the Committee is to provide the Board with visibility overall understand the importance of having a diverse membership of how the Group remains compliant with those consumer regulations and recognises that diversity encompasses diversity of skills and affecting its businesses from time to time.
Its members therefore experience, age, gender, disability, sexual orientation, cultural include those senior executives who are operationally responsible background and belief.
for implementing permanent changes necessary to ensure the Group remains compliant.
Such members are accountable to the The equality policy applies equally to all appointments in the Committee and the Board for the successful delivery of such changes.
Company, and the Board continues to believe that appointments should be made on merit, the key criterion being whether or not This Committee meets at least four times a year and reports to the theappointee can add to or complement the existing range of skills Board accordingly.
The Group also operates a weekly Compliance and experience on the Board.
Enhancing diversity at all levels is Committee made up of those senior executives responsible for all important and we continue to review it annually in accordance key areas of compliance across the Group.
At these meetings withrelevant guidance.
relevant compliance is monitored against a weekly scorecard.
Number of meetings attended during the year Director Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of meetings 7 3 5 2 Sir Charles Dunstone 7 7 Dido Harding 7 7 Iain Torrens 7 7 Tristia Harrison 7 7 Charles Bligh 7 7 John Gildersleeve 7 7 5 5 2 2 Ian West 6 7 2 3 5 5 2 2 2 Brent Hoberman 2 3 2 3 John Allwood 7 7 3 3 2 2 3 Sir Howard Stringer 6 7 2 2 James Powell 7 7 3 3 4 Roger Taylor 6 7 5 5 Cath Keers5 4 4 2 2 1 Ian West was unable to attend one Board meeting and one Committee meeting due to a prior arrangement.
2 Brent Hoberman was unable to attend one Board meeting and one Committee meeting due to a prior arrangement and resigned on 20 July 2016.
3 Sir Howard Stringer was unable to attend one Board meeting due to a prior arrangement.
4 Roger Taylor was unable to attend one Board meeting due to a prior arrangement.
5 Cath Keers was appointed on 1 August 2016.
As well as the formal meetings during the period, the Board met at During the period the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director other times as appropriate for specific matters, including approving took responsibility for the performance evaluation of the Board: certain announcements to shareholders.
succession planning forthe Chairman: and chairing Non-Executive Director-only meetings.
In addition, he was an alternative point It is important to the Board that Non-Executive Directors have the ofcontact for shareholders in the event that normal executive ability to influence and challenge appropriately.
To this end all channels were not appropriate.
All of these responsibilities will Non-Executive Directors are given a thorough induction to the Group remain the same under the new management structure and details and take part in Board discussions.
All Directors receive papers in of the Senior Independent Non-Executive Directors role areset advance of meetings.
They also receive regular reports and members outon the Groups website www.
of the Groups Executive team are invited to present at Board meetings and at the annual strategy meeting so that the Non-Executive Accountability operational management of the Group Directors keep abreast of developments in the Group.
During the period there was a clear division of responsibility During the period, the Chairman met regularly with the Non-Executive between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, with the Directors, usually prior to every other Board meeting.
Notwithstanding management of the Groups business activities being delegated that Sir Charles Dunstone has since become Executive Chairman tothe Chief Executive Officer, who was ultimately responsible and alongside Ian Wests important role of Senior Independent forestablishing objectives and monitoring executive actions Non-Executive Director, these meetings will continue as part of the andperformance through the Executive Committee.
This will ensure that any concerns continue to be raised and discussed outside of formal Board meetings.
38 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2017 The Chief Executive Officer was responsible for chairing the Executive Remuneration Committee weekly and monthly meetings.
Key responsibilities of the The Board, primarily through its Remuneration Committee, sets Executive Committee during the period were to: clearguidelines and objectives in respect of Executive pay, which are described below in the Directors Remuneration Report.
rigorously assess the Groups trading performance: identify and develop to a successful conclusion those large-scale Risk management and internal control cross-Group projects which are critical to delivering the Groups The Board views management of risk as integral togood business strategy and maximising shareholder value: and practice.
The Company has established an ongoing risk management programme to identify, assess and mitigate business, financial, provide a cross-functional forum for the discussion of opportunities operational and compliance risks.
The programme is designed and risks arising from business activities, as well as to communicate tosupport managements decision making and to improve the business performance.
The risk management process Following the Board changes described above, there will continue to operates throughout the Group, being applied equally to the main be a clear division of responsibilities between the Executive Chairman business units and corporate functions.
and the Chief Executive Officer as existed before, with the addition The nature of risks identified and assessed is wide ranging, covering of theChief Operating Officer: all of whom will sit on the newly risks arising from the regulatory environment, strategy, counterparties formed PLC Committee chaired by the Executive Chairman.
and organisational change associated with major projects.
Action This means that the management of the Groups business activities, plans and controls to mitigate identified risks are put in place where along with ultimate responsibility for establishing day to day objectives, possible and if considered appropriate by the Board, taking account performance and monitoring executive actions now rests with the of costs and benefits.
A report is provided tothe Directors at relevant newly formed PLC Committee, which also oversees an executive Board meetings setting out key risks, changes in the status of the key committee comprising of senior heads, and will be described risks and updates on mitigation.
morefully in next years AnnualReport.
The Directors have overall responsibility for the Groups system ofinternal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Board Effectiveness performance evaluation delegates to executive management the responsibility for designing,  operating and monitoring these systems.
The systems are based In compliance with the Companys obligations every three years under onaprocess of identifying, evaluating and managing key risks and provision B.
6.2 of the Code, during the period each Board member has include the risk management processes set out above and channels been subject to an independent Board performance evaluation, where to enable employees to raise concerns about possible irregularities the balance of skills, knowledge and experience ofeach Director was infinancial reporting and other issues and associated processes reviewed.
Next year the Board will undertake aninternal review.
forthose matters to be investigated.
A report was compiled by an independent board evaluator, namely The systems of internal control are supported by the Business NJMD Corporate Services Limited: these results and the comments Assurance and Internal and Risk Audit functions.
Any significant of the evaluator were analysed by the Chairman, the Senior Independent risksidentified inthe year were given appropriate priority.
Non-Executive Director and the Board as a whole against the broad criteria of overall Board effectiveness and individual contributions.
The systems of internal control are designed to manage, rather Aspart of the performance review the ability of each Director, in thaneliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
particular the Non-Executive Directors, to demonstrate the required Theycan only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against time commitment to the rolewas assessed.
As a result of this material errors, losses, fraud or breaches of law and regulations.
performance evaluation the Chairman confirms that each of the Theeffectiveness of these systems is periodically reviewed by the Directors seeking re-election at the AGM continues to be effective Audit Committee in accordance with the revised guidance in the and has demonstrated the appropriate commitment to the role.
Turnbull Report, including ensuring the external audit goes out to tender every ten years in line with the EU regulations and directive The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director also met with the other onaudit.
These systems are also refined as necessary to meet Non-Executive Directors to assess the Chairmans effectiveness changes in the Groups business and associated risks.
during the year, taking into account the views of Executive Directors.
The Audit Committee also adopts an internal audit charter each The Company Secretary ensured that the Board is made aware year in accordance with International Internal Auditing Standards.
ofnew laws, regulations and other information appropriate to the Group to ensure that all Directors continually update their skills, The systems of internal control were in place throughout the period knowledge and familiarity of the Group in order to fulfil their roles.
and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
The Board has Additionally, each Director has access to the advice and services of conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of the systems the Company Secretary and also has the ability to take independent ofrisk management and internal control in operation during the year external advice if required.
and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report.
This was approved by the Audit Committee and the Board.
Further to the changes described above, the Board continues to ensure that the Groups culture and ways of working further embed information security risk management across of the business.
Annual Report 2017 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC 39 Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Relations with shareholders Going concern statement The Board continue to believe that it is important to explain business The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the developments and financial results to the Companys shareholders and going concern basis.
Details of the considerations undertaken by the to understand any shareholder concerns.
The principal communication Board in reaching this conclusion are set out on page 21 within the media used to impart information to shareholders are news releases Chief Financial Officers Statement.
including results announcements and Company publications.
In all such communications, care is taken to ensure that no inappropriate Viability statement information is released.
In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of the Code, the Board have assessed the prospects of the Company over a longer The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have period than the twelve months required by the Going Concern lead responsibility for investor relations.
They are supported by an provision.
The Board conducted this review for a period of three Investor Relations Director who, amongst other matters, organises years to March 2020, reflecting the period of the Groups current presentations for analysts and institutional investors.
There is a full forecasts and level of ongoing change in the sector.
A three year plan programme of regular meetings and dialogue with major institutional is now thebasis on which the Groups internal planning cycle is built shareholders, fund managers, analysts, retail brokers and credit as the speed of change and customer demand in the market means investors, upon which the Chairman ensures the Board receives that itisnot feasible to plan with any degree of certainty beyond this regular updates atBoard meetings.
The Board also receives periodic timeframe.
This assessment has been made taking into account the reports on investors views of the performance of the Company.
current financial position of the Group, the Groups business and Allthe Non-Executive Directors and, in particular, the Chairman financial plans and the principal risks and uncertainties faced by andthe Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are available theGroup, which are disclosed on pages 22 to 25 of the Strategic tomeet with major shareholders, if such meetings are required.
Furthermore, the recent bond issue and bank re-financing The Company plans also to communicate with shareholders through have secured funding facilities for the Group until 2022, ensuring the AGM, at which the Chairman will give an account of the progress sufficient liquidity to deliver on the Groups plans.
of the business over the last year, and a review of current issues, We have stress tested the Groups forecasts against a combination which provides the opportunity for shareholders to ask questions.
ofthe Groups principal risks and uncertainties, taking into account The Companys AGM provides all shareholders with the opportunity the impact on both profits and cash flow.
We consider that we have to vote on the resolutions put to shareholders.
Information relating sufficient headroom to absorb such impact and, as such, based on tovotes cast will, following the AGM, be available on the Companys the results of this analysis, the Board have a reasonable expectation website www.
that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its Further financial and business information is available on the liabilities as they fall due over this three year period.
40 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2017
