Audit Committee report On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Audit Committee report for FY17.
During the year, the Committee comprised the following During the year, the formal calendar of items considered at each independent Non-Executive Directors: John Allwood Chairman, Audit Committee meeting within the annual cycle encompassed Ian West, CathKeers appointed 1 August 2016 and James Powell.
theCode requirements to: The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board, following each monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company Committee meeting, on any significant issues that may have arisen.
and review significant financial reporting judgements made Inaddition, the Chairman of the Committee is happy to make bymanagement: himself available to investors on request.
During the year, all disclose the significant issues that the Committee considered requirements ofthe Code in respect of the Committee were met.
inrelation to the financial statements and how these issues The Chief Financial Officer as well as representatives of the Companys wereaddressed: external auditor and other members of senior management from confirm that the annual report and consolidated financial statements, Finance, Legal and Internal and Risk Audit also attend these meetings taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, to ensure by invitation of the Committee or the Chairman.
The May 2017 Audit that the narrative sections of the report are consistent with the Committee meeting was attended by Tristia Harrison and during FY18 financial statements and accurately reflect the Groups performance: both the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Operating Officer willattend future meetings.
The external and internal auditors have review the Companys internal financial controls and its direct access to the Committee during formal meetings and time internalcontrol and risk management systems and to make isset aside for them to have private discussion with the Committee, recommendations to the Board: in theabsence of management attendees.
review the Companys arrangements by which employees may John Allwood remains the member of the Committee with relevant raise concerns in confidence: and recent financial experience as recognised by the Consultative monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal Committee of Accountancy Bodies, although all members are audit function and review the output and findings of the internal expected to be financially literate and have an understanding of: audit team: the principles of, contents of and developments in financial reporting, make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, accounting standards and statements of recommended practice re-appointment and removal of the external auditor and to approve including the Guidelines on Alternative Performance Measures its remuneration and terms of engagement: APMs, issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority : review the Companys policy on the engagement of the external key aspects of the Companys operations: auditor to supply non-audit services: matters that influence or distort the presentation of accounts review and monitor the external auditors independence and andkey financial information: objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into the principles of, and developments in, key applicable company consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: lawand other legislation relevant to the Company: disclose how the Committee has assessed the effectiveness of the role of internal and external auditing and risk management: theexternal audit process and provide information on the length oftenure of the current audit firm: and the regulatory framework of the Companys business: and review and approve changes to the Companys accounting policies.
environmental and social responsibility best reporting practices.
The Committees remit requires it to report to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement isneeded and to make recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
Annual Report 2017 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC 41 Corporate governance Audit Committee report continued Significant issues The significant issues considered by the Audit Committee in the current year were as follows: Significant issue considered by the Committee How the issue was addressed by the Committee The appropriateness The Committee considered and challenged papers and analysis prepared by management and, taking of preparing the Group into account managements assumptions and the external auditors review of these papers, concluded financial statements for that managements recommendation to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis is the half year and full year appropriate.
The Committee considered and challenged managements approach to the viability statement, on a going concern basis including the period of review and risk factors and concluded that the disclosure in the statement of viability and theviability statement is appropriate.
The treatment and The Committee considered and challenged managements approach and presentation of separately disclosure of exceptional disclosed items, adjusted measures and the nature and quantum of other trading items included within items, adjusted measures Headline earnings.
The Committee also considered and challenged the views of the external auditor on and the nature and managements policy and its application during the year.
At each meeting the Committee reviewed a quantum of other trading paper prepared by management on actual and forecast levels of exceptional items, including the nature items included within of all the items and the balance of income and cost between exceptional and Headline earnings.
The Audit Headlineearnings Committee has reviewed and agreed the disclosure for inclusion in the consolidated financial statements.
Revenue recognition The key areas of judgement in recognising revenue is the identification of revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables and hardware sales to third parties involved in outsourcing its customer acquisition.
When the Group sells a number of products within a bundled transaction, the total consideration from the arrangement is allocated to each element based on their relative fair values and limited to the amounts billed for that element.
In addition, hardware sales to third parties involved in outsourcing its customer acquisition are recognised when risk and rewards of the related hardware are transferred to the outsourced third party.
TheCommittee reviewed and challenged managements papers on the proposed accounting treatment fornew products and customer credits and agreed with the conclusion.
Supplier rebate income The Committee reviewed the level and application of the recognition policy of supplier rebate income and and income received income received in relation to disputed network charges during the year, an area of inherent risk due to the in relation to disputed complexity of the arrangements and the judgement applied by management to ensure that the income is network charges recognised in the appropriate period.
This review required an understanding of the nature of any significant transactions and adherence to the Groups accounting policies.
As a result of the review, the Committee concluded that the income had been appropriately recorded.
Taxation The key judgement in relation to taxation relates to the assumptions made in recognising deferred tax assets.
Thetaxation forecasting model prepared by management has been approved by the Groups PLC Committee and the Board.
The Committee reviewed and challenged managements paper, which outlines the key principles and judgements used in the calculation, and agreed with the recognition of the asset accordingly.
42 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Statement of Directors in respect of the The policy relating to the provision of non-audit services by the Annual Report and Accounts external auditor specifies the types of work from which the external As required by the Code, the Directors confirm that the Annual auditor is excluded: for which the external auditor can be engaged Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and without referral to the Committee: and for which a case by case understandable and provides the information necessary for decision is required.
In order to safeguard the auditors objectivity shareholders to assess the Companys position, business model and independence, the ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees is and strategy.
When arriving at this position the Board was assisted monitored by the Committee.
Any work proposed in excess of 50% by a number of processes including: ofthe audit fee is referred to the Committee.
Amounts below this arediscussed with the Chairman of the Committee.
the Annual Report and Accounts is drafted by appropriate senior employees across all areas of the business with overall supervision A statement of fees paid or accrued for services from the external being provided by the Group Financial Controller, to ensure the auditor during the period is set out below: 2017 2016 report is consistent across all sections: m m a comprehensive verification process is undertaken to ensure the Fees payable to the Companys auditor factual accuracy of the entire Annual Report: for the audit of the Companys Annual Report and Accounts 0.1 0.1 complete reviews of drafts of the report are undertaken by the PLCCommittee: and Audit of the Group and its subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.5 0.4 the final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to final consideration by the Board.
Audit services provided to all Groupcompanies 0.6 0.5 External audit Other non-audit services 0.1 0.1 The Committee is responsible for the development, implementation Total Group auditors remuneration 0.7 0.6 and monitoring of the Companys policy on external audit, which assigns responsibility for monitoring the independence, objectivity During the year, the Group incurred non-audit fees of 0.1m for and compliance by the external auditor to the Committee.
advisory services relating to financing activities.
Having undertaken Deloitte was appointed as auditor in 2010 when the Group demerged areview of the non-audit related work, the Committee has satisfied from the Carphone Warehouse Group PLC.
In the year to 31 March itself that the services undertaken during the year did not prejudice 2014, Sharon Thorne was appointed as the Senior Statutory Auditor.
Deloitte has confirmed its independence to the Audit Committee.
In the year ended 31 March 2017, the Audit Committee discussed the effectiveness of the external audit process and audit quality with John Allwood theother attendees of the Audit Committee meeting.
Based on the Audit Committee Chairman results of the auditor assessment carried out in the year, the Audit 10 May 2017 Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness and quality of the external audit process.
Following the FY17 audit, the auditor assessment will again be completed by each member of the Audit Committee, the Chief Financial Officer and other members of senior management who are invited to attend theAudit Committee meetings.
The assessment covers all aspects of the audit process, from the audit partners interaction with the Audit Committee, through to the planning and delivery of the audit.
The feedback from this process will be considered by the Audit Committee and provided toboth the auditor and to senior management.
The results will be reviewed at the next Audit Committee meeting.
The Company has complied throughout the reporting year with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
The Audit Committee has considered the audit tendering provisions outlined in the UK Corporate Governance Code together with the guidance provided by the European Commission and the Competition and Markets Authority CMA.
It is the Audit Committees understanding that under the CMA and EU rules rotation of the external audit firm is required by FY20.
In light of this guidance it is the Audit Committees intention to put the external audit out totender in accordance with the CMA and EU timeframes.
Thisrecommendation has been endorsed by the Board.
Annual Report 2017 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC 43
