Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Our Governance Corporate governance in action In order to support the overall performance and long-term growth of the business, the Board has six key areas of focus.
Risk management and internal controls 5.
Succession planning and Board performance 57Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance in action continued 58Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Our Governance Insights from the Board tour: Strategy The Board regularly debates the relevance and effectiveness of the At Workspace, we place great We had a fascinating tour of our strategy to ensure it is the right emphasis on talking to properties in South East London, one for the business in current customers and listening to their including the ongoing 1. and future market conditions.
feedback so that we can create redevelopment at The Fuel Tank the ideal working environment to and the recently acquired Read more about our Strategy meet their individual business Cannon Wharf business centre.
This is evident in the relationships that Centre We really got a sense of the Managers have with their vibrancy that Workspace Activities in 2016 17 customers from the moment properties bring to an area and they move in, they have an ally to the local communities.
We on site who is there to make their provide great places to work for Worked with the Executive The annual Board tour gave lives easier and facilitate local businesses and also attract Directors to review the current Directors the opportunity to networking with neighbours who organisations from outside the strategy and ensure its see the strategy in action, could help their business grow.
local area with all the extra continued relevance.
including visits to properties in amenities we put into a building, During the year the the refurbishment and Walking around our centres, you from great cafes and restaurants, Non-Executive Directors are redevelopment pipeline and see the huge range of businesses high quality meeting rooms for encouraged to visit the recent acquisitions.
and individuals that Workspace hire, co-working space and, in Companys properties, to meet caters for whether a freelance many cases, a gym, showers and colleagues to provide additional consultant or a well-established cycle storage.
information and insight into the company.
The rise of digital business.
marketing has widened the Stephen Hubbard potential reach of our offer and Non-Executive Director the truly flexible space we Governance in numbers provide means we are able to operate right across the economic spectrum.
5 It is hugely exciting to see the The Board visited five opportunities that are opening properties on the tour.
up in the real estate market thanks to advances in technology.
At Workspace, we are using it to better understand and respond to customer requirements, for example, by providing super connected properties that allow customers to remain connected to their servers wherever they are in the building, or indeed across many of our other buildings.
Maria Moloney Non-Executive Director 59Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance in action continued Trading performance The Board regularly monitors performance to assess whether 2. the business model is effective in driving enquiries and ensuring we continue to meet customer needs and adapt to overall trends and conditions in the London property market.
Activities in 2016 17 Review of progress against the Discussed treasury and cash five-year business plan and management matters.
Reviewed monthly financial Received updates on market performance against budget and broker reports.
and other finance matters, Meetings throughout the year including budgets and business between the Auditors and the plans.
Considered, in detail, the annual and interim results, interim management statements and dividends.
Governance in numbers 88% 40% Customer advocacy.
60Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Our Governance The Leather Market We are undertaking major upgrade works at The Leather Market in London Bridge.
The project will complete in Summer 2017 and will include a new entrance and caf, as well as high quality meeting rooms.
61Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance in action continued Metal Box Factory We completed a 16m refurbishment of Metal Box Factory in January 2015.
The project has been a huge success with customers.
The building has let up extremely well, with the average rent per sq.
ft. rising by 19% over the last year.
We continue to invest in the building and were proud that it achieved a Platinum WiredScore rating for connectivity in 2016.
This has attracted further interest from digitally disruptive businesses, such as Mozilla, creator of the Firefox browser.
The rental growth at Metal Box Factory has also driven a significant valuation uplift over the last two years, with the building currently valued at 106m.
62Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Our Governance Property valuation and investment Maximising the value of our properties requires the Board to 3. approve investment decisions based on robust market data and financial analysis.
The Board reviews and challenges the valuation of the portfolio and reviews and approves major development projects and acquisitions and disposals.
Activities in 2016 17 Considered and approved the Approval of the disposal of property valuations performed the remaining eight properties by CBRE.
within the BlackRock Approval of redevelopment Workspace Property Trust activity and major completed for 131m.
Received updates from the Significant investment decisions Development Director on the including the acquisition of status of planning consents.
13-17 Fitzroy Street for 98.5m in April 2017 and the disposal of Uplands Business Park in May 2017.
Governance in numbers 2.1% 5 Capital growth.
Disposals including BlackRock Workspace Property Trust JV.
1 4 Acquisition made in Fitzrovia Planning permissions gained in April 2017. during the year.
63Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance in action continued Risk management and internal controls Robust governance and risk 4. management are crucial to the Boards role in protecting the business, along with maximising opportunities for growth and returns.
The Board regularly reviews governance requirements and assesses the adequacy of risk management, including the effectiveness of internal controls and risk reporting.
Activities in 2016 17 Regularly reviewed the Received updates from the principal risks.
Received reports on Health Reviewed the Companys and Safety and the activity Viability Statement.
undertaken in terms of staff Considered the recommendations training and ongoing audits.
of the Audit Committee with Received reports on regards to the external audit governance issues, including tender review which resulted legal and regulatory updates.
in the Board approving the This also included an update proposed appointment of provided by the Companys KPMG LLP as the Companys legal advisers who attended External Auditor.
the Board meeting in February 2017 and other specific updates provided by the External Auditors.
64Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Our Governance Audit tender As stated in last years Annual Report, the Audit Committee agreed to place the external audit out to tender as a result of mandatory firm rotation.
I am pleased to say that following the tender review, which was undertaken in January 2017, the Board has approved the proposed appointment of KPMG LLP as the Companys External Auditor for the coming financial year.
Further details can be found on page 92.
Chris Girling Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 65Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance in action continued 66Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Our Governance Investor tour The Executive Team and Head of Corporate Communications Shareholder regularly conduct investor tours engagement throughout the year.
These are essential in providing an The Board is committed to an understanding of the business open dialogue with all and our customers, showcasing 5. shareholders and actively seeks our properties and demonstrating their views on relevant the value being delivered from governance matters.
our refurbishment and redevelopment pipeline.
Activities in 2016 17 Reviewed reports from the During the year, the Chairman Companys brokers and of the Remuneration advisers, outlining shareholder Committee consulted with views and providing feedback shareholders on the revised on Company presentations or Remuneration Policy being events.
Reviewed the 2016 AGM More information can be found Shareholder Circular and proxy on pages 94 to 105. voting figures.
Governance in numbers 1 19 Capital Markets Day.
67Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance in action continued Succession planning and Board performance 6.
The Board understands that the strength of its governance relies on having the right mix of skills and experience around the Boardroom table and ensuring there is continuity in Board membership.
The Board conducts a rigorous evaluation of its performance each year and actively plans for succession.
Activities in 2016 17 Conducted the Board Conducted a review of evaluation for the period to succession planning for the 31 March 2017 and reviewed the Board and Senior Managers.
actions arising from the internal Considered and approved the Board evaluation conducted in reappointment of Daniel 2016.
Governance in numbers 8 Chris Girling held eight meetings with individual Board and Executive Committee members to discuss the performance evaluation of the Chairman.
68Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Our Governance Board meeting in action The Board met formally on nine occasions throughout the year.
As part of its programme of meetings, it held its annual strategy day in the Autumn.
The strategy of the business remains a key focus for the Board.
The strategy day allows the Board to spend extended time, reflecting on the future direction of the business in the context of progress against strategy to date.
It is also an opportunity to debate and refine ideas which will inform the business plan and strategy.
69Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
