Corporate governance report The annual Board tour of our properties provides an opportunity for the Board to enhance their understanding of the business first hand.
Leadership The site visits in March 2017 proved beneficial as the Board engaged with centre staff and customers, which helped them to assess the effectiveness of the current strategy and reinforce and extend their Our leadership knowledge and understanding of some key properties within the portfolio.
provides agile and All of these factors provide a different perspective for our Board which enables the Non-Executive Directors to support and offer constructive challenge to the executive management team.
responsive decision The role of the Workspace Group PLC Board The Board is collectively responsible for the performance and making to keep long-term success of the Company, for its leadership, strategy, values, standards, control and management.
The key responsibilities of our Board and those matters reserved for its decision are as follows: pace with a dynamic Responsibilities Agree strategic plans and business objectives.
marketplace within Approve the acquisition of investment properties and disposals.
Review and agree financing arrangements and capital expenditure.
Review the Groups systems of internal control, governance and the safeguards of a risk management.
Matters reserved for its decision sound governance At least once a year the Board reviews the nature and scale of matters reserved for its decision and these include: Dividend Policy.
Company Strategy, business objectives and annual budgets.
Succession planning for the Board and Senior Management.
Approval of significant funding decisions.
The Executive Directors provide regular updates to the Board on Review and approval of corporate transactions.
different aspects of the business, ranging from progress being made on our refurbishment and redevelopment projects, trading Other day-to-day operational decisions are delegated by the Board performance, the rationale for acquisitions and disposals and how to the Executive Committee, subject to formal delegated authority these are aligned to our strategy, and inform the Board on the limits.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision can discussions held with analysts and investors.
be accessed on the Company website at www.
Our governance framework, which is shown below, illustrates how our internal processes operate.
Board and Committee structure Executive Committee Investment Committee Number of meetings in 2016 17: 21 Number of meetings in 2016 17: 16 More information on page 56.
Leadership The Board Number of meetings in 2016 17: 9 More information on pages 59 to 69.
Effectiveness Accountability Remuneration Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Number of meetings in 2016 17: 2 Number of meetings in 2016 17: 3 Number of meetings in 2016 17: 12 More information on page 82.
Risk Committee Number of meetings in 2016 17: 9 More information on page 81.
70Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Our Governance To assist the Board in effectively discharging its duties, Directors Division of responsibilities receive relevant supporting information, which includes, but is not The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer limited to, the monthly Groups financial results, performance reports The roles and responsibilities of the Non-Executive Chairman and and risk assessment reports.
Equally, the Board routinely considers Chief Executive Officer are separate, with a clear division of safety, environmental, ethical and reputational issues, in order to responsibilities between them.
ensure that they are fully reflected in the risk management process.
Details of the Groups strategy are set out in the Strategic Report on As Chairman, Daniel Kitchen, is primarily responsible for the pages 2 to 47. operation, leadership and overall effectiveness of the Board.
The Chairman sets the Boards agenda and ensures that important Details of the risk management and internal control system can be matters, in particular strategic issues, receive adequate time and found on page 93. attention at meetings.
The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution of the Non-Executive Directors and ensures all Directors Board and Committee meetings attendance receive accurate, timely and clear information.
He is also responsible The Board has regular scheduled meetings throughout the year.
It for effective communication between the Board and shareholders.
held nine meetings during the year under review.
Supplementary The Chairman is not involved in an executive capacity in any of the meetings or Board conference calls are held between formal Board Groups activities.
meetings as and when necessary.
During the year, the Chairman held a number of meetings with the The Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board, the Non-Executive Directors, without the Executive Directors being Committees on which they serve and the Annual General Meeting present.
The discussions largely revolved around succession planning AGM, and to devote sufficient time to the Companys affairs, to and other matters of interest.
enable them to fulfil their duties as Directors.
Details of Directors attendance at each of the Board and Committee meetings during the The Chief Executive Officer, Jamie Hopkins, is responsible for leading year ended 31 March 2017 are set out in the table below.
and managing the business, and is accountable to the Board for the financial and operational performance of the Group, and the Scheduled meetings and member attendance determination of the strategy and achievement of its objectives.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Non-Executive Directors Daniel Kitchen 9 9 12 12 2 2 The Non-Executive Directors have a broad and complementary mix of business skills, knowledge and experience acquired across different Jamie Hopkins 9 9 business sectors.
This allows them to provide independent and Graham Clemett 9 9 external perspectives to Board discussions.
Chris Girling 9 9 3 3 12 12 2 2 Damon Russell 9 9 3 3 12 12 2 2 The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors, including the expected time commitment, are available for inspection Maria Moloney 9 9 3 3 12 12 2 2 at the Companys registered office.
Stephen Hubbard 9 9 3 3 12 12 2 2 Senior Independent Director Where a Director is unable to attend a meeting, they are provided The Board appointed Chris Girling to the position of Senior with papers in advance of the meeting and their comments, as Independent Director on 16 July 2014.
In performing this role, Chris is appropriate, are provided to the Board or the Committee Chairman available to provide an alternative communication channel for prior to the meeting.
He can also deputise for the Chairman in his absence and counsel all Board colleagues.
Board Committees The Board has a number of standing Committees, namely the Chris also chairs an annual meeting of the Executive and NonNomination, Audit, and Remuneration Committees, to which specific Executive Directors, without the Chairman present, to appraise the responsibilities have been delegated.
These Committees enable the Chairmans performance and address any other matters which the Board to operate effectively and ensure a strong governance Directors might wish to raise.
Chris then conveys the outcome of framework.
these discussions to the Chairman.
Further details of the work of these Committees can be found on If any Director has concerns about the running of the Company or pages 82 to 115. proposed action which cannot be resolved, these concerns will be recorded in the Board Minutes.
No such concerns arose during the Each Committee has Terms of Reference which were reviewed by year under review.
each of the Committees and the Board during the year.
The Terms of Reference for the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees are available for inspection on the Companys website at www.
Each of these Committees is comprised of independent NonExecutive Directors of the Company who are appointed by the Board.
Board members receive minutes of meetings and comprehensive papers, in advance of all the Boards Committees and they can request presentations or reports on areas of interest.
The activity of each Committee is described on pages 82 to 115.
The Company Secretary is secretary to each Committee.
71Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance report continued Leadership structure The Board is collectively responsible for the Companys long-term success and the delivery of its strategic and operational objectives.
Remuneration Committee Senior Management The Board sets the strategic direction, governance and values of the Role: To ensure that remuneration Role: To assist the Chief Group and has ultimate responsibility for its management, direction arrangements underpin the Executive Officer in managing and performance.
Groups strategy and to attract the day-to-day activities of the and retain critical talent.
The Board draws on the expertise throughout the business and from external advisors to ensure that its judgements are based on sound and timely information.
The Board operates through a sound risk management and internal Internal Committees External control system, details of which can be found on page 93.
Detailed below are the main committees that are used by the Board to embed Executive Committee Independent Auditors strict corporate governance.
Role: To audit the financial and Jamie Hopkins, non-financial matters within the Chief Executive Officer Group to ensure the Companys Role: Overall management of compliance with applicable Damon Russell, the Company strategy, investor accounting standards, laws and Non-Executive Director relations and daily operations regulation and report to Role: Member of the of the Group.
As part of its work The Board Remuneration, Nomination and this year, the Audit Committee Audit Committees.
Damon Graham Clemett, has undertaken a competitive Executive Directors brings extensive TMT experience Chief Financial Officer tender for the selection and to the Board.
Role: Overseeing the Groups appointment of an External Jamie Hopkins, financial activity, treasury tax, Auditor.
This exercise resulted in Chief Executive Officer Stephen Hubbard, Company secretarial and the appointment of a new Role: With extensive experience Non-Executive Director governance, and managing External Auditor, KPMG, in in the property sector, Jamie Role: Stephen has a wealth the Groups IT strategy.
January 2017, subject to final provides strategic direction for the of experience in the property approval by shareholders at the Company, business development sector.
As a member of each Angus Boag, next AGM on 14 July 2017.
of the Board Committees he Development Director selection and appointment process is fully described on provides further independent Role: Responsible for the Graham Clemett, advice to the Board.
Chief Financial Officer of properties, managing the Role: To manage the Groups portfolio and Corporate Social financial activity, Graham has Responsibility.
extensive experience in finance and banking.
Company Secretary Independent advisors Chris Pieroni, Operations Director Role: To advise the Board Non-Executive Directors Carmelina Carfora, on valuation, legal matters and Role: To manage the Company Company Secretary assets, professional services market developments.
Daniel Kitchen, Role: Carmelina is Secretary to and overall business operations Non-Executive Chairman the Board and its Committees, and development.
Role: As Chairman of the Board, providing governance and Daniel is also Chairman of the compliance advice.
He Role: To ensure that any brings independence and strong significant expenditures across leadership skills.
Board Committees the business are made in support of the Company strategy.
Chris Girling, Senior Independent Risk Committee Non-Executive Director Role: To manage strategic and Chairman of the Nomination Committee and operational risks in each Audit Committee Role: To continually develop functional area of the business Role: To independently advise the skills and experience of the and assess internal controls.
the Board, Chris has a detailed Board and to meet the changing knowledge of risk assessment needs of the business.
Disclosure Committee and infrastructure development Role: To assist the Company to experience.
make timely and accurate disclosures of information that is Maria Moloney, required to be disclosed in order Non-Executive Director Audit Committee to meet the legal and regulatory and Chairman of the Role: To review and report on obligations arising from the Remuneration Committee the Groups financial reporting, Market Abuse Regulations.
Role: Maria brings a wealth internal controls and risk of experience from a legal management process.
background, as well as property and telecoms.
72Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Our Governance The Boardroom A highly experienced Board bringing sound judgement and objectivity to debates and decision making.
73Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance report continued During the year, the independence of Stephen Hubbard was specifically considered.
The Board is satisfied that he remains Effectiveness independent and has established a protocol to ensure that Stephen has no involvement, at any stage, in the Groups valuation exercise.
He also takes no part in any of the discussions concerning CBREs role The Directors bring and fees.
The Board believes that no long-standing relationship, which may be a diverse set of skills deemed to compromise independence has been formed with any of the Executive Directors or Senior Management at Workspace.
and experience The Nomination Committee regularly reviews the composition of the Board to ensure that it has an appropriate and diverse mix of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Group.
Each which allows them Director brings a particular range of skills and expertise to the deliberations of the Board.
to provide sound Appointments to the Board The Nomination Committee is chaired by Daniel Kitchen, the Company Chairman and comprises all of the Non-Executive independent advice.
As needs arise, the Committee is assisted by external search consultants.
The composition of the Board The Committee ensures that there is a formal, rigorous and As at 31 March 2017, the Board comprised the Chairman, four transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors, with the Independent Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
first step being a detailed evaluation of the current composition of the Further biographical information on each of our Directors can be Board, taking into account the balance of skills, experience, found on pages 54 and 55, which shows the breadth of their skills and knowledge and diversity.
experience and membership of the Committees.
All of our Directors have significant experience and knowledge of the sector in which we The Committee then prepares a candidate specification for approval operate.
The Non-Executive Directors bring industry experience from by the Board.
There has been no Board Director recruitment activity for the year The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is vital to the under review.
The Board considers there is an appropriate balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors required to In accordance with the Code, all Directors wishing to continue will lead the business and safeguard the interest of shareholders.
The retire and offer themselves for re-election by shareholders at the Boards current composition of a Non-Executive Chairman, two Annual General Meeting on 14 July 2017.
Executive Directors and four Independent Non-Executive Directors meets the requirement of the Code for at least half the Board, The Nomination Committees terms of reference can be found at excluding the Chairman, to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
Independence of Non-Executive Directors Further work of the Nomination Committee can be found on pages During the year, the Board considered the independence of all of the 82 to 85.
Non-Executive Directors, save for the Chairman who was deemed independent by the Board at the date of his appointment.
It Independent advice concluded that each Non-Executive Director remained independent The Directors can, for the purpose of discharging their duties, obtain of management and free from any business or other relationship independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
No which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent Director had reason to use this facility during the year.
All Non-Executive Directors act in a robustly independent manner and bring constructive challenge to Board discussions and independent decision-making to their Board and Committee duties.
74Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Our Governance Business experience and skills of the Board Induction, training and development The Board currently has seven Directors that bring considerable and All new Non-Executive Directors joining the Board, undertake a diverse experience which enables them to make a valuable formal and personalised induction programme which is designed to contribution to the Group.
Their experience, gained from varied give him or her an understanding of the Companys business, commercial backgrounds, includes technology, property, marketing governance and stakeholders.
This will cover, for example, the and finance, which enables them to support the executive team in operation and activities of the Group including site visits and meeting delivering the Companys strategy.
members of the Senior Management team, the Groups principal strategic risks: the role of the Board: the decision-making matters The Board actively considers diversity and believes this to be an reserved to it: the responsibilities of the Board Committees: and the important factor when considering appointments to the Board.
part of the recruitment process, the composition of the Board will be kept under review to ensure the best balance of gender, skills and We recognise that our Directors have a diverse range of experience, experience is maintained.
Further details on our diversity policy can and so we encourage them to attend external seminars and briefings be found on page 28. at the Companys expense, in areas considered appropriate for their professional development.
The mix and diverse range of skills create a highly effective Board, with the Directors individual and complementary qualities The Company Secretary provides updates to the Board on changes in encouraging a high level of debate at Board meetings.
legal, regulatory and corporate governance matters.
The Companys principal external advisers provide updates to the Board, at least Details of the business experience and skills held by each Director annually, on the latest developments in their respective fields.
can be found in the Directors biographies section on pages 54 and 55.
Information and support to the Board The Directors have access to independent professional advice at the Commitment Companys expense, as well as to the advice and services of the The Board is satisfied that each of the Non-Executive Directors is able Company Secretary, Carmelina Carfora.
Her biography can be found to devote sufficient time to the Companys business.
Through the Chairman, Carmelina is responsible for Directors are advised on appointment of the time required to fulfil the advising the Board on matters of Corporate Governance and ensuring role and asked to confirm that they can make the required that Board procedures are complied with.
The Board and its commitment.
Letters of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors Committees receive high-quality, up-to-date information for them to are available for inspection at the AGM.
review in good time before each meeting.
Non-Executive Directors will seek approval from the Chairman, prior In consultation with the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and to assuming additional external commitments which may affect their Chief Financial Officer, the Company Secretary manages the time available to devote to the Company.
The Board is advised of any provision of information to the Board for their formal Board meetings changes.
and at other appropriate times.
The Board is satisfied that all Non-Executive Directors are The Board uses an electronic Board paper system which provides contributing effectively to the operation of the Board.
quick, easy and secure access to Board papers and materials.
Prior to each Board meeting the Directors receive, through this system, the Positions held by the Non-Executive Directors are detailed in the agenda and supporting papers to ensure that they have the latest and section on Directors biographies on pages 54 and 55. relevant information in advance of the meeting.
All Executive Directors are encouraged to take a Non-Executive After each Board meeting, the Company Secretary operates a position in another company or organisation.
The appointment to comprehensive follow-up procedure to ensure that actions are such positions is subject to the approval of the Board which completed as agreed by the Board.
considers, in particular, the time commitment required.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer ensure that the Board is kept fully aware, on a timely basis, of business matters relating to the Group.
75Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance report continued Chairmans evaluation Board evaluation The Senior Independent Director chairs an annual meeting of The Board recognises the benefit of annual evaluation, enabling it Executive and Non-Executive Directors, without the Chairman to improve its effectiveness and that of its Committees and present, to appraise the Chairmans performance and to address any Directors.
For the year under review, the performance evaluation other matters which the Directors might wish to raise.
The outcome was an internal process which was led by the Chairman.
No of these discussions is conveyed by the Senior Independent Director particular matters were identified as requiring specific action and to the Chairman.
During the year under review, it was concluded that the Board will continue to consider development in corporate the Chairman is highly respected and is valued for his industry governance and best practice.
Furthermore, he was complimented by all for his leadership and for his inclusive style during Board meetings.
The outcome of the key recommendations arising from the 2016 effectiveness review can be found below.
Re-election of Directors All Directors will stand for re-election at the AGM on 14 July 2017.
Progress during 2016 17: Maintain focus Following the Board evaluation review, the Chairman considers that Succession planning and the on succession each Director continues to operate as an effective member of the development needs of Board members planning, Board and has the skills, knowledge and experience that enables will continue to be kept under review to resourcing, them to discharge their duties effectively, in fulfilling their duties on ensure stable and consistent governance and training the Board and as members of the Board Committees.
To that end, it is the and the Board is of the opinion that the Directors seeking re-election at Boards intention that from 2017, new development the Annual General Meeting have continued to give effective counsel Non-Executive Directors would join the needs of and commitment to the Company and, accordingly, should be Board two years prior to existing Board reappointed by the Groups shareholders at the upcoming Annual members reaching the end of their members.
Mr Hopkins and Mr Clemett have service contracts and details can be Appropriate training and development found on page 113.
None of the Non-Executive Directors have service requirements for Board members will contracts.
continue to be satisfied through legal and other relevant updates provided by the The appointment of Daniel Kitchen may be terminated by either him Company Secretary, Company advisers or the Company giving six months notice in writing.
and through Non-Executive Director training programmes.
Daniel Kitchens second term of appointment as Chairman expired on 6 June 2017 and Stephen Hubbards first term of appointment as Non-Executive Director will expire on 16 July 2017.
Following a review Progress during 2016 17: Continue the of their performance, the Nomination Committee recommended that A site tour was held in March 2017 as part ongoing their appointment should be extended for a further three-year term.
of the Boards ongoing programme to programme of This recommendation was agreed by the Board.
engage with the business and develop Board their understanding of operational issues.
engagement The appointment of Chris Girling, Maria Moloney, Damon Russell and Please see page 59 for details of the with the Stephen Hubbard may be terminated by either the Company or any Board tour.
business one of them giving three months notice in writing.
through activities such Biographies for the Directors can be found on pages 54 and 55. as site visits.
Topics discussed as part of evaluation for the year under review can be found in the Chairmans governance statement on page 49.
The Company Secretary reviewed the responses and discussed them with the Chairman.
The outcomes from this review were discussed as part of the Board meeting in March 2017.
The Board agreed that, overall, the Board and its Committees were working well, and that each Director continues to contribute effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Consequently, whilst no real development themes were identified from the 2017 evaluation, the Board will continue to look for opportunities to improve its effectiveness.
76Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Our Governance Accountability Remuneration Transparency Remuneration and effective risk and performance management are aligned.
The principal responsibility of the Remuneration Committee is to determine and agree, with the Board, the overall remuneration principles and the framework for remuneration of the Executive The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts taken as Directors.
a whole is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys Details of the Directors remuneration can be found on pages 94 to performance, business model and strategy.
The Groups strategy and business model can be found on pages 18 to 23, and 14 and 15.
A statement of the Directors responsibilities regarding the financial statements is set out on page 120.
Internal control and risk management The Board has reviewed the Groups system of internal controls and risk management throughout the year.
Processes and procedures have been established to enable the Directors to report on the effectiveness of internal controls in compliance with the Code.
These processes and procedures involve the analysis, evaluation and management of the key risks to the Group.
Further details are contained in principal risks and uncertainties on page 32.
An assessment of the principal risks facing the Company is set out on pages 32 to 39 and key performance indicators are on pages 24 and 25.
Going Concern and Viability Statement Going Concern disclosures are included alongside the Viability Statement on page 40.
Takeover directive Share capital structures are included in the Directors Report on page 117.
Audit Committee and Auditors The Audit Committee comprises four independent Non-Executive Directors.
It met three times during the year under review, with meetings organised around the Companys reporting schedule.
Chris Girling, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, has been determined by the Board, to have relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year with its External Auditors, with no Company management present.
Further details on the work of the Audit Committee can be found in the Audit Committee Report on pages 86 to 93.
Details of the composition of the Audit Committee are set out on page 87.
77Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance report continued Workspace investor relations programme includes the following activities: Relations with shareholders 1.
Investor Roadshows The Executive Committee In addition to the results Engaging with engages with sell-side analysts presentations, which investors formally at the Full and Half Year attend as well as analysts, results presentations and Capital management carry out investor shareholders is a Markets Day.
All RNS roadshows in the UK immediately announcements, including after the Full and Half Year quarterly trading updates, are results, generally spending four priority for our sent to analysts throughout the to five days on the road in year.
In addition, the Chief London and Scotland.
Additional Financial Officer and Head of roadshows are arranged during business to ensure Corporate Communications are the year to regional cities in the in regular dialogue with analysts UK, Continental Europe and the as they update their models and US.
good understanding publish research on the Company.
Why they are important: The roadshows give shareholders an of our investment Why it is important: Sell-side opportunity to meet with analysts write independent management one-on-one or in research on the Company, which small groups to discuss the case.
is sent to existing and results, business model and prospective investors.
It is strategy and raise any questions therefore important that analysts they may have about the Shareholder engagement have up-to-date and accurate Company and its performance.
Workspace believes engagement with shareholders is all important.
information on the business and The Company has a comprehensive investor relations programme, its strategy in order to present a Frequency: Two formal maintaining regular dialogue with its investors, including major fair view.
roadshows per year, plus at least institutions and private client fund managers.
two further roadshows arranged Frequency: Three formal as necessary.
Throughout the year, meetings are arranged, both proactively and on meetings per year, plus regular request, for the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and ongoing dialogue.
Webcasts Head of Corporate Communications with institutional shareholders The Full and Half Year results and sell-side analysts to discuss the Companys business model, presentations are streamed on strategy and marketplace, as well as update on performance.
These the Company website via a live meetings often include site visits which provide shareholders with webcast and made available for valuable insight into the business.
Digital communication is increasingly used as a means of keeping in Why they are important: The touch with shareholders.
The investor website is kept up-to-date with webcasts allow analysts and RNS announcements, share price performance and information on investors to follow the results Workspaces Doing the Right Thing strategy, while Company presentation if they cannot presentations are also available both on the website and, where attend the event in person, and appropriate, via a webcast.
The Company also engages with broaden the Companys reach to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and at an annual Capital investors based overseas.
Markets Day, as well as attending several external investor conferences.
The Board receives reports of meetings with institutional shareholders together with regular market and brokers reports which give the Directors clear understanding of shareholders views and concerns.
The Chairman is also available to meet with shareholders, Overall balance of activities 2016 17 independently of the Executive Directors, as required.
Investor Roadshows 4 The Annual Report and Accounts is sent to all shareholders who wish 3.
It is also available in the investor section of the 4.
Bank & Industry Conferences 9 Companys website www.
78Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Our Governance 4.
The Annual General Meeting Activities by Executive Committee member 2016 17 Conferences The Annual General Meeting The Executive Directors and AGM takes place at the Jamie Hopkins Senior Management team Company Head Office and Chief Executive O cer regularly attend and present at is attended by the full Board 1.
Real Estate conferences held by of Directors.
Investor Roadshows banks and industry bodies, e. g. resolutions to be proposed at 7.
Webcasts EPRA, in the UK, Europe and US.
Bank & Industry Conferences on 14 July 2017 can be found 5.
Investor Tours Why they are important: in the Notice of Annual General 6.
The Annual General Meeting Conferences provide a good Meeting which is available at 7.
Capital Markets Day opportunity to meet a large www.
co. uk, and will 6. number of investors and industry be dispatched to shareholders 3. associates in one place.
They who have requested a hard copy often include presentations on of the documentation from the industry trends and allow the Company.
All shareholders are Executive Directors to build invited to vote on the Resolutions 5.
4. relationships with key players in and the results are made available the sector, and demonstrate the after the meeting and published Graham Clemett strength and depth of the on our investor website.
Additionally, Chief Financial O cer they often provide an opportunity Why it is important: The AGM 1.
Analyst Engagement 1. to hold one-on-one and group provides shareholders with a 2.
Investor Roadshows meetings with investors outside forum to put questions to the 3.
Webcasts 7. of the formal roadshow schedule.
Board of Directors, and to vote 2.
Bank & Industry Conferences on important issues within the 5.
Investor Tours Frequency: Nine conferences business.
The Annual General Meeting attended this year.
Capital Markets Day Frequency: Once a year.
Tours of the Groups assets are 7.
Capital Markets Day organised regularly, both The Capital Markets Day is held proactively and on request, for once a year and includes either 5. existing and prospective investors.
a tour of the Groups properties 4.
These are carried out by the or management presentations.
Executive Directors and the Head The Executive Directors are all of Corporate Communications, present, as well as a group of Chris Pieroni Operations Director with Asset Managers, Centre Centre Managers and other Managers and other team members of the management 4.
Bank & Industry Conferences 4. members often present.
The Annual General Meeting Why they are important: The Why it is important: As well 7.
Capital Markets Day tours showcase the properties as showcasing the Groups within the portfolio and properties, the Capital Markets demonstrate the operational Day allows Workspace to educate 7. model Workspace has adopted, analysts and investors on 5. as well as the high levels of different aspects of the business activity ongoing across the and demonstrate how it is driving Group.
They allow investors to value and growth from its real see the space being used by estate and customer proposition.
customers and demonstrate Positive feedback was received 6. the business model in action.
from the Capital Markets Day in February 2017, with attendees Angus Boag Frequency: 19 tours conducted commenting that the deep dive per year.
into Workspaces technology Development Director proposition was of particular 4.
Bank & Industry Conferences 4. interest and helped them to 5.
Investor Tours understand the impact technology 6.
The Annual General Meeting has, and will continue to have, on 7.
Capital Markets Day the Real Estate sector.
79Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance report continued Investment Committee Activities in 2016 17 Role of the Investment Committee 1.
3. Review and approve disposals and acquisitions of investment Reviewed and Reviewed the Approved property assets which will also be approved by the Board, in approved the disposal proposed acquisition refurbishment and particular those with a value of more than 2m.
of eight properties of Fitzroy Street which redevelopment Approve and monitor asset management initiatives greater than within the BlackRock completed in April activity, including 0.1m.
Workspace Property 2017 and the disposal monitoring progress Approve and monitor progress on all refurbishment and Trust in June 2016 for of Uplands Business of ongoing projects.
redevelopment programmes to ensure they are progressing in 131m.
Park in May 2017. line with budget and are on target to meet completion dates.
Review and approve business projects.
The Investment Committee met 16 times Composition of the Committee during the year ended 31 March 2017.
Jamie Hopkins, Chief Executive Officer Graham Clemett, Chief Financial Officer Chris Pieroni, Operations Director Angus Boag, Development Director 16 The Investment Committee is chaired by Jamie Hopkins.
Given the nature of capital expenditure proposals, business initiatives and projects that are likely to be presented to the Investment Committee, it is also attended by: John Robson, Head of Asset Management Richard Swayne, Senior Investment Manager James Friedenthal, Head of Corporate Development Clare Dundas, Head of Corporate Communications Mike Webber, Financial Planning and Analysis Manager Carmelina Carfora, Company Secretary Secretary to the Investment Committee The Frames In the heart of Shoreditch, The Frames is a major refurbishment project creating a brand new 50,000 sq.
Completing in 2018, the project will include all the key attributes that characterise a Workspace business centre, including a caf, breakout spaces, Club Workspace and meeting rooms, as well as business grade connectivity.
80Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
