Corporate governance report continued Audit Committee Report Audit Committee activities in 2016 17 1.
The Audit Committee met three times during Financial and narrative A full tender review of Portfolio valuation.
the year ended 31 March 2017. reporting.
the external audit contract was undertaken during the year.
Independence and Tax and REIT objectivity of the compliance.
Maria Moloney Damon Russell Stephen Hubbard The Audit Committee recommended to the Board that following the resignation of PwC after the completion of the March 2017 year end audit as a result of mandatory firm rotation, KPMG be appointed by the Board as External Auditor.
This is subject to shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM.
The Board accepted the recommendation.
86Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Our Governance Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present its report for the financial year ended 31 March 2017.
The Audit Committee met three times during the year.
Attendance at these meetings is shown in the table on page 71.
To ensure compliance with the Code, the Committees membership is limited to Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The right skills The Board is satisfied that I have the appropriate level of relevant financial and accounting experience required by the provisions of the Code, to perform the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee, having previously held Chief Financial Officer positions in public companies.
I am also a Chartered Accountant and I continue to chair the Audit Committee for another public limited company.
Role of the Committee The Committee is responsible for overseeing internal risk The Audit Committee collectively has the skills and experience management and effective internal controls, financial reporting and required to fully discharge its duties.
The Committee is authorised by appropriate external audit arrangements.
the Board to seek any information necessary to fulfil its duties to obtain independent legal, accounting or other professional advice, at Composition of the Committee the Companys expense, which might be necessary for the fulfilment Chris Girling Chairman of its duties.
Maria Moloney Damon Russell External Auditor Stephen Hubbard As reported in last years Audit Committee Report, the Committee has undertaken a full tender of the Companys external audit contract.
For full biographies see pages 54 and 55.
I chaired the selection Sub-Committee, and following the outcome of the process in January 2017, I am pleased to report that the Board approved the appointment of KPMG LLP KPMG as the Companys External Auditor for the coming financial year.
This appointment remains subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM on 14 July The Audit Committee plays a 2017. key role in ensuring that Workspace maintains a strong Further details on the process we adopted can be found on page 92. control environment.
Review of material issues Chris Girling During the year under review, the Committee has continued to review Chairman of the Audit and report to the Board on the Groups financial and narrative Committee reporting, internal control and risk management processes.
The Audit Committee has a key role in reviewing the narrative reporting and ensuring the financial statements provide a true and fair view of the Groups financial affairs.
As part of this review process, we considered the significant financial judgements made during the year along with other key financial reporting issues.
In this context, we considered the following two significant issues for which further detail is provided on page 90: Valuation of the investment portfolio.
Compliance with the REIT regime.
During the year, we also considered, as we do on a regular basis, the potential for fraud in revenue recognition, scope for management override of controls and compliance with regulations.
A description of the main activities and information on the other significant issues that the Committee considered during the year can be found on page 90.
8 87W 7Wo or rk ks sp pa ac ce G e Gr ro ou up P p PL LC C A Annu nnua all R Re ep por ort t an and d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 20 201 17 7 Corporate governance report continued Risk Management Meetings Meetings of the Audit Committee coincide with key dates in the The principal business risks facing the Company, which have been subject to robust assessment by the Board, are set out on pages 32 to financial reporting and audit cycle.
During the year, the Committee met on three occasions to discharge its responsibilities.
39, and the ongoing review and monitoring of the Groups risk management and internal control systems are described on page 93.
We also have in attendance at meetings, by invitation of the The Audit Committee and the Board have continued to assess the Committee, those people and advisors listed below: long-term viability of the Company as required by the Code.
Further Attendee Position information can be found on page 91 and our Viability Statement is Daniel Kitchen Chairman located on page 40.
Jamie Hopkins Chief Executive Officer Audit Committee evaluation Graham Clemett Chief Financial Officer As a Committee we are continually looking at opportunities to Vivienne Frankham Head of Finance improve our effectiveness and better understand the risks and Angus Boag Development Director opportunities of the markets in which the Group operates.
The Committee conducted an evaluation of its performance, facilitated by Chris Pieroni Operations Director the Company Secretary.
The topics covered in the review focused on  LLP External Auditors the core business model and risks, the skills and experience of the Grant Thornton Tax Advisers Audit Committee members, independence of the External Auditors CBRE Valuers and the quality of interaction with them.
The results of the review were then discussed at the meeting held in May 2017.
The outcome of this review was positive and the Committee did not identify any The Committee Chairman reports the outcome of meetings to the material weaknesses in its effectiveness or operations.
was concluded that, consistent with the Code and its own terms of reference, the Audit Committee is discharging its obligations in an The Committee has a rolling agenda that ensures it gives thorough effective manner.
consideration to matters of particular importance to the Company, identifying key areas of focus and emerging topics as appropriate.
Meetings with the External Auditor The Committee receives appropriate information far enough in I meet regularly with both the Companys External Auditor, and the advance to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
This includes not only Chief Financial Officer, to discuss key issues relevant to the information from management but also detailed reports from the Committees work.
Ensuring these lines of communication are open External Auditor.
and working well is vital to the success of the Committee in carrying out its work.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report.
At the request of the Board, the Committee also advises and recommends The External Auditor has the opportunity to meet with the Audit to the Board whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a Committee, without any Executive Directors present, whenever whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the necessary and the Audit Committee ensures that this happens at information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys least once a year, in order to receive feedback from them on matters performance, business model and strategy.
such as the quality of interaction with management.
Based on its review of the relevant evidence, the Committee was Governance satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts was fair, balanced and In order to ensure ongoing compliance with regulatory developments, understandable and provided its recommendation to the Board.
The the Committees Terms of Reference are reviewed annually.
Whilst the Boards statement on the Annual Report and Accounts is set out in Terms of Reference were reviewed during the year, no significant the Statement of Directors responsibilities on page 120. changes were made and they are available on the Companys website at www.
In the year ahead we plan to continue to ensure that the Groups risk management and internal controls remain robust and to help secure the long-term success of the Company.
I would also like to thank PwC for the high quality of the audit services they have provided to the Company over many years.
Chris Girling Chairman of the Audit Committee 6 June 2017 88Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Our Governance The Audit Committee ensures the integrity of financial reporting and audit processes and the Main activities of the Audit maintenance of a sound internal control and risk management system, details of which are Committee in relation to described on page 93. the year ended 31 March 2017 The table below summarises the agenda items covered at the Committees meetings during this period: Financial and narrative Reviewed the full and half year results and associated announcements.
reporting Reviewed the Groups Annual Report and Accounts to consider whether, taken as a whole, they were fair, balanced and understandable and whether they provide the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance.
Received corporate reporting updates and considered the approach to the 2017 Annual Report.
Considered the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies and practices.
External audit Reviewed and agreed the PwC Audit Plan for the year.
Reviewed and considered the PwC Reports to the Audit Committee following the Half Year and Full Year audit.
Discussed the Board Representation Letter.
Reviewed the performance of the External Auditor and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
A full tender review of the external audit contract was undertaken during the year, resulting in the proposed appointment of KPMG for the 2018 year end audit.
Discussed the audit and non-audit fees and independence of the External Auditor, taking into consideration relevant professional and regulatory developments, including mandatory auditor tendering.
Independence and objectivity Considered the adequacy of the Groups procedures with regard to the objectivity and independence of the External Auditor of the External Auditor, PwC.
Portfolio valuation Considered the full and half year valuation of the Groups property portfolio and the external valuation process.
Meetings were held with the external valuers to consider the portfolio valuation.
Taxation and REIT compliance Discussed the Groups compliance with REIT legislation and general tax matters.
Corporate Governance Received updates from PwC on compliance and changes in Corporate Governance matters.
Considered the appropriateness of the Groups Viability Statement and Going Concern assumption.
The Viability Statement and Going Concern is set out on page 40.
Conducted the annual evaluation of the Audit Committee.
Reviewed the Terms of Reference for the Committee.
Received training and technical updates from the Company Secretary and PwC.
Reviewed the principal risks Review of the principal business risks, Risk Management and internal controls.
Principal risks and Risk Management are set out on pages 32 to 39. Review of fraud risk.
Review of cyber security risk.
89Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance report continued Significant issues The Audit Committee considers all financial information published in the annual and half year considered by financial statements and considers accounting policies adopted by the Group, presentation the Committee and disclosure of the financial information and, in particular, the key judgements made by management in preparing the financial statements.
The Audit Committee pays particular attention to matters it considers to be important by virtue of their impact on the Groups results, or the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application on the consolidated financial statements.
The main areas of focus during the year are set out below: Matter considered Action taken by the Committee Valuation of the investment The valuation of the investment property portfolio is inherently subjective, requiring significant property portfolio judgement.
The outcome is significant for the Group in terms of its investment decisions, results and remuneration.
The valuation is conducted externally by independent valuers.
The valuers presented the year-end valuation to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviewed the methodology and outcomes of the valuation, challenging the key assumptions and judgements.
In particular, the valuation of Uplands Business Park, was discussed in light of its sale at a premium to book value post year end.
The justification for the year end value was considered to be reasonable.
The objectivity and independence of the valuers is monitored by the Audit Committee.
PwC also met with the valuers and presented their views on the valuation to the Committee, as well as an explanation for how the valuation is audited.
Based on the above, the Committee was satisfied that the methodology, assumptions and judgements used by the valuers were appropriate and that the valuations were suitable for inclusion in the financial statements.
Compliance with the REIT As a Real Estate Investment Trust REIT, Workspace must comply with specific rules so as to benefit regime from the tax exempt status on its property rental income.
These rules are complex and the tax exempt status has a significant impact on the Groups business and financial statements.
Management monitor REIT compliance on an ongoing basis.
As at 31 March 2016, the Group recorded other income of 24.1m relating to the performance fee due at the end of the five-year term of the BlackRock JV.
Recognition of this fee caused the Group to fail the 75% Balance of Business test for the prior year.
Two consecutive breaches are required for the Group to incur a minor breach.
There has been no further breach in the current year and there is no reason to expect that any further breaches will occur and so any impact on the Groups tax exempt status is not expected.
In addition, the Audit Committee has considered a number of other judgements which have been made by management, none of which had a significant impact on the Group results.
90Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Our Governance Viability Statement process Developing a robust Viability Statement The Going Concern and Viability Statements can be found on In continued development of the Groups Viability Statement, existing page 40. processes were strengthened to ensure risks were identified, understood and reassessed over the period.
The following factors were considered: The Groups current financial and operational position and the current economic outlook.
The Groups cash flows, financing headroom and financial ratios.
Reassessment of key risks and their potential impact on the business model.
The process we undertook Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Risk identification Risk assessment Scenario modelling analysis Conclusions We reviewed both strategic and For each risk, we considered: For those risks identified as The Board was presented with operational risks to identify the Our risk appetite the level of being severe enough to impact the findings from this analysis principal risks to viability over the risk the Board is willing to the viability of the Group, we and given the opportunity to period under consideration.
performed sensitivity analysis to question the process and considered the risks that would The controls in place to understand the potential impact findings.
impact solvency and liquidity mitigate the risk.
on liquidity and financial ratios.
either individually or in The quantum of risk.
Executive Committee Executive Committee Executive Committee The Board Risk Committee Risk Committee Senior Management Audit Committee Senior Management Senior Management Executive Committee Senior Management External Auditors 91Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance report continued External audit tender Firms invited to tender Two firms were short listed and invited to tender.
They were each PwC has been Workspaces auditor since 1988.
In last years Annual Report the Company stated that in order to maintain good governance, asked to prepare a detailed proposal document which included: Their approach to ensuring overall audit quality.
it would be placing the external audit out to tender as a result of mandatory firm rotation, with an audit rotation for the following year Background and experience of the firm, lead partner and team.
Their approach to managing the audit including matters of ending 31 March 2018.
The Audit Committee recommended that a tender process would be undertaken during the year under review.
The judgement, new and arising audit topics and the transition to a new audit team.
Committee decided that PwC would not be included in the process in the interest of best practice.
As part of the tender process, the firms were invited to a series of Audit tender timetable meetings with Senior Managers of Workspace.
2016 Selection of the new External Auditor November: The Audit Committee resolved to appoint a selection Following a detailed review of the tender documents submitted by Sub-Committee which was authorised to carry out the tender each of the audit firms and their presentations and taking into process and to make its recommendations to the Audit Committee account views of colleagues who had met with each audit firm, the and Group Board.
The Sub-Committee comprised of Chris Girling, selection Sub-Committee identified KPMG as the proposed new Chairman of the Audit Committee, Graham Clemett, Chief Financial External Auditor.
Officer and Vivienne Frankham, Head of Finance.
The Audit Committee recommended to the Board that following the November: Meetings held between management and Subresignation of PwC after the completion of the March 2017 year end Committee members to decide on firms to be approached and audit, KPMG be appointed by the Board as External Auditor, subject asked to tender.
to shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM.
November: Meeting between management and Sub-Committee members and audit firms to determine their capabilities and fit with The Company intends to put the external audit out to tender every the Company.
November: Agreement of short list of audit firms by the selection As KPMG will be appointed after the 2016 17 financial year, a full Sub-Committee.
Confirmation of participation by audit firms.
effectiveness review will be conducted later in 2018, following completion of its first full audit cycle.
December: Issue of tender documents and supporting information Internal audit to the participating firms.
A series of management meetings were held with the short list of firms and site visits were also undertaken.
Due to its size and structure, the Group does not have an internal audit function, a matter which is kept under review by the Audit 2017 Committee.
However, management mandates a programme of financial, operational and health and safety internal audits at its January: Receipt and review of tender documents by the SubCommittee.
These are carried out by qualified senior Head Office personnel on a rotational basis.
All findings are reported to the Risk January: Presentations were made to the selection Sub-Committee Committee with any significant findings reported to the Audit Committee.
from each of the prospective firms.
Audit fees January: Recommendation for the appointment of the new auditor at the next AGM was made to the Audit Committee and the Board Details of audit and non-audit fees paid to PwC can be found in note 2 on page 134. for approval.
Effectiveness of the External Auditor April: Induction period commenced with KPMG shadowing PwC Annually, the Committee assess the qualifications, expertise, during the 2017 year end process.
resources, and independence of the Groups External Auditors, as well as the effectiveness of the audit process.
It does this through discussion with the Chief Financial Officer and confirmations from the Selection Criteria and timetable External Auditor.
A proposed timetable for the tender process was agreed.
Key factors in determining the timetable were the ability to identify a new  LLP has confirmed to the Committee that: External Auditor in time to allow the successful firm to shadow PwC The audit of the consolidated financial statements is undertaken in during the year end process.
accordance with the UK Firms internal policies and procedures to ensure the objectivity of their audit report.
A number of firms were considered, including both from large and They have internal procedures in place to identify any aspects of small firms.
The selection Sub-Committee then prepared a list of key non-audit work which could compromise their role as auditors and selection criteria and decided which firms would be invited to to ensure the objectivity of their audit report.
participate in the tender process.
They believe that, in their professional judgement, the safeguards they have in place sufficiently guard against the threats to The key selection criteria included: independence.
Consequently, PwC consider that they have Quality and cultural fit of the lead partner and key members of maintained their auditor independence throughout the year.
their team: Approach to client services and quality of the audit: The Committee are satisfied that the Auditors are independent and Audit approach and experience of the real estate sector: that the audit process is effective.
Technical expertise and a pragmatic, commercial approach to resolving issues: Independence of the audit firm: and Proposed audit transition plans.
92Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Our Governance Non-audit services A familiarity threat The Audit Committee terms of reference establish a process for This is where, because of a too long or too close a relationship, the monitoring and approving the nature and the level of related fees for External Auditors independence is affected.
non-audit services e. g. accounting, tax or due diligence work paid to the Group External Auditors.
The Audit Committee will prohibit the hiring of former employees of the External Auditor associated with the Groups audit into The Group uses the External Auditor for relevant financial work for a management roles with significant influence within the Group variety of reasons, including their knowledge of the Group and within two years following their association with the audit, unless understanding of our sector, the audit-related nature of the work and the Chairman of the Audit Committee gives prior consent.
the need to maintain confidentiality.
Annually, the Audit Committee will be advised of any new hires caught by this policy.
However, there have been no instances of At each meeting, the Audit Committee is advised of any significant this occurring.
non-audit work awarded to the External Auditor since the previous The Audit Committee will monitor on an ongoing basis the meeting and the related fees.
At the annual May meeting, the Audit relationship with the External Auditors, to ensure their continuing Committee receive a report of fees, both audit and non-audit, from independence, objectivity and effectiveness by reviewing their PwC for the past financial year.
The Committee has considered in tenure, quality and fees.
detail the nature and level of non-audit services provided by PwC and the related fees.
The Committee may challenge and in some instances Management threat refuse proposals in respect of non-audit work to be performed by the This occurs when the audit firm performs non-audit services and External Auditor.
management make judgements based on that work.
The Audit Committee considered a formal policy specifying the types The Group will not use PwC for any services which would be of non-audit service for which use of the external auditor is preconsidered management responsibility.
This is in response to the Guidance on Audit Committees issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in April 2016.
Risk management and internal control Consequently, it was agreed that all non-audit work and fees would The Audit Committee has a key role in ensuring appropriate be reported to the Audit Committee.
governance and challenge around risk management.
It also sets the tone and culture within the organisation regarding risk management In addition, the Audit Committee will assess the threats of self-review and internal control.
by the external auditors, self-interest, advocacy, familiarity and management.
These are set out below and considered in relation to Key elements of the Groups system of internal control include: PwCs services: a comprehensive system of financial reporting.
an organisational and management Board structure with clearly A self-review threat defined levels of authority and division of responsibilities.
a Risk Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer This is where, in providing a service, the PwC audit team could potentially evaluate the results of a previous PwC service.
and is attended by representatives from Senior Management and operational staff.
The Audit Committee specifically will not allow the auditors to: The Risk Committee formally reports to the Audit Committee at least Provide accounting or book-keeping services.
twice a year on strategic and key operational risks, emerging issues Prepare financial statement disclosure items.
and any internal control review work undertaken.
A self-interest threat The Group aims to continuously strengthen its risk management Where a financial or other interest of an individual or PwC will processes with the involvement of the Audit Committee to ensure inappropriately influence an individuals judgement or behaviour.
these processes are embedded throughout the organisation.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the Groups system of controls The Audit Committee will specifically perform the following: including financial, operational, compliance and risk management If the External Auditor is to be considered for the provision of during the year with no significant failings or weaknesses identified.
non-audit services, their scope of work and fees must be approved in advance by the Chief Financial Officer, the Committee Secretary However, any such system can only provide reasonable and not and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
For larger assignments absolute assurance against any material misstatement or loss.
in excess of 100,000 this would involve a competitive tender process, unless there are compelling commercial or timescale Further information on the Groups risks is detailed on pages 32 to 39. reasons to use the External Auditor or another specific Whistleblowing accountancy firm.
The Group has a whistleblowing procedure by which employees may It does not accept significant contingent fee arrangements with report suspicion of fraud, financial irregularity or other malpractice.
There is also a process in place for staff to report operational risks and issues to the Risk Committee.
An advocacy threat This is where PwC or PwC personnel promote an audit clients Code of Conduct position to the extent where PwCs objectivity as auditor is The Group has a Code of Conduct which explains how employees are compromised.
expected to fulfil their responsibilities by acting in the best interests of the Group.
This includes compliance with laws and regulations: acting The Group will not use PwC in an advocacy role.
fairly in dealing with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders: treating people with respect and operating within a control framework.
Chris Girling Chairman of the Audit Committee 6 June 2017 93Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
