l a t n e l a m i c Resources and relationships In recognition of this commitment, the business decided during the A belief in doing the year to adopt Doing the Right Right Thing as our new corporate market responsibility strategy.
In addition, right thing underpins we reviewed our objectives and Right Right brand properties targets to ensure that they align Doing the Right Thing and are closely linked to our the resources and corporate strategy.
For each Right Right pillar in the corporate strategy, people customers we have outlined an environmental relationships we and a social objective, which we believe will help to create value need to make our for our business and the wider communities in which we operate.
Workspace is committed to business model work.
doing the right thing by our We have an internal committee, customers, investors, employees, consisting of members from suppliers, local communities different departments within and wider stakeholders.
We take the business and including the seriously our responsibility for Chief Executive Officer, which maintaining strong and mutually is responsible for ensuring beneficial relationships with all the objectives are delivered and our stakeholders while protecting that there is regular reporting and enhancing the resources we on all activities.
2 26W 6Wo or rk ks sp pa ac ce G e Gr ro ou up P p PL LC C A Annu nnua all R Re ep por ort t an and d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 20 201 17 7 n o o S r i v n E Overview Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Awards and accreditations Our properties Case study: Our suppliers and partners We have a fantastic portfolio of The Record Hall Maintaining positive relationships Global Real Estate properties, many of which are This is a prime example of a with our suppliers is critical to character buildings with historic refurbishment project to bring Sustainability the success of our business model.
Workspace is not an old building up to the modern As well as the contractors and a trader of assets: we own and standards that our customers partners who help us to execute We gained a Green Star for operate our properties to drive require, and we were committed our day-to-day business, we also the third year in a row for the income and capital value over to maintaining high environmental carefully select partners who can GRESB survey.
This year we the long-term.
We take pride standards throughout the add value to our customer offer.
achieved 76, exceeding both in the work we do to reposition, project.
We were proud to have Preferential access to providers the GRESB Average score of refurbish or redevelop our achieved BREEAM Excellent of storage solutions, office 60 and the Peer Average score buildings to ensure they meet Design Stage, scoring design and furniture and, of of 70.
The GRESB allows us and customer needs and are fit for particularly high in the Transport course, data and technology our investors to measure our their modern purpose.
and Land Use and Ecology helps our customers to focus sustainability performance categories, and a Considerate on their business.
within the real estate sector.
Under our Doing the Right Thing Constructors Scheme CCS strategy, we are committed score of 43 50, well above our Case study: European Public Real to reducing the environmental target.
Apprenticeships Estate Association impact of our properties and We encourage all our suppliers EPRA their related supply chains.
The project was designed to and partners to adopt the same In addition, from a social point retain much of the masonry commitment to doing the right We were awarded another of view, we aim to ensure our brickwork, thereby saving thing in their operations.
One of Gold in the EPRA Sustainability properties create healthy and carbon emissions during the our most exciting endeavours Awards for 2016.
We were one productive communities.
product manufacture stage of during the year has been in of 25 companies that achieved the buildings lifecycle.
In exceptional compliance with Case study: refurbished building has a mixed February 2017, we invited eight the EPRA Sustainability Best Optergy rollout ventilation strategy of mechanical of our suppliers to an Introduction Practices Recommendations Following the successful trial ventilation with heat recovery to Apprenticeships evening to in our public reports and at The Light Bulb, Grand Union and natural ventilation to reduce meet XLP, one of our charity disclosures.
Studios and Barley Mow Centre, emissions during operation and partners, and the amazing young the new Optergy Building and the roofs are a mixture of warm people they work with.
The group Carbon Disclosure Energy Management System roof-deck coverings, timber had an open discussion about Project CDP has also been installed in our decking and green roof space, the opportunities and huge latest refurbishment, The Record designed to support London benefits but also the harsh In 2016, we increased our Carbon Hall.
The system will enable our Biodiversity Action Plan.
While realities and challenges of offering Disclosure Project score from Facilities Managers to control the majority of the building is apprenticeships to the young 98B to Ascoring methodology the building remotely and review open to any business, as the site people that XLP works with.
has changed this year to a single detailed energy consumption is located in the Hatton Garden letter score.
Scores were based profiles, helping us to manage conservation area, we have It was a huge success and we on disclosure, awareness, our systems more intelligently designated 14% to be let to currently have three apprentice management and leadership and efficiently.
We have been jewellery businesses.
positions now formally agreed with regards to carbon billing customers using readings for XLPs young people two management and climate from the new system, and will Targets for the coming year as trainee engineers and one in change risk.
soon launch customer logins Ensure that 100% of electricity administration and four further which will allow them to view contracted by Workspace is opportunities being explored.
FTSE4Good Index their energy profiles directly, from renewable sources.
giving them more control over Retrofit five sites with Optergy Targets for the coming year their consumption.
Achieve a CCS score of at We were once again included in Undertake solar PV least 37 50 for all the FTSE4Good Index, which Case study: feasibility studies for all developments and major helps us assess our achievements Chester House new developments.
refurbishments in 2017 18. against a transparent and We have updated the Whole Divert at least 90% of nonevolving global corporate Lifecycle Carbon Analysis on hazardous demolition waste responsibility standard.
and construction waste by The analysis found that the weight from landfill for all Investors in People refurbishment of the property developments and major has given a new lease of life to refurbishments in 2017 18.
We continued to hold our the historic building, cutting its Hold a second Introduction Investors in People accreditation whole lifecycle carbon emissions to Apprenticeships event for the 18th year in a row.
by 35% compared to a new for additional suppliers and central London building.
Green Electricity will save more than 15,000 tonnes of CO over the buildings 2 60-year lifespan.
We have received our certificates from SSE to show that we purchase electricity from green sources.
2 27W 7Wo or rk ks sp pa ac ce G e Gr ro ou up P p PL LC C A Annu nnua all R Re ep por ort t an and d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 20 201 17 7 Resources and relationships continued The culture begins with the Workspace employs enthusiastic, Strong team with a diverse committed and well-trained behaviour and outlook of skillset our Executive and senior people.
We recognise the Workspace is unique in that 17 benefits of diversity of skills, management teams and is we have built up a huge amount then communicated through knowledge and independence, of in-house expertise over During the year, 17 members as well as gender, ethnicity and the business via corporate the years.
This gives us better of staff achieved long service induction days for new joiners, sexual orientation and are fully control, means we hold direct awards.
regular training opportunities, committed to an active Equal relationships with customers news updates on our intranet Opportunities Policy covering and can move quickly to adapt and team workshops and recruitment and selection, and innovate in line with market Company-wide events.
performance reviews and 5 For example, we held a series promotion.
All decisions relating Featured Workspace people: of workshops last year for to employment practices are Five members of staff our team of roving Facilities objective, free from bias and 1.
Karen Jamison completed more than 10 years Managers who work across based solely upon work criteria Energy & Sustainability of service during the year.
The sessions, and individual merit.
Manager which analysed how the role interacts with the rest of the Case study: 2.
Chris Boultwood business, were successful in Health and wellbeing Head of Client Connected reinforcing the importance of In conjunction with JLL and Services the Facilities Management team following our move into a new Our people to the Company and developing head office, we conducted an 3.
Marti Stanley One of the key pillars of our the existing communication links Indoor Environmental Quality Head Office Receptionist recent London-wide advertising with the teams in head office.
IEQ assessment and a health campaign was that Workspace and wellbeing survey for all 4.
Lucia Angelovicova is Wired Differently.
This has We are proud that our culture employees.
The IEQ assessment Portfolio Manager several connotations but one encourages long-term service provided useful objective data, of the most important is a and that our employees have while the survey encompassed 5.
Darren Baker reflection of the mindset that the opportunity to build their questions on the design and Head of Security our internal teams adopt.
During the year, availability of diverse work spaces.
genuinely think differently in 17 members of staff achieved 6.
Andrea Kolokasi our customer-first approach long service awards, five of Some quick wins were Head of Business and focus on innovation and which were for more than implemented following the Development this drives long-term value 10 years of service.
survey, including installation both for our customers and in of blinds to reduce screen 7.
Bryony Gerega helping the business to attract Length of service glare, investment in more Development Manager and retain talent.
video conferencing facilities Number of and the introduction of plants 8.
Tim Wood Number of years employees Values and culture for visual impact and to reduce Head of Systems Innovation 05 116 Workspace has a strong, CO emissions.
In the longer 2 term, the business intends to performance-led culture, 510 449.
Sam Palmes which drives talent retention trial real-time IEQ sensors in Senior Project Manager 1015 20 Workspace properties to and is evident in the way we 1520 17 do business with customers, enhance employee and 10.
Anisha Patel 20 6 customer experience, improve suppliers and partners.
Our Head of Operational staff have a sense of pride in operations and maximise use Marketing of space.
The results of the the Workspace Advantage Diversity and, following the launch of survey were included in the 11.
Rachel Kiddie Creating a thriving and diverse UK-GBC Wellbeing Labs our new creative campaign, Centre Manager workforce is a high priority we aim to hold workshops Offices report.
A diverse across the business to ensure workforce means we are employees understand what attracting the best people and the Workspace Advantage is that the business is benefiting and how they can bring it to from broad experience and a life in their day-to-day work.
range of different backgrounds and skill sets.
28Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report 9 11 10 3 7 5 2 6 4 1 8 Metal Box Factory, Bankside.
29Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Resources and relationships continued Learning and development Courses taken during the year There are many different included: ways in which we encourage Facilities Management BIFM our employees to develop their British Institute of Facilities careers.
training programme in place, Accountancy ACCA lead by both internal and external Association of Chartered providers and covering a wide Certified Accountants, CIMA range of topics.
Chartered Institute of Management Accountants Last year, training sessions and and AAT Association of presentations were provided Accounting Technicians.
on the following areas: HR Management and Practice.
Supporting our team to do Business rates.
the right thing Data protection.
One of the key objectives Energy and sustainability.
under our Doing the Right Our customers Case study: Waste roadshow Thing strategy is to provide The relationships we build and The overall number of training opportunities for Workspace maintain with our customers At one such event, held at The Light Box in Chiswick, days has fallen year on year employees to support the wider are perhaps the most critical as the social media training community through fundraising for the business, and constantly 55 customers took to our energy bicycle and used pedal-power programme, which was rolled and volunteering initiatives.
enhancing these relationships is out widely across the business, During the year, members of our central to our strategy.
We work to drive a blender, creating completed in 2016. team carried out 48 volunteering hard to deliver an advantage their own healthy and delicious days and along with customers, to the companies that choose smoothies.
We used the Training days raised 31,489 for our selected Workspace, through a mix of opportunity to talk to the charity partners.
the right facilities and a series attendees about their recycling 2016 17 2015 16 of benefits that we believe truly strategies, and 50 newly Training days 889 1,237 Case study: add value to their business.
engaged customers left with Clothing recycling new recycling bins in hand.
Training Many individuals also take the We continue to roll out We saw an immediate impact days per initiative to run local community our programme of business from this event, with the employee 4.38 5.78 projects in their centres, insight events, with lively panel recycling rate at The Light Box encouraging customers to get discussions held on product rising from 60% to 80% since the We also recognise the involved as well.
For example, innovation, augmented and roadshow, and we will continue importance of supporting at Parkhall Business Centre in virtual reality and the power to run these events at other sites our people to pursue wider Dulwich, the Centre Manager, of networking during the year.
We support Nick Bright, has introduced These events bring customers a range of development clothing recycling bins for together from across the whole Targets for the coming year activities, providing coaching Scope, collecting 671kg worth portfolio, providing valuable Work with our customers to and mentoring, sponsorship of clothing during the year.
insight and learning alongside increase the average recycling of further education and networking opportunities.
rate across all buildings to 65% professional qualifications, Targets for the coming year by 31 March 2018. as well as providing paid Encourage Centre Managers We hear from our customers Introduce an online benefits leave to complete recognised to roll out clothing recycling that they are keen to have platform encouraging training courses that support initiative at other business a positive impact on their customers to offer each other career aspirations.
communities and the environment, preferential rates and discounts Continue to support and therefore work with them on products and services.
Over the last year, we supported employees through training to facilitate that.
This year, we Continue to expand the 10 people in undertaking externally and professional development have focused on reducing the Workspace events programme.
recognised courses as part of programmes.
amount of waste produced our strong commitment to at our business centres and attracting and retaining the launched a series of waste very best talent, and making roadshows at several properties Workspace a great place to work.
to educate and engage our customers on the importance of recycling.
55 55 customers attended our first waste roadshow at The Light Box.
30Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Our brand Our communities Other community projects Case study: With 68 properties spread AHOY It is vital that our brand resonates carried out during the year strongly with the stakeholders across several London boroughs, included work with AHOY, In October 2016, three that the business has relationships our business engages with many Workspace teams took on the a watersports-based charity with, including customers and different communities and we which supports disadvantaged Meridian Pull Challenge in aid of employees.
The strength of our aim to have a positive impact on AHOY.
The race saw 18 teams in and at-risk youths, using the brand sets us apart from our these groups.
As a major London medium of sailing and rowing to total take on an 8.5 mile rowing peers in the Real Estate industry.
landlord, we believe we have battle down the Thames, past help break down social barriers While our brand is not hugely a responsibility to enhance and provide innovative training the Houses of Parliament, under visible inside our buildings, as they the communities in which we Tower Bridge and through to to help them create a positive often have their own brand and operate.
Our refurbishment future see case study.
a finish at The AHOY Centre identity, the efforts of our and redevelopment schemes in Greenwich.
It was a tough in-house Marketing team ensure are sensitively designed to fit In February 2017, Workspace challenge but the competitive that our brand is highly visible in with the character of the local once again ran the 5th Workspace teams won the race to businesses as they start their area and we believe our business consecutive annual InspiresMe and, in doing so, raised over search for office space.
centres bring a vibrancy to a Week, providing 79 students 8,300 for AHOY.
location, often including exciting with four days work experience Following the year end, in May new restaurants and cafs in 39 of our customers businesses.
2017, we launched our first ever open to the public, and in The programme was hugely London-wide advertising some cases gyms.
successful in showing the campaign involving a far reaching students that they dont have presence across digital and social There are several programmes to limit themselves to traditional platforms, as well as creative and initiatives that we run in career progression in order to visuals placed in tube carriages support of our communities.
make a difference and enjoy and stations all over London to We have a long-term relationship work.
It also provided businesses target commuters to and from with XLP, a charity which creates with invaluable insight into the work.
The Workspace Advantage positive futures for young people fresh, creative thinking that seeks to highlight the three pillars growing up on deprived innera young person can bring to of our customer offer: we are city estates, often struggling with a business.
wired differently and understand issues such as family breakdown, that our customers are too: we poverty, unemployment and Targets for the coming year place no limits on customers educational failure.
Workspace Explore volunteering with flexible lease terms and supports XLP through a wide opportunities with new charity personalised space and tailored variety of means, including partner, Groundwork, which technology offers: and we provide financial support, mentoring aims to create better places space that is super connected for young people, providing to live and work in a greener, both in terms of technology work experience and facilitating more sustainable way.
Case study: infrastructure and the communities employment opportunities.
This Pilot the Workspace Lifeskills InspiresMe created in our buildings.
We year, we raised over 30,000 programme with St Gabriels InspiresMe Week also gave us a saw real engagement with the for XLP with a Workspace College in Camberwell, to great opportunity to work more campaign from employees and team completing a sponsored include assembly talks, CV closely with our other charity customers, who themselves were London-to-Brussels bike ride workshops and workplace partners, including B3 Media, featured in the advertisements.
and helped to facilitate visits.
which brings together multiTargets for the coming year apprenticeship opportunities cultural communities with the for XLPs young people see creative industries.
They created Build on the Workspace Advantage positioning to page 27. a short highlights film following ensure our differentiated offer is the event which demonstrates well understood by the market.
the value of the programme Put in place a brand tracker to for all involved as well as analyse awareness and encourage our customers perceptions of the Workspace to support young people.
31Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
