CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Board is pleased to report that during the year and as at the date of this Annual Report the Company has applied the main principles and complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014, save in the limited instances explained below.
Copies of the Code are available at www.
This report, together with the Directors Report on pages 74 to 79 and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 73, provides details of how the Company has applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the Code and where required explains the rationale for instances where the Company has not been compliant, namely: i the external facilitation of a Board evaluation exercise: and ii the requirement for share awards to be phased rather than being granted in blocks.
Further detail in relation to the Companys position regarding performance-related elements of remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board meets regularly to review the progress of the Company and to discuss the measures required for its future development.
Directors are provided in advance with a formal agenda of matters to be discussed at each meeting, and with the detailed information needed to monitor the progress of the Company.
Records of meetings and the decisions of the Board are maintained by the Company Secretary and are approved by the Board at the following meeting.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and, if required, are able to take independent advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Any question of the removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Whilst the members of the Board are all experienced and well qualified, the opportunity to receive further training at the Companys expense is available to them.
The non-executive directors attended such formal, externally facilitated courses as they considered relevant to their roles and responsibilities during the year.
BOARD DUTIES The matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board are fully documented and include the following principal areas: reviewing and agreeing the Companys strategy and long term objectives: assessing performance in the light of the Companys strategy and objectives: ensuring an effective system of risk management and internal controls is in place: approving changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board and reviewing its performance on an annual basis: reviewing the Companys overall corporate governance arrangements: and approval of the Companys financial statements prior to publication.
Matters that are specifically delegated to the committees of the Board are documented in the various Terms of Reference of each committee which are available on the Companys website www.
38 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements TABLE OF ATTENDANCE AT FORMAL MEETINGS DURING THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2017 NAME OF DIRECTOR BOARD REMUNERATION AUDIT NOMINATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Number of meetings 10 3 3 - Charles Wigoder 10 - - - Julian Schild 10 3 3 - Andrew Lindsay 10 - - - Nick Schoenfeld 10 - - - 1 Andrew Blowers 2 1 - - 1 Beatrice Hollond 6 1 2 - Melvin Lawson 10 2 2 - 1 Michael Pavia 4 2 1 - 1 Michael Pavia retired from the Board on 22 July 2016, Beatrice Hollond and Andrew Blowers were appointed to the Board on 26 September 2016 and 21 November 2016 respectively.
4.2 of the Code, the non-executive directors also met without the executives present during the year.
BOARD EVALUATION The directors recognise that the Code requires an external evaluation of the boards of FTSE 350 companies to be carried out at least every three years.
However, the directors considered the position in relation to the current year and concluded that an external evaluation was not necessary.
In reaching this conclusion the directors were mindful of the effective operation of the Board during the year and the results of the internal Board evaluation exercise detailed below.
The Board considers it unlikely that an external evaluation will be conducted in the medium term.
An internal evaluation of the Board for the current year was conducted through the completion of formal detailed board, and board committee evaluation questionnaires by each director.
In addition, a review involving each director excluding those who had joined during the year, was carried out.
This review was conducted by the Deputy Chairman and Company Secretary and principally covered the following areas: specific matters of concern arising from the board evaluation questionnaires, individual directors performances and key objectives for the coming year, and the identification of any specific training and development requirements.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2017 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The evaluation questionnaires were focussed on assessing effectiveness in the following key areas: the size and balance of the Board: the quality of board debates and its decision making processes: the individual contributions made by each director: the Chairmans approach to leadership: the non-executive directors challenge of the executive directors: the Boards approach to identifying and mitigating key business risks: the quality of the Companys communications with key stakeholders: the Boards consideration of diversity and succession planning: and the induction and training of board members.
6.3 of the Code and building on the results of the evaluation questionnaires, the Deputy Chairman led a separate evaluation of the performance of the Chairman.
This evaluation principally comprised a review of the Chairmans leadership style and tone in promoting effective decisionmaking and ensuring constructive and sufficient debate took place around key issues.
The results of this evaluation were entirely satisfactory.
The evaluation concluded that overall the Board and its Committees had operated satisfactorily during the year, with all directors making an effective contribution to the Board commensurate with their experience and responsibilities.
However, the evaluation highlighted that communications between the full Board and the Companys brokers could be improved: as a result it was agreed that key representatives from the Companys brokers be invited to attend a full Board meeting in the autumn.
BOARD BALANCE The Board comprised three executive directors and four non-executive directors at the year end.
Julian Schild acted as the Companys Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Membership of each committee of the Board is set out in the table below: NAME OF DIRECTOR REMUNERATION AUDIT NOMINATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE 3 Charles Wigoder - - 3 3 Julian Schild Chairman Andrew Lindsay - - - Nick Schoenfeld - - - 3 Andrew Blowers Chairman - 3 3 Beatrice Hollond Chairman Melvin Lawson - - - indicates independent non-executive directors 40 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements As confirmed in last years Annual Report, Beatrice Hollond joined the Board in September 2016 as a new independent non-executive director.
Ms Hollond has become a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and chairs the Nomination Committee of the Board.
Mindful of the Code requirement to ensure a progressive refreshing of the Board, the Nomination Committee continued to implement its plan for non-executive director succession during the year.
As such, Andrew Blowers was appointed to the Board as a new independent non-executive director in November 2016.
Mr Blowers has become a member of the Audit Committee and now chairs the Remuneration Committee of the Board.
Further detail on the appointment of Mr Blowers is set out in the Nomination Committee report.
As a result of his long service on the Board since appointment in late 2006, Melvin Lawson is no longer considered independent under the Code, and chose to step down from membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees during the year.
Nonetheless, the Board considers that the independence of Mr Lawson has not been negatively impacted by his long service on the Board and that he continues to provide robust constructive challenges to the executive directors on a regular basis by using his long-established knowledge of the Company.
The Board believes that the addition of two new independent non-executive directors to the board during the year has strengthened the Companys compliance with one of the key supporting principles of the Code in relation to the composition of the board, namely that the board should include an appropriate combination of executive and non-executive directors and, in particular, independent non-executive directors such that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the boards decision making.
BOARD DIVERSITY The main objective of the Nomination Committee in considering the appointment of new directors to the Board remains to ensure that successful candidates are of the highest calibre and demonstrate the best possible combination of skills and experience.
The Committees Terms of Reference further stipulate that candidates from a wide range of backgrounds shall be considered and that due regard will be given to the benefits of diversity on the Board.
The Code requires companies to set out any measurable objectives that exist in relation to board diversity.
However, it remains the Committees strong view that it is not appropriate to stipulate the characteristics of any future directors, including gender, ahead of a full assessment of the particular requirements of each role at the time a candidate is being sought.
The Committee will continue to adhere to the principles set out above in identifying and recruiting the best candidates for any future Board roles in a non-discriminatory manner.
Further detail regarding the Companys position in relation to encouraging diversity within all layers of the organisation is set out in the People and Organisation section of the Strategic Report on pages 31 to 33.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2017 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company with the Executive Chairman responsible for developing the strategic direction of the business and ensuring the effective operation of the Board, including compliance with principles of good corporate governance, and the Chief Executive primarily responsible for implementing strategy and running the Groups operations on a day to day basis.
As appropriate, and in order to ensure good corporate governance, the Executive Chairman is assisted by the Companys independent non-executive Deputy Chairman in ensuring compliance with the effective operation of the Board.
The division of responsibilities between the Executive Chairman and Chief Executive has been set out in writing and agreed by the Board in accordance with the Code provision A.
SUPPLY OF INFORMATION Information is supplied to the Board in a timely manner with board papers and accounts being provided in advance of meetings.
When the Board requests additional information it is provided.
RE-ELECTION The Companys Articles stipulate that one third of all directors are required to retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting and all newly appointed directors are required to offer themselves for election by the shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
However, the Code requires that all directors of FTSE 350 companies be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Therefore, all the directors will be submitted for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in July.
Acknowledging the Code requirement for a particularly rigorous review in circumstances where non-executive directors terms are being extended beyond six years, the Board has determined that all directors submitted for re-election continue to make a valuable contribution to the commercial success of the Company, with each bringing a complementary range of skills to the team.
In particular, and as referred to above, the Board has considered the long service of Melvin Lawson and has determined that he continues to provide an extremely valuable independent contribution to the Board as a result of his deep historic knowledge of the business and its operations.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Board has a Remuneration Committee whose responsibility is to ensure that the remuneration of executive directors is sufficient to attract, retain and motivate people of the highest calibre.
The Remuneration Committee comprises three independent non-executive directors, namely Andrew Blowers Chairman of the Committee, Julian Schild and Beatrice Hollond.
The Directors Remuneration Report, giving the details of the emoluments of each director, may be found on pages 51 to 73.
The Remuneration Committee has written terms of reference, available on the Companys website www.
co. uk, which describe the authority and duties which have been delegated to it by the Board.
42 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee comprises three independent non-executive directors, Julian Schild Chairman of the Committee, Andrew Blowers and Beatrice Hollond in compliance with the Code provision C. 3.1.
The activities of the Audit Committee are set out on pages 47 to 50.
The Audit Committee has written terms of reference, available on the Companys website www.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Nomination Committee comprises Beatrice Hollond Chairman of Committee, Julian Schild and Charles Wigoder and therefore has a majority of independent non-executive directors in compliance with the Code provision B.
The main purpose of the Nomination Committee is to make recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new directors.
The Nomination Committee has written terms of reference, available on the Companys website www.
The activities of the Nomination Committee are set out on pages 45 to 46.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS It is the policy of the Company to maintain a dialogue with institutional shareholders and to keep them informed about the objectives of the business.
The Board considers that it is appropriate for the executive directors to discuss any relevant matters regarding company performance with major shareholders and this is undertaken primarily by the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
The Chief Executive provides feedback from major shareholders to the other directors, ensuring that Board members, and in particular non-executive directors, develop a balanced understanding of the views of major investors.
The executive directors met with a number of the Companys main shareholders during the year.
The Executive Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer also have periodic discussions with the Companys brokers and any issues are fed back to the Board as appropriate.
When reports are received from the Companys brokers following investor presentations, these are submitted to the Board for review.
Additionally the non-executive directors have at least one opportunity each year to meet with the Companys brokers to discuss any issues.
Responsibility for communication with key shareholders in relation to corporate governance and Board remuneration matters lies primarily with the Deputy Chairman and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee who are assisted in this regard by the Company Secretary.
Individual invitations to engage with the Deputy Chairman have previously been sent out to key shareholders and, where requested or considered necessary, certain matters have been discussed in more detail during the year.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2017 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to all shareholders at least 21 working days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each matter including the adoption of the Report and Accounts, the approval of the Companys Remuneration Policy, the Directors Remuneration Report and the appointment of the Groups external auditor.
Proxy votes are counted and the meeting is advised of the number of proxies lodged for and against each resolution.
The chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees and the remaining non-executive directors are normally available to answer questions.
Shareholders who attend are invited to ask questions and take part in the meeting.
INTERNAL CONTROL The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and risk management.
However it recognises that any system can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The principal risks faced by the Company and the measures taken to address these risks are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 25 to 30.
In conjunction with the Companys senior management team, the executive directors regularly identify, review and evaluate the key risks faced by the Group and the effectiveness of the internal controls in place to mitigate these risks.
The results of these reviews are recorded in a formal document which sets out a detailed evaluation of each risk and the associated internal control in place to mitigate that risk.
The document is reported to the Audit Committee and the Companys external auditor for review at least once per year.
The Board of directors has continued to review the internal controls of the Company including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management and the principal risks which the Company faces during the year.
No material weaknesses in internal controls were identified during the year.
The disclosures regarding internal controls do not encompass the Companys former investment in the associate Opus Energy Group Limited.
SHARE CAPITAL AND VOTING RIGHTS Details of the Companys share capital and substantial shareholdings can be found in the Directors Report under the capital structure and substantial shareholders sections on pages 76 and 77.
By Order of the Board David Baxter Company Secretary 12 June 2017 44 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2017
