Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation Additional statutory and corporate governance information This section of the Directors report Investment policy contains the corporate governance The current investment policy is set out below.
statement required by FCA Disclosure 3i is an investment company which aims to provide its shareholders with quoted access to private equity and andTransparency Rule 7.2. infrastructure returns.
Currently, its main focus is on making quoted and unquoted equity and or debt investments in Corporate governance businesses and funds in Europe, Asia and the Americas.
Throughout the year, the Company complied with the provisions The geographies, economic sectors, funds and asset classes of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code published in which 3i invests continue to evolve as opportunities are by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 and which identied.
Proposed investments are assessed individually is available on the FRC website.
and all significant investments require approval from the Groups Investment Committee.
Overall investment targets The Groups internal control and risk management systems are subject to periodic reviews and the investment portfolio including those in relation to the financial reporting process is also reviewed to monitor exposure to specic geographies, are described on page 66. economic sectors and asset classes.
Details on the appointment and replacement of Directors are 3i seeks to diversify risk through significant dispersion setout on page 64. of investments by geography, economic sector, asset class and size as well as through the maturity prole The Boards responsibilities and processes ofitsinvestment portfolio.
The composition of the Board and its Committees as well as Although 3i does not set maximum exposure limits for asset the Boards key responsibilities and the way in which it and its allocations, it does have a maximum exposure limit that, Committees work are described on pages 60 to 66.
The Board is save as mentioned below, no investment will be made unless responsible to shareholders for the overall management of the its cost does not exceed 15% of the investment portfolio Group and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject value as shown in the last published valuation.
A further to the provisions of relevant statutes, the Companys Articles of investment may be made in an existing investee company Association and any directions given by special resolution of the provided the aggregate cost of that investment and of shareholders.
The Articles of Association empower the Board to all other investments in that investee company does not offer, allot, grant options over or otherwise deal with or dispose of exceed 15% of the investment portfolio value as shown in the Companys shares as the Board may decide.
The Companies the last published valuation.
A higher limit of 30% will apply Act 2006 authorises the Company to make market purchases to the Companys investment in 3i Infrastructure plc.
For the of its own shares if the purchase has first been authorised by a avoidance of doubt, 3i may retain an investment even if its resolution of the Company.
carrying value is greater than 15% or 30% as the case may be of the portfolio value at the time of an updated valuation.
At the AGM in June 2016, shareholders renewed the Boards authority to allot ordinary shares and to repurchase ordinary Investments are generally funded with a mixture of debt and shares on behalf of the Company subject to certain limits.
shareholders funds with a view to maximising returns Details of the authorities which the Board will be seeking to shareholders, whilst maintaining a strong capital base.
at the2017 AGM are set out in the 2017 Notice of AGM.
3is gearing depends not only on its level of debt, but also on the impact of market movements and other factors on the Matters reserved for the Board value of its investments.
The Board takes this into account when, as required, it sets a precise maximum level of gearing.
The Board has approved a formal schedule of matters reserved to The Board has therefore set the maximum level of gearing at it and its duly authorised Committees for decision.
These include 150% and has set no minimum level of gearing.
If the gearing matters such as the Groups overall strategy, strategic plan ratio should exceed the 150% maximum limit, the Board will and annual operating budget: approval of the Companys take steps to reduce the gearing ratio to below that limit as financial statements and changes to accounting policies or soon as practicable thereafter.
3i is committed to achieving practices: changes to the capital structure or regulated status balance sheet efficiency.
of the Company: major capital projects or changes to business operations: investments and divestments above certain limits: policy on borrowing, gearing, hedging and treasury matters: andadequacy of internal control systems.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 95 Corporate Governance Additional statutory and corporate governance information continued The UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules require 3i, as a There are no shares carrying special rights with regard to closed-ended investment fund, to publish an investment policy.
There are no restrictions placed on Shareholder approval is required for material changes to this voting rights of fully paid shares, save where in accordance with policy.
Non-material changes can be made by the Board.
Article 12 of the Companys Articles of Association a restriction Since publication of the Annual report and accounts 2016 the notice has been served by the Company in respect of shares Board has made one non-material change to the first sentence for failure to comply with statutory notices or where a transfer of the policy by deleting reference to debt management returns.
notice as described below has been served in respect of shares This sentence previously referred to 3i providing its shareholders and has not yet been complied with.
Where shares are held on with quoted access to private equity, infrastructure, and debt behalf of former or current employees under employee share management returns.
This change reects the sale during the schemes, those participants can give instructions to the holder year of the Groups debt management business.
of such shares as to how votes attached to such shares should be exercised.
Rights and restrictions attaching to shares In the circumstances specified in Article 38 of the Companys A summary of the rights and restrictions attaching to shares Articles of Association the Company may serve a transfer notice asat31 March 2017 is set out below.
The relevant circumstances relate to: a potential tax disadvantage to the Company, b the number The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by of United States Residents who own or hold shares being 75 special resolution of the shareholders in a general meeting.
ormore, or c the Company being required to be registered Holders of ordinary shares enjoy the rights set out in the Articles asaninvestment company under relevant US legislation.
of Association of the Company and under the laws of England The notice would require the transfer of relevant shares and and Wales.
Any share may be issued with or have attached pending such transfer the rights and privileges attaching to to it such rights and restrictions as the Company by ordinary thoseshares would be suspended.
resolution or, failing such resolution, the Board may decide.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak and of its securities that may restrict the transfer of shares or exercise vote at general meetings and to appoint proxies and, in the of voting rights.
case of corporations, corporate representatives to attend, speak and vote at such meetings on their behalf.
To attend and vote Major interests in ordinary shares at a general meeting a shareholder must be entered on the Notications of the following major voting interests in the register ofmembers at such time not being earlier than 48 hours Companys ordinary share capital notiable in accordance with before the meeting as stated in the Notice of general meeting.
Chapter 5 of the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules or On apoll, holders of ordinary shares are entitled to one vote for section 793 Companies Act 2006 had been received by the each share held.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys % of % of Annual report and accounts, to receive such dividends and other As at issued As at issued distributions as may lawfully be paid or declared on such shares 31March share 1 May share 2017 capital 2017 capital and, on any liquidation of the Company, to share in the surplus assets of the Company after satisfaction of the entitlements of BlackRock, Inc 84,138,478 8.65 83,690,124 8.60 the holders of any shares with preferred rights as may then be Artemis Investment in issue.
Management LLP 55,778,291 5.73 55,778,291 5.73 Threadneedle Asset There are no restrictions on the transfer of fully paid shares in the Management Ltd 36,409,636 3.74 36,375,391 3.74 Company, save as follows.
The Board may decline to register: UBS Global Asset atransfer of uncerticated shares in the circumstances set out Management 32,916,558 3.38 32,939,674 3.39 inthe Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001: a transfer to Legal & General more than four joint holders: a transfer of certicated shares Investment which is not in respect of only one class of share: a transfer which Management Limited 29,774,593 3.06 29,326,239 3.01 is not accompanied by the certicate for the shares to which it relates: a transfer which is not duly stamped in circumstances Share capital and debentures where a duly stamped instrument is required: or a transfer The issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 1 April where in accordance with section 794 of the Companies Act 2016 was 972,661,444 ordinary shares and at 31 March 2017 was 2006 a notice under section 793 of that Act has been served 19 972,808,424 ordinary shares of 73 22 pence each.
It increased by the Company on a shareholder who has then failed to give overthe year by 146,980 ordinary shares on the issue of shares the information required within the specified time.
In the latter tothe trustee of the 3i Group Share Incentive Plan.
circumstances the Company may make the relevant shares subject to certain restrictions including in respect of the ability At the Annual General Meeting AGM on 30 June 2016, to exercise voting rights, to transfer the shares validly and, except the Directors were authorised to repurchase up to 97,000,000 in the case of a liquidation, to receive the payment of sums due ordinary shares in the Company representing approximately 10% from the Company.
of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 16 May2016 96 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation until the Companys AGM in 2017 or 29 September 2017, Furthermore, in some instances the relevant FUND disclosures ifearlier.
This authority was not exercised in the year.
Details have been made in relation to the Group on a consolidated basis of the authorities which the Board will be seeking at the 2017 rather than in respect of 3i Group plc as a standalone entity.
AGM are set out in the 2017 Notice of AGM.
This is because 3i Group plc, as a standalone entity, operates through its group subsidiaries and therefore reporting on the As detailed in Note 16 to the Accounts, as at 31 March 2016 Groups activities provides more relevant information on the the Company had in issue Notes issued under the 3i Group plc Company and its position.
There have been no material changes 2,000 million Note Issuance Programme.
to the Companys operations in the past year.
The Articles of Association also specically empower the Board Although the disclosures required by FUND 3.2.
3R, to exercise the Companys powers to borrow money and to 3.2.
6R of the FCAs Investment Funds sourcebook mortgage or charge the Companys assets and any uncalled are covered in this Annual report they are also, for convenience, capital and to issue debentures and other securities.
summarised on the 3i website at www.
This will be updated as required and changes noted in future Annual reports.
Portfolio management and voting policy The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive requires In relation to unquoted investments, the Groups approach 3i to comply with certain reporting obligations.
A summary is to seek to add value to the businesses in which the Group of the remuneration policy of 3i can be found on the invests through the Groups extensive experience, resources Companys website.
and contacts and through active engagement with the Boards of those companies.
In relation to quoted investments, the The total amount of remuneration paid by 3i to its staff for the Groups policy is to exercise voting rights on all matters affecting year was 88 million, of which 41 million was xed remuneration its interests.
and 47 million was variable remuneration.
The aggregate total remuneration paid to AIFM Identied Staff for the year was 23 million, of which 22 million was paid to Senior Management Tax and investment company status and 1 million was paid to other AIFM Identied Staff.
The Company is an investment company under section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
HM Revenue & Customs has approved Dividends the Company as an Investment Trust under section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and the Company directs its affairs An interim dividend of 8.0 pence per ordinary share in respect to enable it to continue to remain so approved.
of the year to 31 March 2017 was paid on 4 January 2017.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 18.5 pence comprising a base dividend of 8.0 pence and an additional 3i Investments plc dividend of 10.5 pence per ordinary share be paid in respect 3i Investments plc acts as investment manager to the Company ofthe year to 31 March 2017 to shareholders on the Register and certain of its subsidiaries.
Contracts for these investment atthe close of business on 16 June 2017. management and other services, for which regulatory authorisation is required, provide for fees based on the work done and costs The trustee of The 3i Group Employee Trust the Employee incurred in providing such services.
These contracts may be Trust has waived subject to certain minor exceptions dividends terminated by either party on reasonable notice.
declared on shares in the Company held by the Employee Trust and the Trustee of The 3i Group Share Incentive Plan has waived 3i Investments plc also acts as investment adviser to dividends on unallocated shares in the Company held by it.
3iInfrastructure plc under a contract which provides for the services to be provided and the related fees which are payable.
Directors conicts of interests 3i Investments plc is authorised by the FCA to, among other  things, manage Alternative Investment Funds AIFs.
It is Directors have a statutory duty to avoid conicts of interest with currently the Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association enable of five AIFs.
In compliance with regulatory requirements, Directors to approve conicts of interest and include other 3i Investments plc has ensured that a depository has been conict of interest provisions.
The Company has implemented appointed for each AIF.
This is Citibank Europe plc, UK Branch.
processes to identify potential and actual conicts of interest.
The Annual report and accounts meet the investor disclosure Such conicts are then considered for approval by the Board, requirements as set out in FUND 3.2.
6R subject, if necessary, to appropriate conditions.
of the FCAs Investment Funds sourcebook for 3i Group plc as As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association during a standalone entity.
The Companys profit for the year is stated the year and as at the date of this Directors report, there were in its Statement of changes in equity and its Financial position in place Qualifying Third-Party Indemnity Provisions as dened is shown on page 105.
The Company performs substantially all under relevant legislation for the benefit of the Companys of its investment related activities through its subsidiaries and Directors and for the benefit of directors of one associated therefore the Groups Consolidated statement of comprehensive company and Qualifying Pension Scheme Indemnity Provisions income is considered to be more useful to investors than a for the benefit of the directors of one associated company.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 97 Corporate Governance Additional statutory and corporate governance information continued Where appropriate, employees are eligible to participate in Directors employment contracts 3i share schemes to encourage employees involvement in 3is Mr S A Borrows and Mrs J S Wilson each have employment performance.
Investment executives in the Private Equity business contracts with the Group with notice periods of 12 months where line may also participate in carried interest schemes, which allow notice is given by the Group and six months where notice is given executives to share directly in future profits on investments.
Save for these notice periods their employment Similarly, investment executives in the Infrastructure business contracts have no unexpired terms.
None of the other Directors lines may participate in asset-linked and or fee-linked incentive has a service contract with the Company.
Employees participate in local state or company pension schemes as appropriate to local market conditions.
Employment The employment policy of the Group is one of equal opportunity Political donations in the selection, training, career development and promotion of In line with Group policy, during the year to 31 March 2017 no employees, regardless of age, gender, sexual orientation, ethnic donations were made to political parties or organisations, or origin, religion and whether disabled or otherwise.
independent election candidates, and no political expenditure 3i treats applicants and employees with disabilities fairly and was incurred.
provides facilities, equipment and training to assist disabled employees to do their jobs.
Arrangements are made as necessary significant agreements to ensure support to job applicants who happen to be disabled As at 31 March 2017, the Company was party to one agreement and who respond to requests to inform the Company of any subject to a renegotiation period on a change of control of requirements.
Should an employee become disabled during the Company following a takeover bid.
This agreement is a their employment, efforts would be made to retain them in their 329 million multi-currency Revolving Credit Facility Agreement current employment or to explore the opportunities for their dated 5 September 2014, between the Company, Barclays Bank retraining or redeployment within 3i.
Financial support is also PLC and a number of other banks.
The Company is required to provided by 3i to support disabled employees who are unable notify Barclays Bank PLC, as agent bank, within five days, of a towork, as appropriate to local market conditions.
This opens a 20-day negotiation period to 3is principal means of keeping in touch with the views of determine if the Majority Lenders as dened in the agreement its employees is through employee appraisals, informal are willing to continue the facility.
Failing agreement, amounts consultations, team briengs and staff conferences.
outstanding would be repayable and the facility cancelled.
Managers throughout 3i have a continuing responsibility to keep their staff informed of developments and to communicate Going concern financial results and other matters of interest.
This is achieved The Directors have acknowledged their responsibilities in relation by structured communication including regular meetings to the financial statements for the year to 31 March 2017. of employees.
After making enquiries, the Directors considered it appropriate to 3i is an equal opportunities employer and has clear grievance prepare the financial statements of the Company, and the Group, and disciplinary procedures in place.
3i also has an employee on a going concern basis.
assistance programme which provides a condential, free and independent counselling service and is available to all UK staff Audit information and their families in the UK.
Pursuant to section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, each 3is employment policies are designed to provide a competitive oftheDirectors confirms that: reward package which will attract and retain high quality staff, whilst ensuring that the relevant costs remain at an a so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information appropriate level.
of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and 3is remuneration policy is inuenced by 3is financial and other b they have taken all steps they ought to have taken to performance conditions and market practices in the countries make themselves aware of any relevant audit information in which it operates.
All employees receive a base salary and and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of are also eligible to be considered for a performance-related such information.
For those members of staff receiving higher levels of annual variable incentive awards, a Appointment of Auditor proportion of such awards is delivered in 3i shares, vesting over In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a number of years.
Remuneration policy is reviewed by the 3i a resolution proposing the reappointment of Ernst & Young Group plc Remuneration Committee, comprising 3i Group plc LLP as the Companys Auditor will be put to members at the non-executive Directors.
98 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation The Directors have a responsibility for ensuring that proper Information required by listing rule 9.8.
4 accounting records are kept which are sufficient to show and Information required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4 may be found as set explain the Groups transactions and disclose with reasonable out below: accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Topic Location enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements Capitalised interest Portfolio income on page 31 comply with the Companies Act 2006.
Share allotments Note 19 on page 129 They have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are Contracts with Directors Page 65 reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Information included in Strategic report In accordance with the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, In accordance with section 414 C 11 of the Companies Act 2006 the Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge that: the following information otherwise required to be set out in the a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with Directors report has been included in the Strategic report: risk applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of management objectives and policies: post balance sheet events: the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the likely future developments in the business: and greenhouse Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation gas emissions.
taken as a whole: and The Directors viability statement is also shown in the Strategic b the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development report on page 49. and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation Statement of Directors responsibilities taken as a whole together with a description of the principal risks The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and uncertainties that they face.
and accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law The Directors of the Company and their functions are listed and those International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs on pages 60 and 61. which have been adopted by the European Union.
3i Group plc is registered in England with company Under Company Law the Directors must not approve the Group number 1142830. financial statements unless they are satisfied that they present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash ows Directors report of the Group for that period.
The Directors consider that this Annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced For the purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006, the Directors and understandable and provides the information necessary for report of 3i Group plc comprises the Corporate Governance shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business section on pages 58 to 99 other than the Directors remuneration model and strategy.
In preparing the Group financial statements report on pages 77 to 94. the Directors: The Strategic report, Directors report and Directors a select suitable accounting policies in accordance with remuneration report have been drawn up and presented in International Accounting Standard 8: Accounting Policies, accordance with and in reliance upon English company law and Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply the liabilities of the Directors in connection with those reports them consistently: shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by that law.
b present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable By order of the Board and understandable information: K J Dunn c provide additional disclosures when compliance with Company Secretary the specic requirements in IFRSs as adopted by the EU is 17 May 2017 insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular Registered Ofce: transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial 16 Palace Street position and financial performance: London SW1E 5JD d state that the Group has complied with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and e make judgements and estimates that are reasonable.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 99 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 101 Audited Consolidated statement of financial position 102 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 103 financial Consolidated cash ow statement 104 Company statement of financial position 105 Company statement statements of changes in equity 106 Company cash ow statement 107 significant accounting policies 108 Notes to the accounts 112 Independent Auditors report 149 100 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017
