Corporate Governance The role of the Board The Board reviews membership of these Committees regularly Board and Committee structure and aims to ensure that undue reliance is not placed on particular The Board is responsible for ensuring that there is an effective Directors.
These Board Committees have clearly dened terms organisational and reporting structure in place such that there are ofreference which are available at www.
clear reporting lines within the Group and well dened roles and responsibilities.
This is to ensure that the right decisions are being Day-to-day management of the Group is the responsibility of the made with involvement from the right people.
To assist him in this role, the Chief Executive has established a number of additional management Committees The Board is assisted by various Principal Committees of the which are outlined in the Risk section of the Strategic report Board which report to it regularly.
The membership and activities onpage 45. of the Audit and Compliance Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Valuations Committee and the Nominations Committee are described in their separate reports on pages 68to 94.
Board composition Composition Tenure Gender diversity Male Executive 39 years Female Non-executive 13 years 11% Under 1 year 22% 33% 33% 56% 67% 78% Division of responsibilities Role of the Chairman Role of the Chief Executive Role of non-executive Directors Leads the Board in setting its agenda, Direct charge of the Group on a dayScrutinise the performance of agreeing strategy, monitoring financial to-day basis and is accountable to the management in meeting agreed and operational performance, and Board for the financial and operational objectives and monitor the reporting establishing theGroups risk appetite.
Organises the business of the Board, Leads the Executive Committee to Seek assurance on the integrity of the ensuring its effectiveness, and maintains develop and implement the Groups financial information and that financial an effective system ofinternal controls.
strategy and manage risk and the internal controls and systems of risk management control framework.
Ensures that non-executive Directors receive relevant and accurate information Chairs the Investment Committee to Determine appropriate levels of to facilitate an open and effective review the acquisition, management and remuneration for Executive Directors discussion.
This includes ensuring that the disposal of investments.
and Executive Committee and have a non-executive Directors receive regular prime role in appointing Directors and Reports to the Board on financial reports on shareholders views on the in succession planning.
and operational performance, risk Group.
management and progress in delivering Constructively challenge and help Responsible for the composition of the strategic objectives.
develop proposals on strategy: this the Board and facilitates the effective occurs at meetings of the Board, and in Regularly engages with shareholders and contribution of non-executive Directors particular at the annual review meeting to other key stakeholders on the Groups and constructive relationships between discuss ongoing strategy, the most recent activities and progress.
of which took place inDecember 2016.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and its duly authorised Committees for decision.
This is described on page 95.
Matters delegated by the Board to management include implementation of the Board approved strategy, day-to-day management and operation of the business, the appointment and remuneration of staff below the Executive Committee and the formulation and implementation of risk management policies and processes.
62 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation Reports on regulatory matters including significant How the Board operates regulationaffecting the Group: The Board and its Committees meet regularly, operating Review of balance sheet strategy: toanagreed timetable.
Meetings are usually held in London.
Organisational capability and succession plans: and Directors are expected to attend all the regular scheduled Increase in the valuation of Action in June 2016. meetings of the Board and the Committees on which they serve, and to devote enough time to perform their duties.
Before each Reports and papers are circulated to the Directors in a timely Board and Committee meeting, relevant reports and papers, manner in preparation for Board and Committee meetings.
including financial performance data and detailed updates on These papers are supplemented by information specically the progress and implementation of the strategic plan where requested by the Directors from time to time.
appropriate, are circulated to Directors.
The Board is able to discuss these reports and updates and to challenge directly the Attendance at Board and Committee meetings Executive Directors and other senior management, who attend The table below shows the number of full meetings of the Board allor part of the Board meetings where relevant.
and its Committees attended by Directors during the year to The principal matters considered by the Board during the year 31 March 2017 and, in brackets, the number of such meetings inaddition to matters formally reserved to the Board included: they were eligible to attend.
In addition to these meetings a number of additional ad hoc meetings were held to deal The Groups strategic plan, related KPIs and annual budget: withspecic items as they arose.
Regular reports from the Chief Executive: The Chairman is not a member of the Audit and Compliance Sale of the Groups Debt Management business: Committee but attends in order to keep abreast of Reviews of and updates on the Groups Private Equity, its discussions.
Infrastructure and Debt Management businesses: Regular reports from the Boards Committees: Remuneration and pension matters including remuneration philosophy and strategy: The recommendations of the Valuations Committee onvaluations of investments: The Annual report and accounts, Half-yearly report andquarterly performance updates: Dividend policy and dividends: Audit and Compliance Nominations Remuneration Valuations Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Total meetings held 7 6 3 7 4 Number attended: S R Thompson 7 7 3 3 4 4 S A Borrows 7 7 4 4 J S Wilson 7 7 4 4 J P Asquith 7 7 6 6 3 3 7 7 C J Banszky 7 7 6 6 3 3 7 7 1 S W Daintith 4 4 3 3 1 1 2 2 P Grosch 7 7 3 3 4 4 D A M Hutchison 7 7 3 3 7 7 4 4 M G Verluyten 6 7 5 6 2 3 0 4 1 Appointed 1 October 2016.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 63 Corporate Governance The role of the Board continued Composition of the Board Directors The Nominations Committee is responsible for reviewing the Directors biographical details are set out on pages 60 and 61. composition of the Board and making recommendations for The Board currently comprises the Chairman, six non-executive appointments to the Board.
The Committee considers the Directors and two Executive Directors.
Mr S R Thompson, balance of skills, experience and knowledge needed in order MrJPAsquith, Ms C J Banszky, Mr S A Borrows, MrP Grosch, to enhance the Board and support the Company in the execution MrD A M Hutchison, Ms M G Verluyten and MrsJSWilson of its strategy.
Details of the work undertaken by the Committee served as Directors throughout the year under review.
Mr S W Daintith was appointed as a non-executive Director on1 October 2016.
Appointment and re-election of Directors Mr J P Asquith served as Senior Independent Director SID The Nominations Committee is responsible for leading the throughout the year.
The SID supports the Chairman and process of appointing new directors to the Board.
Subject to meets with him regularly.
He is also available to the Companys the Companys Articles of Association, the Companies Acts and shareholders in relation to any concerns that they may not have satisfactory performance evaluation, non-executive Directors are been able to resolve through the channels of Chairman, Chief appointed for an initial three-year term.
Before the third and sixth Executive or Group Finance Director, or where the shareholder anniversaries of first appointment, the Director discusses with considers these channels are inappropriate.
theBoard whether it is appropriate for a further three-year term In addition to fullling their legal responsibilities as Directors, to be served.
non-executive Directors are expected to bring an independent Under the Companys Articles of Association, the minimum judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, resources number of Directors is two and the maximum is 20, unless and standards of conduct, and to help the Board provide the otherwise determined by the Company by ordinary resolution.
Further details of their role Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution of shareholders or are set out on page 62.
Non-executive Directors are expected by the Board.
The Companys Articles of Association provide for to make available sufficient time to meet the requirements of the Directors to retire by rotation at an AGM if they were appointed appointment.
The average time commitment is expected to be by the Board since the preceding AGM, they held ofce during around 15 days a year together with additional time for serving the two preceding AGMs but did not retire at either of them, onthe Boards Committees.
they held non-executive ofce for a continuous period of nine The Boards discussions, and its approval of the Groups strategic years or more at the date of that AGM, or they choose to retire plan and annual budget, provide the non-executive Directors from ofce.
Shareholders can remove any Director by special with the opportunity to contribute to and validate managements resolution and appoint another person to be a Director in their plans and assist in the development of strategy.
The nonplace by ordinary resolution.
Shareholders can also remove executive Directors receive regular management accounts, any Director by ordinary resolution of which special notice has reports and information which enable them to scrutinise been given.
the Companys and managements performance against Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, retiring agreed objectives.
Directors are eligible for reappointment.
The ofce of Director is vacated if the Director resigns, becomes bankrupt or is prohibited by law from being a Director or where the Board so resolves following the Director suffering from ill-health orbeing absent from Board meetings for 12 months without theBoards permission.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code theCode, all Directors are subject to reappointment every year.
Accordingly, at the AGM to be held on 29 June 2017, all the Directors will retire from ofce.
All the Directors are eligible for and save for Ms M G Verluyten who will step down from the Board at the end of the AGM seek reappointment.
The Boards recommendation for the reappointment of Directors is set out inthe 2017 Notice of AGM.
64 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation Directors independence Performance and evaluation All the non-executive Directors other than the Chairman who During the year, the Board conducted its annual evaluation of was independent on appointment and Mr P Grosch were its own performance and that of its committees and individual considered by the Board to be independent for the purposes Directors.
The evaluation had been externally facilitated in the of the Code in the year to 31 March 2017.
Mr P Grosch is not previous year by Lintstock Limited.
On this occasion, the process considered independent because of his links with the Groups was conducted internally by the Chairman with support from Private Equity business including his position as chairman of Lintstock Limited.
The Chairman held one-to-one interviews Euro-Diesel, a company in which the Group is invested.
with Directors informed by the results of a questionnaire prepared by Lintstock Limited which was completed by all Board The Board reviews non-executive Director independence at members and the Company Secretary.
He reported the results least annually, having regard to the potential relevance and of the evaluation to the Board and proposed an action plan for materiality of a Directors interests and relationships.
Other than discussion and agreement.
Overall, the evaluation concluded that for Mr P Grosch, no Director was materially interested in any the Board continued to perform well, but some areas for further contract or arrangement subsisting during or at the end of the improvement were identied and agreed.
It also identied for financial period that was significant in relation to the business further Board attention matters seen as the top strategic issues of the Company.
Mr P Grosch receives directors fees from and tobe faced over the next three to five years.
is a shareholder in Euro-Diesel, a company in which the Group is invested.
The topics covered by the evaluation included: consideration of Board composition: Training and advice Board dynamics: The Company has a training policy which provides a framework time management and Board support: within which training for Directors is planned with the objective the performance of the Boards Committees: of ensuring Directors understand the duties and responsibilities of being a director of a listed company.
All Directors are required the Boards strategic and operational oversight: to keep their skills up to date and maintain their familiarity with risk management and internal control: the Company and its business continually.
Presentations on succession planning and human resources management: and different aspects of the Companys business are made regularly priorities for change.
On appointment, all non-executive Directors have discussions with the Chairman and the Chief Executive During the review Directors identied areas for further following which appropriate briengs on the responsibilities broadening of the Boards expertise through recruitment as of Directors, the Companys business and the Companys opportunities arise.
Priorities for the Board for the coming year procedures are arranged.
The Company provides opportunities were agreed.
Areas requiring greater time for Board discussion for non-executive Directors to obtain a thorough understanding and areas for additional Board reporting were also agreed.
of the Companys business by meeting members of the senior In his role as Senior Independent Director, Mr J P Asquith led a management team who in turn arrange, as required, visits to review by the Directors of the performance of the Chairman and investment or support teams.
subsequently reported back to the Board and provided feedback The Company has procedures for Directors to take independent to the Chairman.
legal or other professional advice in relation to the performance A succession and contingency plan for executive leadership of their duties.
In addition, Directors have access to the is prepared by management and reviewed periodically by the advice and services of the General Counsel and Company Board.
The purpose of this plan is to identify suitable candidates Secretary, who advises the Board, through the Chairman, for succession to key senior management positions, agree their ongovernance matters.
training and development needs, and ensure the necessary human resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 65 Corporate Governance The role of the Board continued Risk management and internal control Financial reporting The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and In the context of the Groups internal control and risk internal control, including for the determination of the nature management systems, there are specic processes in place and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take to achieve inrelation to Financial Reporting, including: its strategic objectives and for ensuring that an appropriate comprehensive system of key control and oversight processes, culture has been embedded throughout the organisation.
including regular reconciliations, line manager reviews and Risk management and internal control systems cannot eliminate systems access controls: all risks but it is the role of the Board to ensure such systems are updates for consideration by the Audit and Compliance robust and effective and take account of such risks.
In addition Committee of accounting developments, including draft and such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the new accounting standards and legislation: risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material a separate Valuations Committee which considers the Groups misstatement or loss.
investment valuation policies, application and outcome: approval of the Groups budget by the Board and a Through the regular meetings of the Board and the schedule of comprehensive system of financial reporting to the Board, matters reserved to the Board or its duly authorised Committees based on the annual budget with monthly reporting of actual for decision, the Board aims to maintain full and effective results, analysis of variances, scrutiny of key performance control over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and indicators and regular re-forecasting: compliance issues.
reports from Internal Audit on matters relevant to the financial The Board has put in place an organisational structure with reporting process, including periodic assessments of internal clearly dened lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
controls, processes and fraud risk: The Board considers and approves a strategic plan and budget independent updates and reports from the external Auditor on on an annual basis and receives regular updates.
In addition, accounting developments, application of accounting standards, there are established procedures and processes for planning and key accounting judgements and observations on systems controlling expenditure and the making of investments.
There are and controls: also information and reporting systems for monitoring the Groups businesses and their performance.
appointment of experienced and professional staff, both by recruitment and promotion, of the necessary calibre to full The Group Risk Committee is a management committee formed their allotted responsibilities: and by the Chief Executive and its purpose is to identify and assess appropriate Board oversight of external reporting.
the principal risks faced by the business, in the context of the Groups risk appetite, and oversee the mitigation or management of those risks.
This process was in place for the year to 31 March 2017 and up to the date of this report.
Details of the risk management framework can be found in the Risk section of the Strategic report on pages 44 to 53.
The overall risk management and internal control process is regularly reviewed by the Board and the Audit and Compliance Committee and complies with the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Audit and Compliance Committee performed its annual review of the systems effectiveness and reported its conclusions to the Board.
The process has been in place for the year under review and up tothe date of approval of this Annual report and accounts 2017.
66 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017
