Corporate Governance Valuations Committee report A robust valuations process is fundamental to the integrity of the Groups financial reporting.
The Committee plays an important role in providing the Board with assurance that the valuation process is solid and independently challenged.
Membership during the year Overview of the valuation process Name Membership status duringthe year David Hutchison Chairman and member since December 2013 The Groups valuation process remained substantially unchanged Chairman in FY2017.
The Committee met four times, coinciding with the Simon Thompson Member since June 2015 Groups external reporting obligations, and received a detailed report from the Group Finance Director at each meeting Stephen Daintith Member since October 2016 recommending the proposed valuation of the Groups investment Peter Grosch Member since January 2016 portfolio.
This report highlighted the main drivers of value Martine Verluyten Member since December 2013 movement analysed between performance, multiple movements Simon Borrows Member since May 2012 and other factors.
At each meeting the Committee also reviewed selected assets for detailed discussion: examples of such assets Julia Wilson Member since December 2008 covered during the year included Action, Scandlines, Christ, The Valuations Committee reports to the Audit and Compliance Weener Plastic, Audley Travel, ATESTEO, Agent Provocateur Committee and the Board on the valuation of the Groups andACR.
Where relevant, the Committee also received updates investment assets.
It reviews and challenges the assumptions on significant issues such as the first review of the impact of the behind managements proposed asset valuation.
UKs decision to leave the EU on our UK assets.
In advance of the full-year and half-year reporting, management The Committees activity is principally focused on the Private hold individual portfolio company reviews with the respective Equity investments as a high level of judgement is required investment teams.
Non-executive Directors, including members to value the unquoted portfolio.
As in previous years, the of the Valuations Committee, attended a significant proportion Committee devoted less time to Infrastructure due to the fact that its principal investment during FY2017 was its shareholding ofthe meetings held in September 2016 and March 2017 and in 3i Infrastructure plc which is quoted.
The Committee were represented at all of the top five Private Equity portfolio actively reviewed the value of the assets in the Groups Debt company review meetings.
Management business until its disposal completed on 3 March Meetings are open to all Directors and attended by other 2017 and will continue to review the valuation of the remaining members of the Executive Committee as required, the Group positions until they are sold.
Financial Controller and the external Auditor.
The Committee The Committee is responsible for keeping the Groups valuation Chairman meets the Group Finance Director and Group policy under review and recommending any changes to the Financial Controller in advance of each meeting to discuss policy to the Audit and Compliance Committee and the Board.
the key valuation assumptions and will also meet members The policy is reviewed at least annually with the last update of Investment Committee on an ad hoc basis.
In addition, the in January 2017.
The Groups valuation policy is based on the Committee Chairman met privately with the external Auditor International Private Equity and Valuation IPEV guidelines inadvance ofeach meeting to discuss the output of their review which set out recommended practice for fair valuing unquoted and towards the end of the year to discuss their approach to the investments within the IFRS framework and incorporates year-end audit.
references to AIFMD where appropriate.
74 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation Outside of the regular quarterly valuation process, the Board External audit approved a material revaluation of Action, which was announced As part of its external audit, Ernst & Young LLP reviews the on 30 June 2016, as a result of third-party interest in the proposed investment portfolio valuation to determine that investment and its continued growth and financial trajectory.
the valuation policy is being complied with and that there The Committee Chairman and other Committee members is consistent application and support for the underlying reviewed and discussed the valuation proposal with management assumptions.
As part of their year-end audit, and to support their ahead of its approval by the Board.
opinion on the Financial statements as a whole, Ernst & Young LLPs specialist valuations team review a selection of Private Equity investments to provide assurance on their overall audit conclusion on the appropriateness of 3is portfolio valuation.
FY2017 update More information on our valuation methodology, including denitions and rationale, is included in the Portfolio valuation an explanation section on pages 158 and 159.
The Committee focused on the following significant issues in the year: Area of judgement What the Committee did Private Equity Earnings and multiple assumptions The majority 78% of the portfolio is valued using a multiple of Earnings data is received monthly from Private Equity portfolio earnings.
This requires judgement as the earnings of the portfolio companies and monitored closely by management.
Actual earnings company may be adjusted so that they are considered maintainable.
may then be adjusted in managements proposed valuations, for example, to reect afullyears trading of an acquired business, There is also a significant degree of judgement in selecting the removing profit from discontinued activities, any forecast uncertainty appropriate set of comparable quoted companies to determine the or to exclude exceptional transaction costs.
Material adjustments are appropriate multiple to generate an enterprise value.
Multiples are highlighted to the Committee in the quarterly report for review and selected by reference to quoted comparable companies, M&A approval, includingthe use of March 2017 run-rate earnings for the transactions and input in certain cases from corporate finance advisers.
We also take into account growth prole, geographic location, business mix, degree of diversication and leverage renancing risk.
The multiple Management continued to adjust a significant proportion of multiples implied by the quoted comparables may be adjusted if, in certain cases, used ifthe longer term view of the exit or multiple supports the use the longer-term view cycle or exit plan supports the use of a different of a different multiple.
Notable changes in multiples in a quarter are multiple.
This has been a particularly important exercise in light of presented to the Committee and adjustments are reviewed by the theincreased volatility experienced in the quoted equity markets Committee at each meeting.
Imminent sale assets At any point in time it is likely that a number of potential exit Assets that are within active sales processes are reviewed by the processesfrom the portfolio are underway.
Judgement is applied by Committee including details such as the timeline to potential management as to the likely eventual exit proceeds and certainty of completion, the number and make-up of bidders for investments, completion.
This means that in some cases an asset may not be moved execution and due diligence risks and regulatory or competition to an imminent sales basis until very shortly before completion: in other clearance issues.
Management propose a treatment for each asset cases the switch may occur on signing.
However, as a general rule an which the Committee reviews.
asset moves to an imminent sale basis only when a process is materially Although not an area of valuation judgement, the Committee actively complete and the remaining risks are estimated to be small, given the reviews the results of the back-testing that management prepares on amount of completion risk around unquoted equity transactions.
assets disposed in each quarter to reconcile the price achieved with the carrying value at the last balance sheet date.
This acts as a hindsight test of the fair value applied to assets in the quarters up to disposal.
Assets valued using a DCF basis For assets valued using DCF techniques the key valuation judgements Material assumptions and changes to these assumptions are reviewed relate to longer-term assumptions that drive the underlying business by the Committee.
This may include third-party support if available.
plan and cash ows and the decision on the appropriate discount rates.
Sensitivity to assumptions is also noted.
Discount rates are selected by management with reference to market transactions, weighted average cost of capital calculations and other public data.
Any material changes are reviewed by the Committee and external advice is sought from time to time.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 75 Corporate Governance Valuations Committee report continued As part of its challenge and review process, the Committee: considered the management information provided to support the Committees review of the valuations, including managements responses to any challenges raised by the Committee members or the external Auditor: sought assurance from the external Auditor as to whether and how they had considered each of these areas: and reviewed the consistency of the views of management and theexternal Auditor.
The Committee was satisfied that the application of the policy and process was appropriate during the applicable period, and recommended the portfolio valuation to the Audit and Compliance Committee and the Board at each quarter end forapproval by the Board.
Portfolio trends At least annually the Committee Chairman and management conduct a review of the valuation outcomes in the portfolio overthe preceding three years.
The Committee Chairman and Group Finance Director reported to the Board in May 2017 on the key observations.
By order of the Board D A M Hutchison Chairman, Valuations Committee 17 May 2017 Further information on the Valuation Committees terms of reference can be found on our website www.
com 76 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017
