STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Corporate Governance Leadership Our governance structure The Groups primary decision-making body is the Board.
It is accountable to shareholders for the Groups financial and operational performance, and is responsible for setting the strategy and ensuring that risk is managed effectively.
The Board maintains a schedule of items which it is required to consider and approve.
We review this schedule regularly and update it to reflect developments in corporate governance and emerging practice.
As shown in the diagram below, the Board has delegated certain responsibilities to a number of Committees.
The Board retains overall accountability and the Committee Chairmen are responsible for reporting back to the Board on the Committees activities.
Minutes of the Committees meetings are made available to all Directors on the web-based Board portal.
The Board Dr Gerry Murphy appointed Chairman on 1 April 2017.
Chaired by Sir Peter Gershon until 31 March 2017.
Accountable to shareholders Monitors the operational and Sets the Groups ethical culture and for the Groups financial and financial performance of the Group agrees the Groups Values operational performance Sets the Groups risk appetite Ensures good corporate governance Sets the Groups strategy practices are in place Ensures that appropriate risk Oversees managements management systems and internal implementation of the strategy controls are in place Chief Audit Nominations Corporate Remuneration Executive Committee Committee Responsibility Committee Committee Chaired by Anne Minto Chaired by Dr Gerry Murphy Jeanne Johns appointed Douglas Hurt appointed Chairman Recommends the Chairman of this on 1 April 2017 Groups Remuneration Oversees financial Committee on Policy for executive reporting, internal Chaired by the Chairman, 1 April 2017 Sir Peter Gershon up to directors.
Sets and financial controls 31 March 2017. monitors the level and risk management Chaired by William Camp up to 31 March 2017. and structure of systems, the risk Makes remuneration for the management process, recommendations Oversees a range of executive directors and the internal audit to the Board regarding operational controls other senior executives function and the the structure, size, and risk management Groups relationship Sets the Chairmans composition and systems, focusing on with the external fee.
succession needs of the safety, product quality, auditors.
Board and its cyber security, Committees environmental performance and the Reviews the implementation of the performance of the Code of Ethics.
executive directors and the members of the Executive Committee.
Oversees succession planning for Directors and senior management.
More on page 74 More on page 66 More on page 69 More on page 72 Executive Committee Research Advisory Group Chaired by Javed Ahmed Chaired by Dr Ajai Puri Recommends strategic and operating plans to the Board Comprises external experts and senior Tate & Lyle managers Assists the Chief Executive in implementing the strategy agreed Reviews the innovation pipeline by the Board Provides insights into how leading-edge science and technology Monitors the performance of the two business divisions and could enhance the portfolio of the Groups Speciality Food global support functions Ingredients business division.
Identifies, evaluates, manages and monitors risks facing the Group.
The Executive Committee is supported by a number of operational committees, including the Executive Safety Steering Committee, Operations Committee, Capital Expenditure Committee, Cyber Security Committee, Business Continuity Committee, IS IT Portfolio Review Committee and the Group Intellectual Property Committee.
Committees may also be established for a finite period to oversee key strategic or operational priorities.
com 57 Corporate Governance continued Key responsibilities of the Board At the date of this Annual Report, the Board comprises the Chairman, two executive directors and eight non-executive directors.
Their responsibilities are summarised below.
There is a clear division of responsibilities: the Chairman leads the Board and the Chief Executive leads the business.
Chairman Non-executive directors Responsible for the effective operation, Responsible for overseeing the delivery of leadership and governance of the Board the strategy within the risk appetite set by the Board Chairs Board meetings, Nominations Committee meetings and the Annual General Meeting Advise and constructively challenge the executive directors Sets the Board agenda with the Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director Company Secretary Facilitates active engagement by all Directors Responsible for ensuring that the Chairmans Sets the style and tone of Board discussions performance is evaluated Ensures the Directors receive accurate, timely and Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and supports him clear information in the delivery of his objectives Serves as an intermediary with the Chairman for other Chief Executive Directors if necessary Responsible for proposing strategy to the Board Maintains a comprehensive understanding of the major and delivering it issues of shareholders and is available if shareholders have any concerns that they have been unable to resolve through Runs the business the normal channels Communicates within the organisation the Boards expectations with regard to culture, Values and behaviours Company Secretary Ensures the Board is aware of current business issues Responsible for maintaining the governance Chief Financial Officer and listing rules compliance framework Responsible for the Groups financial affairs Supports the Chairman, Chief Executive and Committee Chairmen in setting agenda items for Board and Committee Contributes to the management of the Groups business meetings Supports the Chief Executive with the development and Advises the Board on developments in corporate governance, implementation of the strategy legislation and regulation Assists the Chairman and the Chief Executive in ensuring that the Directors are provided with relevant information in a timely manner Organises inductions for new Directors and ongoing training for all directors Compliance with the Code The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 is the standard against which we are required to measure ourselves for the year ended 31 March 2017.
Throughout the year the Company has complied fully with the Code except for provision B.
6.2 to do with Board evaluation.
With respect to this provision, we did not use an external facilitator this year for the reason set out in the Chairmans letter on page 56.
The Code can be found at www.
58 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Board activity during the year ended 31 March 2017 The Board holds six scheduled meetings each year at Group locations and an off-site meeting to discuss strategy.
In the few instances where a Director is unable to attend a meeting, he or she provides comments in advance to the Chairman.
This years scheduled meetings were held in London at the Groups headquarters and at our Commercial and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA.
Strategy Financial One session focused on our operating model and Approved the payment of the interim dividend and capabilities, plus the execution of key growth drivers in recommended payment of the final dividend Speciality Food Ingredients and new market trends Considered and agreed treasury and tax matters Another session focused on the strategic framework Approved the Annual Operating Plan for the year and the five-year plan ending 31 March 2018 A session looked at our network optimisation strategy Approved the Annual Report 2016, the halfand full-year results and associated announcements Internal control and Operational risk management commercial Considered and agreed the Reviewed the performance of Groups risk appetite and the two business divisions principal risks Approved capital expenditure Assessed the effectiveness of projects.
Considered Board activity our internal controls and risk post-investment reviews and management systems lessons learnt during the year Agreed the Modern Slavery Reviewed the development of ended 31 March Act statement available on the innovation pipeline the Companys website Met with a customer of our 2017 Agreed the Viability Speciality Food Ingredients statement as disclosed in the business in North America Annual Report 2016 to understand the customers perspective on the innovation process and scope for further collaboration in the future Leadership and employees Governance and stakeholders Approved the appointment of Jeanne Johns as Considered the output and recommendations from the non-executive director, Dr Gerry Murphy as nonBoard effectiveness review executive director and Chairman-designate, and Reviewed and approved Directors conflicts of interest Douglas Hurt as the Senior Independent Director Discussed feedback from institutional shareholders Discussed the Groups safety performance and analysts Convened an additional Board meeting to focus on Received updates on developments in corporate safety after the accident at one of our US sites, governance and the impact of regulatory changes on including a review of the status of the investigation the Group, in particular the Market Abuse Regulations into the root cause of the accident, consideration of an internal review of safety in the grain network and a proposal for an external review of safety across the Group Reviewed the results of the Group-wide employee engagement survey and proposed follow up actions www.
com 59 Corporate Governance continued Re-election of Directors Effectiveness The Code provides that all Directors should seek re-election on an annual basis and all Directors, with the exception of The Board reviews the balance of experience, skills, gender Liz Airey, will seek re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
and diversity of thinking styles around the boardroom table The Directors standing for re-election, with the exception regularly to ensure that the composition of the Board and of Javed Ahmed and Nick Hampton, do not have service its Committees is appropriate for the Group as it continues contracts.
Each Director goes through a formal performance to evolve and implement the strategy.
The Board and its review process as part of the annual Board effectiveness Committees carry out a formal effectiveness review process review.
All Directors completed this process during the year once a year which provides new insights into the operation of and, in line with the Code, Douglas Hurt, who has served for the Board and areas for development or particular focus.
over six years, has been subject to a particularly rigorous review.
Board composition Independence At the date of this Annual Report, the Board comprised 11 directors with deep knowledge and experience in diverse The Code provides that the Board should state its reasons if it business sectors within global markets: the Chairman, who determines that a Director is independent notwithstanding the has no executive responsibilities: two executive directors: existence of relationships or circumstances which may appear and eight non-executive directors.
The names, skills and relevant to its determination, including if the Director has experience of the Directors are set out on pages 52 to 55. served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of his or her first election.
Appointments to the Board With the exception of Dr Gerry Murphy, who, as Chairman, is The Nominations Committee has responsibility for the presumed under the Code not to be independent, the Board appointment of non-executive and executive directors and considers all the non-executive directors who are seeking recommends new appointments to the Board.
During the year, re-election to be independent.
the Nominations Committee carried out a search exercise for two additional non-executive directors including the Directors interests Chairman-designate.
The Board approved the Nominations During the year, no Directors had a material interest in any Committees recommendations and Jeanne Johns and contract with the Group, being a contract of significance in Dr Gerry Murphy joined the Board on 26 October 2016 and relation to the Groups business.
A statement of Directors 1 January 2017 respectively.
Further details about the interests in Company shares is set out on page 97. appointment process are set out in the Nominations Committee report on pages 70 and 71.
Directors induction programme On appointment, Jeanne Johns and Dr Gerry Murphy received background reading about the Group and details of Board procedures and other governance matters.
The Company Secretary then worked with each Director to tailor the induction programme, which covers strategy, operations including safety and environmental performance, risk management and internal control.
An overview of their programmes to date is set out below.
Director Aim of induction programme Details of programme to date Jeanne Johns To increase Jeannes knowledge of Jeanne visited our global Commercial and Food Innovation the Groups processes and people Centre in Chicago, USA, our corn wet milling plants in and the UK-listed company Decatur, Lafayette South and Sagamore, grain elevators and environment the London head office.
At these sites she met a number of senior operational managers and key functional heads.
Dr Gerry Murphy To increase Gerrys knowledge of Gerry has visited eight sites including our global Commercial the Groups strategy, business, and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA where he met processes, people and financial with senior operational managers and key functional heads control environment to gain a detailed understanding of the Group.
He also met key shareholders and external advisors while he was Chairman-designate.
60 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 2017 Board effectiveness review Review of the Committees In the ordinary course of business, the Board would have In addition to the Board effectiveness review, the chairman of carried out an externally facilitated review of its effectiveness each of the Committees facilitated a review of his or her own this year.
However, in view of the number of changes to the Committees effectiveness.
These reviews confirmed that all Board, in particular the appointment of the ChairmanCommittees continue to provide effective support to the Board.
designate and the change in Senior Independent Director, the Areas for further focus are noted in the individual Directors agreed to defer the externally facilitated review until Committee reports.
after the appointment of the new Chairman.
This review will Review of individual Directors take place in the 2018 financial year instead.
Dr Gerry Murphy led performance reviews of the non-executive This year, Douglas Hurt, the Senior Independent Director from directors, while the Nominations Committee reviewed the 1 January 2017, led the internal review of Board effectiveness performance of the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and with support from the Company Secretary.
The process the other members of the Executive Committee, in line with its involved the preparation of two questionnaires.
The first terms of reference.
These reviews confirmed that each Director focused on the strategic framework, progress and priorities continues to make an effective contribution to the Boards work and the other on Board mechanics, agenda and general and is well-prepared and informed about issues they needed to effectiveness.
The output from the questionnaires was consider.
In each case, their commitment remains strong.
summarised in a report that was discussed by the Board.
From this, the Directors concluded that they are satisfied that Professional development and independent the Board and its Committees continued to operate effectively site visit programme and agreed a number of action points, including: Directors receive ongoing training and updates on relevant Reviewing the remits of the Audit Committee and Corporate issues as appropriate, taking into account their individual Responsibility Committee to address any areas of potential qualifications and experience.
The Company Secretary helps overlap Directors undertake any other professional development they Considering opportunities to align management and Board consider necessary to assist them in carrying out their duties.
information reporting to minimise multiple reporting formats During the year, in addition to the Boards visits to the Identifying more time in the Board calendar to focus on the Commercial and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA, the strategy to deliver progression towards the 2020 Ambition.
Chairman and or various of the non-executive directors visited five of the Groups sites in Europe and four of the Groups sites in the US as part of their independent site visit, or induction, programmes.
These visits provide Directors with the Directors attendance at Board meetings opportunity to interact with local management and to gain during the year in-depth knowledge about the opportunities and challenges Number for the Groups operations across the world.
Number of of meetings Advice and support meetings eligible to Directors as at 31 March 2017 attended attend All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that the Sir Peter Gershon 7 7 1 Board follows due process, and that the Company complies Dr Gerry Murphy 2 2 with applicable rules and regulations.
Javed Ahmed 7 7 There is also a formal procedure whereby Directors can Nick Hampton 7 7 obtain independent professional advice, if necessary, Liz Airey 7 7 at the Companys expense.
William Camp 7 7 Paul Forman 7 7 2 Lars Frederiksen 6 7 Douglas Hurt 7 7 3 Jeanne Johns 4 4 Anne Minto 7 7 Dr Ajai Puri 7 7 Sybella Stanley 7 7 1 Appointed as a Director with effect from 1 January 2017.
2 Unable to attend one meeting due to a pre-existing commitment.
3 Appointed as a Director with effect from 26 October 2016. www.
com 61 Corporate Governance continued Directors conflicts of interest Accountability Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they may have interests that conflict with those of the Company, The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent unless that conflict is first authorised by the Board.
As of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving the Groups permitted under the Companies Act 2006, the Companys strategic objectives and for maintaining sound risk Articles of Association allow Directors to authorise conflicts of management and internal control systems.
interest and the Board has an established policy and set of procedures for managing and, where appropriate, authorising, Risk management and internal control actual or potential conflicts of interest.
A formal process is in place which aims to identify and evaluate The key elements of those procedures are as follows: risks and how they are managed, further details of which are Directors are required to disclose proposed new set out on pages 38 and 39. appointments to the Chairman before taking them on, The objective of the internal control system is to protect the to ensure that any potential conflicts of interest can be Groups assets and reputation and to ensure the reliability of identified and addressed appropriately, for instance through financial information for both internal use and external the agreement and implementation of guidelines and publication.
The systems of internal control and risk protective measures regarding the ongoing management management cannot eliminate the risk of failure to achieve of any situational conflict business objectives and can only provide reasonable, not Directors are required to declare other situations which absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
could result in a potential conflict of interest An overview of the Groups internal control system is set out on Any potential conflicts of interest in relation to proposed page 63 with details of those people or functions responsible Directors are considered by the Board prior to their for managing or monitoring risks set out on page 64. appointment The Board reviews Directors actual or potential conflicts of 2017 review of the effectiveness of the interest at least annually.
system of internal control During the year, the Board assessed and approved potential The Board monitors the effectiveness of the Groups systems of conflicts, together with guidelines and protective measures internal control and risk management throughout the year.
Once a year, the Board, supported by the Audit and Corporate Responsibility Committees, conducts its own review of the Directors indemnities and insurance cover effectiveness of the systems of risk management and internal As at the date of this Annual Report, the Company has agreed control.
As last year, the 2017 review was facilitated by Group to indemnify the Directors, to the extent permitted by the Audit and Assurance and covered the period from the start of Companies Act 2006, against claims from third parties in the financial year to the date of this Annual Report.
The process respect of certain liabilities arising out of, or in connection with, included a two-stage review to facilitate discussion, with the the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as Audit and Corporate Responsibility Committees discussing the Directors of the Company and any of its subsidiaries.
The results of the review at their meetings in March and May 2017.
Directors are also indemnified against the cost of defending The Board then discussed the output at its meeting in May 2017. a criminal prosecution or a claim by the Company, its The 2017 review covered financial, operational and compliance subsidiaries or a regulator, provided that where the defence is controls, Values and behaviours, and the risk management unsuccessful the Director must repay those defence costs.
process, and included questionnaires and representation These indemnities are qualifying indemnity provisions for the letters completed by management.
Group Audit and Assurance purposes of Sections 232 to 234 of the Companies Act 2006, monitored and selectively checked the results of the review, and copies are available for inspection at our registered office ensuring that the responses from management were during business hours on any weekday except UK public consistent with the results of its work during the year.
Equivalent indemnities remain in force for Sir Peter of this process, areas for enhancements to internal controls, Gershon and William Camp who ceased to be Directors on and associated action plans to deliver them, were identified.
Delivery of these enhancements is being monitored by the The Company also maintains Directors and officers liability Audit Committee or Corporate Responsibility Committee insurance cover, and reviews the level of cover each year.
The Board considers that none of the areas identified for improvement constituted a significant weakness.
62 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Key features of the internal control system Monitoring controls Risk assessment Controls monitoring by dedicated Risk assessments are undertaken teams covering, for instance, as part of business as usual as finance, safety, product quality, well as through a more formalised intellectual property and Enterprise Risk Management cyber security process Framework of reviews by appropriately qualified people Tone from the top and business environment controls System The Values framework see page 42 of internal The Group policies framework control Business performance Information and management processes, covering communication controls planning, budgeting and Board and Executive Committee performance reporting framework Schedule of matters reserved to Communication protocols for the Board and terms of reference external communications for Board Committees The system has four Whistleblowing process A clear organisational structure broad areas with responsibility, accountability and limits of authority clearly defined for employees Segregation of duties of employees Financial reporting internal control system Speak Up whistleblowing This system covers the financial reporting process and Speak Up, the Groups whistleblowing programme, has been in the Groups process for preparing consolidated accounts.
place for a number of years in all operations controlled by the It includes policies and procedures which require: Group.
This programme, which is monitored by the Audit and Corporate Responsibility Committees, is designed to enable The maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, employees, contractors, customers, suppliers and other accurately and fairly reflect transactions including the stakeholders to raise concerns confidentially about conduct acquisition and disposal of assets they consider contrary to the Groups Values.
It may include, for Reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as example, unsafe or unethical practices, or criminal offences.
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in The Speak Up programme provides a number of ways to raise accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards concerns including a telephone reporting line, email, and a Reasonable assurance regarding the prevention or timely web-based reporting facility.
These multilingual communication detection of unauthorised use of the Groups assets.
channels are operated by independent service providers who We also have specific disclosure controls and procedures submit reports to the Speak Up Committee for investigation around the approval of the Groups financial statements.
a year, representatives from the business units certify that they Reports received during the year were kept strictly confidential have complied with the minimum control standards and that and the concerns identified were referred to appropriate their reported information provides a true and fair view of the managers within the Group for resolution.
Where appropriate, state of the financial affairs of their division and its results for action was taken to address the issues raised.
The results of this financial disclosure process are were analysed and monitored to ensure the process continued reported to the Audit Committee.
The Audit and Corporate Responsibility Committees received analysis of all reports submitted via the Speak Up programme during the year.
com 63 Corporate Governance continued Internal control system Body Responsibilities The Board Determines the level of risk that it is prepared to accept in the business risk appetite Agrees the Groups principal risks for disclosure in the Annual Report Oversees the strategies for managing principal risks Audit and Corporate Review aspects of the risk management and internal control systems and report to the Board Responsibility Discuss regular reports from the VP, Group Audit and Assurance internal audit Committees Carry out a formal review of the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems and report to the Board on the output of that review at least once a year Executive Works within the risk appetite and develops the mechanisms and processes to direct the management organisation, through setting the tone and expectations from the top, delegating authority and monitoring compliance Line management Manages risk and ensures that mitigation is operated across the business which is appropriate and in accordance with the accountability framework Has primary responsibility for compliance with Group policies, our Values and legal requirements Within certain functions, notably safety and product quality, separate assurance teams oversee the effective operation of controls Employees Manage risks within their predefined accountabilities Are trained on, for example, safety, cyber security, competition law and anti-bribery and corruption to increase their awareness of risks training may be tailored and or mandatory Group risk manager Works with executive and line management to help identify, measure, mitigate, monitor and report principal risks Risk management Review certain risks and controls and monitor initiatives to strengthen controls committees Comprise senior management and functional specialists Examples include the Cyber Security Steering Committee which considers cyber security risks and the Treasury Risk Committee which focuses on financial risks Global Audit Provides objective assessment of the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Groups internal and Assurance control systems to the Audit and Corporate Responsibility Committees, and to the Board internal audit Has the authority to review any relevant aspect of the business and a duty to report on any material weaknesses Develops and works to a risk-based internal audit plan which is approved by the Audit and Corporate Responsibility Committees and which is regularly updated External specialists Commissioned by the Board from time to time to supplement internal processes as appropriate 64 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Private retail shareholders Engagement with shareholders We encourage private shareholders to provide feedback to the Board via the Company Secretary.
We also include a questions and others card with the AGM documentation sent to shareholders so that those who cannot attend the meeting have the opportunity to We are committed to maintaining an open dialogue with ask questions.
shareholders, debt investors and potential investors and recognise the importance of that relationship in the Annual General Meeting governance process.
The AGM provides all shareholders with the opportunity to We have a focused investor relations programme that aims to question the Board on matters put to the meeting, including help existing and potential investors understand the Group.
Shareholders who attended last years AGM We provide feedback from the investment community to all received a presentation from the Chief Executive on the Groups Directors regularly to ensure they understand the views activities and performance and also had the opportunity to expressed by major investors.
sample some of our ingredients after the meeting.
The 2017 AGM will be held at The QEII Centre in London on Institutional investors Thursday 27 July 2017 at 11.00 am.
Full details are set out in the The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and VP, Investor Notice of AGM.
Resolutions are decided by means of a poll and and Media Relations maintain a regular programme of the votes received in respect of each resolution, together with the meetings with institutional shareholders in the UK, Europe number of abstentions, are announced through a regulatory and North America.
information service and published on the Companys website.
After joining the Board on 1 January 2017, Dr Murphy held Shareholders can choose to receive shareholder documentation, meetings with a number of institutional shareholders.
The including the Annual Report, electronically or in paper format, Chief Financial Officer and VP, Investor and Media Relations and may submit proxy votes and any questions either attended a group meeting arranged by the UK Shareholders electronically or by post.
Anne Minto, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, met with governance Investor calendar representatives of a number of the Companys principal investors and discussed remuneration matters see page 84 for April 2016 May 2016 more information.
All Directors received periodic updates on Trading update issued Full-year results issued investor activity and meetings.
Remuneration Committee Chairman consultation Analysts programme As well as the full-year and half-year results presentations to investors and analysts, we host conference calls after each June 2016 July 2016 trading update.
We publish any presentations, together with the Investor roadshow meetings Trading statement issued in the UK associated announcements, on the Companys website and we Annual General Meeting Annual Report published in London also make any audio recordings available for a short period after each event.
The Chief Financial Officer and VP, Investor Investor group meeting in London and Media Relations also meet regularly with analysts.
Independent feedback on our investor relations September 2016 November 2016 programme Investor meetings in Half-year results issued Switzerland and Ireland Investor roadshow meetings Each year, an external investor relations advisor undertakes a Investor conference in the UK and US comprehensive review of investor perceptions of the Group, in London Investor conferences in management, strategy and communications.
The output from New York and London this review was presented to the Board in November 2016 and actions taken forward by management.
Recommendations December 2016 January 2017 included a re-focusing of the Groups investor targeting Investor meetings in the US UK Shareholders programme in North America, and increasing the time Association arranged group North American investor the Chief Financial Officer spends with analysts.
investor meeting group meeting in London Chairman-designate Other capital providers Investor group meeting meeting with investors in London The Chief Financial Officer and Group Treasurer regularly meet with our committed lending banks and bond holders and February 2017 March 2017 ratings agencies Standard & Poors and Moodys.
Trading statement issued Chairman-designate meeting with investors Investor meetings in London Investor meetings in the US Chairman-designate meeting with investors www.
