Corporate Governance B oard of Directors and Executive Committee Board of Directors Simon Thompson Simon Borrows Julia Wilson Jonathan Asquith Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Deputy Chairman Non-executive Director since Chief Executive since 2012, and Group Finance Director and Deputy Chairman since April 2015 April2015 and appointed Chairman an Executive Director since he member of the Executive and Senior Independent Director witheffect from close of 2015 joined 3i in 2011.
Non-executive director the Group Risk Committee, the ofthe Groups Investment Director since 2011.
Executive Committee and the Committee since 2012.
Joined 3i Citigroup Global Markets Limited Groups Investment Committee.
and a non-executive Director of Previous experience Member of the Supervisory Board Also a non-executive director CiCap Limited, the parent company Until April 2017 Chairman of Tullow of Peer Holding I B. V. the Dutch atLegal & General Group Plc.
Formerly an executive holding company for the Groups director of Anglo American plc Previous experience Previous experience and EFVs investment in Action.
and chairman of the Tarmac Formerly Group Director of Formerly Chairman of AXA Also a non-executive director at Group.
Non-executive director of Corporate Finance at Cable & Investment Managers.
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd, Newmont Wireless plc.
executive director of Ashmore Mining Corporation and Sandvik Previous experience Group plc and Dexion Capital plc.
Senior Independent Director Formerly Chairman of Greenhill & Co Director of Schroders plc from 2002 of Amec Foster Wheeler plc.
International LLP, having previously to 2008, during which time he was Previous career in investment been Co-Chief Executive officer of Chief Financial officer and later banking with N M Rothschild Greenhill & Co, Inc. Before founding ViceChairman.
Previously spent and S. G. Warburg.
the European operations of 18years in investment banking Greenhill & Co in 1998 he was withMorgan Grenfell the Managing Director of Baring andDeutscheBank.
David Hutchison Caroline Banszky Peter Grosch Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director since Non-executive Director since Non-executive Director since 2013.
of SLM Solutions AG as well as Previous experience beingchairman of Euro-Diesel S. A.
Previous experience Formerly the Managing Director a 3i investee company.
Until 2009 Head of UK Investment of the Law Debenture Corporation Banking at Dresdner Kleinwort p. l. c. from 2002 to 2016.
Previous experience Limited and a member of its Global Chief Operating officer of SVB Formerly CEO and President of Banking Operating Committee.
Holdings PLC, now Novae Group Diehl Aerospace and Defence From 2012 to 2017, a non-executive plc, aLloyds listed integrated Systems, Executive Vice President director of the Start-Up vehicle, from 1997 to 2002.
DaimlerChrysler Off-Highway and Loans Company.
Previously, Finance Director of N. M. Managing Director and Board Rothschild & Sons Limited from 1995 Member of MTU Friedrichhafen to 1997, having joined the bank in nowRolls Royce Power Systems.
She originally trained at what is now KPMG.
60 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation Executive Committee Martine Verluyten Menno Antal Kevin Dunn Non-executive Director Managing Partner, General Counsel and PrivateEquity Company Secretary Non-executive Director since 2012.
A non-executive director of Thomas A member of the Executive Responsible for 3is legal, compliance, Cook Group plc, STMicroelectronics Committee and the Groups internal audit, human resources NV and Groupe Bruxelles Lambert.
Investment Committee since 2010. andcompany secretarial functions.
Member of the Supervisory Board Amember of the Executive Will retire from the Board after the of Peer Holding I B. V. the Dutch Committee since joining 3i in 2007.
AGM in June 2017. holding company for the Groups Previous experience Previous experience and EFVs investment in Action.
Prior to joining 3i, was a Senior Formerly Chief Financial officer Previous experience Managing Director, running GEs of Umicore, a Brussels-based Joined 3i in 2000 and Managing European Leveraged Finance listed materials technology group, Director, Benelux, since 2003. business after serving as European from 2006 to December 2011.
Prior to joining 3i, spent 10 years at General Counsel for GE.
Prior to GE, Before joining Umicore was Group Heineken in a range of international was a partner at the law rms Travers Controller and then Chief Financial managerial positions.
Holds an Smith and Latham & Watkins.
engineering degree from Delft University and an MBA from IMD.
Stephen Daintith Phil White Alan Giddins Non-executive Director Managing Partner, Managing Partner, Infrastructure PrivateEquity Non-executive Director since October 2016.
Chief Financial officer and an A member of the Executive A member of the Executive executive director of Rolls-Royce Committee and the Groups Committee and the Groups Holdings plc.
Previous experience Previous experience Previous experience Formerly Finance Director of Daily Joined 3i in 2005.
Prior to joining Joined 3i in 2007.
Prior to joining Mail and General Trust plc DMGT 3i, experience in infrastructure 3i, spent 13 years in investment from January 2011 to April 2017. banking, latterly as a Managing investment, advisory and nancing, Non-executive director at ZPG Plc.
including roles at Macquarie, Director at Socit Gnrale.
Prior to joining DMGT he was Chief Qualied as a chartered accountant WestLB and Barclays.
Holds an MBA Operating officer and Chief Financial from London Business School.
with KPMG and has a degree officer of Dow Jones and prior to in economics.
that Chief Financial officer of News International.
He originally qualied as a Chartered Accountant with PriceWaterhouse now part of PwC.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 61
