RPC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 G O V E R NAN C E NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT I am pleased to present this years report from the Nomination Committee Committee.
Amongst its  2016 17 has seen the Committee actively engaged in the recruitment process for a new non-executive director.
BOARD COMPOSITION COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES The Committee reviews the size, composition JAMIE PIKE and balance of the Board each year and The Committee meets at least twice each Chairman of the recommends any changes for the directors to year and thereafter as circumstances dictate.
Despite its relatively small size, the The number of meetings held during the year and Board comprises directors with a wide range the attendance of members of the Committee of managerial, professional and academic are shown in the table on page 58.
The Chief MEMBERS experience from accounting, finance and Executive and Group Finance Director attend consultancy to manufacturing, engineering, supply meetings by invitation.
3 JAMIE PIKE CHAIRMAN chain, logistics, IT and systems, pharmaceuticals 3 LYNN DRUMMOND The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: and healthcare.
Between them the directors have experience of doing business in the UK, Europe 3 review and make recommendations to the 3 HEIKE VAN fide KERKHOF and in the USA, South America, India and the Far Board on the structure, size and composition of resigned on 24 November 2016 East.
The large number of acquisitions that have the Board: 3 DR ROS RIVAZ been completed and the expansion of the Group appointed 30 March 2017 3 give full consideration to succession planning into new jurisdictions means that it will remain for directors and other senior managers: of primary importance to ensure that the mixture 3 MARTIN TOWERS of skills and experience is as broad as possible in 3 evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and 3 GODWIN WONG the coming year.
Of the directors in office at the experience of the Board: date of this report, one is Dutch and another is 3 prepare a description of the role a Chinese US national and there are both male All members of the Committee, with the and capabilities required for a and female members of the Board.
The Board has exception of Godwin Wong, are considered particular appointment: endorsed a policy on diversity, including gender, to be independent pursuant to the Code.
recommended by the Nomination Committee.
All Members with the exception of Heike van 3 identify and nominate for the approval fide Kerkhof who served until her resignation of the Board, candidates to fill Board and from the Board on 24 November 2016 and senior management vacancies as and when Ros Rivaz from her appointment on 30 March they arise: 2017, served throughout the year.
3 annually review the time required from The Committee reviewed and updated its non-executive directors and evaluate the terms of reference in accordance with best membership and performance of the Board and practice in 2013 and these can be found on its Committees: and the Companys website or are available from 3 recommend the re-appointment of the Company Secretary at the Registered non-executive directors and re-election Office.
The terms of reference will be of directors.
reviewed during the course of 2017 2018.
62 STRATEGIC REPORT 0152 GOVERNANCE 5391 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92139 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 140148 Each year the Committee reviews the Boards During the year, the Committee, led the process structure, size, composition and balance and the to appoint an additional non-executive director to membership of Board Committees.
It also reviews fill a vacancy following the resignation of Heike the performance of the Board, its Committees van fide Kerkhof in November 2016.
The Committee and the individual directors, the independence of recruits using independent external search non-executive directors and the time commitment consultants, on this occasion, Korn Ferry, and required from them and makes recommendations prepares a description of the role and capabilities to the Board.
required for the preferred candidate.
Following the completion of this search process I am delighted The Committee considers plans for the succession to report the appointment of Dr Ros Rivaz to of directors and senior managers including the the Board and its Committees with effect from identification of internal managers who may be 30 March 2017. suitable for more senior positions in due course with the appropriate development of skills Korn Ferry provided no additional services and had and experience.
no other connection with the Company.
The Committee is responsible for recommendations for appointments, JAMIE PIKE reappointment and re-election of directors.
Chairman of the Recommendations for reappointment and Nomination Committee re-election are made following review of the directors performance and consideration of the 7 June 2017 need to progressively refresh the Board.
The Committee, through the Board, has noted the publication and contents of the Report of the Hampton Alexander Review on improving gender balance in FTSE 100 leadership and the Report of the Parker review on the external diversity of Boards.
It will consider these further during the coming year.
The policy currently recommended by the Committee and endorsed by the Board is that the search for Board candidates will continue to be conducted and appointments made on the basis of merit and the most appropriate experience against objective criteria in the best interests of shareholders.
In selecting candidates due regard will be given to the benefits of different nationalities, experience in a variety of business sectors and European and global markets and diversity on the Board including gender.
