24 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Resources and relationships Managing our resources to maximise value in the long-term.
What makes us unique is We recognise that our success depends on the quality of our people ouremphasis on long term and we encourage all of our employees 95.9% relationships to support to reach their full potential.
Staff who of tenants would recommend us wish to undertake relevant training are ourdevelop, invest and supported through study support and manage business model, paid study leave, and we currently have nine members training for professional aiming to create value for qualifications, including accountancy, 95 allstakeholders.
chartered secretarial, chartered shareholder meetings held surveyor and marketing.
We also seek intheyear to promote from within and there have been several internal promotions during the past few years.
Brand We place great value on our reputation We strive to provide a great place to as a long-term partner to our GP work and focus on employee wellbeing, tenants, supporting them through the providing private medical insurance, lifecycle oftheir medical centre.
This acycle to work scheme and other reputation andour excellent relationships incentives to promote a healthy lifestyle.
within theGP community lead to off We understand the value ofgender market acquisition opportunities with diversity and the structure and GPs as ourgreatest source of referrals.
gendermakeup of the Board, senior management team and employee Our established track record in workforce is shown on page 27. providing state of the art primary carepremises helps secure our Our whistleblowing hotline allows staff appointment on developments.
and suppliers to raise any issues of concern in complete confidence.
No People issues have been raised this year.
We have a small but very knowledgeable, skilled and focused All of the above help us to attract, team.
Our internally managed model is engage and develop our people to highly scalable and our development enable the effective delivery of the capability enables us to grow the Groups strategy over the long-term.
business without significant increase inoverheads.
As far as the sale and leaseback process isconcerned, I found that Assura and NHS England have both been very supportive.
As a result, we are now in a good position to recruit an additional doctor to work at the medical centre.
Thank you for your very kind support.
Dr Eddie F Lee Featherstone Family Health Centre Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 25 Capital and funding Customer relationships Over the past few years we have Our dedicated team of asset managers significantly increased our shareholder looks after our tenants property needs base, strengthening our financial through regular communication and soundness.
Shareholder engagement asupportive approach to property isa key priority for the business and 95 management.
investor meetings have been held in the year.
We engage with our shareholders Customer satisfaction is vital for the in an open and transparent way.
business and we monitor this through regular surveys.
In our most recent We have continued to strengthen survey, over 95% of tenants who ourfinancial position through reducing responded said they would recommend our financing costs and improving us as potential landlords toother GPs.
thefinancial structure to make it more appropriate to support our business.
We seek to develop a long-lasting We have diversified our debt funding relationship with GPs, working and obtained unsecured lending tomeettheir current and future through a revolving credit facility premisesaspirations.
Having theseunsecured facilities increases operational flexibility and reduces transaction costs associated with financing properties.
We are grateful toour shareholders and debt providers for their support.
Assura were absolutely fantastic to work with: so straightforward and very good at working with the purchaser to achieve tight timescales.
Kevin Whitfield Wellspring Properties 26 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Resources and relationships continued Supplier partnerships We work closely with our specialist healthcare developer partners, including the leading architectural practice in the sector, West Hart Partnership, to secure development appointments andcreate state of the art healthcarepremises.
We encourage the use of local suppliers to support local economies and our suppliers must confirm adherence to our zero tolerance modern slavery andanti-bribery policies.
We have worked hard with our external lawyers to streamline the acquisition and development process, increase efficiencies and reduce costs.
Environmental impact We are committed to sustainable Jim Hart and Steve West West Hart Partnership development and the creation of bespoke leading edge premises with minimal running costs and a flexible design capable of adapting to I have worked in conjunction with Assura within evolvingneeds.
my role as a Practice Manager for the past We realise that our healthcare premisesare crucial to the local health fouryears.
I have developed a good working economy and aim to enhance the patient experience wherever possible.
relationship withmy portfolio manager Andy ensuring we provide a safe, comfortable, To reduce the environmental impact of new developments, we aim to achieve modern premises for our patients and BREEAM rating of Excellent where possible.
The two new build properties staff.
Assuraare committed to developing completed during the year achieved GPpremises and aim to provide continuous ratings of Very Good, and our first zero carbon and energy neutral building support to practices to accommodate the is currently on site.
The greenhouse gas emissions from operating activities and property Michelle Frankish, Practice Manager occupied by the Group represented Eastfield Medical Centre 91.3 mt CO e 2016: 74.5mt CO e. 2 2 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 27 Employee gender diversity Male Female Board of Directors 4 1 Senior management 4 3 Employees 25 21 Total no.
of employees 46 Including Non-Executive Directors.
As a percentage breakdown Board of Directors 80% 20% Senior management 57% 43% Employees 54% 46% Photovoltaic cells at Ardudwy Health Centre, Harlech Database and technology the infrastructure they need to offer We have created a bespoke database extended appointment hours, digital of GP premises throughout the UK and consultations and more services, tests this assists with targeted marketing and and treatment in the community.
We evaluation of acquisition opportunities have welcomed the Governments focus with regard to their strategic importance on this issue this year, with the ongoing to the local health economy.
Estates and Technology Transformation Fund, the Naylor Review highlighting the Our investment in IT allows staff to important role of private investment for access all relevant information when primary care premises and additional attending clients premises and to capital announced for the most workremotely if necessary.
However, it isclear thatdespite these initiatives, investment The threat of cyber-attack evolves in the primary care estate still is not insophistication and scope and we moving far enough or fast enough to continue to monitor the security of meet the changing needs of GPs and oursystems to mitigate this risk.
tosupport the shift of services out ofhospital and closer to home.
The NHS This is a particularly challenging time for We are investing in specialist, in-house the NHS, as the headlines remind us expertise to help us engage with and every day.
And behind those headlines, inform NHS organisations, national primary care estate sits as a relatively andlocal government, sector bodies, unheard story yet recognised this year patient groups and academics on ways as second only to workforce in the list in which we can help ensure the right of factors that will ensure a sustainable primary care estate is in place today for future for primary care.
We are proud to chair the British Property Federations We believe the primary care estate Healthcare Committee, working with isafundamental part of the NHS our colleagues and partners across conversation: without the right health and social care property to buildings, in the right places for provide data, expert analysis and patients, many GPs simply will not have policysolutions togovernment.
