Directors Report Corporate governance Leadership relevant to the Groups operations are able oversight being retained through regular SSEs Corporate to be identified and receive adequate focus.
reporting, which includes an ongoing Governance Framework dialogue between the Board, the Executive The Board, Executive Committee and their Board role and relationships Committee, their respective sub-Committees respective sub-Committees, together with SSE has a responsibility to meet its objectives and other key individuals within the business.
the relationships between them, make up and operate sustainably for the benefit of SSEs Corporate Governance Framework all of its stakeholders, which includes The individual and collective powers and which is outlined in the diagram below.
The upholding the commitments it has made duties of the Board of Directors in managing Corporate Governance Framework is set by to its shareholders and customers through the Company are ultimately determined the Board and has been carefully designed its financial objective and core purpose.
It is by a combination of legislation and the to ensure that decision-making within SSE is the role of the Board to ensure that these are Companys Articles of Association.
As transparent, well-informed and involves the achieved, and this is supported primarily outlined above, in order to discharge its people with the correct skills and experience.
through setting the Groups longer term duties effectively the Board has the ability Central to this is a close working relationship strategy, and providing the leadership and to delegate this authority further, which may between the Board and the senior support necessary to ensure that it can be include to any of its sub-Committees or the management team, and a mutual respect delivered responsibly within accepted levels Executive Committee.
There are however for the knowledge held at each level.
Implementation and delivery of this limits to this delegation as determined by recognition of the current pace of change strategy is managed through the careful a formal Schedule of Matters Reserved for within the energy sector, the Corporate delegation of authority in line with the theBoard.
Governance Framework is subject to Corporate Governance Framework, with periodic review to ensure that all matters SSEs Corporate Governance Framework Board of Directors Responsible to shareholders for the effective leadership and long-term success of SSE, including its overall strategic direction, values and governance.
Matters reserved exclusively for Board consideration include: Group strategy.
Changes in capital structure of the Group.
Approval of interim and full year financial statements.
Succession planning and people strategy.
Interim dividend payments and recommendation Major acquisitions, mergers, disposals and of final dividend.
Significant changes in accounting policy and practice.
The Groups corporate governance, risk management Significant legal and regulatory matters.
and system of internal control.
Nomination Audit Safety, Health Remuneration Committee Committee and Environment Committee Advisory Committee See pages 67 to 69.
Group Executive Committee Responsible for implementing the strategy, values and governance set by the Board, whilst leading the day to day running and operations of SSE.
Wholesale Networks Retail Enterprise Group Capital Group Large Group Safety, Group Management Management Management Management Allocation Capital Health and Governance Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Projects Environment Culture and Committee Committee Controls Committee 1 The Networks Management Committee has dual reporting lines and also reports into the SSEPD Board, which has oversight of the Networks business.
SSE plc Annual Report 2017 58 Delegation of authority Report back through provision of specific updates and minutes of meetings 1.
These reserved matters generally involve Committee membership is determined by the Managing Director, Corporate Affairs, decisions surrounding the governance, major the Board, on the recommendation of the is invited to attend meetings.
The Executive policies, structure, direction and values of the Nomination Committee and in consultation Committee is collectively responsible for Group.
Both the Schedule of Matters Reserved with the relevant Committee Chairman.
implementing Group strategy through the for the Board and Articles of Association are Prior to a recommendation being made, operational management of each of SSEs available to view on the SSE website.
consideration is given to the role and subject businesses, and meets monthly in line with matter of the Committees work, such that an agreed meeting calendar.
During 2016 17 The four Committees of the Board support membership complements any technical the Executive Committee reviewed and it in its role by providing detailed focus to their expertise required.
At meetings of the Board, refreshed its reporting sub-Committee specific areas.
This support can involve the Committee Chairman is responsible for structure to further support effective and assessing new developments or technical providing an update on key matters requiring efficient decision-making.
matters, and may be followed by a Board consideration.
recommendation to the Board or taking Board composition, individual a decision within the relevant delegated levels The Executive Committee roles and responsibilities of authority.
The remit and authority of each The membership of the Executive Committee The composition of the Board has remained Committee is determined by its terms of comprises: the two Executive Directors: and unchanged during the reporting year and is set reference: these are set by the Board, reviewed the Managing Directors of Wholesale, out in the table on page 55.
Each appointment regularly and available in full on the SSE Networks, and Retail all of whom are to the Board is made on the recommendation website.
Further information on the work of persons discharging managerial of the Nomination Committee, and is the each Committee can be found in the reports responsibilities.
The Company Secretary is result of a combination of comprehensive that follow.
Secretary to the Executive Committee, and succession planning and formal and rigorous Board composition and roles Position Individuals Role and responsibilities 1,2 leadership, operation and governance of the Board: Chairman Richard Gillingwater setting the agenda for Board meetings ensuring that they operate effectively, and provide appropriate opportunity for challenge and debate to support sound decision-making: ensuring constructive relations exist between the Executive and non-Executive Directors: identifying individual Director training needs and overseeing the performance evaluation: meetings with shareholders, analysts and other representatives of institutional investors: and meeting with managers and employees at various locations throughout the Group.
Crawford Gillies providing a sounding board for the Chairman: Senior serving as an intermediary to other Directors when necessary: and Independent being available to shareholders if they have any concerns which are unable to be resolved through 1,3 Director the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director, or if contact through these channels is deemed inappropriate.
scrutinising, measuring and reviewing the performance of management: NonJeremy Beeton constructively challenging and assisting in the development of strategy: Executive Katie Bickerstaffe providing support to the Executive Committee surrounding the implementation of strategy: 1 Directors reviewing Group financial information, ensuring systems of internal control and risk management Sue Bruce are appropriate and effective: Peter Lynas reviewing the succession plans for the Board: and Helen Mahy serving on various Committees of the Board.
Alistair Phillipsdelivering strategy as agreed by the Board: Chief 2 leading the Executive Committee which oversee the operational and financial performance of, Davies Executive and issues facing the Group: leading and supporting each of SSEs businesses and the functions of HR, Strategy and Development and Corporate Affairs: and representing SSE externally to stakeholders, shareholders, customers, suppliers, regulatory and government authorities and the community.
deputising for the Chief Executive: Finance Gregor Alexander leading the finance management teams: Director leading and supporting the functions of: Procurement and Logistics: Risk, Audit and Insurance: Investor Relations and Company Secretarial: Corporate and Business Services: Assurance, Supply and Transformation: and IT: and representing SSE externally to stakeholders, shareholders, customers, suppliers, regulatory and government authorities and the community.
Sally Fairbairn compliance with Board procedures: Company advising and keeping the Board up to date on corporate governance developments: Secretary facilitating the Directors induction programmes and assisting with professional development: considering Board effectiveness in conjunction with the Chairman: and providing advice, services and support to all Directors as and when required.
1 The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and non-Executive Directors are appointed for a fixed term of three years subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
This term can be renewed by mutual agreement and the current letters of appointment are available for inspection on the SSE website.
2 The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and clearly defined.
These are set out in writing and were reviewed during the year with the approval of the Board Charter.
3 The Board appoints one of the non-Executive Directors to be the Senior Independent Director, who in addition to the responsibilities of non-Executive Director has specific roles as outlined above.
59 Secretary Executive Independent Chair Directors Report Corporate governance Leadership continued external searches.
Further information on Board relationships Board meetings and activity the work of the Nomination Committee, The Board as a whole have a collegiate In line with the scheduled meeting calendar, including in relation to succession planning working relationship founded on trust and the Board met seven times in 2016 17 with can be found in its report on pages 67 to 69. a mutual duty to promote the long-term full Director attendance at each meeting as The individual Directors possess a broad success of the Group.
In order to effectively detailed on page 55.
In addition, a Board range of skills and insight having been discharge their roles, the Chairman and Chief update call is held in most alternate months recruited from backgrounds which are Executive maintain a regular dialogue out with to ensure that the Directors remain fully diverse in terms of career and experience.
the Boardroom, which recognises and informed of any business developments and Collectively they provide SSE with leadership respects the division of responsibilities can consider any new issues or opportunities which is balanced, focussed and supports between their positions.
In addition, the as they arise.
Arrangements are also in place the creation of value for the Group.
In non-Executive Directors are provided with should a Board decision be required to be addition to knowledge of business matters, direct channels of communication to any of taken out with the scheduled meetings each Director through their individual the senior management teams across SSE.
experience is able to apply independent This allows them to ask questions, request thought and judgement to decisions information and further their understanding Scheduled meetings of the Board adopt a surrounding SSEs range of operations and of specific areas as required.
By fostering number of signature practices as outlined investments within the energy sector.
strong relationships between the Board and in the timeline below, and begin with the Further information on the background, management, the non-Executive Directors setting of the annual Board Planner prior competencies, current tenure, Committee can respectfully challenge, support and to the reporting year.
The process which membership and other appointments of guide executive decision-making on behalf follows ensures that significant focus is each Director can be found in the individual of the Group.
given to each of the strategic priorities which Biographies on pages 56 and 57. have been agreed when setting the Groups As part of the ongoing process to preserve Strategic Framework.
As outlined on pages 12 To ensure the Board functions effectively the integrity of the Board-level relationships, and 13 of the Strategic Report these are: the and in the best interests of the Group, the the Chairman meets the non-Executive operation of a balanced range of businesses Chairman, Senior Independent Director, Directors individually throughout the year in core markets: a commitment to efficient non-Executive Directors and Executive and also collectively as a group without the operations: and disciplined investment.
A Directors all have individual responsibilities Executive Directors present in 2016 17 two number of matters considered by the Board as determined by their role.
An overview meetings were held.
The purpose of these during 2016 17, including in relation to these of each role and details of the individuals meetings is to provide the opportunity to priorities are set out in the table opposite.
assuming each position in 2016 17 is discuss matters without executive input and provided on page 59. to raise any concerns as required.
Signature practices timeline Start of reporting year Before the meeting Evening before Board meeting Post meeting the meeting Annual Board Agenda Board dinner Standing items Employee engagement Planner The final form agenda is A business dinner at Each Board meeting The Board meet with The Annual Board agreed by the Chairman, which a range of topics opens by reflecting upon individuals within the Planner is set in support Chief Executive and are presented, such safety performance, and business at the respective of SSEs strategic priorities Company Secretary as: financial markets: the Directors provide meeting sites.
and reporting timeline, in alignment with the regulatory matters: and feedback on any site Feedback and ensures that flexibility Groups reporting the political landscape, visits which have been Any comments on is retained.
Amongst timeline and in is held in advance of conducted.
Standing the administrative or other matters, each of consideration of: the each full Board meeting.
updates include reports operational aspects of the Groups business status of ongoing These may be attended from the: Chief Executive: the meeting, and any areas is subject to a projects: new investment by external guests and Finance Director: further information deep dive throughout opportunities: any risks key stakeholders.
Managing Directors requested by the Board the calendar year.
and challenges which Board Committees of each business and are provided as Meeting locations have been identified: One or more of the key support functions.
The SSE site at which external developments Board Committees may Business attendees Minutes and actions each Board meeting is relevant to the Group: arrange to meet in the One member of the Minutes and matters to take place is agreed and stakeholder day or evening before Executive Committee arising from the meeting and colleague considerations.
is invited to attend each are produced and engagement at both Meeting pack Any matters requiring meeting of the Board circulated to the senior management The meeting pack is Board consideration are in full.
In addition, during Directors for review and operational level issued to all Directors then raised during the 2016 17, 42 individuals and feedback.
and uploaded onto an report back from the from within the business electronic Board portal Committee Chair the presented to the Board.
in advance to allow following day.
sufficient time to review the matters which are to be discussed.
Board activity Business areas Group Compliance and Aspects of compliance were considered in relation Board agenda items in the year included: Governance to all business areas.
For example: a review of Committee membership: the results of internal compliance audits: the review and approval of the Board Charter: various network regulation and compliance an update on the governments Governance matters including price control reporting, and Green Paper: the commitments made following Ofgems approval of SSEs Group Policies: investigation into SSEs Connections business: and a review of internal control and risk management: and compliance with the CMAs final recommendations updates on the development of a new Group-wide following their competition enquiry into GB database documenting relevant legislative energy markets.
Safety, Health As noted in the signature practices above, SHE performance is a standing item at the start of each Board meeting, and Environment and feedback from the Safety, Health, and Environment Advisory Committee is also routinely provided.
In addition, SHE specific updates were considered by the Board during the year surrounding: case details of the more serious safety incidents which had been reported which included one contractor fatality in 2016 17: SSE initiatives to improve SHE performance including internal SHE communications: and ongoing SHE enforcement actions.
Technology A number of business specific technology developments The Board received general updates on: were considered by the Board during the year.
the SSE IT security programme: and For Wholesale, these focussed on technology investment in technology to enable advances impacting new generation opportunities.
For Networks, updates were provided on how the business aims to use technology to improve compliance, efficiency and accuracy of data.
For Retail, these included: decisions on system development: connected homes: and investments in digital, as well as updates on the smart meter roll out.
Stakeholders The Board considered the range of stakeholders relevant At a Group level, the Board routinely received to each business when taking a number of key decisions.
shareholder feedback and considered all stakeholders In Wholesale, investment decisions in new projects when approving key external reports and statements, such as the Beatrice offshore wind farm, considered including the Annual Report.
the impact on employees, the environment and the wider supply chain.
The Board was also updated on SSEs engagement with In Networks, the best interests of customers and other stakeholders for example: the Rating Agencies: Ofgems principles and objectives were considered Ofgem: and political representatives.
In Retail, customers were the focus when considering: the domestic electricity tariff change: reviewing performance against SSEs treating customers fairly objectives: and reviewing sales-related standards and practices.
Culture As noted on page 62 this was considered explicitly by the Board during the year.
However, implicitly, culture is also a key element within other areas of Board work, which over the period has included: changes in senior management: feedback from the Nomination Committee on inclusion and diversity, and leadership, development and succession: the SSE Group Policy environment: SSEs guide to ethical business conduct: and the focus on efficiency and effectiveness through improved organisation design and governance.
Commercial Commercial opportunities, decisions and developments At a Group level, Board activity included: in each business were considered by the Board during the year.
the decision to sell part of SSEs equity stake in SGN These included investment decisions on: including the proposal to return 500m in proceeds Beatrice offshore windfarm: to shareholders by way of a share buyback: and Ferrybridge Multifuel 2: a review of efficiency and effectiveness of SSEs Stronelairg onshore windfarm: business operations.
SSEs bids into the GB Capacity auctions: and ceasing development of a replacement customer service system.
Finance Financial performance is a standing item on the Board agenda throughout the year.
In addition, the following items were considered in the period: approval of the interim and full year financial statements and the Annual Report: approval of the distributable reserves in respect of the interim dividend: approval of the 2017 18 budget: an update on SSEs pension position: SSEs funding position and approval of the issuance in March 2017, of new hybrid securities.
61 Directors Report Corporate governance Leadership continued In support of the iterative strategy to remain an appropriate driver and Strategy session development process, areas for further Board commitment to doing the right thing.
In June 2016 the Director of Strategy consideration throughout the year were The SSE SET of values binds attitudes and Development and Head of Strategic Projects identified and an annual strategy session for behaviours and underpins the Employee facilitated a comprehensive strategy session 2017 was again agreed to assess progress.
Rules and the guide to ethical business spanning two days, which was attended by conduct for SSE employees which must be the Board and all members of the Executive Culture adhered to.
As a platform for ongoing work Committee.
The purpose of the session was Following the release of the FRCs report in this area, the Board endorsed the below to enable the Board to refine the focus of Corporate Culture and the Role of Boards, depiction of culture recognising that in the Groups ongoing strategic development, the Board took the opportunity during the addition to documented practice, culture by using the conclusions which had been reporting year to specifically consider the is embedded in, and is central to, every aspect drawn from the 2015 strategy session existing culture within SSE and identify the of operational performance and decision as a platform for review.
In conducting different culture related activities which help making within the Group.
The Board agreed its assessment the Board considered: the to define it.
The Board believes that a healthy that whilst many of the existing key Executive Committees view of the Groups business culture is one which is inclusive and performance indicators provide insight in strategic position: the planned focus of diverse and which encourages employees to respect of existing values, attitudes and any growth in the year ahead: and the make a positive difference for customers and behaviours, future work and assessments continued validity of any underlying strategic SSEs other stakeholders.
The Board based on objective evidence should be assumptions.
Following an in depth debate recognise their responsibility to lead by carried out with structured and targeted and discussion of each of these areas, the example and also ensure that there is an plans to address any shortcomings.
A number Board agreed any changes and actions that appropriate framework of control for of actions which centre on reinforcing and were required in relation to the Groups culture-related issues.
One of the foundations reviewing existing culture related activities existing strategic priorities, to ensure that the for this is the SSE SET of values, which was and initiatives were agreed by the Board, overall Group and business level strategies adopted by the Board more than 10 years ago and will be monitored throughout the would continue to support the delivery of and following periodic review, is considered course of 2017 18.
SSEs core purpose and financial objective.
Corporate culture in SSE Giving shareholders a return on their investment through paying dividends Meeting the current and future Promoting success of the company Earning returns greater needs of customers in line with Section 172 of the than the cost of capital Companies Act 2006 A combination of values, attitudes and behaviours Safety, Service, Ecienc y, Doing the right thing A guide Proper and professional Sustainability, Excellence, Teamwork to ethical business conduct performance of duties Lead by example and take a responsible approach SSE plc Annual Report 2017 62 1.
Governance case study Decision to sell a 16.7% equity stake in Scotia Gas Networks Limited SGN SSEs acquisition of a 50% share in SGN in 2005 took the total net Regulated Asset Value RAV of its  businesses to just over 4bn.
By 2015, that had increased to almost 7.5bn, with much of that increase attributable to Electricity Transmission, in which a major and continuing programme of investment started in 2009, transforming its scale and scope.
Against this background of a transformed portfolio of  networks businesses, in May 2016, SSE announced its intention to consider options to crystallise some value for shareholders from its long term investment in SGN.
This case study sets out the related governance and process.
The Board supported the potential sale of a stake in SGN and authorised initial discussions with SSEs September 2015 Joint Venture partners.
It was acknowledged that while Networks remain core to SSEs strategy of maintaining a balanced range of businesses, disposal of a stake would potentially provide an opportunity to demonstrate value creation and refresh and re-balance SGNs ownership facilitating more development opportunities.
Consideration was also given to: the possible uses of proceeds, including the potential for a share buy back programme and for investment in value creating projects: and the potentially positive impact of such a sale on SGNs strategic opportunities.
The Board delegated authority to the Executive team to progress options to sell a stake in SGN at or above February 2016 an agreed premium to RAV.
The sales process, was outlined to and agreed by the Board.
The following narrative was included in the May 2016 2015 16 Preliminary Results Statement.
SSE considers disposal of up to one third of its 50% equity stake in Scotia Gas Networks Limited, with any proceeds being used to return or create value for shareholders.
Should a sale be completed, SSE would expect to use the proceeds to return value to its shareholders or to invest to create value for shareholders should there be the right opportunity, in a way that would be determined at the time.
Shareholder feedback, post results, was presented to the Board confirming that, SSE considering to sell June 2016 a stake in SGN was generally well received, as was the intention to return value to shareholders.
The 2016 AGM Notice of Meeting included the following wording within the explanatory notes for July 2016 proposed Resolution 18, Authority to purchase own shares: This resolution renews the authority that was given at last years AGM, authorising the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares in the market.
In its preliminary financial results statement published on 18 May 2016 SSE stated it has decided to consider the disposal of up to one third of its 50% equity stake in SGN Limited, with any proceeds being used to return capital to, or create value for, shareholders.
Should such a disposal take place in the year ended 31 March 2017 one option to return capital to shareholders would be to use this authority, if approved, to purchase SSEs own shares.
Such purchases will only be made if the Directors believe that to do so would result in an increase in the Groups earnings per share and would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
In this particular instance this method of returning capital to shareholders could have the advantage of offsetting the EPS reduction resulting from the potential disposal and reducing the total dividend outflow in future years.
This Resolution was approved by shareholders at the AGM with 99.04% of votes cast in favour.
The Board were provided with an update on the SGN sale process and confirmed delegated authorities September 2016 for the potential transaction.
The agreement to dispose of a 16.7% stake in SGN to wholly owned subsidiaries of the Abu Dhabi October 2016 Investment Authority ADIA was announced on 17 October 2016, with a headline consideration of 621m.
The sale was completed on 26 October 2016.
The Board approved delegated authority to the Finance Director to return around 500m of the proceeds November 2016 to shareholders by way of an on-market share buy-back, expected to complete by December 2017.
The Board approved that the remaining 100m be directed to support the investment in the Stronelairg onshore windfarm development.
The Board noted that both uses of proceeds would mitigate the impact of the sale on SSEs Earnings per Share.
The Board approved the announcement of the intended use of proceeds in the Interim Results Statement.
