Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation Audit and Compliance Committee report The Audit and Compliance Committees priorities in FY2017 were to maintain thestrength of 3is internal control environment as well as the integrity ofitsnancial reporting.
Membership during the year Invitations to attend the meetings are regularly extended to the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Name Membership status General Counsel, Group Financial Controller, the Head of Internal Member since July 2014 Caroline Banszky Audit, the Head of Compliance and the external Auditor, Ernst Chairman since January 2015 Chairman & Young LLP.
Invitations are given to other members of senior Member since March 2011 Jonathan Asquith management including the Head of Tax and Head of IT as Member since October 2016 Stephen Daintith appropriate.
The Chairman of the Committee meets the majority Martine Verluyten Member since November 2015 of these individuals separately during the course of the year.
During the year, the Committee held private discussions with The Committee is composed of independent non-executive each of the Group Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit, Directors, with recent and relevant financial experience.
the Head of Compliance, and the external Auditor in the absence In particular, the Board is satisfied that the Chairman has the of management.
recent and relevant financial experience as outlined in the Financial Reporting Councils Corporate Governance Code.
Caroline Banszky Further detail on each non-executive Directors experience Chairman, Audit and Compliance Committee canbe found in the Directors biographies on pages 60 and 61.
17 May 2017 The Committee schedules six meetings per annum and four of the meetings are coordinated with 3is external reporting timetable.
The attendance of members at meetings is shown inthe table on page 63.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 69 Corporate Governance Audit and Compliance Committee report continued What the Committee reviewed in FY2017 During the year the Committees activities included the following: Financial reporting Internal control and External audit Risk reviews risk management Annual and half-year reports Review of 3is system Conrmation of the external Valuation reports and of control and risk Auditors independence recommending the Quarterly performance management investment portfolio updates Policy and approval for valuation to the Board External and internal audit non-audit fees Key accounting judgements reports Regular reviews of and estimates The FY2017 Audit plan, compliance with regulatory Review of the viability including significant audit Update on Alternative rules statement risks being the valuation of Performance Measures the unquoted investment Annual report on taxation External quality assessment Developments in financial portfolio and the calculation ofInternal Audit Litigation reporting of carried interest as well Update on cyber security Liquidity and going concern Reviewing the Annual as the area of audit focus report to ensure that Update on SAO regime Update on BEPS and revenue recognition it is fair, balanced and Country by Country Audit results report understandable reporting Auditor performance and effectiveness In addition to the areas of significant accounting judgement Taxation and monitoring the effectiveness of 3is risk management, The Committee receives an annual update on the Groups the Committee particularly focused on a number of topics: taxation status as well as a more general update from the Head of Tax on the status of current and upcoming legislative and Alternative Performance Measures APMs regulatory changes.
This years report covered the potential Since the implementation of IFRS 10 in FY2014, 3i has presented impact of a number of tax transparency initiatives that have come its results under its non-GAAP Investment basis as well as into force, the current disclosure provided on the Groups website preparing IFRS financial statements.
However, the Investment as well as the FRCs thematic review on tax disclosures.
basis contains APMs and is itself an APM.
Management prepared a report for the Committee which reviewed the rationale and Disposal of the Debt Management business presentation of the Groups APMs.
This review considered The Committee reviewed management papers on the the guidelines issued by the European Securities and Markets discontinued operations disclosure and the profit on disposal.
Authority ESMA in the year and the Groups compliance with them.
In addition, the Committee also reviewed the rationale Going concern and viability for the changes in the calculation of operating cash profit and The Directors are required to make a statement in the Annual Assets under Management AUM.
report as to 3is long-term viability.
The Committee provides advice to the Board on the form and content of the statement, Upcoming changes in IFRS including the underlying assumptions.
At year end, the The Committee considered future changes to accounting Committee evaluated a report from management setting out standards in particular, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with its view of 3is long-term viability and content of the proposed Customers, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and IFRS 16 Leases.
This report was based on the Groups five-year strategic plan and covered forecasts for investments and realisations, liquidity and leverage, including forecast outcomes of the stress test of the plan and forecast capital and liquidity performance against an assessment of the Groups risk prole.
The three year period was chosen as it provided more certainty on the Groups performance.
Taking into account the assessment of the Groups stress testing results and its risk appetite statement as disclosed on page 44, the Committee agreed to recommend the viability statement and three-year viability period to the Board for approval.
70 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation significant areas of accounting and control focus considered Areas of accounting judgement and control focus by the Committee are detailed in the table below, alongside The Committee pays particular attention to matters it considers the actions taken by the Committee with appropriate input, to be important by virtue of their size, complexity, level of guidance and challenge from the external Auditor to address judgement and potential impact on the financial statements these issues judgements.
Area of significant attention What the Committee reviewed and concluded Valuation of the Proprietary Capital investment portfolio The most material area of judgement in the financial statements, and On behalf of the Board, the Committee examined quarterly reports noted as a significant risk by the external Auditor, relates to the from the Chairman of the Valuations Committee and the Group Finance valuation of theunquoted Proprietary Capital investment portfolio, Director, with particular focus on the assumptions supporting the which at 31 March 2017 was4,782 million, or 82% of net assets, under unquoted asset investments, any valuation uncertainties and the the Investment basis.
proposed disclosure in the financial statements.
In recognition of the importance of this area the Board has a separate The 2017 Annual Report includes a separate report from the Valuations Valuations Committee to review the valuations policy, process and Committee.
The detail on the key valuation considerations and the application to individual investments.
This Committee provides review and challenge undertaken in the year is included in the quarterly reports to the Committee and the Board.
Valuations Committee Report on page 74 to 76.
Carried interest payable and receivable The valuation of the Proprietary Capital portfolio is a primary input Internal Audit reviews carry plan distributions made to plan participants intothe carried interest payable and receivable balances, which are before the payments are made and summaries of the work done are determined by reference to the valuation at 31 March 2017. included in updates to the Committee.
During the year, we went through the hurdle to recognise carried The Committee reviewed the carried interest payable and receivable interest receivable from EFV on an accounting basis.
We are also aspart of the overall summary prepared by management to support through the hurdle to pay carried interest payable to investment teams the2017 Annual report and accounts.
Fair, balanced and understandable and the presentation of 3is results Under the UK Corporate Governance Code the Board should establish The Committee reviewed the Half-yearly and full year financial arrangements to ensure the Annual report presents a fair, balanced and statements as well as the Quarterly Performance Updates with understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
management, focusing on the integrity and clarity of disclosure andtoultimately enable the Board to provide the fair, balanced and The Group prepares the non-GAAP Investment basis financial understandable conrmation to shareholders in the 2017 Annual report.
statements to ensure that its results remained understandable.
A report summarising the considerations for the 2017 Annual report was reviewed by the Committee in advance of the year end and a summary of the detailed procedures undertaken was prepared alongside the 2017 Annual report.
Cognisant of the ESMA guidelines on APMs as well as the FRCs thematic review, the Committee reviewed a detailed paper from management on the Groups APMs which include the Investment basis.
The external Auditor also confirmed that the inclusion of the Investment basis remained consistent with the prior year.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 71 Corporate Governance Audit and Compliance Committee report continued Risk and internal control reviews Internal audit The Committee is responsible on behalf of the Board for The Committee continued to monitor the scope, activity, and overseeing the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and resources of the Groups internal audit function including whether internal control systems.
It monitors the activities of the Group the current operating model remained effective and concluded Risk Committee GRC, the risk management processes in that it remained appropriate.
place and the activities of the Internal Audit function, including its During the year the Committee approved the annual internal reporting on the effectiveness of controls, the use of the Groups audit plan.
It also received a report from the Director, Internal whistleblowing facility and compliance with the UK Bribery Act.
Audit at each meeting summarising the audits concluded in the A report summarising each quarterly GRC meeting, along with period and updates on outstanding agreed actions from previous the risk report considered, is provided to the Committee for reports.
The Director, Internal Audit meets the Committee review and discussion.
The risk report details the principal risks, privately as well as meeting regularly with the Audit Committee which are derived from the Group Risk process, along with Chairman throughout the year.
commentary on how the exposure to these risks has moved in The Committee Chairman engaged an external provider in the quarter.
The Committee also monitors Internal Audit activity FY2017 to carry out an external quality assessment review of 3is quarterly, covering change management and other areas of internal audit function.
They noted that 3i generally conforms to identied higher risk.
The Institute of Internal Auditors Standards: the highest rating The Director, Internal Audit prepares a report on the internal available for an internal audit activity.
controls for presentation to the Committee.
The review documents the components of the internal control framework External audit and highlights the key developments in the year.
A commentary Ernst & Young LLP has been the Groups statutory external on the operation of the internal control framework over the year is Auditor since before the Group was listed on the London Stock also independently prepared by Internal Audit.
The Committee assesses the independence of such controls is reviewed by Internal Audit annually, either and objectivity, qualications and effectiveness of Ernst & Young through dedicated procedures or in the course of other Internal LLP on an annual basis.
The Committee also concludes on Audit reviews over the course of the year.
Group Compliance whether to recommend the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP carries out desk-based monitoring, business unit and as Auditor to the Board.
thematic reviews in relation to compliance policies and other regulatory matters.
The total audit fee for the year was 1.9 million 2016: 2.0 million.
The Committee is satisfied that this fee is appropriate.
The Group maintains a framework of controls related to key The Committee oversees the Groups policy on the provision financial processes, including the preparation of consolidated ofnon-audit services by theexternal Auditor.
financial statements, and management of the associated risks.
The Groups control policies and procedures, which are in accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on risk management, internal control and related financial and business reporting has been in place throughout the financial year and up to the date on which this report was approved.
72 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation Auditor independence Assessing external audit effectiveness The Group has a policy for setting out what non-audit services The Committee reviews the effectiveness of Ernst & Young LLP can be purchased from the rm appointed as external through the use of questionnaires completed by management, Auditor.
The aim of the policy is to support and safeguard by considering the extent of their contribution at its meetings the objectivity and independence of the external Auditor throughout the course of the year, and in one-to-one meetings.
and to comply with the FRCs Ethical Standards for auditors The Committee Chairman met Ernst & Young LLPs Head of Audit EthicalStandards as updated in June 2016.
It also ensures Quality for UK Financial services and their Head of Assurance for that where fees for approved non-audit services are greater UK Financial services to discuss their approach to audit quality than a pre-determined limit, they are subject to the Committee and what assurance had been taken in connection with their Chairmansprior approval.
The Policy permits certain non-audit services to be purchased, The FY2017 evaluation also reviewed the quality of the audit following approval, when the Committee continues to see process, the use of Ernst & Young LLPs valuation practice benets for the Group in engaging Ernst & Young LLP.
tosupport the audit of the portfolio valuations, the technical Examples of this include: knowledge of the team and the staff turnover within the Ernst & Young LLP audit team and the Committee concluded Work that is closely related to the external audit: that the audit was effective.
A detailed understanding of the Group is required: Audit tender Ernst & Young LLP is able to provide a higher quality and or better value service than other potential providers.
As noted in the FY2016 report, the Committee reviewed its audit tender timetable and delayed the tender until no later than 2020.
The key principle of our policy is that permission to engage The scale of the current engagements across the Group and its the external Auditor will always be refused when a threat to portfolio companies with the rms that may participate in any independence and or objectivity is perceived.
The Committee tender, as well as the complexities around how the rules would Chairman is asked to approve all assignments to be allocated to apply to private equity investment, meant that the Committee Ernst & Young LLP over the dened limit, other than those related concluded that it would be appropriate to use the full transitional to due diligence undertaken as part of the Groups investment arrangements in relation to auditor rotation, as outlined by the process.
Appointments in relation to the investment process Financial Reporting Council.
The Committee currently expects are independent of the audit team and are reviewed separately that Ernst & Young LLP will be retained until 2020.
The lead audit bythe Investment Committee.
Ernst & Young LLP inform the partner was replaced in 2016 to provide continuity until 2020, Group of all due diligence engagements before they accept when mandatory rotation will be required.
3i is in compliance themand all material due diligence commitments are reported with the requirements of The Statutory Audit Services for Large tothe Committee Chairman.
Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Ernst & Young LLP has reviewed its own independence in line Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order with these criteria and its own ethical guideline standards.
This includes due diligence processes undertaken within the By order of the Board Groups investment activities.
Ernst & Young LLP has confirmed to the Committee that following its review it is satisfied C J Banszky that it has acted in accordance with relevant regulatory and Chairman, Audit and Compliance Committee professional requirements.
17 May 2017 Details of the non-audit fees paid to the Auditor are disclosed in Further information on the Audit and Compliance Committees Note 6 to the financial statements.
The Committee concluded terms of reference can be found on our website www.
com that all of these fees fell within its criteria for engaging Ernst & Young LLP and does not believe they pose a threat to the Auditors independence or objectivity.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 73
