Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation Relations with shareholders Annual and half-yearly results presentations Approach to Investor Relations The Executive Directors present the annual and half-yearly The Board recognises the importance of maintaining a results to institutional investors and analysts.
These presentations purposeful relationship with shareholders.
The Group has a are webcast live on 3is website, and the on-demand webcast comprehensive Investor Relations programme to help existing remains available on the website for a period of 12 months.
and potential investors to understand its activities, strategy and financial performance.
The Chief Executive and the Group Capital markets day Finance Director meet with the Companys principal shareholders to discuss relevant issues as they arise.
The Chairman is The 2016 capital markets day, held in June, consisted of a available to maintain a dialogue with shareholders on strategy, presentation to significant shareholders and analysts by senior corporate governance and Directors remuneration as required.
3i executives and the management team of Action, the largest Non-executive Directors are invited to attend the Companys investment by value in our Private Equity portfolio.
This event presentations to analysts and are offered the opportunity to was held in London.
The presentation was focused on the Action meet shareholders.
business model and strategy and on Actions recent financial performance.
The presentation materials used on the day were made available on 3is website to enable those investors and Board oversight analysts that could not attend to access the information provided The Executive Directors brief the Board on a regular basis on at the meeting.
the implementation of the Investor Relations programme and onfeedback received from analysts and investors.
Any significant Industry conferences concern raised by shareholders in relation to the Group is also Throughout the year, the Executive Directors also participated in communicated to the Board.
In addition, research reports a number of industry conferences organised by investment banks published by investment banks on 3i are circulated to the Board for their institutional investor base.
These included conferences on a regular basis.
organised by Morgan Stanley, Socit Gnrale, KBW, Bank of The Board also receives periodic feedback from existing America Merrill Lynch, JPMorgan Cazenove and Citi.
shareholders and potential investors through 3is corporate brokers, Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Barclays.
Individual investors Individual investors are encouraged to engage with the Group Investor Relations programme and provide feedback through the Investor Relations team and the Company Secretary, whose contact details are available on Meetings with principal shareholders the website.
The Executive Directors meet with the Groups principal shareholders on a twice yearly basis, following the publication Website of annual and half-yearly results and as required during the year.
3is website provides a brief description of 3is history, current The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are also available operations and strategy, as well as an archive of over 10 years of to meet with shareholders as required.
The Investor Relations news and historical financial information on the Group and details team also manages a programme of engagement with smaller of forthcoming events for shareholders and analysts.
Annual and shareholders, implemented through regular presentations half-yearly results presentations are also webcast live and and meetings.
Meetings with potential investors Annual General Meeting During the year, the Executive Directors and the InvestorRelations The Company also uses its AGM as an opportunity to team held regular meetings with potential investors internationally communicate with its shareholders.
At the Meeting, business to communicate the strategy and performance of 3i.
presentations are generally made by the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairmen of the Remuneration, Audit and Compliance, and Nominations Committees are generally available to answer shareholders questions.
Business to be discussed at the meeting is notied to shareholders in advance through the Notice of Meeting and covers matters such as the annual election of Directors, the appointment of the Auditor and the dividend declaration.
During the meeting, shareholders are also asked to approve the financial statements and reports of the Directors and the Auditor.
In addition, shareholders are asked to approve the Directors remuneration report.
The 2016 Notice of AGM was dispatched to shareholders not less than 20 working days before the Meeting.
At that Meeting, voting on each resolution was taken on a poll and the poll results were made available on the Companys website.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 67
