42 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Leadership Role of the Board Feedback from these meetings is July 2016 AGM The Company has an effective Board regularly relayed to the Board in order keyhighlights which is collectively responsible for the toensure that all Board members, and long-term success of the Company by Non-Executive Directors in particular, All resolutions passed.
directing and supervising its activities.
develop an understanding of the views Full Director attendance.
This process 1,249 to 1,332 million votes The Board has approved a schedule augments the regular dissemination of cast for each resolution.
ofmatters reserved for decision by annual reports and other market updates.
All Directors retired and were theBoard.
This includes all corporate Copies of these announcements and any re-elected to the Board.
acquisitions or corporate disposals, accompanying presentational materials debt raising above 50 million, the are available on the Companys website Remuneration Policy, the annual at www.
budgetapproval and amendments todelegated authorities.
The Board responds to ad hoc requests for information from shareholders and The Board meets at least six times per all shareholders have access to the year for scheduled meetings.
It also Board, with an opportunity to raise meets as required to consider any questions at the AGM and other important or urgent business.
The relevant Board committees are The Board, together with its shown below.
professionaladvisors, actively analysesthe shareholder register.
Relations with shareholders The Board welcomes open Accountability communication with its shareholders The Board understands its andworks with its stockbrokers Liberum responsibilityto present a fair, balanced Capital and Stifel to ensure that an and understandable assessment of appropriate level of communication theGroups position and prospects, ismaintained.
The dialogue with toassess the principal risks facing the shareholders is facilitated by a series of Group, to ensure that there are effective investor relations mechanisms, including systems of risk management and internal regular meetings between the Executive control and to provide a statement as Directors, institutional investors, sales tothe Groups long-term viability.
The teams and industry sector analysts.
steps it has taken to comply with these requirements are set out in this section of the Annual Report.
Governance framework BOARD Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Nomco Remco Executive Board Risk Committee Investment Committee IT Committee Exbo Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 43 Division of responsibilities Role Responsibilities Chairman The effective running of the Board Ensuring the Directors receive accurate and timely information Promoting high standards of Corporate Governance Ensuring Board agendas take full account of relevant issues and Board members concerns As Chair of the Nominations Committee, ensuring effective Board succession plans are in place CEO Running the Companys business Implementing the business strategy and culture Regularly updating the Board on progress against approved plans Providing effective leadership of the Executive Board to achieve agreed strategies and objectives Non-Executive Directors Constructively challenging and helping to develop proposals on strategy Satisfying themselves as to the integrity of the financial information and that there are effective systems of risk management and financial control Serving on relevant Committees Senior Independent Director Acting as Chair of the Board if the Chairman is conflicted If necessary, acting as a conduit to the Board for communicating shareholder concerns Ensuring the Chairman is provided with effective feedback on performance Serving as an intermediary for other Directors when necessary Company Secretary Ensuring good information flow within the Board and Committees Facilitating induction and training of Board members Advising the Board on all governance matters Board and Committee meeting attendance Nominations Remuneration Director Board Committee Committee Audit Committee Simon Laffin 7 7 6 6 7 8 4 4 Jonathan Murphy 1 1 1 1 7 7 On appointment as CEO On appointment as CEO 4 4 David Richardson 7 7 6 6 8 8 4 4 Jenefer Greenwood 7 7 6 6 8 8 4 4 Andrew Darke 7 7 n a n a 4 4 Board and Committee meeting timeline Board Board Audit Remco 27 September Nomco Remco 24 January 8 August Board Nomco 30 September Board Remco Remco 25 February 6 June 23 August Board Audit Nomco written resolutions 17 November MAY 16 JUN 16 JUL 16 AUG 16 SEP 16 OCT 16 NOV 16 DEC 16 JAN 17 FEB 17 MAR 17 Board Board Remco Remco Audit 5 July Nomco Nomco Remco 20 September 20 February 13 May Board Audit Remco Nomco 23 March
