Corporate Governance Nominations Com mittee report The Nominations Committee has a vital role to play in ensuring the Board has theright balance ofskills and experience to lead the Company.
Membership during the year During the year, the Committee considered a number of candidates for appointment as non-executive Director and Name Membership status recommended to the Board the appointment of Stephen Simon Thompson Member since April 2015 and Daintith, who was subsequently appointed as a Director on Chairman since June 2015 1 October 2016.
Jonathan Asquith Member since March 2011 Further to the publication of the Davies Report on Women on Caroline Banszky Member since July 2014 Boards, and Code Provision B.
2.4, the Board strongly supports Stephen Daintith Member since October 2016 the principle of boardroom diversity, of which gender is one Peter Grosch Member since November 2015 important aspect.
The Boards aim is to have a diverse Board in terms of gender, industry experience, skills and educational David Hutchison Member since November 2013 background, and nationality.
The Board makes appointments Martine Verluyten Member since January 2012 on merit and against objective criteria.
External search consultancies engaged by the Company are instructed to put During the year, the Nominations Committee held three forward for all Board positions a diversity of candidates including meetings.
Attendance of members at those meetings is shown female candidates.
External search consultants engaged by inthe table on page 63. the Committee during the year were The Zygos Partnership.
The principal role of the Committee is to ensure that the Board The Zygos Partnership had no other connections with the has the requisite skills and experience to enable the Group to Company during the year.
deliver its current and future strategic objectives.
To this end, By order of the Board the Committee regularly reviews the balance and composition of the Board, and develops appropriate succession plans, Simon Thompson including contingency plans.
Chairman, Nominations Committee The Company has a formal, rigorous and transparent process for 17 May 2017 the appointment of Directors, with the objective of identifying the skills and experience required of new Directors, and identifying and appraising suitable candidates.
In the case of non-executive Directors, the appraisal includes an assessment of whether potential candidates have sufficient time available to full their roles.
Specialist recruitment consultants assist the Committee with this process.
The Committees recommendations for appointment are put to the full Board for approval.
68 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017
