Corporate Governance continued Committee governance Audit Committee Report Responsibilities The Committee assists the Board by overseeing financial reporting, internal controls, the risk management process, the internal audit function Group Audit and Assurance and our relationship with the external auditors.
Further details of its responsibilities are in the Committees terms of reference, on the Companys website, www.
Composition During the year, the Committee comprised five independent Directors.
All members have extensive management experience in large international organisations and bring a wide range of financial and commercial experience from various industries.
The Code stipulates that at least one Committee member should have recent and relevant financial experience.
Two members met this requirement: Douglas Hurt Douglas Hurt, Chairman of the Audit Committee was Finance Director at IMI plc and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, and Liz Airey was an investment banker and former finance director of This year, we continued our practice Monument Oil and Gas plc.
The Company Secretary is the secretary to the Committee.
of looking in depth at certain Meetings during the year aspects of the control environment.
Meetings are generally scheduled in line with key times in the Groups financial reporting calendar.
The Committee held five Dear shareholder scheduled meetings during the year.
Attendance during the This report aims to provide an insight into the work of the year was as follows: Audit Committee and how we fulfilled our responsibilities Number during the year.
Number of In addition to our usual matters, including the financial results of meetings for the full year and half year, applicable accounting policies Directors as at Date of appointment meetings eligible to 31 March 2017 to the Committee attended attend and going concern assumptions, we continued with our practice of looking in depth at certain aspects of the control Douglas Hurt environment.
These included commodities risk management, Chr 9 March 2010 5 5 an impact assessment of new accounting standards, in Liz Airey 1 January 2007 5 5 particular IFRSs 15 and 9, and a review of our Global Shared Paul Forman 1 January 2015 5 5 Services Centre in dz, Poland.
Finance and operational Anne Minto 1 December 2012 5 5 leaders attended the meeting for these detailed reviews.
Sybella Stanley 1 April 2016 5 5 As disclosed previously, we aim to appoint new external auditors for the financial year ending 31 March 2019, to The Committee has also met once since the end of the coincide with the rotation of the incumbent audit engagement financial year and prior to the signing of this Annual Report.
We have started the tender process and I will report The Chief Financial Officer: VP, Group Audit and Assurance: the outcome to you when we have completed it.
Group VP, Finance and Control: Executive VP, General Counsel: During the year, I held separate one-to-one meetings with the and representatives of the external auditors are normally Chief Financial Officer, the VP, Group Audit and Assurance and invited to and attend each meeting.
The Chairman of the Board PwC, our external auditors.
These meetings enabled me to and Chief Executive are also invited to and attend Committee probe any issues and areas of concern, to ensure that my meetings.
In addition, senior finance and operational leaders fellow Committee members had an appropriate level of attend and present to the Committee on an ad hoc basis, information, and that we had enough time to devote to the depending on the issues being discussed.
issues in our formal meetings.
Looking ahead, we will continue to focus on the impact of the Effectiveness evolving nature of the Group on our accounting policies and The Committee Chairman and Company Secretary led a review practices, and associated disclosure.
In addition, we will maintain of the Committees effectiveness and the output was discussed our programme of in-depth reviews of the control environment.
This concluded that the Committee I look forward to meeting you at our forthcoming AGM on continued to operate effectively and identified a number of 27 July 2017. areas to focus on during next years deep dive programme, including treasury, business performance management, the Douglas Hurt finance function of the Speciality Food Ingredients division and Chairman of the Audit Committee further aspects of our Commodities operations.
66 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION The Committee reviews the policy each year and considers Work undertaken during the year quarterly reports which set out the ongoing non-audit services The Committee maintains a calendar of items for consideration provided by the auditors and the fees incurred.
During the year, at each meeting and reviews and updates it regularly.
As well we reviewed and updated the policy on non-audit services in as the work referred to above, the Committee focused on four accordance with the Revised Ethical Standard 2016 published main areas: financial reporting: oversight of the external by the Financial Reporting Council.
Under our new policy, the auditors: oversight of the internal audit function: and internal Chief Financial Officer has authority to approve the permitted control and risk management.
services up to 10,000 and the Chairman of the Committee has authority to approve up to 100,000.
In all other cases, the Financial reporting Committee must approve any proposed, permitted, non-audit services.
At each of its meetings, the Audit Committee reviewed and constructively challenged the accounting judgements and A breakdown of the fees paid to the external auditors in respect disclosures set out in the papers prepared by management of auditand non-audit related work is included in Note 9. and determined, with the help of the external auditors, the The total amount paid in respect of the Group audit and audit appropriateness of these.
The significant issues considered by of subsidiaries was 2.4 million, and 0.1 million was paid in the Committee in relation to this years financial statements respect of non-audit-related services.
Fees paid in respect of are listed on page 68. non-audit-related services therefore comprised 4% of the total fees paid to PwC.
The Committee also considered managements review of reported and adjusted earnings, and satisfied itself that Effectiveness of the external auditors significant one-off items of income and expense had been Following the conclusion of the audit for the year ended correctly classified and appropriately disclosed.
Papers on 31 March 2016, the Committee conducted an internal review the Groups existing and emerging litigation risks were of the effectiveness of the external auditors.
As part of the also considered.
process, the Committee reviewed the auditors performance against criteria set at the start of the audit, together with External auditors feedback from management at Group and divisional levels.
PwC or its predecessor firms have been the Groups auditors It also considered: since 1989.
The lead audit partner is rotated every five years.
The most recent report by the Financial Reporting Council The current lead audit partner, John Waters, has been in post FRC in May 2016 on the audit quality inspection of PwC.
since the audit for the year ended 31 March 2014.
Accordingly, The priority sectors for inspection in this report included he is due to rotate off at the conclusion of the audit for the year the sector the Group operated in i. e. the food, drink and ending 31 March 2018. consumer goods sector In accordance with the Competition and Markets Authority The FRCs guidance on evaluating audit quality which Order and the Committees terms of reference, the Committee suggested reviewing the external auditors competence Chairman, on behalf of the Committee, negotiated and agreed in the following areas: the fee and scope of the statutory audit for the year ended making appropriate judgements about materiality 31 March 2017. identifying and focusing on the areas of greatest risk Safeguarding the auditors independence designing and carrying out effective audit procedures The Committee operates a policy to safeguard the objectivity understanding and interpreting the evidence they obtain and independence of the external auditors.
This policy sets out making reliable evaluations of that evidence certain disclosure requirements by the external auditors to the reporting clearly and honestly.
Committee: restrictions on the employment of the external The Committee concluded that the external audit process auditors former employees: and partner rotation.
was operating effectively and that PwC continued to provide During the year, the Committee reviewed the processes that effective and independent challenge to management.
The the external auditors have in place to safeguard their review identified a number of recommendations where we independence, and received a letter from the external auditors could improve processes including planning and communication confirming that, in their opinion, they remained independent.
for the US component audit, and these were implemented and incorporated into the criteria set for the audit for the Provision of non-audit services current year.
The Committee discussed progress against The policy also sets out the circumstances in which the these criteria regularly.
external auditors may be permitted to undertake non-audit services and the services which are not permitted under any circumstances, such as the provision of remuneration advice and internal audit outsourcing.
com 67 Corporate Governance continued Significant accounting matters considered by the Committee Issues Background Committees activities and conclusion Commodity We use commodity contracts to manage The Committee received regular updates on the key commodity risks risk and hedge our corn positions in the US.
and the risk management framework in place to mitigate these risks.
The valuations of the corn book and the The Committee also considered the work performed by the external co-products produced as part of the corn auditors before concluding that the judgements made in determining wet milling process, which are both the valuations of the corn and co-products positions were underpinned by a number of judgements, appropriate.
This will continue to be a key area of focus for the have a material impact on the reported Committee in the coming year.
Taxation We operate and pay taxes in a number The Committee reviewed the Groups principles and processes for of jurisdictions, which requires the managing tax risks during the year and reviewed the key judgements interpretation of complex tax law.
As made in estimating the Groups tax charge along with the key such, we make provision for potential disclosures, including a statement of tax principles, set out on page direct tax exposures with local tax 34 and in Note 12.
The Committee was satisfied that the judgements authorities and reassess this as made in estimating the Groups tax charge were reasonable, and that necessary at the half-year and year-end.
Our assessment is underpinned by a The key factors likely to affect the future tax charge, as well as the range of judgements from tax key risks and uncertainties, were considered and the Committee professionals and external advisors.
agreed the disclosure of these factors in this Annual Report.
The Committee considered the treatment of material tax transactions undertaken during the year, and concluded that the measurement and disclosure of these, including the transfer of certain sucralose intellectual property assets to the US and the UK deferred tax asset recognised following changes to our internal financing structure, were appropriate.
Retirement We have significant retirement benefit The Committee discussed and constructively challenged the obligations obligations in the UK and the US, assumptions proposed and methodologies used by management and including unfunded retirement medical considered reports from the external auditors before agreeing that plans in the US.
A number of judgements the assumptions were reasonable.
have to be made when calculating the fair value of the Groups legacy retirement obligations.
Impairments We test all goodwill for impairment The Committee reviewed the annual goodwill impairment annually, and, additionally, test all assessment.
The future performance of the underlying businesses, assets where there has been a previous including the discount rates used and forecast assumptions and impairment or where an indicator of sensitivities, were discussed and constructively challenged.
potential impairment is considered The Committee concluded that the assumptions were acceptable, to exist.
and the conclusions, including the net 13 million impairment in respect of Tate & Lyle Gemacom Tech Indstria e Comrcio S. A. were appropriate.
The Committee discussed the appropriateness of the assessment Viability The Code provides that the Directors statement should explain in the Annual Report how period and the scenarios to stress-test the business model ahead they have assessed the prospects of the of the full assessment by the Board.
The Directors subsequently Group, including the appropriateness of concluded that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group the period used in this assessment.
will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of their detailed assessment.
Under the transitional provisions attached to the EU rules, Tenure of the external auditors The Competition and Markets Authoritys order issued in we would be required to change auditors for the next audit October 2014 requires FTSE 350 companies to tender appointment after 17 June 2020.
As set out in the introduction their statutory audit engagement at least every ten years.
from the Committee Chairman, the process for an external audit tender has begun and our intention is to have the new In addition to this, EU regulations require that audit firms of all EU companies listed on a regulated market rotate off auditors in place for the financial year ending 31 March 2019. after 20 years.
68 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017
