Directors Report Corporate governance Board of Directors Richard Gillingwater CBE Alistair Phillips-Davies Gregor Alexander Crawford Gillies Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Senior Independent Director Career, skills and Richard has varied Alistair is a Chartered Gregor is a Chartered Crawfords varied competencies experience with a wide Accountant and this Accountant and has over career means he brings range of organisations together with his operational 25 years service with the extensive commercial giving him an excellent experience and leadership Group, joining Scottish and governance knowledge understanding of the policy skills means he brings Hydro-Electric plc in to the Board including and regulatory framework significant knowledge and 1990.
He therefore has particular expertise in within which SSE operates, commerciality to the Board.
the benefit of experiencing matters of finance and risk as well as broad financial Alistair has 20 years service much change in the energy management.
Crawford skills and City experience.
with the Group, where he sector and his detailed has over three decades For over 20 years he worked has held leadership roles in understanding of the of business experience in corporate finance and the Wholesale, Retail and different aspects of the SSE in a variety of organisations investment banking, latterly Enterprise areas, as well Group and its operating and extensive public as Chairman of European as Corporate Finance.
company board experience, Investment Banking at addition, he has led many of He was SSEs Group making him an excellent CSFB.
He served as the Groups most significant Treasurer and Tax Manager appointment as Senior Chief Executive of the transactions since the before being appointed as Independent Director.
Shareholder Executive and merger in 1998 when SSE Finance Director in 2002.
Crawfords business was Dean of Cass Business plc was formed.
Prior to The responsibilities of this experience includes working School, London.
He has 1997 he worked for HSBC role were first expanded with major companies in extensive board experience and National Westminster in 2010.
He has been the UK, Europe and North and was previously Senior Bank in corporate finance instrumental in many of America across multiple Independent Director of and business development SSEs major investments sectors.
He has also held Hiscox Ltd and a nonroles in London and including SSEs investment in public sector posts in the Executive Director of Wm New York.
Prior to 1990, Gregor UK, including Chairman Morrison Supermarkets plc.
of Scottish Enterprise for 7 years until 2015.
Date of appointment Non-Executive Director Executive Director since Finance Director since Non-Executive Director since May 2007.
January 2002 and Chief October 2002. since August 2015.
Committee membership N A N A Key current appointments Chairman of Henderson Member of the Accenture Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Director Group plc.
Senior Independent Vice President of Chairman of Scotia Gas Non-Executive Director Director of Helical Bar plc.
Networks Ltd. of The Edrington Group Limited.
Nomination Committee Audit Committee Safety, Health and Environment Advisory Committee Remuneration Committee Committee Chair Jeremy Beeton Crawford Gillies Alistair Phillips-Davies Katie Bickerstaffe Dame Sue Bruce S SS SE p E pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 17 7 56 56 1.
2 2.. D Di ir re ect ctor ors s R Re ep por ort t 3.
Jeremy Beeton CB Katie Bickerstaffe Dame Sue Bruce DBE Peter Lynas Helen Mahy CBE Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Jeremy is a Civil Engineer Katie has experience in a Sues extensive career in Peter has over 30 years Helens career, including and brings extensive variety of roles in different the public sector enhances of business experience relevant sector experience, knowledge of project customer-facing retailers the diversity of the Board: spanning all areas of puts her in the ideal position management and and fast-changing markets she held a variety of roles finance.
He is a Fellow of to understand the legal, risk, related areas including and has an invaluable in local government in the Chartered Association compliance, commercial safety, complex project understanding of customers a career which spanned of Certified Accountants and governance issues SSE structures and contractual needs.
Her operational and brings up to date faces.
Jeremys with her experience in experience of leading financial knowledge and public company board career comprises over 40 HR, marketing and other organisations, with large experience to the Board experience in a number years in managing large, business areas gives her a numbers of employees, as well as general business of sectors in the UK and multi-site projects.
He has wide-range of skills relevant significant assets, knowledge and board abroad and brings a detailed worked with a wide range to SSEs business.
From 2008 construction projects and experience.
In 1998 he knowledge of, and interest of organisations including to 2012, Katie expanded an important place in the was appointed Finance in, the areas of inclusion governments, and both and consolidated her varied community they serve, Director of Marconi and diversity.
She was private and public business experience while make her an excellent Electronic Systems prior to Company Secretary and companies.
Jeremy held serving as Director of source of knowledge on the completion of the British General Counsel for both various positions at Bechtel Marketing, People and these matters for the Board.
Aerospace Marconi merger Babcock International Ltd. Haden Maclellan Property Dixons.
In 2012 She was Chief Executive at and also has been Chairman Group PLC and more Holdings PLC and Cleveland she was promoted to the both East Dunbartonshire of the trustee Board of a recently National Grid plc.
Bridge Engineering UK role of Chief Executive, Council and Aberdeen major pension scheme.
Helen was also a nonMiddle East Ltd.
He was UK and Ireland Dixons City Council before He has been Group Finance executive Director of the Director General of Carphone plc and also taking up the role of Director of BAE Systems plc Stagecoach Group plc.
the UK Government joined the Group Board.
Chief Executive at the City since 2011.
Olympic Executive of Edinburgh Council.
Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director since July 2011. since July 2011. since September 2013. since July 2014. since March 2016.
Chairman of Merseylink Ltd. Chief Executive, UK and Chair of the Royal Scottish Group Finance Director Chairman of The Ireland Dixons Carphone National Orchestra.
Renewables Infrastructure Senior Independent plc.
Member of the BAE Systems Inc Board in Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Electoral Commissioner, the US.
Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director of of MedicX Fund Limited.
SVG Capital plc until approximately 2017.
Peter Lynas Richard Gillingwater Gregor Alexander Helen Mahy 57 57
