48 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Nominations Committee Report Nominations Committee members Simon Laffin Committee Chair Jenefer Greenwood Jonathan Murphy sinceFebruary 2017 David Richardson Number of meetings intheyear Six Attendees Orla Ball Company Secretary Responsibilities Key activities of the Committee The Terms of Reference, which are Board and Committee changes In October 2016, the Board appointed, reviewed annually and are available The Committee met sixtimes through on the recommendation of the toview on the Company's website, the year, tackling anumber of significant Nominations Committee, Jonathan require the Nominations Committee issues.
In particular, it debated how to Murphy as Interim CEO, enabling the Committee to meet at least respond tothe absence from work and metorevert to my former role as onceper year.
then saddeath of our CEO, Graham Non-Executive Chairman.
Roberts, both in the short term and Key issues forlonger-term succession.
In the first In February 2017, the Committee Re-election of all Directors at the instance, the Committee decided to recommended to the Board that July2016 AGM.
appoint me as Executive Chairman Jonathan Murphy was the best Responding to the illness of our inMarch 2016 when Graham Roberts candidate for the role, and so the Board CEOand temporary arrangements took three months sick leave during approved his appointment.
Following had proved himself a capable leader Appointment of interim and Grahams sad death in the summer, whilst Interim CEO and with his permanent CEO and the Property theCommittee began an extensive knowledge and experience gained Director.
search for a new CEO, first by selecting asFinance Director, the Committee Review of succession planning.
executive recruitment firm Odgers considered him tobe the right person Review of Board composition, Berndtson which has no other for the role.
Committee composition and connection with Assura, from a shortlist Committee Chairmanship.
of three such firms, to assist with the The Committee also recommended Consideration of training needs process.
The firm's brief was to provide thatAndrew Darke be appointed to andskills updating.
a long and then a short list of external theBoard as Property Director.
candidates, together with consideration Board approved this appointment Considered and confirmed that of any internal candidates.
A long list inOctober 2016. theNon-Executive Directors ofpotential candidates was reviewed wereindependent.
bythe Committee and from this, ashortlist selected.
The Committee then interviewed a number ofcandidates.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 49 Commitments of the Chairman Following Jonathan Murphys I am also Non-Executive Chairman of appointment as CEO, the position of Flybe Group plc and Non-Executive Finance Director must now be filled Director at Watkin Jones plc.
The andWarren Partners has been selected Committee considered that I manage toassist with the recruitment process.
my time effectively in order to allocate Jonathan will continue to fulfil the sufficient time to each of my roles.
Finance Director role until a suitable candidate is found.
Diversity The Board believes that a diverse Board performance evaluation workforce and management team The Board has reviewed its improve the culture of the organisation performance, and the performance and add value to the business as ofits Committees and individual awhole.
Odgers Berndtson was Directors based on an internal particularly tasked with searching for evaluation overseen by the Company possible CEO candidates who could Secretary on a confidential basis in increase the diversity of the Board.
The Board concluded that its access to relevant information The Board targeted having at least isgood, the strategy and goals of the 20%female representation, which Company are clear and discussions wasachieved in 2012. around the boardroom table are constructive and challenging.
The The Committee will continue to Board continues to have an appropriate considergender and wider aspects of mix of skills and experience as shown diversity such as experience, nationality, inthe strengths table on page 47 disability and age when recommending whichwill besupplemented by the any future Board appointments and skillsof the newFinance Director and recruitment firms are instructed to Non-Executive Director once appointed.
include a diverse list of candidates for the Committees consideration.
Final The Nominations Committee also appointments will always be made metinthe absence of the Chairman to onmerit.
There were no major changes adopted Succession planning in the way the Board operates.
Succession planning was a focus of the Committee during 2016.
Simon Laffin Chair of the Nominations Committee The Committee considered the 22 May 2017 immediate cover required for the CEOposition as well as considering development of talent within the business to fill more senior roles overthe medium and long term.
The Committee acknowledges that given the size of the workforce there will not be successors for every senior role.
However, the culture of the business isto develop our people and promote from within where possible.
The Committee has identified the need for a further Non-Executive Director to ensure compliance with the Code and has appointed recruitment firm The Zygos Partnership to assist with the search process.
