RPC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 G O V E R NAN C E CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Matters not specifically reserved for the Board THE ROLE OF THE BOARD and the day-to-day operations of the Group are The Board is principally concerned with the delegated to management.
overall leadership, strategy and development of the Group in order to promote success for the The Board has appointed Audit, Remuneration benefit of its stakeholders as a whole within a and Nomination Committees, all of which, with framework of effective controls which enable the exception of those areas covered in the risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets Compliance Statement on page 53 complied the Groups strategic objectives, ensures that with the provisions of the Code during the the necessary resources are in place to meet its year.
Copies of the terms of reference for all objectives, reviews management performance and Committees are available from the Groups ensures that high ethical standards of behaviour Company Secretary at Sapphire House, Crown are followed.
Way, Rushden, Northamptonshire NN10 6FB Registered Office or can be found on the Groups In its decision-making processes, the Board website at www.
takes into account the likely consequences of any decision in the long term, the interests of the The Board meets at least six times each year Groups employees, relationships with suppliers with at least one meeting being combined with a and customers, and the impact of the Groups visit to one of the Companys local sites providing operations on the community and the environment an opportunity to meet the local management and maintaining RPCs reputation for high teams and see different parts of the business.
One meeting a year is also dedicated to the discussion of Group strategy.
The number of Board A formal schedule of matters reserved for the and Committee meetings held during the year Board includes: and attendance by their members is given in the 3 approval of the Groups objectives, strategic table on page 58.
Those directors who are unable plans and annual budgets: to attend a particular meeting receive the agenda and meeting papers and provide the Chairman 3 authorisation of material acquisitions, with their comments in advance.
Divisional Chief disposals, capital investments, credit facilities, Executives are invited to present to the Board contracts and transactions: on divisional strategy and other key aspects of 3 approving changes to the Groups their business from time to time.
The frequency capital structure, listing, legal and of meetings forms part of the Board performance organisational structure: evaluation process on an annual basis.
3 approval of financial reports, dividend policy and communication with shareholders and the market: 3 monitoring the Groups management, operating and financial performance: 3 review of risk assessments and the effectiveness of internal controls: 3 responsibility for Board membership and appointments, directors remuneration and contracts and remuneration policy: and 3 Group corporate governance and approval of Group policies.
56 STRATEGIC REPORT 0152 GOVERNANCE 5391 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92139 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 140148 CHAIRMAN CHIEF SENIOR NONEXECUTIVE INDEPENDENT EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS Overall leadership, strategy and development of the Group NOMINATION AUDIT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Reviews the size, composition Reviews and challenges Sets and reviews remuneration and balance of the Board financial reporting and policy for the executive accounting policies.
Reviews directors, Chairman and certain internal control and the members of senior management external auditor More on: More on: More on: Page 62 Page 64 Page 69 EXTENDED GROUP EXECUTIVE TEAM DIVISIONAL MANAGEMENT TEAMS Delegated responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Group probity, for setting its agenda and the style and Pim Vervaat, Chief Executive is responsible for the DIVISION OF tone of Board discussions.
The Board considered day-to-day running of the Groups business, except RESPONSIBILITIES that on appointment, Jamie Pike met the for matters specifically reserved for the Board, CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE independence criteria set out in provision B.
1.1 proposing and developing Company strategy and of the Code.
The Board is satisfied that Jamies commercial objectives in consultation with the The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive external commitments do not interfere with the Board, and implementing decisions of the Board are clearly defined and set out in a written performance of his duties for RPC.
statement on the division of responsibilities that has been approved by the Board.
During the year the Chairman held a number of informal meetings with the other non-executive Jamie Pike, as Chairman, is primarily responsible directors in order to discuss Board related matters for the leadership and effective running of the without the executive directors present.
Board and its decision-making processes, for setting the highest standards of integrity and 57 WWW.
COM RPC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 G O V E R NAN C E CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Continued THE SENIOR INDEPENDENT THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 3 determine appropriate levels of remuneration DIRECTOR of executive directors and have a prime role At the date of the completion of this report in appointing, and where necessary removing, Martin Towers was the Senior Independent the Company currently has four non-executive executive directors and in succession planning: Director throughout the year under review and up directors, whose role, alongside their general to the date of this report.
As part of his role Martin duties and responsibilities, is to: 3 uphold high standards of integrity and probity is available to meet with major shareholders on and support the Chairman and the other 3 constructively challenge and help develop request and to enable shareholders to voice any directors in instilling the appropriate culture, proposals on strategy: concerns that cannot be raised through the normal values and behaviour in the boardroom investor communication channels of Chairman, 3 scrutinise the performance of management and beyond: Chief Executive or Group Finance Director.
in meeting agreed goals and objectives and 3 insist on receiving high-quality information Martin also provides support for the Chairman on monitor the reporting of performance: sufficiently in advance of Board meetings: and Board matters.
3 ensure the integrity of financial information 3 take into account the views of shareholders Led by the Senior Independent Director, the and that financial controls and systems of risk and other stakeholders where appropriate.
non-executive directors have met informally management are robust and defensible: at least once during the year without the Chairman present in order to appraise Jamie Pikes performance.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Jamie Pike 7 7 N A 3 3 N A Pim Vervaat 7 7 N A N A N A Simon Kesterton 7 7 N A N A N A Lynn Drummond 7 7 3 3 3 3 5 5 Heike van fide Kerkhof 4 7 1 3 0 3 3 5 Ros Rivaz N A N A N A N A Martin Towers 7 7 3 3 3 3 5 5 Godwin Wong 7 7 N A 3 3 N A Resigned on 24 November 2016 Appointed with effect from 30 March 2017 58 STRATEGIC REPORT 0152 GOVERNANCE 5391 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92139 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 140148 Although the Companys Articles of Association BOARD COMPOSITION EFFECTIVENESS the Articles contain provisions governing the BOARD COMPOSITION AND election and re-election of directors, the Board INDEPENDENCE Executive 29% has adopted a policy of annual re-election of Non-executive 71% The Board comprises a total of seven directors.
all directors in accordance with the provisions These include Jamie Pike, non-executive of the Code.
Consequently, all the directors Chairman, Martin Towers, Lynn Drummond and in office at the date of this report, will submit Ros Rivaz as independent non-executive directors, themselves for election, in the case of Ros Rivaz Godwin Wong as a non-executive director and or re-election in the case of all other directors on Pim Vervaat and Simon Kesterton as executive an individual basis at the forthcoming AGM and directors.
Biographical details and their roles, annually thereafter.
Committee membership and significant external The Board confirms that each director seeking commitments are shown on pages 54 and 55. election or re-election at this years AGM, Changes to such commitments are reported to continues to be effective and demonstrate the Board as they arise.
Ros Rivaz was appointed independence of character and judgement as a non-executive director on 30 March 2017 and commitment to the role and therefore replacing Heike van fide Kerkhof who resigned from recommends their re-election.
Owing to the fact that Jamie Pike will have The non-executive directors bring valuable served on the Board for nine years in July 2017, knowledge, a broad range of experience and a rigorous review led by Martin Towers was strong, independent character and judgement undertaken before a recommendation that it is to the Boards decision-making process.
in the best interests of the Company that the Excluding Godwin Wong, the Board remains of Chairman be proposed for re-election at the the view that all other non-executive directors forthcoming AGM.
can be considered independent under the Code.
It is the view of the Board that Godwin Wong, The Remuneration Committee has the does not meet the material business relationship responsibility for approving executive directors criteria for independence under Code provision service contracts.
Details of these are given in B.
1.1. as he was a director and business adviser to the Directors Remuneration report on page 80.
Ace Corporation Holdings Ltd which was acquired Copies of executive directors service contracts by RPC on 2 June 2014.
There are no other and terms and conditions of appointment for relationships or circumstances which were likely non-executive directors are available for to affect, or could appear to affect, the directors inspection at the Registered Office and prior to judgement.
Non-executive directors are appointed to the Board for terms of three years or less, subject to annual re-election, but the Board may terminate their appointment without notice or compensation at any time.
The Board is responsible for the appointment or, subject to effective performance and commitment, re-appointment of non-executive directors and for setting the level of fees they receive in return for their position.
A rigorous review of performance, taking into account the need for progressively refreshing the Board, is conducted when a non-executive director is proposed for re-appointment on completion of two terms of three years.
Non-executive directors may not normally serve longer than nine years.
COM RPC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 G O V E R NAN C E CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Continued DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF In May 2016, the Board held its annual away the Board, its Committees, between executive and INTEREST day meeting at Astra Plastique SAS near Lyon non-executive directors and facilitating induction in France.
Part of the newly acquired GCS of new members of the Board as required.
Under the Companies Act 2006 CA 2006, a Group, an acquisition that had completed in director must avoid a situation where he or she All newly appointed directors receive a formal March 2016, time was spent with a detailed and has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest induction program that is tailored to their informative tour of the site, alongside a number that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the requirements.
This ensures that they are fully of presentations from key members of the local Companys interests a situational conflict.
aware of and understand the obligations of their management team.
This is in addition to a duty to disclose any role pursuant to law and relevant regulation and interest in an existing or proposed transaction or best practice as well as providing individuals INFORMATION AND arrangement with the Company a transactional with a detailed insight into the Groups business DEVELOPMENT conflict.
In accordance with the CA 2006, the and operations.
The Board is provided with relevant information on Articles contain a provision giving directors who Newly appointed directors will receive key the activities of the Group in a timely manner and have no interest in the matter, authority to approve information concerning the role of the Board in a form and of a quality to enable it to stimulate such situational conflicts where appropriate.
and matters reserved for its decision, terms debate and to discharge its duties.
There is a A formal system and guidance for reporting of reference and membership of the Boards procedure for directors to take independent any situational conflicts of interest to the Committees, corporate governance policies and professional advice at the Companys expense, Chairman and Company Secretary has been procedures and the latest financial information where necessary.
In addition, all Board members established in addition to the existing duty to about the Group.
This is supplemented by have access to the advice and services of Nick notify the Board of any transactional conflicts.
meetings with key personnel in the wider Giles, the Company Secretary, at all times.
Situational conflicts are considered by those business including the executive directors and Nick is responsible to the Board for ensuring that directors who have no interest in the matter and Extended Executive team as well as through visits procedures are followed, applicable rules and they may impose conditions on any authorisation to key operating locations with the opportunity to regulations are complied with and for providing given.
Situational conflicts considered by the meet local management.
Directors are continually appropriate advice through the Chairman on all Board and any authorisation given are recorded updated on the Groups business, the competitive governance matters.
Under the direction of the in the Board minutes and a register of directors and regulatory environments in which it operates, Chairman, the Company Secretarys role also conflicts of interest.
In addition to the notification corporate responsibility and sustainability matters includes ensuring good information flows within and authorisation system, the register of directors and other changes affecting the Group, its conflicts of interest is reviewed annually.
markets, manufacturing technology, processes and the industry at scheduled Board meetings or on an ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR ad hoc basis as necessary.
Following the appointment of Ros Rivaz to the GOVERNANCE, Board in March 2017, a detailed schedule of INTERNAL CONTROLS meetings with the Divisional Chief Executives AND RISK and tours of key locations has been arranged.
3 Risk appetite and principal risks These cover all areas of the Groups operations.
3 Health & Safety Directors have access to training to develop their 3 Market Abuse Regulation 2016 understanding of key issues and keep up to date 3 Modern Slavery Act 2015 with relevant legal and regulatory developments 3 AGM resolutions and voting at the Companys expense.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors keep 3 Board evaluation their skills and knowledge and their familiarity with the Group up to date in order to be able to fulfil their roles on the Board and Committees.
STRATEGY AND OTHER FINANCIAL BOARD MATTERS PERFORMANCE The Company Secretary also briefs the Board on corporate governance matters and relevant 3 Strategy 3 Annual and Half Year results changes to corporate laws and regulations and dividends 3 Board composition where necessary as well as facilitating 3 Market and broker updates 3 Key investments professional development by circulating details including acquisitions 3 Capital structure and funding of and arranging attendance at seminars.
3 Annual Budget Executive directors may also attend seminars on 3 3 year plan topics of particular relevance to their roles.
3 Defined benefit pension liabilities 60 STRATEGIC REPORT 0152 GOVERNANCE 5391 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92139 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 140148 PERFORMANCE EVALUATION AUDIT COMMITTEE MARKET COMMUNICATIONS The Board conducts an annual review of its The members of the Audit Committee and The Board is aware of its obligations under the performance and that of its Committees and the its Chairman, its role and responsibilities, its Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR and individual directors.
A review was undertaken activities during the year under review and details the Market Abuse Regulations.
We continue by an external facilitator, Independent Audit of key considerations in relation to the financial to publish Trading Updates following the Limited IA, a firm of specialist Board governance statements are set out in the Audit Committee removal of the requirement to provide Interim consultants during the year ended 31 March report on pages 64 to 68.
The number of meetings Management Statements.
The current intention is to conduct the of the Committee and attendance are given in the All announcements that have been made next externally facilitated evaluation during the table on page 58. by the Company and published through the 2018 19 Financial Year.
Regulatory Information Service can be found at NOMINATION COMMITTEE For the year under review the Board will complete http: www.
com corporate investors The members of the Nomination Committee bespoke questionnaires that have been developed regulatory-news.
and its Chairman, its role, responsibilities and and adapted in conjunction with IA.
The Board and activities during the year under review are set out BOARD COMMUNICATIONS Committees will be presented with the results of in the Nomination Committee report on page 62. the exercise in the form of a summary report at its The Board is provided with brokers reports, The number of meetings of the Committee and July meeting and will provide a detailed summary surveys on shareholders views and feedback attendance are given in the table on page 58. of findings and actions in next years report.
from shareholder meetings at regular intervals.
Both the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Additionally, drawing on the Board and REMUNERATION Director report on all Investor Relations activity Committee reviews and using individual director REMUNERATION COMMITTEE that has taken place preceding the Board meeting questionnaires, the Chairman will undertake a ANDPOLICY and details on the Companys share register and review of the performance of all non-executive major shareholders is included with the papers at directors and the Senior Independent Director The members of the Remuneration Committee scheduled Board meetings.
will consider the performance of the Chairman.
and its Chairman, its role and responsibilities, The results of these individual reviews and its activities during the year under review and INVESTOR MEETINGS any improvements or personal objectives are details of Remuneration policy and directors During the year the Chairman has discussed RPCs discussed with the relevant directors on a one to remuneration packages are set out in the governance and strategy with major shareholders one basis.
Directors Remuneration report on pages 69 to 80. and reported any issues or concernsraised at The number of meetings of the Committee and IA do not have any other connection with these meetings to the Board.
Non-executive attendance are given on page 58. the Company.
directors have the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and expect to RELATIONS WITH attend meetings at their request.
Contact with SHAREHOLDERS institutional investors, financial analysts, brokers RPC is committed to maintaining an effective and the press is controlled and procedures are dialogue with existing shareholders and in place to ensure the proper disclosure of inside potential investors including both institutional information in compliance with the appropriate and private investors.
The Group website laws and regulations.
com corporate investors ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING allows access to Company information, Annual Reports and results presentations.
Directors, The Notice of the AGM and related papers will normally the Chairman, Chief Executive or Group be sent to shareholders at least 20 working Finance Director, hold regular meetings with days before the meeting.
All directors attend institutional investors at which the Groups past the AGM if at all possible and therefore in performance and strategy may be discussed.
normal circumstances the Chairs of the Audit, Private shareholders can raise questions through Remuneration and Nomination Committees are the Company Secretary.
INFORMATION INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE The Chairmans introduction on page 53, the Audit Committee report on pages 64 to 68 and the other statutory information section on pages 81 to 83 are incorporated into this corporate governance statement by reference.
