STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION The Committee has recommended to the Board that PwC Nominations Committee Report continues to act as auditors to the Group for the year to 31 March 2018.
PwC has indicated its willingness to continue in office: resolutions on the reappointment of PwC and authorising the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board to determine PwCs remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
The Audit Committee considers that the Company has complied with the Competition and Markets Authoritys Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 for the financial year under review.
Internal audit Group Audit and Assurance Group Audit and Assurance is an internal review function that services the Board and all levels of management.
It provides objective assurance to add value and improve the organisations operations.
Its responsibilities include assessing the principal risks of the organisation and examining, evaluating and reporting on the adequacy and effectiveness of the systems of risk management and internal control as Dr Gerry Murphy, Chairman of the operated by management.
Management remains responsible for identifying risks and for the design and operation of controls Nominations Committee to manage risk.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the remit, organisation, annual plan, resources and effectiveness of This year we will further Group Audit and Assurance and concluded that the function continued to operate effectively.
It is the intention to assess the strengthen our processes and effectiveness of the Group Audit and Assurance function using an external party in the 2018 financial year as the last thirdplanning for succession at and party review was undertaken in the 2014 financial year.
Internal control and risk management The Committee continued to receive and consider regular Dear shareholder reports from management and the VP, Group Audit and Assurance on the effectiveness of the Groups risk I am pleased to take on the role of Chairman of the management system during the year.
Nominations Committee and to work with my fellow Committee members over the coming years to ensure that the The reports from the latter included the findings from reviews Board continues to have the appropriate structure, size and of internal financial controls and actions to address any composition to progress the delivery of the Groups strategy.
The Committee also reviewed the operation of our independent confidential reporting line, After a year in which the Committee focused on Chairman Speak Up.
Throughout the year, the Committee focused in succession and the appointment of a new non-executive particular on strengthening the financial control environment director, Jeanne Johns, our focus this year will be on further and the impact of this on the financial reporting processes.
strengthening our processes and planning for talent The Committee reviewed controls to mitigate fraud risk and the management and succession at and below the Board.
Group assurance map, a tool which sets out the assurance processes and the three lines of defence model.
It also I feel privileged to have joined a Board which is well balanced in considered the results of the annual review of the effectiveness terms of ethnic and gender diversity and clearly recognises the of internal financial reporting controls, which took into account benefits that such diversity brings.
The Board has considered the Group Risk Managers support to the risk management the recent Hampton-Alexander Review into gender diversity process, and then reported to the Board.
Further details about and the Parker Review into ethnic diversity and will pay careful this review are on page 62. attention to these important reports when considering the effectiveness of our succession planning and talent management processes throughout the organisation.
com 69 Corporate Governance continued Committee governance Work undertaken during the year The Committee maintains a calendar of items for consideration Responsibilities at each meeting and reviews and updates it regularly.
The Committee assists the Board by reviewing the size and composition of the Board, including succession planning, and Board succession planning the leadership needs of the Group generally, recommending Appointment of Dr Gerry Murphy candidates for appointment as directors and as Company After seven years as the Chairman of the Company, Sir Peter Secretary and reviewing annually the performance of each Gershon indicated his desire to begin the process to identify his member of the Executive Committee.
Further details on its successor.
Liz Airey, the Senior Independent Director at the responsibilities are in the Committees terms of reference, time, led the search.
The Committee retained Spencer Stuart on the Companys website, www.
to assist it with the search.
Spencer Stuart is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms and has Composition a good understanding of the Groups business as it has During the financial year under review, the Committee previously assisted in the identification of individuals to fill comprised the Chairman of the Company, the Chief Executive non-executive director roles and other senior executive roles.
The Company Secretary is the secretary to the Committee.
The Committee identified, in particular, the following attributes of potential candidates as highly desirable: Meetings during the year City experience and competence Meetings are generally held around the time of scheduled international track record Board meetings.
The Committee held four scheduled meetings strong strategic and communication skills during the year and also met on four additional occasions to industry sector experience discuss the progress of the search for an additional nontogether with the ability to devote the time necessary to executive director and a new Chairman.
Attendance during the year was as follows: Spencer Stuart prepared a long list comprising a diverse Number range of potential candidates meeting the specifications.
Number of of meetings The search consultants and Liz Airey then identified a subset Directors as at Date of appointment meetings eligible to of this long list to meet face-to-face with a working party 31 March 2017 to the Committee attended attend of the Nominations Committee.
This working party then Sir Peter Gershon recommended the candidates who went through to a second Chr 1 February 2009 5 5 round of meetings with other members of the Board and who Dr Gerry Murphy 1 January 2017 2 2 were also given the opportunity to hold a due diligence meeting with Sir Peter Gershon and to meet members of the Executive Javed Ahmed 1 October 2009 8 8 Committee.
Liz Airey 1 January 2007 8 8 William Camp 1 May 2010 8 8 The Committee reviewed the output of the discussions held with the potential candidates and recommended the Paul Forman 1 January 2015 8 8 1 appointment of Dr Gerry Murphy to the Board from 1 January Lars Frederiksen 1 April 2016 6 8 2017.
Dr Murphy became the Chairman on 1 April 2017.
Douglas Hurt 9 March 2010 8 8 Jeanne Johns 26 October 2016 4 4 Anne Minto 1 December 2012 8 8 Dr Ajai Puri 1 April 2012 8 8 Sybella Stanley 1 April 2016 8 8 1 Unable to attend due to a pre-existing commitment.
The Executive VP, Human Resources and the VP, Global Talent are invited to attend and present to the Committee on an ad hoc basis, depending on the issues being discussed.
Effectiveness Sir Peter Gershon, the Committee Chairman up to 31 March 2017, led a review of the Committees effectiveness and the output was discussed by the Committee.
This concluded that the Committee continued to operate effectively.
70 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Appointment of Jeanne Johns Board diversity The Committee reviewed the succession needs of the Board The Board believes that a diverse and inclusive culture is and determined that it would be appropriate to seek an a driver of superior business performance, growth and additional US-based non-executive director.
The Board has a clear policy on diversity that The Committee retained Korn Ferry to assist it with the search.
acknowledges that the Boards perspective and approach can Korn Ferry is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for be greatly enhanced through gender, age and cultural diversity, Executive Search Firms.
notwithstanding the overriding principle that each member, and potential member, of the Board must be able to Korn Ferry prepared a long list comprising a diverse range of demonstrate the skills, experience and knowledge required to potential candidates meeting the specification.
The search contribute to the effectiveness of the Board.
Wherever feasible, consultants and the Chairman Sir Peter Gershon then the Committee uses search firms who are signatories to the identified a subset of this long list to meet face-to-face with the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms which Chairman.
Following these initial interviews, Sir Peter Gershon seeks to address gender diversity on boards and best practice recommended a shortlist of candidates and the Committee set for the related search processes.
up a working party to interview the candidates.
As set out elsewhere in this report, when considering the The Committee subsequently discussed the results of these candidates for non-executive directors the Committee looked interviews and also reviewed the candidates anticipated ability at a number of different criteria, including gender, age and to provide the necessary time commitment to Tate & Lyle.
The cultural diversity and personal attributes such as thinking style.
Committee recommended that Jeanne Johns be appointed as This was reflected in the long lists and shortlists of possible an additional non-executive director.
together with the proposed membership and chairmanship of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, were approved by the With regard to the specific issue of gender diversity, the Board Board and Jeanne joined the Board on 26 October 2016. welcomes the decision not to impose in the UK quotas regarding gender balance.
As at the date of this report, the Senior Independent Director Board comprises the Chairman, two executive directors and In addition, the Committee recommended that Douglas Hurt, eight non-executive directors.
Female representation four with over six years of Board service and having very good Directors equates to 36% of the Board.
experience of the UK market and institutional shareholders, should be appointed as Senior Independent Director with effect Succession planning from 1 January 2017.
The Committee reviewed succession plans for senior executive roles and the progress of action plans to address any gaps.
The Company Secretary Committee continues to review progress on a regular basis.
Following the resignation of Lucie Gilbert, the Committee commenced a process to appoint a successor, using Performance evaluation independent executive search firm, Hedley May.
Claire-Marie The Committee evaluated the performance of each member of OGrady was appointed on 1 February 2017. the Executive Committee and reported its conclusions to the Remuneration Committee.
Director independence The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board concerning the independence of non-executive directors.
The Code provides that the Board should determine whether there are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, a Directors judgement and lists tenures in excess of nine years as a circumstance which may appear relevant to its determination.
Liz Airey joined the Board in January 2007 and, as the Senior Independent Director, led the process to identify the successor for the Chairman.
As previously announced, Ms Airey will be stepping down from the Board at the 2017 AGM and, therefore, will not be seeking re-election as a Director.
