50 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Audit Committee Report Audit Committee members David Richardson Committee Chair Jenefer Greenwood 1 Simon Laffin 1.
Re-appointed following return to Non-Executive Chairman position Number of meetings intheyear Four Additional attendees as appropriate Deloitte LLP Savills Commercial Limited and Jones Lang LaSalle Jonathan Murphy CEO Andrew Darke Property Director Orla Ball Company Secretary Paul Carroll Financial Controller David Purcell Group Finance Manager Responsibilities Key activities of the Committee Financial statements Financial statements Review of risk management andreports andreports and internal controls To monitor the integrity of the half Reviewed the Annual Report Reviewed the effectiveness of the year and annual financial statements andfinancial statements and half Companys internal controls and before submission to the Board, yearfinancial report and made riskmanagement processes reviewing significant financial recommendations to the Board andthedisclosures made in reporting matters and judgements, regarding the approval of these theAnnual Report.
focusing particularly on matters of documents.
Received the minutes from the Risk material financial impact.
Committee and reviewed the principal To review the effectiveness of the Review of external audit risks derived from the risk register Companys system of internal control.
Reviewed, considered and agreed along with any movement in those To conduct an annual review of the scope and fees for the audit risks in the year.
theneed to establish an internal work to be undertaken by the Reviewed the appropriateness of the auditfunction.
accounting policies, and the design To discuss the issues arising from Reviewed the effectiveness, and operation of the internal controls.
performance and fees of the To monitor and review annually the external auditor.
Others auditors independence, objectivity Monitored compliance with the and effectiveness.
Review of external valuers REITrules.
To develop and implement the policy Received presentations from both Reviewed the requirement for for provision of non-audit services by external valuers and raised queries aninternal audit function.
Reviewed the viability statement To make recommendations to the Reviewed the effectiveness, andsupporting evidence.
Board in relation to the selection performance and fees of the Reviewed the approved treasury process for the appointment of the externalvaluers.
Review of Committee The Committee reviewed its performance and wasfound to be performing toahighstandard.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 51 Dear Shareholder facilities and evaluates managements needs.
The Committee considers that As Chairman of the Audit Committee assessment of going concern and the additional cost of an internal audit the Committee, I have pleasure theassumptions made.
The external department is not currently justified.
insetting out below the formal report auditor also reports to the Committee However, specific pieces of work are onits activities for the year ended following its review.
commissioned by the Audit Committee 31March 2017.
Viability statement the Committee to examine particular processes and considered the viability statement controls as deemed necessary.
The Committee is aware of the proposed for inclusion in the Annual Codesrequirements in relation to risk Report and the supporting analysis Audit non-audit fees payable and the monitoring of internal control produced by management.
During the year the Committee statement was approved for inclusion The external auditor did not carry out received minutes from the meetings in the 2017 report and appears on any services beyond the audit of this ofthe Risk Committee, reviewed the page 29.
Annual Report and review of the interim risk register, monitored the Groups accounts.
The fees paid to the external riskmanagement and internal control Other financial reporting auditor are disclosed in Note 4 a to the systems and was kept appraised of the matters accounts, and the policy for non-audit upgrades being made to the IT systems, In addition to the significant financial services is in the Audit Committee security and processes.
The Committee reporting matters discussed above, Terms of Reference available on has not identified any significant failings theCommittee considers other financial ourwebsite.
or weakness in these control systems reporting matters as and when they during the year.
arise to ensure appropriate treatment Effectiveness of external inthe accounts.
auditprocess The Committee performs a detailed The Committee assessed the review of the content and tone of the During the year this included the effectiveness of the external audit Annual Report and half year results following: process, initially reviewing and andhas satisfied itself that there are challenging the audit planning robust controls over the accuracy Share-based payment charges for memorandum prepared by Deloitte andconsistency of the information the Value Creation Plan VCP and andthen monitoring fulfilment of this presented.
Accordingly, the Committee Performance Share Plan PSP.
The Committee received regular has advised the Board that the Annual Distributable reserves within the Group.
feedback from management on the Report taken as a whole is fair, Presentation of non-recurring service and support provided by Deloitte, balanced and understandable and expenses such as loan issue costs had a meeting at the end of the audit provides the information necessary written off.
todiscuss judgements and concluded forthe shareholders to assess the Internal restructuring plan for that the external audit was carried out Companys position and performance, bankingpurposes.
efficiently and effectively with objective, business model and strategy.
Accordingly, the We are satisfied that there were no Committee recommends Deloittes The Company ceased to be a smaller matters arising from each of the above re-appointment at the 2017 AGM.
company as defined by the Code on that we wish to draw to the attention 1April 2017 and as such membership ofthe shareholders.
Deloitte was appointed following a of the Audit Committee does not competitive tender in March 2012 and comply with Code Provisions C. 3.1.
We Internal controls the latest date by which the Company have commenced the search for a new The Groups internal control systems isrequired to tender and appoint an independent Non-Executive Director include a detailed authorisation process, external auditor is for the financial year tojoin the Committee.
formal documentation of all transactions, beginning 1 April 2022.
The current lead arobust system of financial planning auditor, Rachel Argyle, was appointed Significant financial reporting including cash flow forecasting and inMarch 2015.
There are no current matters scenario testing and a robust appraisal intentions to conduct an audit tender Valuation of investment properties, process for all property investments.
including those under construction Changes to internal controls, or controls valuations and yields are discussed torespond to changing risks identified, David Richardson with management and benchmarked areaddressed by the Risk Committee Chair of the Audit Committee against comparable portfolios.
The withappropriate escalation to the Audit 22 May 2017 two external valuers present to and Committee as required.
are challenged by the Committee on their valuations.
Internal audit Validity of the going concern basis The Audit Committee is satisfied that and the availability of finance going the current level of control and risk forward the Committee considers management within the business the financing requirements of the adequately meets the Groups current Group in the context of committed
