RPC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 G O V E R NAN C E AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT As Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee, I am pleased to present this years Committee report which describes how it has applied the principles of the Code, the work of the Committee, its responsibilities and key tasks as well as its major areas of activity and key considerations for the financial year ended 31 March 2017.
I am also pleased to confirm that the Committee KEY RESPONSIBILITIES MARTIN TOWERS concluded, and made a recommendation to the The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: Chairman of the Board that, taken as a whole, the Groups Annual Audit Committee 3 monitor the financial reporting process Report and Accounts Annual Report are fair, including the integrity and clarity of the balanced and understandable and provide the financial statements of the Company and information necessary for shareholders to assess MEMBERS review any significant financial reporting issues the Companys position, performance, business and judgements which they contain: model and strategy.
3 MARTIN TOWERS CHAIR 3 review and challenge where necessary the The Committee meets at least three times each 3 LYNN DRUMMOND consistency of and changes to accounting year and thereafter as circumstances dictate.
3 HEIKE VAN fide KERKHOF policies, the methods used to account for The number of meetings held during the year resigned on 24 November 2016 significant and unusual transactions and under review and the attendance of members of consider whether the Company has followed the Committee are shown in the table on page 3 DR ROS RIVAZ appropriate accounting standards and made 58.
The external auditor attends meetings of the appointed 30 March 2017 appropriate estimates and judgements: Committee at the invitation of the Committee Chairman, other than when their appointment 3 approve the external auditors terms of All members of the Committee are considered or performance is being reviewed.
Additionally, engagement, audit plan and scope of the audit to be independent pursuant to the Code.
the Group Finance Director, other members of and review with them the results of their audit Martin Towers and Lynn Drummond served the Board, the Group Controller and the Group and any control issues raised: throughout the year.
Heike van fide Kerkhof Internal Audit Manager attend meetings by served until her resignation from the Board 3 review the effectiveness of the external auditor invitation as appropriate.
The Committee meets on 24 November 2016 and Ros Rivaz was and their independence and objectivity: with the auditor without any other directors or appointed on 30 March 2017.
The Board management present at least twice each year.
3 consider and make recommendations to the is satisfied that the Chairman, a chartered The Company Secretary, or their appointed Board on the external auditors remuneration accountant, has recent and relevant financial nominee, acts as Secretary of the Committee.
and their appointment, reappointment experience and has extensive experience in or removal: senior finance roles.
3 monitor and review the effectiveness of the The Committee reviewed and updated its Groups internal control and risk management terms of reference in accordance with best systems and review the Groups procedures for practice in 2013 and these can be found on detecting fraud and its systems and controls for the Companys website www.
com the prevention of bribery and receive reports on and are available from the Company Secretary non-compliance: at the Registered Office.
The terms of reference will be reviewed during the course 3 review the Groups arrangements for its of 2017 18. employees to raise concerns about possible wrongdoing in financial and other matters: and 3 monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function, approve the appointment and removal of internal auditors, review and approve their remit, review and assess internal audit plans, review internal audit reports and monitor managements responses to recommendations.
64 STRATEGIC REPORT 0152 GOVERNANCE 5391 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92139 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 140148 The Committee fulfilled its responsibilities ACTIVITIES DURING outlined above during the year.
THEYEAR In addition to the going concern report, the The Committee met on three occasions during Committee also helped the Board prepare the year.
The meetings in the year, together the viability statement and consider the with the May 2017 meeting, dealt with the appropriateness of the three year period following matters: over which the viability statement will apply.
It reviewed the Annual Report to ensure it was fair, balanced and understandable and provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Further details of the Committees activities during the year are shown below.
May November January May 2016 2016 2017 2017 Financial reporting and significant judgements Full year results and announcement Half year results and announcement Going concern report Viability statement External audit Review and consideration of audit highlights report Board representation letter Evaluation of external audit function and independence Reappointment recommendation to Board Fees for non-audit activities External audit plan Separate meeting with external auditor Internal audit Internal controls & risk management report Internal controls & risk management update Internal audit update Evaluation of internal audit function Internal audit plan Other Distributable reserves UK Corporate Governance and other compliance 65 WWW.
COM RPC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 G O V E R NAN C E AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Continued ACQUISITION ACCOUNTING FINANCIAL REPORTING AND EXTERNAL AUDITOR SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL Following the completion of a tender of the During the year the Group acquired nine JUDGEMENTS external audit,  LLP PwC businesses, British Polythene Industries PLC, were appointed as external auditor on 15 July Sanders Polyfilms, Jagtenberg Plastics, The Committee is responsible for reviewing 2015 replacing the previous external auditor Plastiape, Synergy Packaging, HYC, ESE World, whether suitable accounting policies have been KPMG LLP.
the Letica Corporation and Amber Plastics, for adopted and whether management has made a combined consideration in excess of 1bn.
appropriate estimates and judgements in the Resolutions to appoint PwC as the auditor of the IFRS 3 Business Combinations requires assets preparation of the financial statements.
In respect Company and to authorise the Board to determine and liabilities acquired to be recorded at fair to the financial statements for the year ended the auditors remuneration will be proposed at the value and to separately identify intangible assets 31 March 2017, the significant issues reviewed, forthcoming AGM in July 2017. from goodwill, initially measuring each group of and how these issues were addressed, are intangible assets at fair value.
NON-AUDIT SERVICES assets included customer relationships, The Committee has conducted a detailed review EXCEPTIONAL AND technology and brands.
There is judgement of non-audit fees paid to the external auditor and NON-UNDERLYING ITEMS involved in estimating fair values, particularly in reviewed monitoring and approval procedures relation to identifiable intangible assets, which Note 4 on page 109 of the financial statements during the year.
It is satisfied that the level of requires the directors to estimate the useful explains the nature of the 116.2m of exceptional fees for non-audit services has not impaired economic life of each asset and the future cash and non-underlying items recognised in the auditor objectivity and independence based on flows expected to arise from each asset and to year, relating to the transactional and business the principles adopted in the Group policy on the apply a suitable discount rate.
In addition the integration costs of recent acquisitions, and in engagement of the external auditor to supply Group assesses the fair value of other assets and particular the combined Promens, GCS and BPI non-audit services.
Under the policy, the auditor liabilities, including out of market and onerous Integration programme, and other additional costs may not be engaged to audit their own work, contracts, which may also require judgements as and incomes arising from one-off events and other make management decisions for the Group, to the completeness and accuracy of these.
The Committee considered have a mutual financial interest with the Group the accounting treatment and disclosure of Where deferred consideration is recognised or be put in the role of advocate for the Group.
these items in the financial statements through a and is contingent on post-acquisition business Prior approval of the Committee is required for detailed review of managements plans in respect performance, then a judgement on likely future non-audit services where the fees are likely to the programme, and also sought the views of performance and attainment of related targets is to exceed specified limits both for individual the external auditor as to the appropriateness also required.
The Group adopted a methodology assignments and in the aggregate.
Details of the and consistency of the accounting treatment which has been consistently applied to all amounts payable to the external auditor during and disclosures.
In addition the Committee also acquisitions in recent years and during the year it the year for audit and other services are set out in considered the further write-back of deferred updated its Group policy on acquisition accounting note 3 to the financial statements.
consideration relating to the Ace acquisition to ensure policies are consistently applied, In addition to its review of non-audit fees, the which recent business performance would which it presented to the Committee.
The Group Committee has conducted its annual assessment indicate will not be fully paid.
On the basis of discussed their approach and assumptions of the external auditor, including matters that this review the Committee concluded that the with the Committee.
The auditor provided the might have a bearing on their independence and accounting treatment and disclosure of these Committee with their review of the fair value objectivity and the effectiveness of their audit.
exercises for the acquisitions made in the year, The assessment takes into account the systems including hindsight adjustments and consideration and procedures adopted by PwC and the results of contingent and deferred consideration relating of an internal questionnaire.
The Committee to prior acquisitions.
Following discussion, the is satisfied that the external audit process Committee was satisfied that the assumptions is effective and that auditor objectivity and used were appropriate and that the resultant independence is properly safeguarded.
fair values and accounting adjustments were reasonable.
Details of how acquisitions have been accounted for are set out in note 1 of the financial statements.
In addition, the Committee is responsible for ensuring that the results communications are fair, balanced and understandable, and it reviews the results announcements and Annual Report to ensure that this is the case.
66 STRATEGIC REPORT 0152 GOVERNANCE 5391 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92139 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 140148 INTERNAL AUDIT The key procedures in the Groups process for 3 Matters relating to internal control brought reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls to the attention of the management by the The Group Internal Audit Manager is invited are summarised below: internal and external auditor are reviewed and to attend Committee meetings where internal any corrective actions to the internal control audit and internal control matters are considered 3 There is a clearly defined Group management procedures are made in a timely manner.
and to report on the results of internal audits responsibility and reporting structure.
and progress on the implementation of 3 The Group operates an effective group 3 The Groups objectives are reviewed as recommendations directly to the Committee.
part of the strategic planning process and During the year, the Committee approved the Monthly reports, management accounts and communicated throughout the Group.
annual internal audit plans and the scope of key performance indicators are submitted by Objectives are set for the divisions and in turn audits.
It also reviewed the results of audits and operating units and reviewed every month the individual operating businesses as part of the internal audit resources in respect of the by senior management.
Significant risks and the strategy review process.
Following further corporate activity through internal control issues are considered, actions additional acquisitions and the resulting increase 3 A three year strategy review is prepared for agreed and progress monitored regularly with in the number of locations, the Group increased the Boards consideration each year.
This is reporting entities and, where appropriate, at the size of its internal audit function during the appraised in the light of the strategic and other executive and Board meetings.
In addition Deloitte LLP carried out relevant risks and issues faced by the Group, 3 Operating units produce plans to improve a review of the effectiveness of the internal the resources available and its objectives.
controls relating to key risks and any significant audit function and have provided assistance weaknesses identified by Group executives in 3 Risk assessment and evaluation take place with internal audits where additional resources addition to other initiatives and ongoing actions as an integral part of the Groups annual were required.
in progress at the local or divisional level.
The Group has a detailed risk management process, which RISK MANAGEMENT AND 3 An Internal Controls Committee, comprising INTERNAL CONTROL identifies the key risks faced by the individual senior finance managers in the Group, ensures reporting entities and the Group as a whole that operating units respond to and implement The Group has well-established risk management and the actions and controls required to internal control recommendations arising from and internal control systems.
The Board has manage these risks.
The process is reviewed internal and external audits.
overall responsibility for the Groups system each year to ensure it remains relevant to the of internal control and for reviewing its business over time.
The Board and Committee 3 An interim report is reviewed by the Committee effectiveness.
The internal control systems are review this information as part of the internal and the Board to monitor the operating units designed to meet the particular needs of the control review.
progress against their plans to improve controls Group and to manage rather than eliminate the to ensure that necessary actions have been 3 The directors are required to approve yearly risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
or are being taken to remedy any significant financial budgets, including capital expenditure, Such systems can only provide reasonable and not failings or weaknesses identified.
The report for each of the Groups operating units.
absolute assurance against material misstatement also includes updates on significant risks and Performance against these targets is monitored or loss.
monthly and reported on at Board meetings.
Throughout the year and up to the date of Reasons for divergences are discussed at The internal audit function has performed reviews approval of this Annual Report there has been Board meetings.
at a number of the Groups sites during the year.
in place an established, ongoing process for In addition, the Group has identified a number of 3 Managers are responsible for the identification identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the business, requiring particular and evaluation of significant risks in their risks faced by the Group which has been regularly attention to control and monitoring, and these are area of business, together with the design reviewed by the Committee and the Board, held in a Group risk register.
Details of the specific and operation of suitable internal controls.
and is in accordance with the FRC Guidance on risks that are seen as particularly important at the Through the use of risk registers, these risks Risk Management, Internal Control and related current time are given in the principal risks and are assessed on a continual basis.
3 An annual review is performed on the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The internal audit function undertakes work to review the system of internal control at each operation visited and reports findings to management.
COM RPC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 G O V E R NAN C E AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Continued STATEMENTS OF COMMITTEE PRIORITIES FOR COMPLIANCE 2017 18 The directors confirm that they have carried out The priorities for the Committee for 2017 18 are their annual review of the effectiveness of the set out below: system of internal control as it has operated 3 continue to review the effectiveness of throughout the year ended 31 March 2017 and the Companys overall risk management up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
framework, including the generic procedures The directors also confirm that there were no for risk identification, assessment, mitigation, weaknesses identified from the review that monitoring and reporting: required remedial action.
3 review the Committees terms of reference in The directors also confirm that they have carried line with best practice: out during the year a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group including those 3 prepare for and implement any relevant that would threaten its business model, future regulatory changes to Committee governance: performance, solvency or liquidity.
and The Company confirms that it complied with 3 continue to monitor the effectiveness of the provisions of the Competition and Markets internal audit function and internal controls.
Authoritys Order for the financial year under review.
COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS The effectiveness of the Committee is reviewed on an annual basis by both the Board and the Committee itself.
MARTIN TOWERS Chairman of the Audit Committee 7 June 2017 68
