Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT INTRODUCTION Following the retirement of Michael Pavia in July 2016, the chairmanship of the Committee was assumed by Beatrice Hollond following her appointment to the Board as a non-executive director.
The other members of the Committee are Julian Schild and Charles Wigoder, which means that the Committee retains a majority of independent non-executive directors in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code provision B.
The key responsibilities of the Nomination Committee include: making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new non-executive and executive directors, including making recommendations as to the composition of the Board generally and the balance between executive and non-executive directors: giving consideration to succession planning for directors and other senior executives: reviewing on an annual basis the time required from non-executive directors and assessing whether the non-executive directors are spending enough time to fulfil their duties: reviewing the re-election by shareholders of directors under the annual re-election provisions of the Code: and evaluating any matters relating to the continuation in office of any director including the suspension or termination of service of an executive director.
THE COMMITTEES ACTIVITIES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2017 The Committee met informally on a number of occasions during the year and Committee matters were also discussed formally as part of certain full Board meetings.
Recruitment of new independent non-executive director The Committees principal activity during the year related to the identification and evaluation of a new independent non-executive director.
As previously indicated, the Committee was keen to identify candidates with experience in the retail insurance industry given the Companys plans to expand into this area in future.
To meet this specific requirement, an external search consultancy, Korn Ferry, was instructed to draw up a shortlist of suitable candidates for consideration by the Committee.
From this shortlist, a small number of candidates were invited to meet the non-executive directors and Executive Chairman, acting on behalf of the Board, to evaluate their suitability for this role.
From these, Andrew Blowers was selected as the strongest candidate by the Committee.
Mr Blowers is currently a non-executive director of AA PLC, the UKs largest provider of roadside assistance, and of CETA Insurance Limited, a specialist online insurance provider.
His career spans over 25 years in the UK financial services industry.
He was the founder and CEO of Swiftcover.
com and Chairman of IIC NV from 2004 to 2009 and an executive director of Churchill Insurance before this.
He also displayed a keen interest in joining the Board.
Andrew joined the Board in November 2016 and has become a member of the Audit Committee and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2017 45 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Korn Ferry does not have any other connection with the Company.
Other activities Other discussions concerning Committee matters during the year principally related to the appropriateness of the composition of the Board given the Companys operations and medium-term strategic objectives, and succession planning for senior management.
Aside from the appointment of Andrew Blowers described above, no other changes to the Board were deemed necessary during the year.
The Committees position in relation to diversity and the Code requirement to set out any measurable objectives that exist in this regard is included in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 41 of this document.
Beatrice Hollond Chairman of the Nomination Committee On behalf of the Board 12 June 2017 46 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2017
