Corporate Governance Statement continued Overview of Governance structure AO World Plc Board The Company is led and controlled by the Board.
The structure and business of the Board is designed to ensure that the Directors focus on strategy, monitoring, governance and the performance of the Group.
The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for the long-term success of the Company.
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to Board Committees to assist it with discharging its duties, and delegates the detailed implementation of matters approved by the Board and the daytoday operational aspects of the business to the Executive Directors who cascade this responsibility to the Group Executive Team GET and throughout the Group.
The Reports of each Committee can be found on pages 60 to 79.
Group Executive Team Committees Senior Management Team Audit Remuneration Nomination see page 63 see page 67 see page 60 Insurance see page 40 The Board The formal schedule of matters reserved to our Board for decision making includes: Role of the Board Our Board is collectively responsible for the Groups performance Setting and reviewing the Groups longterm objectives, commercial strategy, business plan and annual budget.
and meets as often as necessary to effectively conduct its business.
The Board is responsible for supervising the management of the Overseeing the Groups operations and management.
Governance and risk control issues.
business and approving the strategic direction of the Company with three Committees to which it delegates key governance and Major capital projects.
A full list of those matters reserved for the Board is available on the Companys website at www.
com corporate and from the Company The Board has an annual rolling plan of items for discussion which is reviewed and adapted regularly to ensure all matters reserved to Secretary upon request.
the Board, with other items as appropriate, are discussed.
At each meeting, the Chief Executive Officer updates the Board on key Current composition of our Board As at the date of this Annual Report the Board comprises seven operational developments, provides an overview of the market, reports on Health and Safety and other key operational risks and members: the Chairman, three Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors, which includes the Senior Independent highlights the important milestones reached in the delivery of the Groups strategic objectives.
The Founder provides an update and Director.
All our Directors served throughout the year, with the exception of Geoff Cooper who was appointed to the Board on insight on market dynamics and the Chief Financial Officer provides an update on the Groups financial performance, banking 1 July 2016 and became Chairman following the Companys AGM on 21 July 2016, succeeding Richard Rose.
Further details of the relevant arrangements and provides an update on AOs relationships with investors and potential investors and shareholder analysis.
Meeting skills and experience of the Board are set out in their biographical details set out on pages 54 and 55.
The Board regularly reviews its proceedings and any unresolved concerns expressed by any Director are minuted by the Company Secretary who, as Director of Group composition, experience and skills to ensure that the Board and its Committees continue to work effectively and that the Directors are Legal, provides the Board with an update on any legal issues.
Members of the Group Executive Team are also invited to attend Board demonstrating a commitment to their roles.
meetings to present on specific business issues and proposals.
This way the Board is given the opportunity to meet with the next layers of management and gain a more indepth understanding of key areas of the business.
Additionally, over the current financial year, external speakers will be invited to present to Board on topical industry issues.
All of these topics lead to discussion, debate and challenge amongst the Directors.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 56 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information On 22 February 2017 the Company announced that as part of the Steve Caunce and Mark Higgins are together responsible for the natural evolution of the Board and executive management structure, daytoday running of the Group, carrying out our agreed strategy Steve Caunce would succeed John Roberts as Chief Executive Officer and implementing specific Board decisions.
John Roberts is and John would adopt the new role of Founder, Executive Director, responsible for innovation and inspiring AOs people.
providing focus on innovation and inspiring AOs people.
On 26 January 2017, the Company announced that the initial three-year The Senior Independent Director SID is Brian McBride, who is term of Rudi Lamprechts appointment as a Non-Executive Director, available to shareholders if they have concerns that the normal by agreement, would not be renewed.
On the recommendation of the channels of Chairman or Chief Executive Officer have failed to resolve, Nomination Committee, the Board has instructed a specialist search or for which such channels of communication are inappropriate.
The consultancy to identify two individuals with the experience and SID also acts as an internal sounding board for the Chairman and knowledge to broaden and strengthen the Boards existing serves as intermediary for the other Directors, with the Chairman, composition and to support the executive team in achieving the when necessary.
The role of the SID is considered to be an important Groups strategic ambitions whilst at the same time addressing its check and balance in the Groups governance structure.
In accordance Code compliance issues.
We expect the details of these appointments with the Code, neither the Chairman nor the SID are employed as to the Board to be announced in the coming months.
Further details about these changes and the work of the Nomination Diversity Committee is disclosed on pages 60 and 61.
We fully support the aims, objectives and recommendations outlined in Lord Davies Report Women on Boards and are aware of the need For information on our procedures concerning the appointment and to increase the number of women on our Board and in senior positions replacement of Directors, please see the Directors Report on page 81. throughout the Group.
However, we do not consider that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to set prescriptive Board meetings and attendance targets for gender on the Board and we will continue to make Nine Board meetings scheduled in the ordinary course of business appointments based on merit, against objective criteria to ensure we were held during the year ended 31March 2017 and there are currently appoint the best individual for each role whilst maintaining an overall nine meetings scheduled for the year ending 31March 2017. objective to have a Board of mixed gender and background that has Unscheduled supplementary meetings take place as and when an instinctive feel for our customers and people.
The table below summarises the attendance of the across our business there were 668 female employees out of a total Directors during the reporting period.
of 2,490 employees and we have one female on the Board.
Director Meetings eligible to attend Meetings attended Directors conflicts of interest Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they have Geoff Cooper 7 7 or may have interests that conflict with those of the Company, unless John Roberts 9 9 that conflict is first authorised by the Board.
This includes potential Steve Caunce 9 9 conflicts that may arise when a Director takes up a position with another company.
The Companys Articles of Association, which are Mark Higgins 9 9 in line with the Companies Act 2006, allow the Board to authorise Brian McBride 9 9 potential conflicts of interest that may arise and to impose limits or Chris Hopkinson 9 9 conditions, as appropriate, when giving any authorisation.
Any decision of the Board to authorise a conflict of interest is only effective Marisa Cassoni 9 9 if it is agreed without the conflicted Directors voting or without their Richard Rose 3 3 votes being counted.
In making such a decision, the Directors must act Rudi Lamprecht 7 5 in a way they consider in good faith will be most likely to promote the success of the Company.
Geoff Cooper was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2016.
Richard Rose retired from the Board following the AGM on 21 July 2016.
Rudi Lamprechts three-year term of appointment to the Board was not The Company has established a procedure for the appropriate renewed with effect from 16 February 2017. authorisation to be sought prior to the appointment of any new Director, or prior to a new conflict arising and for the regular review of Where Directors are unable to attend meetings, they receive the actual or potential conflicts of interest.
An Interests Register records papers scheduled for discussion at the relevant meetings, giving them any authorised potential conflicts and will be reviewed by the Board the opportunity to raise any issues and give any comments to the on a regular basis to ensure that the procedure is working effectively.
Chairman in advance of the meeting.
Division of responsibilities The positions of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are not exercised by the same person, ensuring a clear division of responsibility at the head of the Company.
The division of roles and responsibilities between Geoff Cooper and Steve Caunce is clearly established.
As Chairman of the Board, Geoff Cooper is responsible for its leadership, setting its agenda, monitoring its effectiveness and ensuring good governance.
He facilitates both the contribution of the Non-Executive Directors and constructive relations between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 57 Corporate Governance Statement continued Committees of the Board The Board has delegated authority to its Committees to carry out certain tasks on its behalf and to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements including the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules and the Code.
This also allows the Board to operate efficiently and to give the right level of attention and consideration to relevant matters.
A summary of the terms of reference of each Committee is set out below.
Membership required Minimum number of Committee report Committee Role and terms of reference under terms of reference meetings per year on pages Audit Reviews and reports to the Board on the Groups At least three members Three 63 to 65 financial reporting, internal control and risk management systems, whistleblowing, internal At least two should audit and the independence and effectiveness be independent of the external auditors.
Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Responsible for all elements of the remuneration At least three members Three 67 to 79 of the Executive Directors and the Chairman, the Company Secretary and the Group At least two should Executive Team.
be independent Non-Executive Directors Nomination Reviews the structure, size and composition At least three members Two 60 and 61 of the Board and its Committees and makes appropriate recommendations to the Board.
At least one should be an independent Non-Executive Director The full terms of reference for each Committee are available on the Companys website at www.
com corporate and from the Company Secretary upon request.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 58
