Corporate Governance Report Chairmans Introduction As Chairman my role is to ensure that the Board contains the right balance of skills and experience to work effectively and collaboratively to create sustainable, longterm shareholder value and that we have in place strong and effective governance practices.
Dennis Millard Chairman Good corporate governance is a key element of our business success.
The Board is committed to ensuring that high standards of governance, values The Board is committed to and behaviours are consistently applied throughout ensuring that high standards of the Group.
These elements are critical to business governance, values and behaviours integrity and maintaining the trust of all stakeholders in Halfords.
are consistently applied throughout the Group.
The following Corporate Governance Report contains a summary of the Companys governance arrangements and the regulatory assurances required under the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014.
Statement of Compliance with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code Code I would encourage you to attend this years Annual Responsibility for good governance lies with the General Meeting where you can meet me and my Board.
The Board is accountable to shareholders and Board colleagues.
is committed to the highest standards of corporate Dennis Millard governance as set out in the Code.
The Code can be Chairman found on the Financial Reporting Councils website at 24 May 2017 www.
The Board considers that throughout the period ended 31 March 2017, the Company has complied, without exception, with the provisions of the Code.
This report outlines how the Board has applied the main principles of good governance set out in the Code during the period under review.
Board Composition and Succession As at the date of this report, the Board of Directors was made up of six members, comprising the Non-Executive Chairman, three other Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
The composition of the Board is as set out on page 54 and the biographies of individual Directors, including any other business commitments, are available on pages 50 to 51.
com investors Chairman 1 governance the-board Executive Directors 2 Non-Executive Directors 3 58 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 58 07 06 2017 16:37:46 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Each of the Non-Executive Directors excluding the The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Chairman is considered independent of management are separate and clearly defined, with the division of and free of any relationship that could materially interfere responsibilities set out in writing and agreed by the with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Chairman was considered independent upon his The Chairman is responsible for the effective leadership, appointment.
The Board considers that each Nonoperation and governance of the Board and its Executive Director brings their own senior level of Committees.
He ensures that all Directors contribute experience, gained within their field.
effectively in the development and implementation of the Companys strategy whilst ensuring that the nature Director Tenure and extent of the significant risks the Company is willing 8yrs Dennis Millard to embrace in the implementation of its strategy are David Adams 6yrs 2mths determined and challenged.
Claudia Arney 6yrs 4mths The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for Helen Jones 3yrs 2mths the management of the Groups business and for implementing the Groups strategy.
Jill McDonald 2yrs 1yr 7mths Further details and the definitions of the roles Jonny Mason are available at: www.
com investors governance  The Directors together act in the best interests of the Succession planning for the Board is ongoing and as the Company via the Board and its Committees, devoting Chairman, Dennis Millard, will have been in office for nine sufficient time and consideration as necessary to years in 2018 and so, in accordance with best practice, the fulfil their duties.
Each Director brings different skills, intention is that he will stand down at the Annual General experience and knowledge to the Company, with Meeting in July 2018.
To manage this succession, in the the Non-Executive Directors additionally bringing second half of the financial year ahead the Nomination independent thought and judgement.
This combination Committee will begin the process of identifying suitable seeks to ensure that no individual or group unduly candidates and recommending an appointment to the restricts or controls decision-making.
Succession planning is also viewed at executive management level on an ongoing basis.
In addition, it was announced on 3 May 2017, that the Companys Chief Executive Officer, Jill McDonald, has resigned from the business to take up another role: she will remain as Chief Executive Officer until the expiry of her notice period in October 2017.
The process is underway to find her replacement.
As with the succession of the Chairman, this process will be led by the Nomination Committee.
Board Responsibilities The Board is committed to ensuring that it provides leadership to the business as a whole, having regard to the interests and views of its shareholders and other stakeholders.
It is also responsible for setting the Groups strategy, values and standards.
Details of the Groups business model and strategy can be found on pages 12 to 17.
com 59 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 59 07 06 2017 16:37:47 1 April 2008 1 April 2009 1 April 2010 1 April 2011 1 April 2012 1 April 2013 1 April 2014 1 April 2015 1 April 2016 1 April 2017 Corporate Governance Report Shareholders The Chairman Key Responsibilities Leads the Board including its operation and governance Builds an effective and complementary Board Sets the agenda, style and tone of Board discussions Facilitates and encourages active engagement in meetings, promoting effective relationships and open communication Ensures effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders Acts as an adviser to the Chief Executive Officer Meets with the Non-Executive Directors without Executive Directors being present The Halfords Board Key Responsibilities The Board is the principal decision-making forum for the Group, setting the strategic direction and ensuring that the Group manages risk effectively.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for financial and operational performance.
See page 62 for examples of Matters Reserved for the Board.
A complete list is available on the Companys website www.
com investors governance  Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent Director Key Responsibilities: Key Responsibilities: Develops the Group objectives and strategy for Board approval Supports the Chairman in his role Creates and recommends to the Board an annual budget and Holds meetings with the other Non-Executive Directors three-year financial plan without the Chairman at least once a year to appraise the Chairmans performance Delivers the annual budget and plan and other objectives and executes the agreed Group strategy Acts as an intermediary for the other Directors or as a sounding board for the Chairman if required Identifies and executes new business opportunities and potential acquisitions or disposals Available to other Directors and shareholders with concerns that cannot be addressed through the normal channels Manages the Groups risk in line with the Board approved risk profile Non-Executive Directors Company Secretary Key Responsibilities: Key Responsibilities: Evaluate and appraise the performance of Executive Directors Works closely with the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Senior Management against agreed targets Officer and Board Committee Chairmen in setting the rolling calendar of agenda items for the meetings of the Board and its Participate in the development of the strategy of the Group Committees Monitor the financial information, risk management and Ensures accurate, timely and appropriate information flows controls processes of the Group to make sure that they are within the Board, the Committees and between the Directors sufficiently robust and senior management Meet regularly with senior management Provides advice on Board matters, legal and regulatory issues, Periodically visit Halfords, Cycle Republic and Tredz and corporate governance, Listing Rules compliance and best Wheelies retail stores, Autocentres outlets and distribution practice centres.
Meet together without the Executive Directors present Formulate Executive Director remuneration and succession planning 60 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 60 07 06 2017 16:37:48 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Nomination Audit Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Key Objectives: Key Objectives: Key Objectives: To ensure that the Board has the skills, To provide effective governance over the To ensure that a Board policy exists knowledge and experience to be effective Groups financial reporting processes.
for the remuneration of the CEO, the in discharging its responsibilities and to These include the internal audit function Chairman, Non-Executive Directors, other have oversight of all governance matters.
The Committee Executive Directors and members of the maintains oversight of the Groups executive management.
Main Responsibilities systems of internal control and risk The Nomination Committees Main Responsibilities management activities.
responsibilities include: The Remuneration Committees Main Responsibilities responsibilities include: making appropriate recommendations The Audit Committees responsibilities to maintain the balance of skills and recommending to the Board the total include: experience of the Board by: individual remuneration package of making recommendations to the Executive Directors and members of considering the size, structure and Board on the appointment removal the executive management: composition of the Board: of the external Auditor, the terms of recommending the design of the considering senior management engagement and fees: Company share incentive plans to succession plans: and reviewing and monitoring the the Board, approving any awards integrity of the Companys financial to Executive Directors and other identifying and making statements, including its annual and executive managers under those recommendations to the Board on interim reports and preliminary results plans and defining any performance potential candidates for the Board.
announcements and any other formal conditions attached to those awards: More information on Diversity in announcement relating to its financial determining the Chairmans fee, the Group can be found on page 66 performance, and then recommending following a proposal from the CEO: and the same to the Board: Read more within the Nomination maintaining an active dialogue with assisting the Board in achieving its Committee Report on pages 70 institutional investors and shareholder obligations under the Code in areas of to 71 representatives.
risk management and internal control: and Read more within the Remuneration Committee Report focusing particularly on compliance on pages 78 to 97 with legal requirements, accounting standards and the Listing Rules.
Read more within the Audit Committee Report on pages 74 to 77 Chair: Members: Chair: Members: Chair: Members: Dennis Millard David Adams David Adams Claudia Arney Claudia Arney David Adams Claudia Arney Helen Jones Dennis Millard Helen Jones Helen Jones Jill McDonald The Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees full Terms of Reference are available on the Companys website www.
com investors governance our-committees or on request from the Company Secretary.
com 61 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 61 07 06 2017 16:37:48 Corporate Governance Report Board Responsibilities THE BOARD The key responsibilities of Board members are set out in the chart on page 60. recommendation and declaration Key Matters Reserved A formal schedule of matters reserved for the of dividends: for Board Approval Board is in place and regularly reviewed.
approval of major capital expenditure Group Strategy and Risk This is available at www.
projects: and Management com investors governance mattersapproval of material contracts.
approval of the Groups Strategy  and Business Plan: Board Membership and To discharge these responsibilities effectively, approval of changes to capital Committees the Board has additionally implemented a system structure: appointment of Directors: of delegated authorities, which is described on approval of acquisitions or disposals: approval of the fees of the page 62.
This enables the effective day-to-day approval of any decisions to cease to Non-Executive Directors: and operation of the business and ensures that operate all or any material part of the significant matters are brought to the attention setting of Board Committees Groups business: and of management and the Board as appropriate.
is through this system that the Board is able to approval of extension of activities Corporate Governance provide oversight and direction to the Executive into new businesses or geographical undertaking formal performance Directors, the Senior Management Team and the areas.
reviews of the Board, Committees wider business.
Financial and Internal Controls and individual Directors: Matters Reserved for the Board include: Authority: oversight of risk management and determining the independence of Strategy and Management: Structure and Capital: internal control framework: Directors: and Investor Relations: Audit, Financial Reporting and approval of budgets: receiving reports on Group policies, Controls: Nominations to the Board: Executive approval of financial statements such as health and safety, risk Remuneration and material contracts.
and results announcements: management strategy, the CSR Strategy and charitable and political approval of shareholder donations.
communications, circulars and Notices of Meetings: Read more about the remit of each approval of the Auditors Committee on page 61 remuneration and terms of engagement: See Committee Terms of Reference at www.
com investors governance ourcommittees How We Do Business is the internal name of the formal delegated authorities document approved by the Board.
It describes how dayEXECUTIVE to-day decisions are delegated to the Executive DIRECTORS Directors, the Senior Management Team and AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT others within the business.
Briefing sessions were held for all relevant Support Centre and Operating colleagues upon launch.
Each potential activity is set out by reference from whom approval must be sought and the process and documentation required to evidence that approval.
Where an activity is not expressly described within How We Do Business, approval must be sought from the Senior Management Team, who will apply the principles of How We Do Business to the THE BUSINESS decision.
The implementation of the document is constantly monitored, with updates proposed to the Board to reflect changing practices or structures.
Amendments are made to improve the efficiency and governance across the business.
62 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 62 07 06 2017 16:37:53 DELEGATED AUTHORITIES STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Board Meetings and Attendance Remuneration Nomination Board Audit Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Board Member Scheduled: 10 Scheduled: 3 Scheduled: 5 Scheduled: 2 Executive Directors Jill McDonald 10 10 n a n a 2 2 Jonny Mason 10 10 n a n a n a Non-Executive Directors 10 10 5 5 2 2 Dennis Millard n a David Adams 10 10 3 3 5 5 2 2 Claudia Arney 10 10 3 3 5 5 2 2 Helen Jones 10 10 3 3 5 5 2 2 Number of meetings attended by the individual Number of meetings available to the individual The table above shows the attendance of Directors at the meetings At each Board meeting, the Chief Executive Officer delivers a high of the Board and of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination level update on the business, the Board considers specific reports, Committees during the year ended 31 March 2017. reviews business and financial performance, key initiatives, risks and governance.
In addition, throughout the year the Senior Management Other members of the Senior Management Team and advisors Team and other colleagues deliver presentations to the Board on attended Board meetings by invitation as appropriate throughout proposed initiatives and progress on projects.
The Board also held a two-day Strategy meeting during the period.
com 63 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 63 07 06 2017 16:38:00 Corporate Governance Report KEY BOARD DISCUSSIONS AND ACTIONS DURING THE PERIOD Review of trading performance Review of trading performance Review of FY16 results and key messages Consideration of potential acquisition opportunity April Dec Review of a potential acquisition opportunity Discussion on capital return options 2016 2016 Discussion on summer activity plan and new brand Review and approval of Document Retention Policy guidelines Review and approval of Ethical Trading Statement Capital structure update Discussion on brand and brand strategy Review of Directors Appointments and Conflicts of Interests Register Discussion of logistics network infrastructure Review and approval of Budget for FY17 Review of trading performance Review of trading performance Review of the Groups annual colleague engagement Approval of special dividend May Jan survey Review of customer strategy 2016 2017 Review of third distribution centre site Update on digital business Review of Cycle Republic brand Peak trading review Discussion on Store of the Future Consideration of 5 Year Plan Further discussion on potential acquisition opportunity Discussion on developments for FY18 Approval of debt target and capital returns Status of budget for FY18 Review of the preliminary results announcement Update and approval for software programme Final review of the FY16 Annual Report and Financial Officer Statements Approval to recommend the FY16 final dividend Review of Board Evaluation results Approval of Directors Appointment and Conflicts of Interest Register Approval of Risk Register Approval of Notice of Meeting for FY16 AGM Review of trading performance Review of trading performance Review of Cycle Republic brand Update on IT strategy July March Review of Store of the Future Update on Halfords Global Sourcing 2016 2017 Review of potential corporate activity Update on logistics network Approval of role of Chairman, role of Chief Executive Health and Safety review and update Officer and role of Senior Independent Director Review of FY18 budget Discussion post Brexit vote Update of 5 Year Plan Group Treasury review Review of bank debt facility Review and approval of Diversity Policy Review and approval of Environmental Policy Review and approval of Matters Reserved for the Board Proposal on the re-election of Directors at the FY17 AGM Review of draft reports for inclusion in the FY17 Annual Report and Financial Statements Review of trading performance Review of Investor Survey Sept Approval of Groups Delegated Authorities 2016 Review and approval of Halfords Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement Review and approval of Sanctions Policy Review of trading performance Discussion on forecast for FY17 Quarter 2 Nov First look at FY18 and 5 Year Plan 2016 Review of draft interim results announcement and proposed messaging Approval of interim dividend and dividend policy 64 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 64 07 06 2017 16:38:01 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Board Committees Concerns The Boards principal Committees are the Audit Committee, the The Chairman seeks to resolve any concerns raised by the Board, Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee, as detailed whether raised in a Board meeting or in another forum.
Where raised in the chart on page 61.
In December 2015, the Board established and unresolved in a Board meeting, the unresolved business can a Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee, comprising be recorded on behalf of a Director in the minutes of the relevant Directors and senior management and chaired by a Non-Executive meeting.
A resigning Non-Executive Director would also be able to Director.
Each Committee has its Terms of Reference approved raise any concerns in a written letter to the Chairman, who would and regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Terms of Reference for bring such concerns to the attention of the Board.
No such concerns the Committees are available on www.
com have been raised throughout the period.
On the following pages each Committee Chairman reports how the Committee he she chairs discharged Independence and Effectiveness its responsibilities in FY17 and the material matters that were Following a rigorous review, the Board considers David Adams, considered.
Claudia Arney and Helen Jones to be independent in character and judgement in accordance with the requirements of the Code.
Following each meeting of a Committee, the Committee Chairman The Chairman, Dennis Millard, was considered independent on his reports to the Board.
Whilst not entitled to attend, other Directors, appointment.
professional advisors and members of senior management attend when invited to do so.
The Auditor attends Audit Committee meetings In compliance with the requirements of the Code, at least half of by invitation.
No person is present at Nomination Committee or the Board, excluding the Chairman, are deemed to be independent.
Remuneration Committee during discussions pertinent to them.
The During the period, of the five Directors other than the Chairman, three Company Secretary acts as the secretary to each Committee.
i. e. 60% of the Board were independent.
A Disclosure Committee, made up of a minimum of two Directors, The independent Non-Executive Directors bring a wide range of approves the final wording of market announcements prior to release.
experience and expertise to the Groups affairs and carry significant There were six Disclosure Committee meetings during the period.
weight in the Boards decisions.
The independent Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to challenge management and help The day-to-day investment decisions of the Group are approved develop proposals on strategy.
by an Investment Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
Similarly, the treasury needs of the Group are managed by the Treasury Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer: the other members are senior members of the Finance and Treasury teams.
The Board may establish other ad hoc committees of the Board to consider specific issues from time to time.
No such committees were formed during the year.
Skills and Experience of the Board Delivering the journey The below graphic illustrates the number of Directors on the Board who have the relevant skills and experience.
Leadership Corporate 6 5 Strategy 6 Banking 4 Cross-functional 4 Governance 6 Finance 4 M & A 5 Supply Chain 4 Digital 4 Brand building Retail 6 6 Brand development Customer service 6 6 Marketing 5 Individual Directors may fall into one or more categories.
Represents the Board at the close of the period.
com 65 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 65 07 06 2017 16:38:01 Corporate Governance Report Diversity Appointments to the Board During the year, the Board renewed the Groups Diversity Policy the There were no appointments to the Board during the year.
Policy which sets out our commitment to eliminating unlawful Directors Induction discrimination and promoting equality of opportunity.
The Policy is When new Directors are appointed they receive a personalised applied to the Board and it is considered that the background and induction programme, tailored to their individual requirements, experience brought to the Board by each individual demonstrates the to include briefings on the activities of the Group and visits to Boards diversity and commitment to its Diversity Policy.
They also meet all of the Companys other that candidates are considered on merit and against objective Directors and senior executives.
This facilitates their understanding criteria, and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, of the Group and the key drivers of the business performance.
including gender is established in the Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee.
Training and Development All current Directors have various opportunities for ongoing No fixed quota is applied to decisions regarding recruitment, rather development and support via: the Nomination Committee considers capability and capacity to commit the necessary time to the role in its recommendations to a programme of Support Centre, distribution centre, Halfords, the Board.
The intention is to ensure the appointment of the most Cycle Republic and Tredz and Wheelies retail stores and suitably qualified candidate to complement and balance the current Autocentres outlet visits: skills, knowledge and experience on the Board.
Those appointed reviews with the Chairman to identify any training and are deemed to be the best able to help lead the Company in its development needs: long-term strategy.
At Halfords half of the Board is female.
The chart below demonstrates the gender split at Board level, within senior advice on governance, relevant legislative changes affecting the management and across the workforce as a whole.
business or their duties as Directors from the Company Secretary: Board Level access to independent professional advice at the Companys expense: and membership of the Deloitte Academy, a training and guidance resource for boards and directors.
50% Female Evaluation Male The Code recommends that an evaluation of the effectiveness of 50% the Board and its Committees is conducted annually and that this process is facilitated externally at least every third year.
This year the evaluation process was carried out internally for the second year.
The last external review was undertaken by Linstock in 2015.
Senior Management Level The evaluation was internally facilitated by the Company Secretary where each Director was required to respond to a questionnaire devised by the Company Secretary and agreed with the Chairman.
The evaluation was based on a number of key areas: Female 60% Board composition, role, skills, diversity, balance, experience and effectiveness: Male Board leadership and culture: 40% developing the Companys strategy and its implementation: Board and Committee agendas, papers and resource: All Colleagues monitoring of Company performance: risk management: governance, regulatory compliance and support: Female committee performance: 77% Male individual Director effectiveness: and succession planning and training issues.
23% The Board is well placed by the mixture of skills, experience and knowledge of its Directors to act in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
66 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 66 07 06 2017 16:38:01 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The Directors individual responses were collated and evaluated.
The risk management and internal control system is designed to The Chairman considered the results of the performance evaluation manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve business report which were discussed with the Board.
objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Boards policy Overall, the Board is considered strong, bringing a good balance on internal control is implemented by management through a clearly and mix of experience and diversity.
Board Committees were defined operating structure with lines of responsibility and delegated all considered to work well and to be effective in meeting the authority.
requirements of the Terms of Reference.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Following the review, the most significant actions to be taken as a significant risks faced by the Group and assessing the effectiveness result of the assessment are set out below: of related controls has been established by the Board to ensure improved succession planning: an acceptable risk reward profile across the Group.
The Groups corporate risk register is maintained by the Head of Internal Audit and more corporate governance updates: Risk.
It records key risks, with impact and likelihood assessments, improved focus on Board Strategy Day: and mitigations and ongoing developments.
It is updated regularly, following structured interviews with managers and executives across ensuring continuation of the NED programme.
The accuracy of the register is validated through a rolling programme of independent internal audits.
The register is scrutinised It is expected that the Board evaluation for FY18 will be facilitated in detail annually by the Audit Committee.
Any material change in the externally.
register is flagged to the Audit Committee by the Head of Internal Re-election Audit and Risk within his regular internal audit progress report.
In compliance with the Code and the Companys Articles of The process has been in place throughout the period ended Association, all Directors on the Board as at 24 May 2017, will seek 31 March 2017, and up to the date of approving the Annual Report re-election at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Directors and their Other Interests Our process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant Each Director is required to notify the Company of any situation in risks faced by the Group and assessing the effectiveness of related which he or she has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that controls routinely identifies areas for improvement, but the Board has conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company neither identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses that a situational conflict.
None was notified during the period.
it has determined to be material or significant.
All Directors are aware of the need to consult with the Company The Board considered its appetite in relation to the Groups top risks, Secretary should any possible situational conflict arise, so that prior determining that the risks and mitigating actions were appropriate to consideration can be given by the Board as to whether or not such the level of risk that was both acceptable to, and incumbent within, conflict will be approved.
More information on the Companys key risks and uncertainties, and its risk assessment methodology, is shown on Details of the Directors service contracts, emoluments, the interests pages 42 to 47. of the Directors and their immediate families in the share capital of the Company and options to subscribe for shares in the Company are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 89 to 97.
Internal Control and Risk Management Overall responsibility for the system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness rests with the Board.
This involves ensuring that there is a process to identify, evaluate and manage any significant risks that may affect the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
The Board has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of the systems of internal control during the year, under the auspices of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee provides the Board with an independent assessment of the Groups financial position, accounting affairs and control systems.
In addition, the Board receives regular reports on how specific risks that are assessed as material to the Group are being managed.
For further information on the Companys compliance with the Code provisions relating to the Audit Committee and Auditor please refer to pages 74 to 77.
com 67 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 67 07 06 2017 16:38:02 Corporate Governance Report Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and IR Director have met Shareholder Engagement with analysts and institutional shareholders during the period to The Board is committed to effective communications with its keep them informed of significant developments and help maintain a shareholders and, accordingly, has a strong Investor Relations IR balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
The IR Director programme that seeks to actively engage with shareholders.
and Company Secretary bring to the attention of the Board any This programme includes formal presentations of full year and material matters of concern raised by the Companys shareholders, interim results.
These presentations, along with the Annual Report including private investors.
and Accounts, are the primary means of communication during the year with all of the Companys shareholders.
Additionally, the Chief KEY THEMES DISCUSSED WITH SHAREHOLDERS IN FY17 IR PROGRAMME Progress in the execution of the Moving Up A Gear strategy: The Group has a comprehensive IR programme through which the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and IR Director The dynamics of the Motoring and Cycling markets, including regularly engage with the Companys largest shareholders the growth prospects, competitive environment and future on a one-to-one basis, to discuss strategic issues and give trends: presentations on the Groups results.
Further communication is The impact of foreign exchange volatility following the EU achieved through the Annual Report and Accounts, corporate referendum: website and investor days.
Annual Report and Accounts this is the most significant Gross and operating margin performance: communication tool, ensuring that investors are kept fully Discussion and formulation of the new Directors informed regarding Group developments.
Management Remuneration Policy: and continually strives to produce a clear and transparent Annual Report and Accounts, which provides a complete picture: Capital allocation priorities.
In particular, the trends and preferences surrounding internal investment, M&A and returns The corporate website provides investors with timely to shareholders.
information on the Groups performance as well as details of corporate social responsibility activities: The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that appropriate channels of communication are established between Directors Management roadshow allows key investors to access and shareholders and that all Directors are aware of any issues or management, usually attended by the Chief Executive Officer, concerns that major shareholders may have.
Regular engagement Chief Financial Officer and IR Director: provides investors with an opportunity to discuss any areas of Attending broker conferences Management regularly attend interest and raise concerns.
The Group is eager to make sure that and present at various conferences hosted by a variety of it understands shareholders views and that it is able to effectively brokers to ensure a wide variety of shareholders, including communicate its strategy.
The Group engages effectively through those from different geographies, also have access to its regular communications, the Annual General Meeting and management: and other IR activity.
In addition, the Board commissions independent investor perception studies from time to time.
The last such Responding promptly the Group is committed to responding survey was undertaken in June and July 2016, with the results fed to any investor-related queries within a short time frame.
back to the Board in September 2016.
68 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 68 07 06 2017 16:38:03 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The primary method of communication with shareholders IR calendar for FY18 is by electronic means, helping to make the Company more environmentally friendly.
Information available on the Companys FY17 Preliminary FY18 20 week May Sept website includes current and historic copies of the Annual Report results trading update 2017 2017 and Accounts, full and half-year financial statements, market announcements, corporate governance information, the Terms of FY18 Interim Reference for the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees UK management results, UK June Nov and the Matters Reserved for the Board.
roadshow management 2017 2017 roadshow The Annual General Meeting gives all shareholders the opportunity to communicate directly with the Board and their participation FY18 Q3 trading is welcomed.
The Chairmen of the Remuneration, Nomination, AGM July Jan statement 2017 2018 Audit and CSR Committees will be present at the AGM and will be in a position to answer questions relevant to the work of those Committees.
It is the Companys practice to propose separate resolutions on each substantial issue at the Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman will advise shareholders on the proxy voting details at the meeting.
By order of the Board Tim OGorman Company Secretary 24 May 2017 STOCK CODE: HFD halfords.
