84 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 4.
Governance The boards intention remains to undertake an The board considers that their skills, Results will be reported for the four sectors externally facilitated evaluation process at least experience, independence and knowledge and each is managed by executive every three years.
In the intervening years, the of the company enable them to discharge management teams reporting to the GMC.
review will be led by the Chairman supported their respective duties and responsibilities The group has a comprehensive annual by the committee chairs and the Company effectively.
Biographies of each of the budgeting and planning process including Secretary.
As the last external evaluation was directors standing for re-election can be plans for the following two years.
Budgets are undertaken in 2014 15, the board intends to found on pages 72 and 73. approved by the board.
Variances from budget conduct an external process next year.
Our 2017 AGM circular details why are closely monitored.
In addition to the the board believes each director should be annual budgeting process, there is a ten year re-elected based on continued satisfactory strategy review process.
Review of the Chairmans performance in the role.
In the circular, the Performance Chairman confirms to shareholders that, Read more about our five The Non-Executive Directors recognise that following formal performance evaluation, divisions on pages 28 to 43. the Chairmans effectiveness is vital to that of the performance of each Non-Executive the board.
Led by Alan Ferguson, the Senior Director continues to be effective and that Independent Director, the Non-Executive they demonstrate commitment to the role Risk Management and Directors are responsible for performance including commitment of time for board Internal Control evaluation of the Chairman and for providing and board committee meetings.
a fair and balanced assessment to The board is ultimately responsible for shareholders.
maintaining sound risk management and Remuneration In April 2017, the Non-Executive internal control systems including financial Directors, led by Alan, met without Tim controls, controls in respect of the financial The board has established a Remuneration Stevenson being present to discuss Tims reporting process and controls of an Committee.
The composition and role of the performance.
Key considerations were operational and compliance nature.
Remuneration Committee is set out in his overall leadership of the board, the The companys internal control systems the Annual Report on Remuneration.
setting of tone, the setting of appropriate are on a groupwide basis and the review agendas and the effectiveness of of their effectiveness including of the structuring and facilitating discussions.
See pages 97 to 116. application of the Guidance on Risk The views of Executive Directors were also Management, Internal Control and Related taken into account.
Alan subsequently Financial and Business Reporting issued by reported the outcome to the board that the FRC in September 2014 FRC Guidance Accountability Tims leadership of the board continued is implemented and reported from a to be effective and engendered openness groupwide perspective, covering the company Financial and Business Reporting and constructive challenge.
There are no material joint ventures or associates which have not In its reporting to shareholders, the board been dealt with as part of the group for the recognises its responsibility to present a fair, Review of Executive Director purposes of applying the FRC Guidance.
balanced and understandable assessment Performance Our risk management systems and of the groups position and prospects.
This The Chairman met with the Non-Executive internal control systems are designed to meet responsibility covers the annual report and Directors without the Executive Directors the groups needs and to manage the risks to accounts and extends to half year and other being present in November 2016 in order to which it is exposed, including the risks of price sensitive public reports and reports to review the Executive Directors performance.
failure to achieve business objectives and of regulators, as well as to information required Each of the directors was considered to be material misstatement or loss.
However, such by statutory requirements.
effective in discharging their responsibilities.
risks cannot be eliminated.
Our systems can The directors are responsible for preparing only provide reasonable, but not absolute, this annual report and consider it, taken as a Annual Re-Election of Directors assurance.
They can never completely protect whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable against such factors as unforeseeable events, and provides the information necessary for In accordance with the Code, all directors human fallibility or fraud.
shareholders to assess the companys position retire at each Annual General Meeting The board confirms that there is an and performance, business model and strategy.
AGM and offer themselves for re-election ongoing process in place established in For the year ended 31st March 2017, by shareholders.
accordance with the FRC Guidance for the group was organised into five divisions: On 17th October 2016, Anna Manz identifying, evaluating and managing the Emission Control Technologies, Process joined the board as Chief Financial Officer principal risks faced by the group.
This process Technologies, Precious Metal Products, and Dr Jane Griffiths was appointed to the is regularly reviewed by the GMC, the board Fine Chemicals and New Businesses.
The board as a Non-Executive Director with effect and the Audit Committee as appropriate and group reports results for these five divisions.
As required by our has been in place during the year and up to The divisions were managed by executive Articles of Association, Anna and Jane will the date of approval of this annual report.
management teams reporting to the GMC.
retire at the 2017 AGM and offer themselves The board is responsible for determining The GMC reviewed monthly summaries of for election.
All other directors will be the nature and extent of the principal risks it financial results from each division through offering themselves for re-election.
is willing to take in achieving its strategic a standardised reporting process.
From Our five Non-Executive Directors objectives.
The boards view of Johnson April 2017, the group has restructured are each determined by the board to be Mattheys key strategic and operating risks into four sectors: Clean Air, Efficient independent directors in accordance and how the company seeks to manage Natural Resources, Heath and New Markets.
with the criteria set out in the Code.
those risks is set out in this report.
