Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Director election Following the Board evaluation process and the subsequent recommendations from the Nomination Committee the Board considers that all Directors continue to be effective, committed to their roles and are Board evaluation and effectiveness able to devote sufficient time to their duties.
Accordingly, all Directors will The effectiveness and performance of the Board is vital to our success.
seek election and re-election at the Companys AGM.
An indepth internal evaluation of the performance of the Board and its Committees was carried out by the Companys new Chairman, Geoff Annual General Meeting Cooper during the year.
As part of this process one-to-one meetings were The AGM of the Company will take place at 11.00 am on Friday 21 July 2017 conducted with all Directors who were given the opportunity to express at the Companys registered office at AO Park, 5A The Parklands, Lostock, their views about: Bolton BL6 4SD.
All shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote, in person or by proxy, at the AGM.
The notice of the AGM can be found in a The performance of the Board and its Committees, including how booklet which is being mailed out at the same time as this Report and can the Directors work together as a whole.
also be found on our website www.
The notice of the The balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge AGM sets out the business of the meeting and an explanatory note on all of the Directors.
Separate resolutions are proposed in respect of each Individual performance and whether each Director continues substantive issue.
to make an effective contribution.
Geoff Cooper, the Chair of each of the Committees and the Executive The results of the evaluation were collated by the Chairman who made Directors will be present at the AGM and will be available to answer appropriate recommendations which were considered by the Board.
The results of the evaluation indicated that the Board is working well and that there are no significant concerns among the Directors about its Information, support and development opportunities effectiveness.
Some actions were agreed and will be progressed over available to Directors the coming year, for example strengthening the Non-Executive Director All Board Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who advises component of the Board to ensure the correct mix of skills and to provide them on governance matters.
The Chairman and the Company Secretary appropriate support to the Executive Directors in pursuit of achieving the work together to ensure that Board papers are clear, accurate, delivered in Groups strategic objectives and scheduling a number of Board strategy a timely manner to Directors and of sufficient quality to enable the Board days to enhance debate, challenge and understanding of the to discharge its duties.
Specific business-related presentations are given opportunities ahead.
by members of the Group Executive Team when appropriate, and going forward it is also intended that external speakers will attend Board During the year, the Chairman met with the Non-Executive Directors meetings to present on relevant topics.
As well as the support of the without the Executive Directors present to discuss Board balance, monitor Company Secretary, there is a procedure in place for any Director to take the powers of individual Executive Directors and raise any issues between independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the themselves as appropriate.
Geoff Cooper became Chairman in July 2016 furtherance of their duties, where considered necessary, for example and given the relatively short amount of time from his appointment to the New Bridge Street consultants advise on remuneration matters and Audit end of the Groups reporting period, an appraisal of his performance by Committee members have received guidance from the external auditors the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, did on their duties as members of this Committee and new developments in not occur until shortly after the end of the reporting period.
As part of the Board Evaluation process, training and development needs are considered and training courses are arranged, Following evaluation, it was agreed that all Directors contribute effectively, where appropriate.
demonstrate a high level of commitment to their role and together provide the skills and experience that are relevant and necessary for the In line with the Code, we ensure that any new Directors joining the leadership and direction of the Company.
Board receives appropriate support and are given a comprehensive, formal and tailored induction programme organised through the Independence Company Secretary, including the provision of background material For the purposes of assessing compliance with the Code, the Board on the Company and briefings with the Group Executive Team where considers that Marisa Cassoni and Brian McBride are Non-Executive appropriate.
Each Directors individual experience and background are Directors who are independent of management and free from any taken into account in developing a programme tailored to his or her own business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the requirements.
Any new Director will also be expected to meet with major exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board also considers that shareholders if required.
Geoff Cooper, Chairman of the Company, was independent at the time of his appointment in July 2016 and remains so.
As previously stated the External directorships Board is currently conducting a search for the addition of two independent Any external appointments or other significant commitments of the Non-Executive Directors to broaden the skills of the Board and strengthen Directors require the prior approval of the Board.
Details of the Directors its independent component.
significant external directorships can be found on pages 54 and 55.
No new appointments were made during the year.
Having regard to the character, judgement, commitment and performance of the Board and Committees to date, and following the While all Non-Executive Directors have external directorships, the Board Board evaluation conducted during the year, the Board is satisfied that no is comfortable that these do not impact on the time that any Director one individual will dominate the Boards decision taking and considers devotes to the Company and we believe that this experience only that all of the Non-Executive Directors are able to provide objective enhances the capability of the Board.
Save for Crystalcraft Limited, a challenges to management.
A key objective of the Board is to ensure that dormant company, and the charities Onside Youth Zones and AO Smile its composition is sufficiently diverse and reflects a broad range of skills, Charitable Foundation, for which he receives no fees, John Roberts does knowledge and experience to enable it to meet its responsibilities.
As can not hold any external directorships.
Save for Crystalcraft Limited and been seen from the biographies on pages 54 and 55, the Chairman and Aghoco 1283 Limited, dormant companies, and the AO Smile Charitable the Non-Executive Directors collectively have significant industry, public Foundation, for which he receives no fees, Steve Caunce does not hold company and international experience which will support the Company any external directorships.
Mark Higgins holds no external directorships.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 59
