Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Following Rudi Lamprecht leaving the Board on 16 February 2017, Report of the Audit Committee Brian McBride, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director replaced him as a member of the Audit Committee.
Chris Hopkinson is not Marisa Cassoni regarded as an independent Non-Executive Director for the purposes Chair, Audit Committee of the Code and therefore during the year the Committee was not fully compliant in this respect.
However, Chris financial experience and knowledge is valuable to the Committee and will help to ensure that the Committee is run effectively.
Julie Finnemore Director of Group Legal and Company Secretary serves as Secretary to the Committee.
By invitation, the meetings of the Audit Committee may be attended by the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Director of Financial Control and the Head of Internal Audit.
The external audit engagement partner and team are also invited to attend Audit Committee meetings to ensure full communication of matters relating to the audit.
As Chair of the Audit Committee, I met regularly with both the internal and external auditors during the year.
Role of Audit Committee The Audit Committee has particular responsibility for monitoring the Groups financial reporting process, the adequacy and effectiveness of the operation of internal controls and the integrity of the financial statements.
This includes a review of significant issues and judgements, policies and disclosures.
The Committee reviews the Companys risk management and viability disclosure for recommendation to the Board for approval.
Our duties also include keeping under review the scope and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness, consideration of managements response to any major external or internal audit recommendations and the independence and objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
Additionally, the Board requests that the Audit Committee advises whether we believe the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, I am pleased to report on the role and activities of the Audit Committee is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information for the year.
necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Composition and attendance of the Committee The members of the Audit Committee who served during the year A forward agenda will be used for the coming years activities focused ended 31March 2017 and their attendance at Committee meetings is around the review of the annual financial statements, the results of the as follows: external annual audit and interim reviews and internal audit quarterly updates, relevant interim financial reporting and the external audit plan: Meetings review of risk management reports: review of internal audit plans and eligible to Meetings findings and recommendations.
attend attended Marisa Cassoni Chair 5 5 A key responsibility of the Audit Committee is to ensure that the external audit process and audit quality are effective.
We do this by relying on: Chris Hopkinson Non-Executive Director 5 5 i t he engagement with the Audit Committee Chair and the lead Brian McBride Senior Independent audit engagement partner which will generally be through Non-Executive Director 1 1 facetoface meetings: Rudi Lamprecht Independent 4 3 ii t he reports which are brought to the Committee by the lead audit engagement partner and other senior members of the audit team: From his appointment to the Committee with effect from 16 February 2017.
Until the expiration of his tenure on the Board with effect from 16 February 2017. iii t he quality of the management responses to audit queries: meetings held with the Chief Financial Officer, Director of Financial Control and Two meetings are scheduled per year to review each of the Annual the Chairman with the lead audit engagement partner which are Report and Accounts and the half-yearly report.
Other meetings are reported to myself as Audit Chair and the Committee: and scheduled as required.
iv a r eview of the independence and objectivity of the audit firm and also the quality of the formal audit report given by the Auditor to The Code recommends that the Audit Committee should comprise shareholders.
Feedback is also sought from members of the finance at least three members, all of whom should be independent team, the Company Secretary and the Group Internal Audit Manager.
Non-Executive Directors with at least one member having recent and relevant financial experience.
I am the independent Non-Executive Audit Committee meetings are generally scheduled to take place in Director considered to have recent and relevant financial experience advance of a Company Board meeting.
As the Committees Chair, I report and am pleased to confirm that all members have had extensive and to the Board as part of a separate agenda item on the activity of the relevant experience Directors biographies appear on pages 54 and 55.
Committee and matters of particular relevance to the Board in the conduct of their work.
All members of the Board have access to Audit Committee papers and minutes of meetings, and may, on request to the Chair, attend the meetings.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 63 Corporate Governance Statement continued Significant work undertaken by the Committee Significant financial accounting matters during the year Commercial The Group has a number of contracts with its Review of the 2017 Financial Statements income suppliers where additional discounts can be During the year to 31March 2017 the Audit Committee reviewed arrangements applied based on purchase levels.
The Group and endorsed, prior to submission to the Board, full-year financial accrues the additional discounts by reference statements and the preliminary, interim results and trading update to the expected level of purchases.
We considered internal audit reports and risk percentage discount accrued may differ to the management updates, agreed external and internal audit plans, current run rate of purchases as the calculation approved the review of accounting policies and ensured appropriate takes seasonality into account.
There is a risk whistleblowing arrangements and associated policies were in place.
therefore that the level of discounts provided for at the yearend could materially differ from The internal audit annual plan was reviewed and approved by the the actual number of purchases when compared Committee and all reports arising therefrom were reviewed and to assumptions made by management.
assessed, along with managements actions to findings and recommendations.
The management team has prepared detailed policies setting out the key assumptions and In reviewing the financial statements with management and the judgements in this area.
The Committee has Auditors, the Committee has discussed and debated the critical reviewed the judgements made in this area by accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty set management and, after due challenge and out in note 4 to the financial statements.
As a result of our review, the debate, was content with the assumptions Committee has identified the following issues that require a high level made and the judgements applied.
of judgement or have significant impact on interpretation of this Annual Report.
Training During the year the Audit Committee members have received Significant financial accounting matters guidance from the external Auditors on their duties as members of this Committee together with advice on new developments in Revenue The Company sells product protection plans reporting standards.
recognition, to customers purchasing electrical appliances, debtor as agent for Domestic and General, who Going Concern Assumption and Viability Statement recoverability administer the plans, collect money from the The Committee reviewed the Going Concern Assumption and Viability and legal risk customers and pay a commission to the Statement reported by the Group, as required by the UK Corporate in respect of Company for each plan sold.
Further information on the Going Concern product receivable for sales of product protection plans Assumption can be found on pages 44 and 94.
The Committee was protection for which the Group acts as an agent are included satisfied that the Viability Statement, noted on page 44 of the Strategic plans within revenue based on the estimated fair value Report, presented a reasonable outlook for the Group to March 2020. of future commissions receivable over the life of the product protection plan.
Revenue is Fair, balanced and understandable assessment recognised up front on the basis that the Group The Committee has reviewed the financial statements together with has fulfilled its obligations to the customer in line the narrative contained within the Strategic Report set out on pages with accounting standards relating to revenue 16 to 51 and believes that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken recognition.
The fair value calculation takes into as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
In arriving at this consideration the anticipated length of the plan conclusion the Committee undertook the following: and the historical rate of customer attrition and review of early drafts of the Annual Report and Accounts, is discounted to reflect the time value of money providing relevant feedback: but also risks around the recoverability of the regular review and discussion of the financial results during the year: receivable balance attributable to the product receipt and review of reports from the external and internal Auditors.
The Committee advised that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken The Company accounts for this income on the as a whole, were fair, balanced and understandable at a meeting of the basis that it is agent.
The basis upon which the Directors on 5 June 2017.
Company offers and sells product protection plans could change due to i a change in law or regulation or the interpretation of existing law or regulation, or ii a change in how the plans are managed or controlled or the level of risk that the Company assumes in relation thereto.
Any such change could affect the Companys accounting of such income and or could subject the Company to claims or proceedings in relation to such product protection plans.
Whilst this is an area of estimate and judgement, the management team has prepared detailed policies setting out the key assumptions in the model.
The Committee has reviewed the judgements made in this area by management and following appropriate challenge, we consider the policy and practice appropriate.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 64 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information KPMG charged the Group 42,750 plus VAT for non-audit related Internal Audit The Committee receives reports from the Internal Audit department services relating to the year under review.
12,750 of these fees related to some customer insight analysis performed by KPMG Nunwood, a and reviews the internal audit process and effectiveness as part of the Groups risk assessment programme and as part of its sign off on customer experience consultancy and a member of the KPMG group, which is distinctively separate from KPMGs audit arm and 30,000 internal controls.
An annual programme of internal audit assignments is reviewed by the Committee.
The Committee met with the Head of related to the half-year review.
Internal Audit without the presence of the Executive Directors on three occasions during the year.
It is the Companys practice that it will seek quotes from several firms, which may include the incumbent Auditor, before work on nonaudit External Auditor projects is awarded.
Contracts are awarded to our suppliers based on individual merits.
The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for leading the process for selecting the external Auditor.
It is required to make We receive advice from other firms for specific projects.
In particular, appropriate recommendations on the external Auditor through the Board to the shareholders to consider at the Companys AGM.
the Company will regularly seek advice from an independent third party on tax matters.
Following approval by shareholders at the AGM held on 21 July 2016, I will be available at the Companys forthcoming AGM to answer any KPMG LLP was appointed as AOs external Auditor for the financial year ending 31March 2017.
The Committee has been satisfied with the questions on the work of the Audit Committee.
quality of the audit provided, as well as with the independence of KPMG as Auditor.
During the year, KPMG charged the Group 0.3m Marisa Cassoni 2016: n a for audit-related services.
Chair, Audit Committee AO World Plc Internal controls During the year the Committee continued to oversee and review 5 June 2017 AOs internal financial controls and risk management processes, risk appetite statement and principal risks, details of which are set out in the Risk section of the Strategic Report on pages 40 to 44.
Non-audit services The Companys external Auditor may also be used to provide specialist advice where, as a result of their position as Auditor, they either must, or are best placed to, perform the work in question, subject always to EU audit rules surrounding prohibited non-audit services.
The Companys general policy is not to use the appointed external Auditor for any nonaudit services, however, a formal policy is in place in relation to adhoc occurrences to ensure that there is adequate protection of their independence and objectivity and any such use requires approval of the Audit Committee.
Further, any fees for non-audit services must fall within the limits specified by EU legislation, and various services are wholly prohibited: including tax, legal, valuation and payroll services.
Fees charged by KPMG in respect of nonaudit services generally require the prior approval of the Audit Committee.
A breakdown of the fees paid to KPMG during the year is set out in note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 65
