Corporate Governance Statement continued The Code recommends that the Nomination Committee is comprised Report of the Nomination Committee of a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Only Brian McBride is deemed as independent as whilst I was considered to be Geoff Cooper independent on appointment, the Code provides that thereafter the Chairman test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman, as was similarly the case with Richard Rose, my predecessor.
Chris Hopkinson is not deemed as independent for the purposes of the Code due to his historic involvement with the Company.
However, during the year the Board considered that it had a strong independent nonexecutive component and that the continuity, experience and knowledge of Chris made a significant contribution to the work of the Committee, ensuring the Committee is run effectively.
Julie Finnemore Director of Group Legal and Company Secretary serves as Secretary to the Committee.
By invitation, the meetings of the Nomination Committee may be attended by the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Founder Executive Director and Marisa Cassoni.
Geoff Cooper Chairman, Nomination Committee Role of the Nomination Committee The Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and has responsibility for nominating candidates for appointment as Directors to the Board, having regard to its composition in terms of diversity including gender and ensuring it reflects a broad range of skills, knowledge and experience to enable it to meet its responsibilities.
The Nomination Committee also makes recommendations to the Board concerning the reappointment of any Non-Executive Director as he or she reaches the end of the period of their initial appointment three years and at appropriate intervals during their tenure.
The Committee also considers and makes recommendations to the Board I am pleased to introduce the report of the Nomination Committee for on the annual election and reelection of any Director by shareholders the year.
Full details of the Committee and its activities during the year including Executive Directors and changes to the Group Executive are given below.
Team, after evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of each Director.
Such appointments are made on merit, Composition and attendance of the Committee against objective criteria and with due regard to the benefits of The members of the Nomination Committee who served during the diversity on the Board.
The Company uses a combination of external year ended 31March 2017 and their attendance at Committee meetings recruitment consultants and personal referrals in making any is as follows: required appointments to the Board.
Meetings The Nomination Committee takes into account the provisions of the Code eligible to Meetings and any regulatory requirements that are applicable to the Company.
attend attended The Company had intended to conduct an externally facilitated Geoff Cooper Chairman and evaluation of the Board during the reporting period in accordance Chairman of the Board 1 1 with the provisions of the Code.
However given that I conducted my own indepth evaluation of the Board following my appointment, Brian McBride Senior Independent it was deemed appropriate to delay the externally facilitated review Non-Executive Director 3 3 until the current financial year.
The Nomination Committee will be Chris Hopkinson Non-Executive Director 3 3 responsible for ensuring that future external evaluations of the Richard Rose Previous Chairman and Board are carried out according to applicable regulations.
Chairman of the Board 1 1 The Chairman does not chair the Nomination Committee when Geoff joined the Board on 1 July 2016.
Until his retirement from the Board at the Companys AGM in July 2016. it is dealing with the appointment of a successor Chair.
In these circumstances the Committee is chaired by an independent member of the Nomination Committee elected by the remaining members.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 60 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information On the recommendation of the Nomination Committee and in line Main activities of the Committee during the year A number of important changes have been made to the Board with the Code, all currently appointed Directors will retire at the 2017 AGM and offer themselves for reappointment.
The biographical during the period under review.
Having regard to the growth and development of the Company, it became apparent that some natural details of the current Directors can be found on pages 54 and 55.
The Committee considers that the performance of the Directors standing evolutionary changes to the roles of the Executive Directors were required and, following the recommendation of the Nomination for election and reelection continues to be effective and that they each demonstrate commitment to their role and devote sufficient time to Committee, in February 2017 we announced that Steve Caunce, previously Chief Operating Officer, would succeed John Roberts attend Board and Committee meetings and any other duties.
as Chief Executive Officer, and that John would adopt a new role on the Board as Founder, Executive Director.
Steve will therefore be The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors, including the expected time commitment, are available for inspection responsible for leading the Company, accountable for strategy and performance delivery.
John will focus on innovation and inspiring at the Companys registered office.
Both will be responsible for maintaining and developing our unique culture.
As expected the transition has been seamless Diversity The Committee takes into account a variety of factors before with no disruption to the business and with both Steve and John now comfortably executing their roles.
recommending any new appointments to the Board, including relevant skills to perform the role, experience, knowledge, ethnicity The three-year initial term of the appointments of our Non-Executive and gender and concurs with the recommendations of Lord Davies review.
The Company currently has one female Board member out of Directors expired on or around February 2017 the Directors having been first appointed shortly before the Companys IPO.
Marisa seven and AO endeavours to achieve appropriate diversity, including gender diversity, and notably, The Zygos Partnership who we are Cassoni and Brian McBrides appointments were extended but by agreement, the three-year term of appointment of Rudi Lamprecht currently working with to help identify two new Non-Executive Directors are well-known for their work in the appointment of women.
to the Board was not renewed.
Led by myself as Chairman and in consultation with an external independent nonexecutive search However, the most important priority of the Committee has been and will continue to be ensuring that members of the Board should consultancy The Zygos Partnership we are currently seeking the appointment of two new independent Non-Executive Directors.
These collectively possess the broad range of skills, expertise and industry knowledge, and business and other experience necessary for the appointments will seek to help expand the Boards skill set in terms of internationalising the AO brand, providing a new avenue of thought to effective oversight of the Group.
drive growth and increase Board diversity whilst also addressing our Code non-compliance issues with respect to independence criteria.
Our policy is, therefore, to ensure that the best candidate is selected to join the Board and this approach will remain in place going forward, We have been impressed by the calibre of candidates we have met with thus far, and hope to be able to announce these appointments without prescriptive or quantitative targets.
I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions on the work of the Nomination Committee.
During the year the Nomination Committee assessed the composition and effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, having regard to the internal Board evaluation carried out by myself, and considered renewal of appointments and the proposal for election and reelection Geoff Cooper Chairman, Nomination Committee of all the Directors at the forthcoming AGM.
Feedback from my Board evaluation, which includes the views of Executive and Non-Executive AO World Plc 5 June 2017 Board members, was largely positive and did not expose major issues although highlighted a number of areas to be strengthened such as the Non-Executive component of the Board and more formalised Board strategy days.
As outlined above these areas are being addressed and progress will be made over the coming year.
The Committee also reviewed succession planning of senior management: it recognises that effective succession planning is fundamental to the success of the Company and that ensuring the continued development of talented employees and appropriately rewarding them helps to mitigate the risks associated with unforeseen events, such as key individuals leaving the business.
Accordingly, below the PLC Board, our business divisions have been restructured giving more responsibility and accountability to members of the Group Executive Team and their respective management teams.
This has helped highlight areas in need of strengthening and gaps in our succession plans.
Our people and culture including succession planning will continue to be a key area of consideration in the year ahead.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 61
