85 The directors confirm that they have The Audit Committee Contact with Our Shareholders carried out a robust assessment of the The composition of the Audit Committee Our Chairman takes overall responsibility for principal risks facing the company, including is set out in the Audit Committee Report ensuring that the views of our shareholders those that would threaten its business model, pages 90 to 96, which describes the work are communicated to the board and that future performance, solvency or liquidity.
of the Audit Committee in discharging its our directors are made aware of major responsibilities.
However, The board is satisfied that at least one contact with major shareholders is principally Read more about our principal risks on pages 16 to 21. member of the Audit Committee, Alan maintained by the Chief Executive and the Ferguson, has recent and relevant financial Chief Financial Officer.
They have a regular experience, including competence in dialogue with institutional shareholders on Risk Management and Internal accounting and that the Audit Committee performance, plans and objectives through a Control Systems as a whole has competence relevant to the programme of one to one and group meetings sectors in which the company operates.
and ensure that shareholders views are The groups risk management and internal control systems comprise group policies, communicated to the board.
Our Investor Relations Department acts as a focal point for procedures and practices covering a range Relations with of areas including the appropriate contact with investors throughout the year.
Shareholders The Chairman is available to meet authorisation and approval of transactions, the application of financial reporting with institutional investors to hear their Dialogue with Our Shareholders views and discuss any issues or concerns, standards and the review of financial Our board welcomes the opportunity to openly performance and significant judgments.
including on governance and strategy.
engage with shareholders as it recognises the The Senior Independent Director and the importance of a continuing effective dialogue, other Non-Executive Directors are similarly Review of Effectiveness of the Groups whether with major institutional investors, available if requested, but no such meetings Risk Management and Internal private shareholders or employee were held or requested during the year.
The board takes responsibility Overall, the board believes that The board has important responsibilities in for ensuring that such dialogue takes place.
appropriate steps have been taken during the respect of the groups risk management and year to ensure that the members of the board, internal control systems including financial Reporting of Results and Capital and in particular the Non-Executive Directors, controls, controls in respect of the financial develop an understanding of the views of major Markets Day reporting process and controls of an shareholders.
These have included, for example, We report formally to our shareholders operational and compliance nature.
The board analysts and brokers briefings, consideration when we publish our full year results in June monitors these carefully throughout the year by the board of six-monthly brokers reports and our half-yearly results in November.
and carries out an annual review of their and of feedback from shareholder meetings on When we publish the results, our Executive adequacy and effectiveness.
The board has a six monthly basis.
Major shareholders views Directors give presentations in face to face delegated part of this responsibility to the Audit are canvassed for the board in a detailed meetings with institutional investors, analysts Committee.
The role and work of the Audit investor survey which is usually conducted and the media in London.
Live webcasts and Committee in this regard and the role of the every two years by external consultants.
transcripts of these presentations are groups internal audit function are described The purpose of these surveys is to obtain the available on our website.
in the Audit Committee Report page 93. views and opinions of a broad range of In addition, we hold a Capital Markets The board, through setting its own annual shareholders and non-shareholders.
Day for our institutional investors and agenda plan, defines the review process to be A survey will be undertaken in early 2018 and analysts.
The last of these was held in undertaken, including the scope and frequency the results will be discussed by the board.
February 2016 and the next is planned for of assurance reports received throughout the The Remuneration Committee September 2017.
A live webcast of the year.
The board agenda plan, together with that undertakes detailed consultation exercises presentation to investors, a transcript of the of the Audit Committee, are designed to ensure with a selection of major institutional event and a downloadable copy of the slides that all significant areas of risk and the related shareholders and institutional investor are made available on our website.
risk management and internal control systems bodies as part of its comprehensive are reported on and considered during the review of Executive Director and senior course of the year.
In addition to determining Go online: www.
com management remuneration arrangements risk appetite, the board specifically reviews, investor presentations within the group.
amongst other things, risks relating to EHS, The board believes that these methods, innovation, human resources, legal and taken together, are a practical and efficient compliance and intellectual capital.
way for all our directors to keep in touch with The board, in part through the Audit shareholders opinions and views and to Committee, has conducted an overarching reach a balanced understanding of major review of the effectiveness of the companys shareholders objectives, issues and concerns.
risk management and internal control While the board recognises that the systems, covering all material controls, company is primarily accountable to its including financial, operational and shareholders, it also recognises the contribution compliance controls, and financial reporting made by other providers of capital and confirms processes, for the year.
The review process its interest in listening to their views, where accords with the FRC Guidance.
relevant, to the companys overall approach to governance.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 86 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 4.
Governance Annual General Meetings Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The AGM is an important part of effective Code provision E. 1.1 states that the Senior Independent Director should attend sufficient communication with shareholders.
Our meetings with a range of major shareholders to listen to their views in order to help develop AGM takes place in London.
Notice is sent a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
We have not to shareholders at least 20 working days complied with this provision throughout the year.
The board considers that there are beforehand and is published on our website.
appropriate mechanisms in place to listen to the views of shareholders and communicate The circular sent to shareholders with the them to the board without it being necessary for the Senior Independent Director to attend notice aims to set out a balanced and clear meetings with major shareholders.
However, he is available to attend any such meetings explanation of each proposed resolution.
The board believes that this approach is consistent with the All directors who are able to attend our AGMs relevant main principle of the Code on dialogue with shareholders and is consistent with do so.
In 2016, the entire board attended.
good governance and the promotion of delivery of the companys objectives.
This approach Our board welcomes the opportunity for will continue throughout the current year but the board will keep the matter under review.
face to face communication with our shareholders.
Shareholders are encouraged to participate and all directors are available to answer questions, formally through the Chairman during the meeting and informally afterwards.
At the AGM, we propose separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue.
For each resolution, shareholders may direct their proxy to vote either for or against or to withhold their vote.
The proxy form and the announcement of the results make it clear that a vote withheld is not legally a vote and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes cast.
All valid proxy appointments received are recorded and counted.
All resolutions at the AGM are decided on a poll carried out by electronic means.
The results are announced as soon as possible and posted on our website.
This shows votes for and against as well as votes withheld.
Our 2017 AGM will be held on 28th July 2017.
The notice, together with an explanation of the resolutions to be considered, is set out in a circular to shareholders.
