Corporate Governance Statement continued Financial reporting: Monthly management accounts provide relevant, reliable and up-to-date financial and non-financial information to management and the Board.
Analysis is undertaken of the differences between actual results and budgeted results on a monthly basis.
Annual plans, forecasts, performance targets Internal controls The Board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing and and long-range financial plans allow management to monitor the key business and financial activities, and the progress towards maintaining the Groups system of internal controls and it receives regular reports from management identifying, evaluating and achieving the financial objectives.
The annual budget is approved by the Board.
The Group reports half-yearly based on a managing the risks within the business.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of standardised reporting process.
failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Information systems: Information systems are developed to support the Groups longterm objectives and are managed This system of internal controls complies with the Financial Reporting Councils Internal Control: Guidance on Risk Management, Internal by professionally staffed teams.
The integration of Microsoft Dynamics, our new financial reporting system, is continuing and Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
The Audit Committee reviews the system of internal controls through reports is working to improve internal controls and the efficiency of our processes, assist with the segregation of duties and standardise received from management, along with those from both internal and external auditors.
Management continues to focus on how internal procedures across the Group.
Appropriate policies and procedures are in place covering all significant areas of the business.
control and risk management can be further embedded into the operations of the business and to deal with areas of improvement Contractual commitments: There are clearly defined policies which come to the attention of management and the Board.
and procedures for entering into contractual commitments.
These include detailed requirements that must be completed The Board and the Audit Committee review on an ongoing basis the effectiveness of the system of internal controls and did so during the prior to submitting proposals and or tenders for work, both in respect of the commercial, control and risk management aspects year ended 31March 2017 and for the period up to the date of approval of the consolidated financial statements contained in the Annual of the obligations being entered into.
Significant contractual commitments, capital projects and acquisitions and disposals Report.
The review covered all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
The Board confirms that no significant failings or weaknesses have been identified from its review of the system of internal control.
This Monitoring of controls: The Audit Committee receives regular reports from the internal and external auditors and assures itself has involved considering the matters reported to it and developing plans and programmes that it considers are reasonable in the that the internal control environment of the Group is operating effectively.
There are formal policies and procedures in place to circumstances.
The Board also confirms that it has not been advised of material weaknesses in the part of the internal control system that ensure the integrity and accuracy of the accounting records and to safeguard the Groups assets.
There are formal procedures by relates to financial reporting.
which staff can, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial and pensions administration and other The key elements of the Groups system of internal controls, which have been in place throughout the year under review and up to the matters often referred to as whistleblowing procedures.
date of this report, include: Risk management: Our Risk Management Committee has a clear framework for identifying, evaluating and managing risk faced by the Group on an ongoing basis, both at an operational and strategic level.
This internal control process starts with the identification of risks through regular routine reviews with our AO team representatives facilitated by our internal audit team with appropriate action taken to manage and mitigate the risks identified.
These risks are recorded in the Groups Corporate Risk Register and the implications and consequences for the Group together with the likelihood of occurrence are assessed.
This register is reviewed and discussed at least quarterly by the Risk Management Committee and follow-up actions are assigned as appropriate.
The Risk Management Committee issues a report to the Audit Committee and the key risks are included within the Groups Corporate Risk Register which is then reviewed and scrutinised by the Board and from which the Groups principal risks are determined.
For further details of our risk management and risk appetite please see pages 40 to 44.
Management structure: There is a clearly defined organisational structure throughout the Group with established lines of reporting and delegation of authority based on job responsibilities and experience.
Within the businesses, Group Executive Team meetings occur regularly to allow prompt discussion of relevant business issues and to ensure alignment on strategy.
Please see page 56 for further details on our management structure.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 62
