76 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 4.
Governance Corporate Governance Report Introduction UK Corporate Governance Code Our board of directors is responsible to our The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code contains broad principles and specific shareholders for ensuring the sound running provisions which set out standards of good practice in relation to leadership, effectiveness, of the company.
This can only be achieved if remuneration, accountability and relations with shareholders.
This Corporate the board is supported by appropriate and Governance Report is structured to report against the 2014 version of the Code as well as well managed governance processes.
The key the provisions of the 2016 revised version of the Code by reference to each of these key elements of these are described in this areas.
Together with the Nomination Committee Report, the Audit Committee Report and Corporate Governance Report.
the Remuneration Report, it describes how we have complied with the relevant provisions of the Code and applied its main principles during the year.
day to day management of the business is identified certain matters which only it can Leadership delegated to the Chief Executive who is approve.
These are set out in a schedule supported by the Group Management of matters reserved for the board.
The Governance Framework Committee GMC.
The GMC is supported Chairmans and Chief Executives roles are The groups principal decision making body by three sub-committees the Group Policy separate and this division of responsibilities is the board.
It has responsibility for setting and Compliance Committee, the Finance and is clearly established in a written statement.
the groups strategic direction and for Administration Committee, and the Contracts Further information is set out on our website.
ensuring that the group manages risk Review Committee.
The board is accountable to There is a clear division of shareholders for the groups financial and Read more on page 77. responsibilities between the running of operational performance.
Responsibility for the board and the executive responsibility implementing operational decisions and the for running the business.
The board has Go online: www.
com investor governance Board Meetings Each year the board agrees an annual agenda plan.
This year, in particular, the board has sought to ensure there is sufficient time to discuss strategy so that the Non-Executive Directors have the opportunity to challenge and help develop strategy proposals.
Our board usually meets formally six times a year.
These are shown below for this year.
Date of board meeting Location Additional activities 7th April 2016 Royston, UK Tour of Emission Control Technologies plant 31st May 2016 London, UK 19th July 2016 London, UK 4th October 2016 West Deptford Tour of Precious Metal Products and Riverside, US Services and Fine Chemicals sites 15th November 2016 London, UK 31st January 2017 London, UK During the year, board members also participated in two scheduled conference calls to give the Executive Directors the opportunity to update the Non-Executive Directors on key matters between board meetings.
Our Governance Framework 77 Chairman Board Executive Directors Tim Stevenson Membership Robert MacLeod Anna Manz Nine directors Chairman, three Executive Key responsibilities John Walker Directors and five independent Leads the board.
Key responsibilities Ensures an eective board, including Role Have specic executive responsibilities.
eective contribution from the directors.
Provides entrepreneurial leadership Discharge duties in respect of the group Ensures that Johnson Matthey maintains of the company and direction for as a whole.
eective communications with its management.
Has collective responsibility and accountability to shareholders for the long term success of the group.
Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Directors Reviews the performance of management Alan Ferguson Odile Desforges and the operating and financial Alan Ferguson performance of the group.
Key responsibilities Jane Griths Sets strategy.
Provides a sounding board for the Chairman.
Colin Matthews Determines risk appetite.
Acts, if necessary, as a focal point and Chris Mottershead intermediary for the other directors.
Ensures that appropriate risk management Key responsibilities and internal control systems are in place.
Ensures that any key issues not addressed Constructively challenge the Executive by the Chairman or the executive Sets the companys values and standards.
Ensures good governance and promotes Scrutinise managements performance.
Available to shareholders should they have good behaviour.
Help develop proposals on strategy.
Satisfy themselves on the integrity of Leads the annual appraisal of the financial information and on the Chairmans performance.
eectiveness of financial controls and risk Ensures an orderly succession process management systems.
for succession to the chairmanship of Determine appropriate level of the company.
Chief Executive Company Secretary Robert MacLeod Simon Farrant Key responsibilities Key responsibilities Has day to day responsibility for running the groups operations.
Acts as secretary to the board and its committees.
Recommends to the board and implements group strategy.
Together with the Chairman, keeps the ecacy of the companys and the boards governance processes under review.
Has responsibility for compliance with board procedures.
Promotes the companys culture and standards.
Provides advice on corporate governance issues.
Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Membership Membership Membership Five independent Non-Executive Directors.
Five independent Non-Executive Directors and Five independent Non-Executive Directors and the group Chairman.
Role Role Role Assists the board in carrying out its oversight responsibilities in relation to financial reporting, Considers structure, size, composition Sets remuneration policy for executive internal controls and risk management and in and succession needs of the board.
directors and the Chairman and determines maintaining an appropriate relationship with our the application of that policy.
Oversees succession planning for senior external auditor, including recommending executives.
Reviews and monitors the level and structure reappointment or a requirement to tender.
of remuneration for senior executives.
Disclosure Committee Ethics Panel Membership Membership The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Ocer and the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary and three executive heads of functions.
Role Role To identify and control inside information or information which could To oversee the concerns raised pursuant to the speak up policy, including become inside information, and to determine how or when that the eective review and investigation of these concerns.
information is disclosed in accordance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Group Management Committee Membership Chief Executive, Chief Financial Ocer, Sector Chief Executives, Chief HR Ocer, Chief Technology Ocer, General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Role Has responsibility for the executive management of the groups businesses.
Recommends strategic and operating plans to the board.
Group Policy and Compliance Finance and Administration Contracts Review Committee Committee Committee Chaired by John Walker.
Role Role Role Reviews contract and litigation risk for Provides leadership, oversight and assurance Has responsibility for certain of the groups the group.
in relation to certain environment, health and finance and corporate restructuring matters.
safety, sustainability, human resources and ethics and compliance matters.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 78 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 4.
Governance During the year, the board focused on a number of specific areas which are outlined in the following table.
Links to the groups 12 principal risks below are also highlighted in the table.
1 Existing Market Outlook 2 Future Revenue Growth 3 Maintaining our Competitive Advantage 4 Environment, Health and Safety 5 Sourcing of Strategic Materials 6 People 7 Security of Metal and Highly Regulated Substances 8 Intellectual Capital Management 9 Failure of Significant Sites 10 Ethics and Compliance 11 Business Transition 12 Product Quality Principal Board Activities Activities Key outcomes Page reference Link to principal risks Strategy 1 2 3 4 5 6 Reviewed proposed strategic plans in detail.
6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 Reviewed Battery Technologies including Approved strategy.
1 3 7 Reviewed Precious Metal Products strategy.
38 1 3 Considered Process Technologies Elements of plan challenged for further review.
1 3 Reviewed Emission Control Approved strategy and reviewed investment 30 Technologies strategy.
Endorsed the approach being taken to develop the 13 research and development portfolio and the growth initiatives to build on technical competences.
Approved the sustainable business goals to 2025.
Considered brand refresh and the programme of delivery 6 to support Johnson Mattheys 200th anniversary.
1 2 4 5 Reviewed the implications of the UK Assessed areas of potential impact and identified 18 6 8 11 12 leaving the EU.
issues of unique importance to Johnson Matthey.
1 8 Received a half day deep dive teach-in on Helped to facilitate board strategic review 75 Process Technologies.
Environment, Health and Safety EHS 4 Reviewed EHS performance at each Reviewed significant incidents including management 61 board meeting.
response and actions and the outcomes of safety audits.
Reviewed progress on the launch of a new 4 Reviewed key areas of focus and effectiveness EHS reporting tool.
62 of EHS reporting and management processes.
79 Activities Key outcomes Page reference Link to principal risks Risk and Governance 1 2 3 4 5 6 Reviewed boards responsibilities in Agreed processes.
16 7 8 9 10 11 12 relation to risk assessment and monitoring of risk management and internal control systems.
Assessed and agreed principal risks and the Reviewed principal risks, mitigating actions, management and mitigation of these risks.
key assurance activities and risk appetite.
Reviewed key findings of board, committee Actions agreed.
Reviewed directors conflicts of interest and Approved a new inside information policy 77 Non-Executive Directors independence.
and established a Disclosure Committee to assist Reviewed the key features of the EU Market the board in identifying and controlling Abuse Regulations.
10 Considered a recommendation in respect Agreed that the Ethics Panel be created, 77 of the creation and governance of a reporting to the Board.
new committee to oversee concerns raised pursuant to the speak up policy.
Financial and Operational 1 2 3 4 5 Reviewed group budget and three year plan.
84 6 8 9 11 12 Reviewed full year results, half-yearly results, trading updates and the annual report.
Reviewed the groups going concern and 47 viability statements.
Reviewed the groups dividend policy and 46 proposals in respect of dividends.
8 9 10 11 12 Reviewed progress on the development and Challenged progress and reviewed the scope implementation of groupwide IT and business of the project.
information systems, including KPMG assurance.
Approved capital investment for battery materials business.
42 Shareholder Engagement Reviewed analyst and investor feedback Key reflections taken into account.
51 and 85 following full year and half-yearly results announcements.
Reviewed proposed results presentations to investors and analysts.
Received an update from one of our brokers, JP Morgan Cazenove, regarding share price performance, market perceptions and relevant macroeconomic factors.
Our Values 8 10 Received a legal, ethics and compliance and Reviewed risks and mitigations.
Reviewed the Modern Slavery and Approved.
Leadership and People 6 10 11 Reviewed our people strategy in relation to Considered the key actions required by the HR 55 recruitment, development and support, function to implement the people strategy.
reward and retention, culture and values and supporting change.
Reviewed the results of a global Agreed priority themes to determine actions.
Approved the appointments of Anna Manz as 88 Chief Financial Officer and Jane Griffiths as a Non-Executive Director.
Read more about our strategy on pages 8 and 9.
Read more about our principal risks on pages 16 to 21.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
