76 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 4.
Governance Corporate Governance Report Introduction UK Corporate Governance Code Our board of directors is responsible to our The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code contains broad principles and specific shareholders for ensuring the sound running provisions which set out standards of good practice in relation to leadership, effectiveness, of the company.
This can only be achieved if remuneration, accountability and relations with shareholders.
This Corporate the board is supported by appropriate and Governance Report is structured to report against the 2014 version of the Code as well as well managed governance processes.
The key the provisions of the 2016 revised version of the Code by reference to each of these key elements of these are described in this areas.
Together with the Nomination Committee Report, the Audit Committee Report and Corporate Governance Report.
the Remuneration Report, it describes how we have complied with the relevant provisions of the Code and applied its main principles during the year.
day to day management of the business is identified certain matters which only it can Leadership delegated to the Chief Executive who is approve.
These are set out in a schedule supported by the Group Management of matters reserved for the board.
The Governance Framework Committee GMC.
The GMC is supported Chairmans and Chief Executives roles are The groups principal decision making body by three sub-committees the Group Policy separate and this division of responsibilities is the board.
It has responsibility for setting and Compliance Committee, the Finance and is clearly established in a written statement.
the groups strategic direction and for Administration Committee, and the Contracts Further information is set out on our website.
ensuring that the group manages risk Review Committee.
The board is accountable to There is a clear division of shareholders for the groups financial and Read more on page 77. responsibilities between the running of operational performance.
Responsibility for the board and the executive responsibility implementing operational decisions and the for running the business.
The board has Go online: www.
com investor governance Board Meetings Each year the board agrees an annual agenda plan.
This year, in particular, the board has sought to ensure there is sufficient time to discuss strategy so that the Non-Executive Directors have the opportunity to challenge and help develop strategy proposals.
Our board usually meets formally six times a year.
These are shown below for this year.
Date of board meeting Location Additional activities 7th April 2016 Royston, UK Tour of Emission Control Technologies plant 31st May 2016 London, UK 19th July 2016 London, UK 4th October 2016 West Deptford Tour of Precious Metal Products and Riverside, US Services and Fine Chemicals sites 15th November 2016 London, UK 31st January 2017 London, UK During the year, board members also participated in two scheduled conference calls to give the Executive Directors the opportunity to update the Non-Executive Directors on key matters between board meetings.
