75 Getting to Know the Business In order for our directors, particularly our While the majority of our board meetings Our Non-Executive Directors also Non-Executive Directors, to effectively are held at our City office in London, the undertake visits to our sites independent discharge their responsibilities, it is critical board holds two board meetings each of the Executive Directors, either individually that they understand our business.
The board always or collectively, to further enhance their At each board meeting we review tours the site and management present to knowledge and understanding, meeting the delivery against strategy of our divisions, them on the business, its challenges and with management and other employees.
either focusing on the whole division or successes.
These visits enable the board to see During the year, for example, some of our businesses within it.
These sessions are our operations on the ground and to meet the Non-Executive Directors visited our battery attended by the relevant division director teams that are making them successful.
They materials manufacturing facility at Candiac, and, where appropriate, other divisional are a useful opportunity for the board to hear Canada, while others visited our Fine senior management.
They give the board about customers, business issues, risks and Chemicals operations at Devens near an excellent opportunity to hear about, strategy as well as environment, health and Boston, US, to hear more about the site discuss and challenge the strategic direction safety developments and the business and the business.
Tim Stevenson and the majority of our Throughout the year, the board also During 2016 17, board meetings were Non-Executive Directors also attended for reviews our key functional areas.
These held at our manufacturing site at Royston, part of the 2016 company conference, which reviews are attended by the relevant UK April 2016 and in Philadelphia, US gave them an opportunity to get a feel for the functional head and, where appropriate, October 2016.
At Royston, the board visited groups culture, hear more about the groups other senior functional management.
They Emission Control Technologies to learn more priorities in action and meet employees from enable the board to assess the strength of about manufacturing operations and capital across all our divisions and functions.
these functions in their ability to support projects.
During the US visit the board toured All of the above activities enable the delivery of the groups strategic objectives.
our Precious Metal Products Services business Non-Executive Directors to continue to Last year, we introduced business at West Deptford, the focus being on our develop and refresh their knowledge and teach-ins for our board.
These are half day platinum group metal recycling and refining understanding of our businesses, the markets sessions, separate from board meetings, which operations.
The board also visited our Fine in which we operate and our key relationships.
are attended by a range of managers from Chemicals Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient They are also important for building links with the relevant business.
They are designed to Manufacturing business facility at Riverside.
Through these, the board give the board a more in depth insight into Areas of focus included our business develops a sound and balanced insight into the our businesses and their customers than is manufacturing operations, customers group, which supports it in its role to provide possible during board meetings.
entrepreneurial leadership and set strategy.
understanding enhances the Non-Executive This has been particularly important this year Directors ability to challenge, debate and as we have reviewed our strategy, as explained contribute to divisional strategy at board by Robert MacLeod on pages 6 and 7. meetings.
A teach-in was held during the year on Process Technologies at its facility in Paddington, London September 2016.
Cap a Board a d marke da co itt ti ck F cility to Di i io l ctio l etti g to k o i w t e u i e Di i io l t c i M ti ur p pl C pa y f r it l n ts y mm ee mee ngs feedba a urs v s na and fun na G n n w rev e s h b s n ss v s na ea hns ee ng o eo e om n con e ence Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
