Corporate Governance Statement Board of Directors This year we gave Board members a camera each and asked them to take a photograph on the Board tour in Bergheim.
We asked each of them to select an image that summed up their experience.
Mark Higgins Non-Executive Chairman Founder, Executive Director Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 2 August 2005 AO Retail Limited 1 July 2016 13 October 2005 1 August 2015 19 April 2000 Relevant skills & experience Relevant skills & experience Relevant skills & experience Over 20 years UK public Relevant skills & experience Thorough knowledge and Group Finance Director for Co-founded the business company Board experience understanding of the Groups four years prior to including Chair and Chief over 16 years ago giving him business having held Chief appointment as AOs Chief thorough knowledge and Executive Officer roles Operating and Chief Financial Financial Officer Significant retail and customer understanding of the Officer positions from 2005 Senior finance roles held at Groups business facing industry experience until 2017 Enterprise Managed Services across the UK Extensive CEO experience: Substantial experience in Ltd and the Caudwell Group led the management team to Ability to steer Boards through growth businesses with a Member of the Chartered high growth strategies and successfully develop and strong consumer focus Institute of Management expand the business during overseas expansion Significant Board and Accountants Currently Non-Executive periods of challenging management experience: market conditions Chairman of Card Factory plc previously Finance Director at Committee membership and Bourne Leisure Holdings Innovator and visionary lead Phones 4U Limited and senior Mark attends the Remuneration, Significant market knowledge and adviser to Charterhouse positions held at MyTravel Plc Audit and Nomination Capital Partners LLP, former and understanding and Preston North End Plc Committees by invitation.
Non-Executive Chairman Associate of the Institute of of Dunelm Group plc and Committee membership Chartered Accountants in What impressed me most John attends the Remuneration, former Chief Executive Officer England and Wales Its a fantastic operation which we of Travis Perkins Plc Audit and Nomination can leverage for future growth.
Committee membership Significant current external Steve attends the Remuneration, What impressed me most appointments Audit and Nomination Non-Executive Chairman of Card It just felt like AO.
Factory plc and Bourne Leisure Holdings Limited What impressed me most The values are really Committee membership shining through.
Geoff chairs the Nomination Committee and is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Independent Yes What impressed me most The sheer scale of the operation.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 54 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information To find out more about the changes in Board composition go to Current composition of our Board on pages 56-57.
Marisa Cassoni Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 6 February 2014 12 December 2005 5 February 2014 Relevant skills & experience Relevant skills & experience Relevant skills & experience Extensive online retail Former City Financial Analyst ICAEW chartered accountant experience former Significant industry with extensive financial and Managing Director of experience governance experience in Amazon.
co. uk and Chair of Holds a Masters degree both private and ASOS Plc and Wiggle Ltd in Logistics public companies Significant non-executive and Previously finance director governance experience Significant external of John Lewis Partnership Ltd, Masters degree in Economics, appointments Royal Mail Group and the UK History and Politics Executive Director of Better division of Prudential Group Business Support Ltd and Panel member of the Significant external Clifton Trade Bathrooms Ltd Competition and Markets appointments Authority Chairman of ASOS Plc and Independent Wealth of Board experience Wiggle Ltd. No.
Significant external Independent Committee membership appointments Yes.
Chris is a member of the Audit Non-Executive Director of and Nomination Committees.
Skipton Group Holdings Ltd, Committee membership Enterprise Inns Plc and Brian is Chair of the What impressed me most The Peoples Operator Plc Remuneration Committee and The streamlined processes in a member of the Audit and the warehouse.
What impressed me most Committee membership The investment in producing Marisa is the Chair of the Audit our own content.
Committee and is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
What impressed me most It felt like a business mature beyond its years.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 55
