91 Committee Meetings During the Year We met five times during the year.
Attendance at these meetings was as follows: Number of Date of meetings Number of appointment eligible meetings % to committee to attend attended attended 1 Alan Ferguson 13th January 2011 55 100% Odile Desforges 1st July 2013 5 5 100% Jane Griffiths 1st January 2017 1 1 100% Colin Matthews 4th October 2012 5 5 100% Chris Mottershead 27th January 2015 5 5 100% 2 Dorothy Thompson 1st September 2007 3 3 100% 1 Alan Ferguson was appointed Chairman of the committee on 19th July 2011.
2 Dorothy Thompson retired from the board and the committee on 20th July 2016.
Since the end of the year, the committee has met twice and all members attended.
In order for us to properly discharge our role, Reviewed management representation How we Discharged our it is critical that we have the opportunity to letters requested by KPMG in respect Responsibilities During the Year openly discuss with management any matter of the full year and half-yearly results Our principal activities during the year, and which falls within our remit and probe and prior to them being signed on behalf up to the date of this report, were as follows: challenge where necessary.
Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and the 1 Published Financial Information Reviewed and assessed the process Group Assurance and Risk Director attend all which management put in place to Role: to monitor the integrity of the of our meetings and other senior managers support the board when giving its reported financial information and attend to provide technical or business assurance that the 2017 Annual Report to review significant financial issues information as necessary.
and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, and judgments.
In addition, our meetings are attended balanced and understandable and Reviewed the groups full year results, by the KPMG lead audit partner, Stephen provided the information necessary for half-yearly results and quarterly Oxley, and other representatives from KPMG.
shareholders to assess the companys updates, considered the significant Their attendance is important as it gives us position and performance, business accounting policies, principal estimates the opportunity to seek their independent model and strategy.
Confirmed to the and accounting judgments used in and objective views on matters which they board that we had done so and that their preparation.
At least once a the process was satisfactory.
year, we meet separately with Stephen and Reviewed the matters, assumptions and Reviewed the principal findings arising with the Group Assurance and Risk Director, sensitivities which informed the boards from the inspection of KPMGs 2016 who manages the internal audit function, assessment that it was appropriate to audit by the Financial Reporting to discuss matters without executive prepare the accounts on a going Councils FRCs Audit Quality Review management being present.
team disclosed in more detail on On a more frequent basis, I meet Reviewed and challenged the financial page 94. with the Chief Financial Officer, the Group modelling and stress testing, based on Assurance and Risk Director, other senior Received an update on new or plausible scenarios arising from selected management and with KPMG.
This means forthcoming accounting standards principal risks in assessing the long term any issues or concerns can be raised at an that could materially impact the group, viability of the group.
early stage allowing me to ensure that including IFRS 15 Revenue from sufficient time is devoted to them at the Received and considered reports from Contracts with Customers.
KPMG on its audit of the full year results There is an open and constructive and its review of the half-yearly results.
communication between the committee, management and the internal and external auditors.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
