87 Nomination Committee Report Our role is to ensure that Johnson Matthey has the right leadership, including a board with the right mix of attributes and skills to effectively develop, and support delivery of, the companys strategy.
Tim Stevenson Chairman of the Nomination Committee The year under review saw changes to our board composition.
Anna Manz was appointed our Chief Financial Officer in October 2016 following the stepping down of Den Jones in July.
Following the retirement of Dorothy Thompson, also in July, Dr Jane Griffiths was selected as a new Non-Executive Director and appointed in January 2017.
During the year, we continued our focus on succession planning and talent management, recognising the importance these play in supporting the groups strategic aspirations.
Role Composition Committee Meetings During the Year The principal role of our Nomination Our committee has six members, myself Committee is to keep under review the as Chairman and all the independent Our committee usually meets immediately structure, size and composition of the board Non-Executive Directors.
Only members prior to or following board meetings, and and to make appropriate recommendations of the committee have the right to attend also on other occasions as may be needed.
to the board with respect to any necessary meetings.
The Chief Executive and the Chief We met seven times during the year changes.
We also consider the adequacy and HR Officer, as well as external advisers and ended 31st March 2017.
I also kept committee effectiveness of management development others, attend for all or part of our meetings members up to date between meetings.
and succession planning processes for board by invitation when appropriate.
Simon Several members of the committee, led by members and senior executives and ensure Farrant, our Company Secretary, is secretary me, also met as a working group during the the adequacy and effectiveness of the groups to the committee.
year to progress Non-Executive Director processes for identifying and developing the recruitment.
The attendance of members future senior management pipeline.
at meetings during the year was: Go online: www.
com investor governance Number of Date of meetings Number of appointment eligible meetings % to committee to attend attended attended 1 Tim Stevenson 29th March 2011 77 100% Odile Desforges 1st July 2013 7 7 100% Alan Ferguson 13th January 2011 7 7 100% Jane Griffiths 1st January 2017 1 1 100% 3 Colin Matthews 4th October 2012 7 6 86% Chris Mottershead 27th January 2015 7 7 100% 2 3 Dorothy Thompson 1st September 2007 4 3 75% 1 Tim Stevenson was appointed group Chairman on 19th July 2011.
2 Dorothy Thompson retired from the board and the committee on 20th July 2016.
3 The meeting not attended was a telephone meeting convened at short notice in July 2016.
Colin Matthews was unable to attend due to a coinciding commitment at Renewi plc where he is Chairman.
Dorothy Thompson was unable to attend due to conflicting travel commitments.
Since the end of the year, the committee has met twice.
Tim Stevenson was unable to attend one meeting due to illness.
In his absence, Alan Ferguson, Senior Independent Director, chaired the committee meeting.
Tim Stevenson reviewed all meeting papers and shared his thoughts, comments and questions with Alan Ferguson, who raised these at the meeting.
All other committee members attended both meetings.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 88 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 4.
Governance Committee Activities During the Year Our committee has been active in addressing several key matters in the course of the year: Non-Executive Director succession Having conducted a search process for a new Non-Executive Director with the assistance of The Zygos Partnership in the prior year, recommended to the board the appointment of Dr Jane Griffiths as a new Non-Executive Director.
Also began a search process for an additional Non-Executive Director.
Executive Director succession Considered succession to the role of Chief Financial Officer and recommended to the board the appointment of Anna Manz as Chief Financial Officer.
Renewal of appointment terms Having considered their performance and ability to continue to contribute to the board, as well as their Odile Desforges and Alan Ferguson independence and the need for progressive refreshing of the board, recommended to the board that the terms of appointment as Non-Executive Directors of Odile Desforges be renewed for a second three year term to 30th June 2019 and of Alan Ferguson for a three year term to 13th January 2020, bringing his total appointment term to nine years.
Talent management framework Received a presentation from the Chief HR Officer and the Group Talent and Learning Director on the groups integrated talent management process, addressing the talent requirements for delivery of its strategic aspirations and feedback from the recent employee engagement survey.
Succession planning and senior Reviewed the 2017 succession and development plans in respect of the Group Management management changes Committee GMC including the Chief Executive, and other senior executives in each division.
Discussed GMC membership, responsibility changes and senior non-GMC moves.
Review of performance and Led by the committee Chairman, reviewed our committees performance and effectiveness.
effectiveness during 2016 17 Nomination Committee Report Reviewed and approved the draft Nomination Committee Report for 2016 17.
In appointing Non-Executive Directors Board Appointments Succession Planning we seek individuals who can make positive In considering board composition, we assess A key role of the Nomination Committee is to contributions to the board and its committees the range and balance of skills, experience, ensure that plans are in place for the orderly and who have the capability to challenge on knowledge and independence on the board, and progressive refreshing of the board and strategic and other matters.
This is balanced identify any gaps or issues and consider any to identify and develop individuals with with the need to maintain board cohesiveness.
need to refresh the board.
If, after this potential for board and GMC positions.
As We use external search consultancies evaluation, we feel that it is necessary to announced on 20th April 2017, there have to help with the appointment process and appoint a new director we then prepare a been several changes in the leadership of appointments are ultimately made on merit description of the role and the capabilities our group and the Nomination Committee against the agreed objective selection criteria, required for the appointment and set objective played a key role in supporting the Chief having due regard, amongst other things, to selection criteria accordingly.
The benefits of Executive in making these changes.
The the benefits of diversity, including gender.
diversity on the board are carefully considered.
Nomination Committee will continue While the board has not set express We consider any proposed recruitment in the to focus during the coming year on active diversity quotas or measurable objectives, context of the companys strategic priorities, talent management, mobility across the in Non-Executive Director selection, the board plans and objectives, as well as the prevailing group and diversity.
seeks to encourage applications from women, business environment.
We also take into We considered a presentation from subject to the selection, criteria being met.
account relevant succession plans already our Chief HR Officer in respect of Johnson in place.
Mattheys leadership pipeline in the context of the groups talent strategy.
This covered both assessment and development of internal talent as well as external recruitment.
We also considered a presentation on the companys integrated talent strategy and talent focus for 2017.
This included discussion of further strengthening of performance management across the group.
89 Non-Executive Director Succession Our 2016 17 Performance Review Having considered board size and balance, we decided that it was desirable to seek Last year, I led an internal review of the a replacement Non-Executive Director committees performance.
I sought the views following Dorothy Thompsons retirement of all committee members, as well as others from the board in July 2016.
The preference who regularly attend our meetings, through expressed to the head hunters was for a a questionnaire and face to face meetings.
candidate with sound executive experience Matters covered included the scope of the directly relevant to Fine Chemicals.
In terms agenda and the running of our meetings.
of fit, there was a desire for difference while The outcome of the review was summarised maintaining the collegiality of the board.
at our April 2017 meeting and discussed by It was also agreed that consideration would the board.
While the importance of giving be given to those without FTSE 100 board continued appropriate attention to experience.
We established a working group succession planning and board balance was comprising myself and Alan Ferguson emphasised, there were no areas where working with the Chief Executive and our significant change or improvement was Chief HR Officer.
We engaged The Zygos felt necessary.
Partnership in a search process which led to the appointment of Jane Griffiths.
Janes On behalf of the Nomination Committee: appointment, which was announced on 1st June 2016, took effect on 1st January 2017.
To further enhance board balance, we also decided to seek an additional Non-Executive Director.
The selection process is underway, with a preference Tim Stevenson expressed to the head hunters for a Chairman of the Nomination Committee candidate with a current executive role.
The Chairman is again leading a working group as described above and The Zygos Partnership have been engaged.
The term of my appointment as Chairman was reviewed in May 2017.
After full review, this was extended to 31st December 2018.
Given my intention to step down as Chairman by this date, Alan Ferguson has commenced a process on behalf of the Committee to search for my successor, working with The Zygos Partnership.
The Zygos Partnership has no other connection with the company.
Executive Director Change During the year, the committee supported the Chief Executive in searching for and selecting a new Chief Financial Officer following the stepping down of Den Jones last July.
Anna Manzs appointment was announced on 14th July 2016 and she joined the board as Chief Financial Officer on 17th October 2016.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
