Nomination Committee Report Chairmans Letter The Committees role is to: review the size, structure and composition of the Board: consider succession planning: and identify and make recommendations to the Board on potential candidates for the Board.
Its key objective is to ensure that the Board comprises individuals with the necessary skill, knowledge, experience and diversity to ensure that the Board is effective in discharging its responsibilities.
The Committee is also tasked with ensuring that succession plans are in place for the Senior Management Team.
Dennis Millard Chairman of the Nomination Committee The Company... has created a more balanced and diverse Board and Senior Management Team and continues to work to ensure this is replicated across the entire business... Committee Composition During the year, the Committee comprised: Dennis Millard Chairman David Adams Claudia Arney Helen Jones Jill McDonald There were two Committee meetings held during the year, attended by all members and after each Committee meeting I reported to the Board on the key issues that we had discussed.
A number of informal discussions were also held between Committee members and me throughout the year as the need arose.
Activities During the Year During the year, the Committee: reviewed the composition of the Board and its succession plan: carried out an annual review of the Committees Terms of Reference: recommended re-election of the Board at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: and reviewed the results of the Board performance evaluation process.
70 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 70 07 06 2017 16:38:10 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Diversity Looking Ahead During the year, the Board also renewed the Groups Diversity Policy In the year ahead, as I intend to step down from the Board at the Diversity Policy which sets out our commitment to eliminating Annual General Meeting in July 2018, having by then served nine unlawful discrimination and promoting equality of opportunity.
This years as Chairman, the Committee will begin the process in the applies to all our activities, including our role as an employer and as a second half of the financial year ahead to identify suitable candidates provider of services, ensuring that no colleague, potential colleague, and recommend an appointment to the Board.
On 3 May 2017, it customer, visitor or contractor will receive less favourable treatment was announced that the Companys Chief Executive Officer, Jill on the grounds of: age: disability: gender reassignment: race: religion McDonald, has resigned from the business to take up another role.
or belief: gender: sexual orientation: marital or civil partnership Jill will remain as Chief Executive Officer until the expiry of her notice status: pregnancy or maternity: or disability.
The process is underway by the Committee to find her replacement.
The Company does not currently publish specific diversity targets but in practice, it has created a more balanced and diverse Board The Committee will also continue to assess the Board and Senior and Senior Management Team.
We continue to work to ensure this Management Team composition and how they both may be is replicated across the entire business, in particular in relation to enhanced.
The Committees Terms of Reference are available on the Companys corporate website www.
com Further information regarding Board diversity can be found on page investors governance our-committees 66 and gender diversity in the Group as a whole on page 31.
Dennis Millard Chairman of the Nomination Committee 24 May 2017 STOCK CODE: HFD halfords.
