90 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 4.
Governance Audit Committee Report During the year we continued to play a key role in monitoring the integrity of the groups published financial information, assessing the effectiveness of its internal controls and ensuring that our external auditor, KPMG, delivers a high quality effective audit.
Alan Ferguson Chairman of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present our report for the year ended 31st March 2017.
We have also looked at the risk management processes across It has been another busy year for the committee.
A new Chief Financial the group and at risk assurance mapping.
Last year, the group refined Officer, Anna Manz, was appointed in October 2016, a role of and developed its risk management processes to enhance the way significant importance to this committee.
In January, we also the board reviews principal risks, the associated mitigating controls welcomed Jane Griffiths as a committee member.
We have spent time and how the committee provides assurance to the board on the with both Anna and Jane to ensure a successful induction to the effectiveness of those controls.
These new processes have been committee whilst helping to support the business during the gap embedded during the year.
We have also re-assessed and simplified between Annas predecessor leaving and her joining.
Continuing to how we articulate the 12 principal risks.
monitor and review the effectiveness of the groups internal controls and risk management systems has been particularly important Read more about our risk management systems on page 16. during periods of change for the business.
Each year, we look at the control environment of selected individual divisions and this year we focused on Fine Chemicals, Looking ahead to the next 12 months, as well as the business Precious Metal Products and Process Technologies, with the Divisional as usual work, we will continue to monitor the groups ongoing Finance Directors of each division presenting to the committee.
The investment in business information systems.
We will also spend time groups significant investment in business information systems has planning and conducting the external audit tender which will become increasingly important this year and we have worked closely conclude during the first half of 2018. with the board to review the risks and controls associated with this.
The board has agreed that the Role Composition committee has experience relevant to the Our principal role is to assist the board in Our committee currently comprises five sectors in which we operate and that I have carrying out its oversight responsibilities members: myself as Chairman and all of our recent and relevant financial experience, in relation to financial reporting, internal independent Non-Executive Directors.
This is including competence in accounting, as controls and risk management and in my sixth year as Chairman of the committee.
required by the provisions of the UK maintaining an appropriate relationship I am a Chartered Accountant with many Corporate Governance Code 2016. with our external auditor.
More details on years experience working in finance, having The secretary to the committee is Simon our role and responsibilities can be found been, over a 12 year period, the Group Farrant, Company Secretary.
in our terms of reference which were Finance Director at Inchcape plc, The BOC updated during the year and are available Group plc and Lonmin Plc.
I also chair the on our website.
audit committees of three other companies.
As a committee, we have a broad range of Go online: www.
com knowledge, skills and experience gained investor governance from a variety of backgrounds as detailed on page 73.
This is essential to the effective discharging of our duties.
