Our resources and relationships Our success to date has been based on a number of key elements: our customer service: our strong management and culture: our supplier relationships and our processes and systems.
Customer relationships Our online platform includes detailed technical information, customer reviews, product and price comparison tools and an enhanced retail experience, which are not always available in stores.
Destination for information One of our aims is to become the destination for information helping our customers decide which product best matches their needs.
We provide 3D animation and feature-led reviews to bring products to life, we simplify complex technologies, highlight user benefits and then deliver it to the customer with our market-leading standards.
Our best service goal means that we aim to develop a retail experience which is as easy and effortless as possible, always maintaining a personal touch.
We have the MyAO app which has track your order functionality and customers are now able to shop on their Desktop, Tablet or Mobile device and speak to an adviser on the telephone or via our Live chat function.
We believe we care more about the customer than most of our competition.
Manufacturer relationships We offer over 6,400 SKUs in the UK, nearly 2,700 in Germany A trusted partner and nearly 1,300 in the Netherlands, a price match promise and We are reliant on our suppliers and see our role as being the deliver seven days a week six in Germany and the Netherlands most direct and smartest link between them and the end user at no extra charge.
We offer a broad range of MDA, SDA and AV our customers.
products and our Computing range is growing along with the range of ancillary services we offer such as customer finance There is considerable interdependence between us and the options, product protection plans, an unpack and recycle service, manufacturers and most of the relationships have been in place product care packs and disposal and connection services.
These relationships are becoming increasingly strategically important to our suppliers as we grow What do customers want?
our customer base, sales volumes and influence on customer Best products, Best service, Best price and the Easiest demand, but also to us as we seek to launch in new countries shopping experience!
and try to leverage existing relationships.
We aim to work in partnership with them, sharing insight and knowledge, innovating So thats what we offer... categories and changing the normal course of retailing.... as a result customer satisfaction levels are high and our customers love us.
As at 31March 2017 we ranked an excellent Bringing products to life 9.5 and 9.6 on Trustpilot for AO.
nl respectively and We understand they invest millions in research to develop 4.8 out of 5 stars on Trusted Shops for AO.
Our NPS scores product features so we think a lot about and invest in how we remain consistently high too.
add value for supplier brands to be the trusted partner in our channel and we always think long term.
Our joint advertising campaigns really highlight the benefits and key product features whilst driving brand awareness.
Our innovative content offers our manufacturers a great platform to showcase their products and deliver our brand messages as our 3D animation and feature-led reviews bring products to life.
A AO W O Wo or rl ld P d Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 38 38 O Ov five er rv vi ie ew w S St tr ra at te eg gic ic R Re ep por ort t O Ou ur r G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e O Ou ur r R Resu esul lt ts s S Sh ha ar re eh ho old lder ers s I In nf fo or rm mat atio ion n Processes and systems Distribution Our UK in-house delivery network runs from Crewe and 12 stockless outbases around the UK.
We operate a similar model We believe that the standard of the in Europe and currently have a European Regional Distribution delivery service we provide is crucial Centre in Bergheim and a number of outbases and customer given that the delivery teams are typically the only face-to-face service centres across Germany and the Netherlands.
interaction that customers have with the Group.
Delivery and installation options, speed and reliability are important as are the removal and recycling of the old appliances.
IT Our core IT systems have all been developed in-house.
The systems are bespoke: built for and continuously adapted to fit the needs of the business.
They are therefore not easily replicable by any competitor and they are scalable and resilient.
Watch Siemens European MD talk Our automated stock forecasting and ordering system is about AO.
integrated with suppliers systems meaning that we can combine high levels of availability for nextday delivery with the efficient Strong management and culture use of working capital.
It also means that we can optimise Our employees resources by, for example, loading trucks most efficiently.
Happy people care more and require a lot less management.
So we make sure theyre happy by giving them autonomy where appropriate, support where needed and a great environment to work in.
They are empowered: they are incentivised: and they know they are trusted.
We love watching them grow and thrive.
Our values We recruit and retain the best talent and look for people who are smart, bold and driven.
They must care more, not only about our customers but other stakeholders of the business too, be it the manufacturers and suppliers, other employees and, of course, our drivers, and do it all with a sense of fun.
Our team There are 10 of us on the Group Executive Team, including the Executive Directors, and we have an average length of service of over nine years.
Our recent GET and senior management team restructure has given greater responsibility to key members of our team and further opportunities for career progression throughout the business.
A AO W O Wo or rl ld P d Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 39 39
