80 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 4.
Governance Board Committees Our board has three principal committees: the Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
com investor governance Board Attendance The attendance of members at board meetings during the year was as follows: Number of Date of meetings Number of appointment eligible to meetings % Role to board attend attended attended Tim Stevenson Chairman 29th March 20116 6 100% Odile Desforges Non-Executive Director 1st July 2013 6 6 100% Alan Ferguson Non-Executive Director 13th January 2011 6 6 100% Jane Griffiths Non-Executive Director 1st January 2017 1 1 100% 3 Den Jones Group Finance Director 5th June 2014 3 3 100% Robert MacLeod Chief Executive 22nd June 20096 6 100% Anna Manz Chief Financial Officer 17th October 2016 2 2 100% Colin Matthews Non-Executive Director 4th October 2012 6 6 100% Chris Mottershead Non-Executive Director 27th January 2015 6 6 100% 4 Dorothy Thompson Non-Executive Director 1st September 2007 3 3 100% John Walker Executive Director 9th October 2013 6 6 100% 1 Tim Stevenson was appointed Chairman on 19th July 2011.
Robert MacLeod was appointed Chief Executive on 5th June 2014.
3 Den Jones stepped down from the board at the Annual General Meeting on 20th July 2016.
4 Dorothy Thompson retired from the board on 20th July 2016.
Where directors are unable to attend a board or committee meeting, they communicate their comments and observations on the matters to be considered in advance of the meeting via the group Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or the relevant board committee chairman.
Since the end of the year, the board has met twice.
Tim Stevenson was unable to attend one meeting due to illness.
In his absence, Alan Ferguson, Senior Independent Director, chaired the board meeting.
Tim Stevenson reviewed all meeting papers and shared his thoughts, comments and questions with Alan Ferguson, who raised these at the meeting.
All other board members attended both meetings.
The attendance of members at committee meetings in the year is set out in the Audit Committee Report, the Nomination Committee Report and the Remuneration Report in respect of the Remuneration Committee on pages 91, 87 and 108 respectively.
Individuals attendance at board and board committee meetings is considered, as necessary, as part of the formal annual review of their performance.
It also believes that it includes an appropriate Johnson Matthey, holds cross directorships Effectiveness combination of Executive and Non-Executive or has significant links with fellow directors Directors and, in particular, independent through involvement in other companies Our Boards Composition Non-Executive Directors.
The size and or bodies, or represents or has a material As at 31st March 2017 and as at the date of composition of the board is regularly reviewed connection to a controlling or significant approval of this annual report, our board by the Nomination Committee.
shareholder or is nominated by a shareholder.
comprised the Chairman, three Executive The board considers that there are Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
no business or other relationships or Independence of the Our board seeks to ensure that both it and circumstances which are likely to affect, or Non-Executive Directors its committees have the appropriate range and may appear to affect, the judgment of any balance of skills, experience, knowledge and The board formally reviews Non-Executive Non-Executive Director.
Each Non-Executive independence to enable them to carry out their Director independence annually, most recently Director is determined by the board to be duties and responsibilities effectively.
The board at its meeting in May 2017.
The board independent in character and judgment.
is of the view that it is the right size to meet the considers all relevant relationships and Information on the companys procedures requirements of the business: that changes to circumstances, including those set out in the for authorising potential conflicts of interest its composition and that of its committees can Code.
It considers, for example, whether the is set out under Directors Conflicts of Interest be managed without undue disruption: and director has, or has had within the last three on page 82. that it is not so large as to be unwieldy.
years, a material business relationship with 81 Each of our sectors and corporate As at the date of approval of this annual Board and Committee functions prepare and maintain succession report we had three women on our board, Appointments plans, assisted by sectoral and group Human which represented 33% of our total board The board, through the Nomination Resources.
A key aim is to ensure that we membership.
Committee, follows a formal, rigorous and have the right mix of talent capability to The company has taken several steps to transparent procedure to select and appoint support our business strategies whilst also promote diversity and inclusion both at senior new board directors.
The processes are similar encouraging broad experiences through management level and in the boardroom.
for the appointment of Executive and movement of talent across our sectors and Developing policies and processes that prevent Non-Executive Directors.
The GMC reviews these bias in relation to recruitment and promotion Committee leads the process and makes plans each year and the identification and form the basis of this.
These include requiring recommendations to the board.
The board development of high potential individuals balanced shortlists when recruiting, actively recognises the importance of developing is also considered.
The GMCs review of discussing diversity in succession planning internal talent for board appointments, as well succession plans generally leads to further and talent management, promoting industrial as recruiting externally, and Johnson Matthey refinement and changes, resulting in the final and scientific careers to women and flexible has a variety of mentoring arrangements and plans which are submitted to the Nomination employment policies.
There remain challenges a wide range of management development Committee.
Each year the Nomination to overcome, particularly in respect of gender programmes for all employee levels, as Committee, with input from the Chief diversity given the sector in which Johnson described on page 55.
The board also HR Officer, reviews the management Matthey operates, but we are making recognises the need to recruit Non-Executive development and succession planning good progress.
Directors with the right technical skills and processes for the directors and senior knowledge for its committees and who have executives, approves succession plans for the Read more about diversity and inclusion the potential to chair them.
board and considers succession plans for across the group on page 57. senior executives.
Key initiatives continued Terms of Appointment of the this year are our executive development programme with London Business School, Non-Executive Directors Go online: www.
com aimed at developing senior level talent and investor governance Our Non-Executive Directors are appointed boosting their capabilities around strategy for specified terms subject to annual election and leadership: our global management Under the Code, evaluation of the board and to the provisions of the Companies Act development programme, aimed at should consider board diversity including 2006 the 2006 Act relating to the removal developing our middle level talent identified gender, how the board works together as of a director.
In accordance with the Code, as having potential for future strategic a unit and other factors relevant to its any term beyond six years for a Non-Executive leadership roles: and a global training effectiveness.
Our board followed this Director is subject to particularly rigorous curriculum to support the groups principle in its board and committee review.
Odile Desforges and Alan Ferguson, Manufacturing Excellence programme.
Further two of our Non-Executive Directors who will Succession planning at board and information is set out under Evaluation be proposed for re-election at the 2017 senior management level for Johnson of the Board, Board Committees and AGM, have served on our board for three Matthey includes potential succession to Directors on page 82. years and six years respectively.
Their terms all senior roles, including that of Chief of appointment were reviewed and extended Executive, and considers the identification, Time Commitment of the Chairman during the year.
development and readiness of potential and the Non-Executive Directors The term of appointment of Tim internal successors.
The board through the Stevenson as Chairman was reviewed in The board recognises that it is vital that all Nomination Committee will continue to May 2017.
After full review, this was directors should be able to dedicate sufficient focus during the coming year on the key extended to 31st December 2018. time to Johnson Matthey to effectively issues of active talent management, discharge their responsibilities.
The time mobility across the group and diversity.
commitment required by Johnson Matthey Succession Planning is considered by the board and by individual The board recognises that good succession Boardroom Diversity directors on appointment.
The letters of planning is not only a fundamental Our board believes that diversity is important appointment of the Chairman and of each component of board effectiveness but is also for board effectiveness.
Non-Executive Director set out the expected integral to the delivery of Johnson Mattheys Our board has adopted a diversity policy minimum time commitment for their roles.
It is essential in ensuring a and this is set out in full on our website.
Each undertake that they will have sufficient consistent level of quality in management, We have not set express diversity quotas or time to meet what is expected of them for in avoiding instability by helping mitigate measurable objectives for implementing the the proper performance of their duties and the risks which may be associated with any policy.
However, in recent Non-Executive acknowledge that there may, on occasion, be a unforeseen events such as the departure of Director selection processes the board has need to devote additional time.
The minimum a key individual, and in promoting diversity.
encouraged applications from women time commitment considered by the board to The board, through the Nomination subject to the objective selection criteria be necessary for a Non-Executive Director, Committee, is actively engaged in succession being met and to the appointment of the who does not chair a Committee, is two days planning to ensure plans are in place for the best qualified candidate.
per calendar month following induction.
orderly and progressive refreshing of its membership and to identify and develop senior management with potential for board and GMC positions through a pipeline of talented and capable individuals from within Johnson Matthey.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 82 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 4.
Governance The other significant commitments of Indemnification of Directors Evaluation of the Board, Board the Chairman and of each Non-Executive and Insurance Committees and Directors Director are disclosed to the board before Under Deed Polls dated 20th July 2005, Our board carries out a formal annual appointment, with an indication of the time which were replaced during the year by evaluation of its own performance and that involved.
The board requires to be informed updated Deed Polls dated 31st January 2017, of its committees and individual directors of subsequent changes as they arise.
There Johnson Matthey has granted indemnities in with the aim of improving effectiveness.
were no changes to Tim Stevensons other favour of each director of the company and This is led by the Chairman and seeks to significant commitments during the year.
of its subsidiaries in respect of any liability be as rigorous and objective as possible.
Details of these, together with the significant that he or she may incur to a third party in The process considers the boards strengths commitments of the other board members relation to the affairs of the company or any and weaknesses, its range and balance of can be found on page 73. group member.
These were in force during skills, experience, independence and the year for the benefit of all persons who knowledge of the company, its gender Directors Induction and were directors of the company or of its diversity, how the board works together as a Development subsidiaries at any time during the year.
They unit and any other factors considered to be Johnson Matthey puts full, formal and remain in force as at the date of approval of relevant.
Individual evaluation aims to show this annual report.
The company has whether each director continues to contribute tailored induction programmes in place for all its new board directors.
These are appropriate directors and officers liability effectively and to demonstrate commitment insurance cover in place in respect of legal to the role.
The Chairman acts on the results intended to give a broad introduction to the groups businesses and its areas of action against, amongst others, its executive of the performance evaluation.
Strengths are and non-executive directors.
Neither the recognised and any weaknesses addressed.
Key elements are meeting the executive directors and senior and company nor any subsidiary has indemnified This year, our Chairman led an internal any director of the company or a subsidiary review process supported by the committee middle management and visiting the groups major sites in order to gain an in respect of any liability that he or she may chairs and the Company Secretary.
In January incur to a third party in relation to a relevant and February 2017, the Chairman had understanding of group strategy and of individual businesses.
individual discussions with each member of the board, the Company Secretary, the Chief Our intention is that all directors are familiar with, and gain an appropriate HR Officer and the KPMG lead audit partner Directors Conflicts of Interest regarding the board.
The conversations were knowledge of, Johnson Matthey through We have established procedures in place in visits to our operations and meeting with open, confidential and unattributed, using a accordance with our Articles of Association questionnaire devised by Independent Audit, employees.
The board ensures that the to ensure we comply with the directors conflicts company provides the necessary resources a specialist corporate governance consultancy, of interest duties under the 2006 Act and for to steer but not prescribe the topics.
We take various dealing with situations in which a director may steps to ensure that all of our directors Areas discussed covered board have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts composition and dynamics and the key continually refresh their knowledge and with, or may conflict with, the interests of the skills so that they can effectively fulfil their board responsibilities of strategy, risk company.
Johnson Matthey has complied with management and succession.
roles and so that their contributions remain these procedures during the year.
The 2016 17 review echoed the key In April 2017, the board undertook an findings of the prior year that the board annual review of potential conflict matters was well founded in terms of composition, including in respect of directors external Read more on page 75. organisation and culture and working appointments both current and pending.
effectively to support the business.
Since an In each case, the review was undertaken by external review in 2014 15, the Chairman The board has processes in place to ensure directors who were genuinely independent of that it receives the right information in the and the board have sought to make the matter.
The board concluded that there continuous improvements and enhance right form and at the right time to enable were no matters which constituted a conflict.
it to effectively discharge its duties.
The focus in order to make the board even more Potential conflicts will continue to be useful both as a monitor of executive Chairman, through the Company Secretary reviewed by the board on an annual basis.
and with the support of the Executive performance and, more importantly, a The board confirms that Johnson Matthey contributor to that performance.
Directors and management, ensures that this complies with its procedures to authorise information is of a high quality.
Directors are The Chairman discussed his findings of conflict situations and is satisfied that its the 2016 17 review with the Chief Executive able to seek clarification or amplification powers to authorise conflict situations are from management where necessary.
Our and presented them to the board in April being exercised properly and effectively and 2017, together with a number of ideas and directors have access to independent in accordance with its Articles of Association.
external professional advice at the companys recommendations for consideration.
These were then discussed and follow up actions expense where they judge this necessary.
The board also discussed the evaluation process itself and agreed that this had been appropriate and effective.
A summary of findings and actions undertaken following the 2015 16 review and the key findings and recommendations from this years review are outlined on the following page.
83 Board Evaluation Strategy The 2015 16 review found that the board's agendas allocated appropriate time to consideration of strategic issues and the continuing development of strategy as circumstances evolve.
In the 2016 17 review, the board felt that the balance of board discussion between operational issues, strategy and governance was appropriate Read more on with the right balance of time devoted to each but that there could be more discussion of the shape and pages 8 and 9. strategy for the group overall and its business model in order for the board to address the medium to long term options for continued growth.
The need for a good understanding of all the groups businesses was emphasised in order to ensure effective board contribution to debate.
Risk management The 2015 16 review found that, in general, progress was being made in the way in which risk in the business was identified and managed, but that there was further work to do in this area, including in enhancing and developing processes.
Proposals for improvements were made in respect of risk reviews by the board.
The Read more on 2016 17 review found that the proposals for board risk reviews had been well executed but there remained pages 16 to 21. work to do to embed an appropriately robust process throughout the group.
Board composition In the 2015 16 review, the board felt its size and the balance of non-executive and executive members was appropriate.
It was also felt the mix of skills, experience and diversity including of style and approach across the Non-Executive Directors should continue to serve the board and the company well.
The 2016 17 review Read more on confirmed that, taking into account some change in composition, the group of Non-Executive Directors still pages 72 and 73. had good diversity of experience, background and gender and knowledge about the groups major markets.
Board dynamics In 2015 16 the review found good engagement, strong and open contribution to discussion and decisions and constructive challenge to the executive.
However, more challenge from the non-executive members would be welcome and valuable.
The 2016 17 review found the board to be a cooperative and supportive Read more on page 75. space, with the executive open and transparent, including on raising and discussing issues of concern, and ready to listen to Non-Executive Directors challenge and comments.
It was felt that opportunities to work together, not only within the board but importantly when visiting businesses and meeting senior colleagues, were valuable, particularly in enabling the cementing of board relationships.
There was still scope for greater contribution and input from the Non-Executive Directors, particularly on key strategy issues and on areas where they could identify what good looks like.
Suggestions considered in 2014 15 had been implemented on gaining full value from presentations to the board, more agenda free discussion and continued use of teach-ins on major business areas explicitly separated from consideration of strategy.
Succession management In 2015 16, the review reflected that a key role of the board, and particularly its Nomination Committee, was to ensure that there is a viable and effective process for management of succession to key positions and that this is backed up by processes for management of individual careers through development of skills Read more on pages 55 management moves and appropriate training.
It was felt that excellent progress was being made in this to 57 and 88. critical area.
However, there were some important areas for focus on key succession strength and the development of individual talent.
Several proposals were put forward to enable more to be achieved in this area.
The 2016 17 review again emphasised that oversight of Johnson Mattheys people management processes i. e. hiring, training, developing and career management, is an essential board role.
It was felt that this was being done well, with the Non-Executive Directors in particular valuing the open and regular updates on key people moves from the Chief Executive and the opportunity to express their views on issues that arise.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
