Audit Committee Report Chairmans Introduction I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for the financial year ended 31 March 2017.
Throughout the year, the Audit Committee has continued its work of reviewing the effectiveness of Halfords corporate governance framework with particular emphasis on the quality of financial reporting, internal control, and risk management systems.
The Committee monitors risk and internal control through engagement with external auditors, internal auditors and executive management who regularly present management briefings to the Committee, explaining in detail how selected key areas of business risk are managed.
During David Adams the year, the Committee reviewed presentations Chairman of the on Supplier Rebates and Contributions, Cyber Audit Committee Security and Global Sourcing issues.
This report explains in detail how the Committee The Audit Committee has undertook its duties.
continued its work of reviewing the David Adams effectiveness of Halfords corporate Chairman of the Audit Committee governance framework with 24 May 2017 particular emphasis on the quality of financial reporting, internal control, and risk management systems.
Fast Fact Membership and Remit of the Audit Committee 3 a.
Membership Committee All the members of the Audit Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Having been meetings held the Deputy Chief Executive and Finance Director of House of Fraser Plc, and currently chairing three other listed companies Audit Committees, David Adams is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience and so the requisite experience to chair the Committee.
Each of the other independent Non-Executive Directors has, through their other business activities, significant experience in financial matters.
The Audit Committee as a whole is considered to have competence relevant to the sector in which the Company operates.
The effectiveness of the Audit Committee is reviewed at least annually through discussions at the Board and Audit Committee.
The Chairman of the Companys Board, Executive Directors, senior managers and key advisors are invited to attend meetings as appropriate in order to ensure that the Committee maintains a current and wellinformed view of events within the business, and to reinforce a strong risk management culture.
The Audit Committee meets according to the requirements of the Companys financial calendar.
The meetings of the 74 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 74 07 06 2017 16:38:29 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Audit Committee also provide the opportunity for the independent Principal Activities During the Year Non-Executive Directors to meet without the Executive Directors The Audit Committee met three times during the year with the present and to raise any issues of concern with the Auditor.
There following timetable: have been three such meetings in the period ended 31 March 2017 and nothing of note was reported.
Review of Year End Chief Financial Officers Report Management presentation on accounting treatment of b. Remit May supplier rebates and contributions 2016 The Audit Committees responsibilities include: Review of External Auditors Report making recommendations to the Board on the appointment Review of Statement of External Auditors Independence of the external Auditor, including on effectiveness, Review of Internal Audit Full-Year Report, including independence, non-audit work undertaken against a formal update on the Companys risk management and policy and remuneration: internal control systems Approval of Internal Audit Charter reviewing the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted throughout the period: reviewing and approving external financial reporting for Review of Half-Year Chief Financial Officers Report adoption by the Board: Recommend the Interim Statement to the Board for Nov assisting the Board in achieving its obligations under the UK Approval 2016 Corporate Governance Code in areas of risk management and Review of External Auditors Half-Year Report internal control, focusing particularly on compliance with legal Review of Internal Audit Progress Report including requirements, accounting standards and the Listing Rules: update on the Companys risk management and internal control systems review of corporate risk register and regular Internal Audit Review of External Auditor Non-Audit Fee Policy reports on developments in the internal control framework to Review of anti-bribery and corruption risk assessment ensure that an effective system of internal financial and nonand approval of Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy financial controls is maintained on an ongoing basis: Management presentation on cyber security approving a formal Whistleblowing Policy whereby staff may, Review of Committees Terms of Reference in confidence, disclose issues of concern about possible malpractice or wrongdoings by any of the Groups businesses or any of its employees without fear of reprisal, and includes arrangements to investigate and respond to any issues raised: Review of External Auditors annual strategy and fees approving the Companys systems and controls for the Review of Internal Audit Progress Report and Annual March prevention of bribery and corruption, including the receipt of Strategy including update on the Companys internal 2017 any reports on non-compliance: and control systems Consideration of management presentation on approving the Groups Treasury Policy, including foreign global sourcing initiatives and related risks which, for currency and interest rate exposure.
administrative reasons, was delivered to the Board The Audit Committee has reviewed its Terms of Reference and its Review of Group Register of Risks and Controls composition during the year and believes that both are appropriate.
Review of Group Whistleblowing Policy Copies of full Terms of Reference are available on the Companys website or on request from the Company Secretary.
com investors governance our-committees audit-committee STOCK CODE: HFD halfords.
com 75 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 75 07 06 2017 16:38:31 Audit Committee Report the overall audit approach, materiality, threshold, and areas Significant Issues in Relation to the Financial of audit focus were appropriate to the business: and Statements In order to discharge its responsibility to consider accounting the audit team possessed the necessary quality, expertise integrity, the Committee carefully considers key judgements applied and experience to provide an independent and objective in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements which audit.
The Committees review included b Approach to appointment or reappointment consideration of the following key accounting judgements: KPMG LLP formerly KPMG Audit plc was appointed as External Impairment of Goodwill associated with Autocentres: Auditor to the Group in 2009 following a formal tender process.
Since that time, KPMG LLP has complied with the partner rotation Following the acquisition of Nationwide in 2010, the Group requirement set out in Ethical Standards for Auditors, with the holds significant goodwill in the Halfords Autocentres business.
most recent rotation taking place in 2014.
This rotation saw Peter There are a number of factors that could impact on the future Meehan becoming our audit partner.
profitability of the business e. g. loss of key customers, change in market behaviour and there is therefore a risk that the business The Audit Committee considers that the relationship with the may not meet the growth projections necessary to support the Auditor is working well and is satisfied with its independence, carrying value of the intangible asset see note 11 on page 128 of objectivity and effectiveness and has not considered it the Financial Statements : and necessary to require KPMG LLP to re-tender for external audit work this year.
The Audit Committee has recommended to The Audit Committee has received detailed reports from the Board, for approval by shareholders at the Annual General Halfords Finance team and External Auditor addressing this Meeting on 26 July 2017, the reappointment of KPMG LLP as issue.
The Finance team has undertaken detailed work to External Auditor.
The Audit Committee monitors, and will continue consider the impairment of goodwill associated with Autocentres.
to comply with best practice and external guidance in respect of Consideration has been given to ensuring that cash flow models, the frequency of audit tenders.
discount rates, sensitivity analysis and centre profitability are all reasonable.
The Committee concluded that it is satisfied with the c Approach to safeguarding objectivity and accounting treatment of impairment of goodwill.
independence if non-audit services are provided Valuation of inventory within the retail division: The Audit Committee has established a policy to ensure that any non-audit services delivered by the External Auditor will not With the business holding a wide range of stock, it is likely that jeopardise objectivity and independence.
The policy is consistent changing consumer demands will mean that some lines cannot be with Ethical Standards for Auditors.
sold, or will be sold at below the carrying value.
Provisions are made to reflect this.
Given the difficulties in forecasting market trends, The policy specifies: there is a risk that inventory provisions made will be inappropriate or The External Auditor can be used to provide non-audit services incomplete see note 14 on page 130 of the Financial Statements.
subject to any non-audit engagement proposal provided by the Management has an established methodology for assessing External Auditor being formally approved by the Audit Committee inventory provisions.
Range reviews are regularly undertaken to before contractual arrangements are entered into, except for ensure that all discontinued inventory is identified: and activities set out in the list of prohibited activities included in the The Audit Committee has received detailed reports from Halfords Regulation as follows: Finance team and External Auditor addressing this issue.
The Tax services relating to: Finance team has undertaken detailed work around the valuation Preparation of tax forms: of inventory within the Retail division.
After consideration of the accuracy of the provisioning model, the completeness and Payroll tax: accuracy of range reviews, and the reflection of these reviews Customers duties: within the provisions, the Committee concluded that it is satisfied Identification of public subsidies and tax incentives unless with the accounting treatment of the valuation of inventory.
support from the audit firm in respect of such services is External Auditor required by law: a.
Effectiveness of external audit Support regarding tax inspection by tax authorities unless The effectiveness of the External Audit is considered throughout support from the audit firm in respect of such inspections is the year through, amongst other factors: assessment of the required by law: degree of the audit firms challenge of key estimates and Calculation of direct and indirect tax and deferred tax: and judgements made by the business: feedback from any external Provision of tax advice: or internal quality reviews on the audit: and the wider quality of communication with the Committee.
Services that involve paying any part in the management or decision-making of the audited entity: In addition, at its meeting in March 2017, the Committee performed a specific evaluation of the performance of the Bookkeeping and preparing accounting records and financial External Auditor considering the areas set out above and statements: feedback from management.
Following this, the Committee Payroll services: concluded that: 76 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 76 07 06 2017 16:38:31 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The external Auditor can be used to provide non-audit services subject to any non-audit engagement proposal provided by the external Auditor being formally approved by the Audit Committee before contractual arrangements are entered into, except for activities set out in the list of prohibited activities included in the Designing and implementing internal control or risk management Role and Effectiveness of Internal Audit Regulation as follows: procedures related to the preparation and or control of financial The Company has a dedicated in-house Internal Audit team, which is Tax services relating to: information or designing and implementing financial information able to obtain advice from external specialists if necessary.
The team technology systems: principally reviews the effectiveness of the controls operating within the Preparation of tax forms: business by undertaking an agreed schedule of independent audits each Valuation services, including valuations performed in connection Payroll tax: year.
The Audit Committee determines the nature and scope of the annual with actuarial services or litigation support services: audit programme and revises it from time to time according to changing Customers duties: Legal services, with respect to: business circumstances and requirements.
The Audit Committee also Identification of public subsidies and tax incentives unless confirms that Internal Audit has appropriate resources available to it.
The The provision of general counsel: support from the audit firm in respect of such services is required annual audit programme is derived from an audit universe.
Negotiating on behalf of the audited entity: and by law: Our Internal Audit plan for the forthcoming year features 30 reviews Acting in an advocacy role in the resolution of litigation: Support regarding ta inspection by tax authorities unless support covering financial and commercial processes, governance issues Services related to the audit entitys internal audit function: from the audit firm in respect of such inspections is required by and key risk safeguards.
The executive summaries of all Internal Audit law: reports are circulated to Audit Committee members and discussed at Services linked to the financing, capital structure and meetings where appropriate.
allocation, and investment strategy of the audited entity, Calculation of direct and indirect tax and deferred tax: except providing assurance services in relation to the The Audit Committee is satisfied that the Internal Audit team has the Provision of tax advice: financial statements, such as the issuing of comfort letters in quality, experience and expertise appropriate for the business.
connection with prospectuses issued by the audited entity: Services that involve paying any part in the management or Internal Audit reports on a day-to-day basis to the Groups Chief decision-making of the audited entity: Promoting, dealing in, or underwriting shares in the audited Financial Officer, but is independent in action and reporting of issues, entity: and Bookkeeping and preparing accounting records and financial with direct line of communication to the Audit Committee Chairman.
statements: The findings of the independent audits are reported initially to Human resources services, with respect to: executive management and any necessary corrective actions are Payroll services: Management in a position to exert significant influence agreed.
Summaries of these reports are presented to, and discussed over the preparation of the accounting records or financial Designing and implementing internal control or risk management with, the Audit Committee along with details of progress against statement which are the subject of the statutory audit, where procedures related to the preparation and or control of financial action plans as appropriate.
such services involve: information or designing and implementing financial information Whistleblowing technology systems: searching for or seeking out candidates for such position: or A Whistleblowing Policy and Procedure enables colleagues to report Valuation services, including valuations performed in connection concerns on matters affecting the Group or their employment, undertaking reference checks of candidates for such with actuarial services or litigation support services: without fear of recrimination.
Posters publicising whistleblowing positions: channels are distributed to all stores, Autocentres, distribution Legal services, with respect to: structuring the organisation design: and centres and the Support Centre.
The provision of general counsel: cost control.
The Whistleblowing Policy and Procedure was reviewed and approved Negotiating on behalf of the audited entity: and by the Audit Committee and was subject to an Internal Audit review Other than for the above, for each separate service proposed to during the year.
The Company Secretary provides the Audit Committee be provided by the Auditor, the Group Chief Financial Officer will Acting in an advocacy role in the resolution of litigation: with a regular summary of whistleblowing contacts and resolutions.
prepare a note either to be tabled and minuted at an Audit Committee Services related to the audit entitys internal audit function: meeting or to be circulated via email to the Audit Committee Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy members and the CEO giving a description of the work to be Services linked to the financing, capital structure and allocation, The Groups Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy statement reinforces undertaken, the reasons why the Auditor is involved in the proposal and investment strategy of the audited entity, except providing that the Halfords Board is committed to conducting its business and how objectivity and independence has, and is seen to be, assurance services in relation to the financial statements, such affairs so as to ensure that it does not engage in or facilitate any form safeguarded.
as the issuing of comfort letters in connection with prospectuses of corruption.
It is Halfords policy to prohibit all forms of corruption issued by the audited entity: amongst our employees, suppliers and any associated parties acting on In addition, the fees for any proposal for non-audit services will not our behalf.
The Group has a detailed Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy exceed 70% of the three year average statutory audit fees when Promoting, dealing in, or underwriting shares in the audited entity: and maintains Gifts and Hospitality Registers.
Anti-Bribery expectations taken into consideration with total fees for non-audit services already Human resources services, with respect to: are set out in standard purchasing terms and conditions.
Face-to-face committed in the financial year.
and online training has been provided to colleagues to raise awareness Management in a position to exert significant influence over the Consent is required from the Audit Committee Chair on behalf of the of Anti-Bribery and corruption legislation.
preparation of the accounting records or financial statement Audit Committee before the Auditor can be engaged for non-audit which are the subject of the statutory audit, where such services The Audit Committee has requested that Anti-Bribery and corruption services.
involve: safeguards are periodically reviewed by Internal Audit.
In addition, the External Auditor follows its own ethical guidelines and searching for or seeking out candidates for such continually reviews its audit team to ensure that its independence is Internal Control and Risk Management position: or not compromised.
Details of the Groups internal control and risk management framework are set out on pages 42 to 47. undertaking reference checks of candidates for such An analysis of the fees earned by the External Auditor is disclosed in positions: note 2 on page 143 to the Financial Statements.
structuring the organisation design: and STOCK CODE: HFD halfords.
