Report of the Audit Committee Dear shareholders, David Keens I am pleased to introduce the Audit Committee Report for 2017.
Chairman of the The Committee operates under defined Terms of Reference Audit Committee and assists the Board in discharging many of its responsibilities over monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial reporting: the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management framework: the internal audit function: and the independence and effectiveness of the external auditors.
The Committee is comprised entirely of Independent Non-Executive Directors, all of whom have significant commercial and operating experience in consumer and digital businesses: and I fulfil the requirement for a Committee member to have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee met three times during the year, arranged around our external reporting and audit cycle, and with attendance by the CFO and other members of management and with representation from KPMG and Deloitte.
The Committee reviewed significant accounting matters with an appropriate Composed of three Independent Non-Executive Directors.
level of challenge and debate.
We believe that the information in this Annual Report clearly explains progress against our David Keens is considered by the Board to have recent and strategic and operating objectives and is fair, balanced relevant experience.
Other members have a wide range of and understandable.
The Committee plays a key role in ensuring that we continue At least three meetings held per year.
to have a robust internal control and risk management process.
Meetings are attended by the Chief Financial Officer, Our internal audit function is outsourced to Deloitte LLP, who Chief Executive Officer, internal auditors and external auditors continue to provide us with specialist expertise in delivering by invitation.
For more information on the Committees Terms of Reference During the year, the Audit Quality Review team of the Financial visit about-us.
co. uk investors Reporting Council FRC reviewed PwCs our outgoing auditors audit of the Groups March 2016 financial statements.
The FRC have given us a copy of their report, which has been reviewed by Three meetings were held during the year: the Committee and discussed with PwC.
The report does not Meetings attended Percentage of give the Committee any concerns over the quality, objectivity total meetings held meetings attended or independence of the audit.
David Keens Chairman 3 3 100% At the 2016 AGM, shareholders approved the Boards Jill Easterbrook 3 3 100% recommendation to appoint KPMG LLP as our new external Jeni Mundy 3 3 100% auditors.
The transition has gone smoothly and we have already developed an effective working relationship with the KPMG team, which we look forward to continuing in future years.
Our progress in 2017 Transition from PwC to KPMG as new external auditor.
David Keens Review of change from 52 week to annual accounting, Chairman of the Audit Committee and the prospective change from Underlying operating profit 8 June 2017 to Operating profit measure.
Continued focus on key areas of judgement, risk and controls.
Review of effectiveness of internal audit function.
In 2018 we will Agree with KPMG any changes for their 2018 audit.
Review the integration and performance of Motor Trade Delivery, acquired in April 2017.
Consider the impact on the Company of political and regulatory changes.
56 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial reporting The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting is to review and monitor the integrity of the financial statements, including annual and half-year reports, result announcements, dividend proposals and any other formal announcement relating to the Groups financial performance.
The Committee assessed the quality and appropriateness of the accounting principles and policies adopted, and whether management had made appropriate underlying estimates and judgements.
In doing so, the Committee reviewed management reports in respect of the main financial reporting issues and judgements made, together with reports prepared by the external auditor on the 2017 half-year statement and 2017 Annual Report.
The Committee, with assistance from management and KPMG, identified areas of financial statement risk and judgement as described below.
Description of focus area Audit Committee action Revenue recognition Revenue recognition for the Groups revenue streams is not complex.
The Committee was satisfied with the explanations provided However, this was an area of focus for KPMG due to the large volume and conclusions reached.
of transactions and as revenue is the most material figure in the financial statements.
KPMG carried out a review of our revenue recognition policies: performed detailed analytical procedures: tested completeness and existence of revenue by matching sales information from sales systems to the financial systems and to cash receipts: reviewed customer contracts: tested revenue cut-off and assessment of deferred and accrued revenue: and carried out other computer assisted audit techniques.
Adjusted profit measure The Group uses an Adjusted Profit Measure, Underlying operating The Committee considered the appropriateness of including profit, to allow better interpretation of the underlying performance alternative profit and growth measures in the light of the ESMA of the business.
Underlying operating profit is defined as Operating guidelines, and was satisfied that the items were appropriately profit before exceptional items and share-based payments adjusted for: that the non-GAAP measures were not given undue including national insurance.
Also, due to the additional five days prominence: and the disclosures, reconciliations and definitions of trading in the current year arising from the change from 52-week provided were presented in a clear manner.
The Committee also to annual accounting the Group has published adjusted growth reviewed and concurred with the proposal to move to an figures in order to present a like-for-like measure, for the reasons unadjusted Operating profit measure commencing in 2018. noted in the Financial review, on page 26.
Share-based payments The Company has a number of share-based payment arrangements, The Committee reviewed the assumptions made by management, accounted for under IFRS2, which requires the use of valuation particularly in relation to profit forecasts that determine the models and certain assumptions in determining their fair value at proportion of shares granted under the PSP and DABP.
The grant and in the recognition of charges and as such is an area of Committee reviewed the comments within KPMGs report into the judgement for management.
adequacy of the charge and satisfied itself that the share-based payment accounting is appropriate and in accordance with accounting standards.
Going concern and viability statement The Directors must satisfy themselves as to the Groups viability The Committee reviewed managements schedules supporting and confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that it will the going concern assessment and viability statements.
These continue to operate and meet its liabilities as they fall due.
The included the Group medium-term plan and cash flow forecasts period over which the Directors have determined is appropriate to for the period to March 2020.
The Committee discussed with assess the prospects of the Group has been defined as three years.
management the appropriateness of the three-year period, and In addition, the Directors must consider if the going concern discussed the correlation with the Groups principal risks and assumption is appropriate.
uncertainties as disclosed on pages 33 to 35.
The feasibility of mitigating actions and the potential speed of implementation to achieve any flexibility required was discussed.
The Committee evaluated the conclusions over going concern and viability and the proposed disclosures in the financial statements and satisfied itself that the financial statements appropriately reflect the conclusions.
Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 57 Report of the Audit Committee continued Fair, balanced and understandable At the request of the Board, the Committee has reviewed the content of the 2017 Annual Report and considered whether, taken as a whole, in its opinion it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee was provided with an early draft of the Annual Report, and provided feedback on areas where further clarity or information was required in order to provide a complete picture of the Groups performance.
The final draft was then presented to the Audit Committee for review before being recommended for approval by the Board.
When forming its opinion, the Committee reflected on the discussion held during the year and reports received from the external auditor and considered the following main areas: Is the report fair?
Is a complete picture presented and has any sensitive material been omitted that should have been included?
Are key messages in the narrative aligned with the KPIs and are they reflected in the financial reporting?
Are the revenue streams described in the narrative consistent with those used for financial reporting in the financialstatements?
Is the report Is there a good level of consistency between the reports in the front and the reporting in the back of the Annual Report?
Do you get the same messages when reading the front end and the back end independently?
Is there an appropriate balance between statutory and adjusted measures and are any adjustments explained clearly with appropriate prominence?
Are the key judgements referred to in the narrative reporting and significant issues reported in the Report of the AuditCommittee consistent with disclosures of key estimation uncertainties and critical judgements set out in the financialstatements?
How do these compare with the risks that KPMG are planning to include in their report?
Is the report Is there a clear and cohesive framework for the Annual Report?
Are the important messages highlighted and appropriately themed throughout the document?
Is the report written in accessible language and are the messages clearly drawn out?
Following the Committees review, the Directors confirm that, in their opinion, the 2017 Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Risk management and internal control The Committees responsibilities include a review of the risk management systems and internal controls to ensure that they remain effective and that any identified weaknesses are properly dealt with.
The Committee: reviews annually the effectiveness of the Groups internal control framework: receives reports from the Groups outsourced internal audit function and ensures recommendations are implemented where appropriate: and reviews reports from the external auditors on any issues identified in the course of their work, including any internal control reports received on control weaknesses, and ensures that there is an appropriate response from management.
The Group has internal controls and risk management systems in place in relation to its financial reporting processes and preparation of consolidated accounts.
These systems include policies and procedures to ensure that adequate accounting records are maintained and transactions are recorded accurately and fairly to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS.
The internal control systems include the elements described below.
Element Approach and basis for assurance Risk Whilst risk management is a matter for the Board as a whole, the day to day management of the Groups key risks resides management with the Operational Leadership Team OLT and is documented in a risk register.
A review and update of the risk register is undertaken twice a year and reviewed by the Board.
The management of identified risks is delegated to the OLT, and regular updates are given to Executive Management at quarterly Governance meetings.
Financial Group consolidation is performed on a monthly basis with a month end pack produced that includes an Income reporting statement, Balance sheet, Cash flow statement and detailed analysis.
The month end pack also includes KPIs and these are reviewed each month by the OLT and the Board.
Results are compared against the Plan or Reforecast and narrative provided by management to explain significant variances.
Budgeting and An annual Plan is produced and monthly results are reported against this.
The Plan reforecasting and the Reforecast are prepared using a bottom up approach, informed by a high-level assessment of market and economic conditions.
Reviews are performed by the OLT and the Board whilst the Plan is also compared to the top down Medium Term Plan MTP as a sense check.
The Plan is approved by the OLT and Board, and the Reforecast is approved by the OLT and reported to the Board.
Delegation of A documented structure of delegated authorities and approval for transactions is maintained beyond the Board Terms authority and of Reference.
This is reviewed regularly by management to ensure it remains appropriate for the business.
approval limits Segregation Procedures are defined to segregate duties over significant transactions, including procurement, payments to of duties suppliers, payroll and discounts refunds.
Key reconciliations are prepared and reviewed on a monthly basis to ensure accurate reporting.
58 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Internal audit Deloitte has been appointed as the Groups outsourced internal audit function.
They are accountable to the Audit Committee and use a risk-based approach to provide independent assurance over the adequacy and effectiveness of the control environment.
The internal audit work plan for 2017 was approved by the Audit Committee and covers a broad range of core financial and operational processes and controls, focusing on specific risk areas, including: Business rules and leakage.
IT resilience, disaster recovery and scalability.
Data protection and leakage review.
Management actions that are recommended following the audits are tracked to completion and reviewed by the Committee to ensure that identified risks are mitigated appropriately.
The Committee met with representatives from Deloitte without management present and with management without representatives of Deloitte present.
There were no issues of note raised during these meetings.
Whistleblowing A whistleblowing policy has been adopted which includes access to a whistleblowing telephone service run by an independent organisation, allowing employees to raise concerns on an entirely confidential basis.
The Committee receives regular reports on the use of the service, any significant reports that have been received, the investigations carried out and any actions arising as a result.
External auditors One of the Committees roles is to oversee the relationship with the external auditor, KPMG, and to evaluate the effectiveness of the service provided.
KPMG was appointed as the Groups external auditor at the 2016 AGM, and this has been a year of transition.
The Committee has concluded that the external auditor is effective, based on review and discussion of audit scope and plans, materiality assessments, review of auditors reports and feedback from management on the effectiveness of the audit process.
During the year the Committee reviewed KPMGs findings of the external auditor in respect of their review of the half-yearly report for the six-month period ending 25 September 2016, and in respect of the audit of the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2017.
The Committee met with representatives from KPMG without management present and with management without representatives of KPMG present, to ensure that there were no issues in the relationship between management and the external auditor which it should address.
The Committee has reviewed, and is satisfied with, the independence of KPMG as the external auditor.
Non-audit services provided by the external auditors The external auditors are primarily engaged to carry out statutory audit work.
There may be other services where the external auditors are considered to be the most suitable supplier by reference to their skills and experience.
It is the Groups practice that it will seek quotes from several firms, which may include KPMG, before engagements for non-audit projects are awarded.
Contracts are awarded based on individual merits.
A policy is in place for the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor, to ensure that the provision of such services does not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
This policy has been reviewed effective 1 April 2017 and changes have been made in accordance with the EU Audit Reform.
Non-audit service Policy Audit-related services directly related to the audit Considered to be approved by the Committee up to a level of For example, the review of interim financial statements, 100,000 for each individual engagement, and to a maximum compliance certificates and reports to regulators.
aggregate in any financial year of the higher of 200,000 and 70% of the average audit fees paid to the audit firm in the last three Acceptable non-audit services consecutive years.
Including but not limited to: work related to mergers, acquisitions, Any engagement of the external auditor to provide permitted disposals, joint ventures or circulars: benchmarking services: and services over these limits is subject to the specific approval in corporate governance advice.
advance by the Audit Committee.
Prohibited services Prohibited, with the exception of certain services which are subject In line with the EU Audit Reform, services where the auditors to derogation if certain conditions are met, in accordance with the objectivity and independence may be compromised by the threat EU Audit Reform.
of self-interest, self-review, management, advocacy, familiarity or intimidation for example, tax services, accounting services, internal audit services, valuation services and financial systems consultancy.
co. uk investors for full details of the policy.
During the year, KPMG charged the Group 30,000 for audit-related assurance services.
The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 statement of compliance As a competitive tender was carried out in 2016, and KPMG LLP appointed as statutory auditors in the current financial year, we have complied with the requirement that the external audit contract is tendered within the 10 years prescribed by EU and UK legislation and the Codes recommendation.
The Company confirms that it complied with the provisions of the Competition and Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year under review.
David Keens Chairman of the Audit Committee 8 June 2017 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 59
