Board of Directors Ed Williams Jeni Mundy Nathan Coe David Keens Sean Glithero Jill Easterbrook Trevor Mather Chairman Independent Chief Operating Officer Senior Independent Chief Financial Officer Independent Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Trevor joined AutoTrader as Chief Biography and experience Ed has been a Non-Executive Jeni was appointed as a NonNathan was appointed to the Board David was appointed as a After qualifying as a chartered Jill was appointed as a NonExecutive Officer in June 2013.
Director of AutoTrader since Executive Director on 1 March 2016. as Chief Operating Officer COO in Non-Executive Director on accountant with Ernst & Young, Executive Director to the Board Previously, Trevor was President November 2010 and Chairman Jeni is the Enterprise Product April 2017.
David was previously working within both the audit and on 1 July 2015.
Jill is currently the and CEO of ThoughtWorks, a since March 2014.
He was the Director for Vodafone Group and is in 2007 to oversee the transition Group Finance Director of NEXT plc corporate finance departments, CEO of Boden, following her global IT and software consulting founding Chief Executive of responsible for the strategy, from a magazine business to being 1991 to 2015 and its Group Sean worked in the telecoms appointment in February 2017.
Trevor joined Rightmove plc, serving in that delivery and lifecycle management a pure digital company.
Previous industry and for the FTSE 100 was previously a member of the responsible for launching a number executive committee at Tesco PLC ThoughtWorks in 2001, to kick-start capacity from November 2000 of the business product portfolio management experience includes company BPB plc, before joining of new business areas, and led the where she was most recently the the UK branch of the company and until his retirement from the worldwide.
Jeni started her career nine years in the UK and overseas AutoTrader as Group Financial Companys early entry and Group Business Transformation then took responsibility for all business in April 2013.
Rightmove as a Radio Engineer with BellSouth operations of multinational food Controller in 2006.
He has since subsequent growth in mobile and Director.
She joined Tesco in 2001 international operations before plc was floated on the London in New Zealand and has been manufacturer Nabisco 1977 to held various group and divisional online.
For the past two years, and held a variety of strategic and becoming CEO in 2007.
He helped Stock Exchange in February 2006. with Vodafone since 1998.
Her roles 1986 and prior to that seven years roles in the business, helping the Nathan has been the joint operational leadership roles.
She oversee the business grow from a Prior to Rightmove, Ed spent the have included five years as Chief in the accountancy profession.
business reshape through Operations Director, sharing has run a number of multichannel 300 person North American majority of his career as a Technology Officer CTO in New David is a member of the acquisitions and disposals as well responsibility for the day-to-day businesses within Tesco including company to a 2,200 person global management consultant with Zealand managing IT and the Association of Chartered as aiding the transition online operations of the business.
Prior to UK and ROI Clothing and the business with operations in 29 Accenture and McKinsey & Co. Ed mobile network, five years as the Certified Accountants and of through restructuring and joining AutoTrader, Nathan was at Developing Businesses division.
cities around the world with a holds an MA in Philosophy, Politics Vodafone UK CTO and a year the Association of Corporate realignment programmes.
Sean Telstra, Australias leading Jill started her career at Marks particular personal focus on and Economics from St Annes leading the Northern Europe Sales Treasurers.
was appointed Chief Financial telecommunications company, & Spencer in buying and helping businesses become truly College, Oxford.
Officer in September 2012 and has where he led Mergers and merchandising and also spent time digital.
Before his time at Jeni holds an MSc in Electronic led two major re-financings and Acquisitions and Corporate as a management consultant with ThoughtWorks, Trevor spent Engineering from the University also has responsibility for Development for its media and Cap Gemini Ernst & Young.
almost 10 years at Andersen ofWales.
customer security, legal services internet businesses.
He was Consulting now Accenture and procurement.
Sean holds a previously a consultant at PwC, focusing on e-business solutions.
BA Hons in Accountancy from having graduated from the Trevor holds an MEng in Exeter University.
University of Sydney with a Aeronautics and Astronautics B. Com.
46 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Ed Williams Jeni Mundy Nathan Coe David Keens Sean Glithero Jill Easterbrook Trevor Mather Chairman Independent Chief Operating Officer Senior Independent Chief Financial Officer Independent Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Trevor joined AutoTrader as Chief Biography and experience Ed has been a Non-Executive Jeni was appointed as a NonNathan was appointed to the Board David was appointed as a After qualifying as a chartered Jill was appointed as a NonExecutive Officer in June 2013.
The dates of appointment shown are the dates on which the Directors were first appointed to the Board of AutoTrader Group plc or the Groups previous parent company, AutoTrader Holding Limited.
Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 47
