Report of the Nomination Committee Dear shareholders, Ed Williams I am pleased to present the Report of the Nomination Committee Chairman of the for 2017, which has been a year of consolidation following the Nomination Committee appointment of three new Independent Non-Executive Directors in the previous year.
Role of the Committee The Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and its Committees, and makes appropriate recommendations to the Board for appointments to the Board.
How the Committee operates All members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman of the Board chairs all meetings of the Committee unless they relate to the appointment of his successor: for these meetings, the Senior Independent Director SID is invited to take the Chair unless the SID is in contention for the role.
The Committee meets at least annually, and on an ad hoc basis as required throughout the year.
Only members of the Committee Composed of the Chairman and three Independent have the right to attend meetings, however, the Chief Executive Non-Executive Directors.
Officer attends for all or part of meetings so that the Committee At least one meeting held per year.
can understand his views, particularly on key talent within the business.
Meetings are attended by the Chief Executive Officer and other relevant attendees by invitation.
Succession planning For more information on the Committees Terms of Reference Effective succession planning is critical to the long-term success visit about-us.
co. uk investors of the Company.
The continual review of succession plans continued in the year to ensure that arrangements are in place for orderly succession in the context of the Groups strategy One meeting was held during the year: for the Board and senior management.
Meetings attended Percentage of The Board recognises the importance of developing our total meetings held meetings attended employees in relation to succession planning for senior Ed Williams Chairman 1 1 100% positions.
The succession planning review included a review David Keens 1 1 100% of the development plans for the senior management team Jill Easterbrook 1 1 100% in order to recognise and grow our internal talent.
Jeni Mundy 1 1 100% Appointment of Executive Director During the year, the Committee recommended the appointment of Nathan Coe as an Executive Director.
All members of the Our progress in 2017 Board met with Nathan and were pleased to welcome him to the Board with effect from 1 April 2017.
Focus on diversity and inclusion.
Policy on appointments to the Board The most important priority of the Committee has been, and Appointment of Nathan Coe as Chief Operating Officer.
will continue to be, ensuring that members of the Board should In 2018 we will collectively possess the broad range of skills, expertise and Continue to monitor Board and senior management succession industry knowledge, and business and other experience in the context of the Companys long-term strategy.
necessary for the effective oversight of the Group.
Support management and the Board in promoting diversity Appointments are made on merit, against objective criteria in senior management and across the workforce.
and with due regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board.
The Committee takes account of a variety of factors before recommending any new appointments to the Board, including relevant skills to perform the role, experience, knowledge and diversity, including gender diversity.
In 2016, we adopted a target of female representation on our Board of 25%, and we continue to meet this target, as two of our seven Board members are female.
54 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 1 Diversity and inclusion Board composition As at 31 March 2017 The Committee has always had a responsibility to take account of diversity when considering the size, structure and composition of the Board and the senior management team.
However, recognising the 3 importance of this issue, the Committees Terms of Reference now include the responsibility to oversee diversity and inclusion across 2 the whole Group.
We acknowledge the recommendations of the Hampton-Alexander 1 Review.
The Board is committed to strengthening female representation at senior management level but formal targets have not been set instead, through our Diversity & Inclusion Working Chairman Group, we have sought to take positive steps to address the Independent Non-Executive Directors underlying challenges facing all under-represented groups within Executive Directors our workforce and senior management teams, including differences of gender, race, ethnic origin, age, disability and sexual orientation.
We are proud of the progress made during the year by our Diversity & Inclusion Working Group, which is covered in more detail on page 38.
1 Board diversity As at 31 March 2017 Independence and re-election to the Board In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will retire and offer themselves for election or re-election to the Board.
2 The Directors who have been in post throughout the year have been subject to a formal evaluation process, and both the Committee and the Board are satisfied that all Directors continue to be effective in, and demonstrate commitment to, their respective roles on the Board 4 and that each makes a valuable contribution to the leadership of the Company.
Male The Board therefore recommends that shareholders approve the Female resolutions to be proposed at the 2017 AGM relating to the election and re-election of the Directors.
I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions on the work of the Committee.
1 Board tenure As at 31 March 2017 Ed Williams Chairman of the Nomination Committee 1 8 June 2017 3 2 Over 5 years 2-5 years Up to 2 years 1 Nathan Coe was appointed, as an Executive Director, with effect from 1 April 2017.
Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 55
