Report of the Audit Committee As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present the Companys report of the Audit Committee to the shareholders.
This report contains details of the Audit Committees roles and responsibilities along with the effectiveness of the external audit process for the year ended 31 March 2017.
Details of the Audit Committee members can be found on page 37 within the Directors Report.
Role and Responsibilities of the Audit Committee The Company has an Audit Committee, which plays an important role in the appraisal and supervision of key aspects of the Companys business.
The Audit Committees main objectives are to: Review and recommend to the Board the Annual and Half-Yearly Financial Statements of the Company: Review the appropriateness of the Companys accounting policies: Review the quality and content of the Auditors Report: Review and challenge the accounting estimates: Review and challenge compliance with appropriate reporting standards and corporate governance requirements: Consider whether the Annual Report and Audited Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable: Monitor and review the effectiveness of the controls and risk management systems on which the Company is reliant: Oversee the relationship with the external auditor: Review and report on the external auditors effectiveness and independence and the effectiveness of the audit process: Review the effectiveness of the internal audit function of Franklin Templeton: and Review other ad hoc items referred to the Audit Committee that have come to the Boards attention.
During the year the Audit Committee worked additionally on a number of important projects including: Review and analysis of the relevant factors to determine the appropriateness of the allocation of expenses between revenue and capital: Review the costs and benefits of physically printing the Annual and Half-Yearly Reports which led to a recommendation, accepted by the Board, that these reports should no longer be printed and mailed automatically to shareholders: Completion of the selection process for a replacement audit partner following the mandatory rotation of the incumbent partner: and Ensuring an appropriate induction programme for its new members.
The Committee meets at least three times a year.
The Companys external auditor also attends the Committee, at least twice a year, and reports on the quality of the Companys accounting procedures and their findings in relation to the Companys statutory accounts.
The Audit Committee Chairman will attend the Companys AGM and will be prepared to respond to questions which may be raised by shareholders on matters within the Audit Committees responsibilities.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 53 TEMIT ANNUREP 12 p34 63 Board of Directors.
indd 53 6 29 17 7:08 PM Report of the Audit Committee continued The terms of reference of the Audit Committee reflect the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Audit Committee is available to shareholders on the TEMIT website www.
co. uk or upon request via Client Dealer Services at Franklin Templeton using the contact details provided on the inside back cover of this report.
Composition of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee currently comprises Peter Harrison Chairman, Hamish Buchan, David Graham, Beatrice Hollond and Simon Jeffreys.
Peter Harrison is due to retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
It is proposed that Simon Jeffreys be appointed as Audit Committee Chairman on this date.
The Board considers that the members of the Audit Committee have sufficient recent and relevant financial experience in order for it to perform its functions effectively, noting in particular that the Audit Committee Chairman is a Chartered Accountant and former auditor.
The Directors biographies are given on pages 34 to 36 of the Annual Report.
Annual Report and Financial Statements The primary role of the Audit Committee is to review the appropriateness of the Annual and Half-Yearly Financial Statements with both the Manager and the external auditor.
To assist the Committee with their review, the Committee receives reports and representations from the Manager and the external auditor.
During the year, the Committee considered that the significant issues in relation to the Financial Statements included: Portfolio Valuation The Board receives regular portfolio reports, liquidity information and presentations from the Manager and the Investment Manager.
The Manager employs global pricing policy procedures consistent with current regulations as disclosed in the accounting policies on page 70.
Other issues considered were: Misappropriation of Assets The Company has appointed an independent custodian JPMorgan Chase Bank to hold its assets.
The Manager reconciles the investment portfolio to the custodian records on a regular basis.
Going Concern The Committee considers the nature of the portfolio, the investment objective, income and expenditure, the principal risks of the Company and the continuation vote, and assesses whether it is appropriate to prepare Financial Statements on a going concern basis, and makes its recommendations to the Board.
54 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk TEMIT ANNUREP 12 p34 63 Board of Directors.
indd 54 6 29 17 7:08 PM Recognition of Investment Income The Committee receives quarterly income forecast reports which detail the income received and the estimated income due to be received in the financial year.
Compliance with Section 1158 The Company has been accepted as an approved investment trust by HM Revenue and Customs for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 April 2012, subject to continuing to meet the eligibility conditions of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and the ongoing requirements of The Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011.
The Directors are satisfied that the Company intends to direct its affairs to ensure its continued approval as an investment trust.
Conclusion As a result of the work undertaken, the Committee has concluded that the Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy, and has reported on these findings to the Board.
The Boards conclusions in this respect are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 58.
Internal Control The Company does not have an internal audit function of its own because it has no employees.
The Company relies on the internal audit department of Franklin Templeton to report any material failings or weaknesses.
The Board monitors the risk management and system of internal controls on an ongoing basis and the Company also engages Franklin Templetons internal audit function to carry out a review of specific areas that the Audit Committee deems necessary.
The Audit Committee meets representatives of the Manager and Investment Manager, including their internal auditors, risk manager and their compliance officer, who report as to the proper conduct of business in accordance with the regulatory environment in which both the Company and the Manager and Investment Manager operate.
The meeting held with the internal auditors is conducted on a private basis, with no other representation from the Manager or the Investment Manager.
The Committee reviewed the Company risk map.
The risk map explained the key risks identified by the Company in detail, assessing the likelihood of the risk materialising and the impact this would have on the Company.
It also identified the key operational procedures and oversight by the Manager and the Board.
During the year, the Audit Committee additionally reviewed the following significant items: www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 55 TEMIT ANNUREP 12 p34 63 Board of Directors.
indd 55 6 29 17 7:08 PM Report of the Audit Committee continued Counterparty Credit Oversight The review considered the risk that the Companys counterparties default on payment or delivery of portfolio and cash transactions.
This included a review of the primary and mitigating controls implemented by the Manager and Investment Manager.
Global Custody Review This annual review evaluated JPMorgan Chase Banks global custody and sub-custody network.
Key Service Providers This review assessed the value and quality of services provided to the Company by third parties.
Auditor Assessment and Independence TEMITs external auditor, Deloitte LLP, has been the Companys auditor since 27 August 2009.
The Audit Committee reviewed the services provided by the auditor.
The previous audit tender was conducted within the last ten years, therefore the Company is compliant with the latest corporate governance provisions relating to auditor tenure.
The audit partner is rotated every five years.
To this end, 2017 is Andrew Partridges last year as partner and accordingly will be replaced for the 2018 audit by Stuart McLaren.
It is expected that an audit tender will be held by 2019 to coincide with the ten year anniversary of Deloittes appointment.
TEMIT is in compliance with the provisions of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 as issued by the Competition & Markets Authority.
To assess the effectiveness of the external audit process, the auditor is asked, on an annual basis, to set out the steps that they have taken to ensure objectivity and independence.
The auditors performance, behaviour and effectiveness during the exercise of its duties are monitored during the year by the Audit Committee.
The Committee also receives an annual independent Audit Quality Review from the Financial Reporting Council which monitors audit quality of the major audit firms in the UK.
The Committee also reviewed Deloittes independence policies and procedures including quality assurance procedures and concluded they were satisfactory.
Performance of any non-audit services must be approved in advance by the Committee and in consideration of the recommendations of the Accounting Practices Board.
All costs for non-audit services are considered to be appropriate relative to fees paid for audit services.
An engagement letter is issued for all non-audit work and subsequently reviewed by the Committee to ensure that the independence and objectivity of the auditor is safeguarded.
During the year, Deloitte were also engaged to perform a review of the Half-Yearly Report.
The Committee therefore confirms that the non-audit work undertaken by the auditor satisfies and does not compromise the tests of the auditors independence, objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification.
56 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
indd 56 6 29 17 7:08 PM The fees in the year were as follows: 2017 2016 Audit Services 30,500 29,500 Non Audit Services: Half-Yearly Review 5,100 4,950 TEMIT is able to rely on the Financial Reporting Act Dual-listed Issuers Exemption Notice, issued on 27 March 2013 which exempts it from requirements in the New Zealand Financial Reporting Act 1993.
This exemption recognises that companies with a primary listing in the United Kingdom prepare Financial Statements and are audited in accordance with UK requirements.
This allows TEMIT to be exempted from the New Zealand requirement that firms be audited by a New Zealand unlimited liability entity.
Based on their review, the Committee recommends that Deloitte LLP is re-appointed as the Companys auditor.
Peter Harrison Audit Committee Chairman 7 June 2017 www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 57 TEMIT ANNUREP 12 p34 63 Board of Directors.
