Corporate governance statement This corporate governance statement explains key featuresof the Companys governance framework and howitcomplies with the UK Corporate Governance Code published in 2014 by the Financial Reporting Council.
Introduction A Leadership This statement also includes items see pages 48 and 49. required by the Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTRs.
The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code is B Effectiveness available on the Financial Reporting see pages 50 and 54.
uk Compliance with C Accountability the 2014 Code see page 53 and page 56.
The Company has complied in full with all provisions of the 2014 Corporate Governance Code during the year.
This report is structured to follow each D Remuneration of the sections of the Code: see page 53 and page 60.
E Relations with shareholders see page 53.
A Leadership Board and Committee meetings Board responsibilities Insurance and attendance The Board has adopted a formal schedule The Company maintains appropriate Board meetings are planned around the key of matters reserved for its approval and has insurance to cover Directors and officers events in the corporate calendar including delegated other specific responsibilities to liability for itself and its subsidiaries and such the half-yearly and final results and the its Committees.
The schedule sets out key insurance was in force for the whole of the Annual General Meeting AGM, and a aspects of the affairs of the Company which financial year ending 31 March 2017. strategy meeting is held each year.
the Board does not delegate.
It is reviewed at least annually, and is published on our website In months where there is no Board meeting, at about-us.
co. uk investors a financial update call is held at which the Board discusses results with operational Refer to page 49 for a summary management.
There is also an annual day of of these matters.
dual calling where Directors accompany the sales force on their site visits to customers.
During the year, the Chairman and NonBoard Audit Remuneration Nomination Executive Directors have met without Number of scheduled meetings held 8 3 4 1 Executive Directors present.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors have met Director without the Chairman and the Executive Ed Williams 8 n a n a 1 Directors present.
Trevor Mather 8 n a n a n a Sean Glithero 8 n a n a n a David Keens 8 3 4 1 Jill Easterbrook 8 3 4 1 Jeni Mundy 8 3 4 1 48 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board roles Chairman Chief Executive Officer To ensure a clear division of responsibility at Leadership and governance of the Board.
Responsible for the day-to-day operations the head of the Company, the positions of and results of the Group.
Creating and managing constructive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are relationships between the Executive Developing the Groups objectives and separate and not held by the same person.
strategy and successful execution of strategy.
The division of roles and responsibilities Ensuring ongoing and effective Responsible for the effective and ongoing between the Chairman and the Chief communication between the Board communication with shareholders.
Executive Officer is set out in writing and and its key shareholders.
Delegates authority for the day-to-day has been approved by the Board.
Setting the Boards agenda and ensuring that management of the business to the Operational adequate time is available for discussions.
Leadership Team comprising the Executive David Keens is the Senior Independent Directors and senior management who have Ensuring the Board receives sufficient, Director.
responsibility for all areas of the business.
pertinent, timely and clear information.
Non-Executive Directors Senior Independent Director Company Secretary Scrutinise and monitor the performance Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman.
Available to all Directors to provide advice of management.
Available to shareholders if they have Constructively challenge the Executive concerns which the normal channels through Responsible for providing governance advice.
the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Ensures compliance with the Boards other Directors have failed to resolve.
Monitor the integrity of financial information, procedures, and with applicable rules financial controls and systems of risk Meets with the other Non-Executive Directors and regulations.
Acts as secretary to the Board Leads the annual evaluation of the Chairmans and all Committees.
Board responsibilities Overall authority for the management and conduct of the Groups business, strategy, objectives and development.
Monitoring delivery of business strategy and objectives: responsibility for any necessary corrective action.
Providing Oversight of operations including effectiveness of systems of internal controls leadership and risk management.
for the long-term Approval of changes to the capital, corporate and or management structure success of of the Group.
the Group Approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, communications with shareholders and the wider investment community.
Approval of the dividend policy.
Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 49 Corporate governance statement continued Letters of appointment The Board as a whole is updated, as necessary, The Chairman and the Non-Executive in light of any governance developments as B Effectiveness Directors have letters of appointment which and when they occur, and there is an annual are available for inspection at the registered Legal and Regulatory Update provided as Board composition, balance office of the Company during normal business part of the Board meeting.
All Directors are and independence hours and at the place of the AGM from at required to complete our annual compliance At the date of this report, the Board consists least 15 minutes before and until the end of the training modules covering anti-bribery, of the Non-Executive Chairman, three meeting.
These letters set out the expected anti-money laundering, data protection Independent Non-Executive Directors time commitment from each Director.
External directorships As part of the Board evaluation, the Chairman All of the Non-Executive Directors David Any external appointments or other meets with each Director to discuss any Keens, Jill Easterbrook and Jeni Mundy are significant commitments of the Directors individual training and development needs.
considered to be independent in character require the prior approval of the Board.
None Information and support available and judgement, and free of any business or of the Executive Directors have any external to Directors other relationship which could materially directorships as at the date of this report.
Full and timely access to all relevant influence their judgement.
Ed Williams The Board is comfortable that external information is given to the Board.
For Board was considered to be independent on appointments of the Chairman and the meetings, this consists of a formal agenda, appointment.
The Chairmans fees and the Non-Executive Directors do not impact minutes of previous meetings and a Non-Executive Directors fees are disclosed on the time that any Director devotes comprehensive set of papers including on pages 62 and 67, and they received no to the Company.
regular operational and financial reports, additional remuneration from the Company In accordance with the Companys Articles provided to Directors in a timely manner during the year.
of Association, the Board has a formal in advance of meetings.
Therefore, at 31 March 2017 and to the date system in place for Directors to declare All of the Directors have the right to have of this report, the Company is compliant conflicts of interests and for such conflicts their opposition to, or concerns over, with the Code provision that at least half to be considered for authorisation.
any Board decision noted in the minutes.
the Board, excluding the Chairman, should Induction and development Directors are entitled to take independent comprise Independent Non-Executive All newly appointed Directors receive an professional advice at the Companys Directors.
induction briefing on their duties and expense in the furtherance of their duties, The Board and its Committees have an responsibilities as Directors of a publicly where considered necessary.
appropriate balance of skills, experience quoted company.
There is a formal induction All Directors have access to the advice and knowledge of the Group to enable them programme to ensure that newly appointed and services of the Company Secretary, to discharge their respective duties and Directors familiarise themselves with the ClaireBaty.
responsibilities effectively in accordance Group and its activities, either through with main principle B.
reading, meetings with the relevant member Election of Directors Biographies of all members of the Board of senior management or through sessions The Board can appoint any person to be appear on pages 46 and 47. in the Board meetings.
a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board.
Any Director Appointments to the Board Each Board meeting contains a presentation so appointed by the Board shall hold office The Board has established a Nomination from senior management on one of the only until the next AGM and shall then be Committee, chaired by Ed Williams with all operating priorities for the year.
Specific eligible for election by the shareholders.
other members comprising Independent business-related presentations are given Non-Executive Directors, and one of the to the Board by senior management and main responsibilities of this Committee is external advisors when appropriate refer to identify and nominate candidates for to the table of activities on page 51. appointment as Directors to the Board.
All Directors are offered the opportunity to The work of the Committee is described meet with customers and take part in sales on pages 54 and 55. calls to understand the business from a Non-Executive appointments to the Board customers perspective.
There is a formal are for an initial term of up to three years.
day of dual calling where Board members Non-Executive Directors are typically accompany the sales force on their visits to expected to serve two three-year terms, customers.
All Directors now receive a although the Board may invite the Director weekly newsletter from our sales and service to serve for an additional period.
team to ensure they are kept informed of the latest customer dialogue and sentiment.
50 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board and Committee activities in 2017 Strategy Operational Financial People Shareholders Risk and governance Regular reports received Monthly operational Monthly financial Monthly report Regular feedback from Approval of material report with key report with results, of people changes, investor meetings.
achievements and KPIs, outturn and recruitment, Quarterly shareholder Governance and issues in the month, external view.
view of the industry, and employee Quarterly share competitors and engagement.
2017 operating priority: Annual review of Increase consumer governance audience, advert views framework.
and use of our Business continuity valuations tools.
2017 operating priority: Approval of Approval targets for Approval of Groups Review and approval Extend the penetration Annual Report and female representation capital structure and of Group risk register.
of products outside of Preliminary Results on Board.
Review and approval our core classified Announcement.
Bonus approval Approval of final of viability statement.
2017 operating priority: Review of our selling Reviewed feedback Market Abuse Promote trust and pillar products and from analysts and Regulation and fairness in the upcoming changes.
2017 operating priority: Singleview sales Reviewed feedback Review and approval Enhance our relevance system project.
from investors and of Modern Slavery and value to proxy advisory Statement.
agencies in advance of Annual General IT strategy, systems Meeting.
Strategy off-site Diversity and inclusion.
Appointment of including customer Company Secretary.
Pricing and product strategy for 2018.
2017 operating priority: Operate a simpler, leaner and more data-oriented business.
Review of new car Approval of half-yearly Review and approval opportunities.
Review of tax Legal and regulatory compliance.
Review of internal control framework.
Salary reviews and Grow ARPR in a bonus targets for 2018. balanced, sustainable Launch of SAYE plan way by creating value for 2018. for our customers.
Appointment of Acquisition of Motor Nathan Coe as Director.
Trade Delivery Limited Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 51 2017 2016 March February November October September July June April Corporate governance statement continued Board evaluation and effectiveness A formal internal evaluation of the Board, Committees and individual Directors has taken place during the year.
This included the completion of a detailed questionnaire by each of the Board Directors, covering the Boards role, knowledge and skills, Board meetings and information flows, Board composition, succession planning, risk management, relations with shareholders and each of the Board Committees.
The results were reviewed by the Chairman and the principal findings were fed back to the Board in March 2017.
The review also covered the progress made on the points raised in the previous years evaluation.
Actions arising from the 2016 review Reviewing the level of information The format of the monthly operational and financial Board report has been changed to make it presented in Board papers.
Board papers are reviewed to ensure that they are free from jargon and focus on the key issues.
Increasing exposure between Board Pre-meetings are arranged before Board meetings for the Non-Executive Directors to meet with members and operational management members of senior management, either as part of ongoing induction and education, or to focus outside Board meetings.
on a particular project or product launch.
Formalising the induction process and A formal induction programme has been designed, comprising reading of materials setting in place formal Board training and meetings with various Key Management.
Where areas are not already covered as part and development plans.
of the Board meetings, separate sessions are arranged.
Regular updates have been provided to the Board where relevant e. g. Market Abuse Directive, Modern Slavery Act, Gender Pay Gap and there is annual face-to-face training with our corporate lawyers.
All Directors are required to complete our annual compliance training programme.
In addition, a wealth of information is made available on the Board Portal and through our online Learning and Knowledge Hubs.
Continuing to increase the Boards Updates are provided to the Board after each key investor event including conferences understanding of the views of major and the investor roadshows at half-year and year end.
The Chairman has attended meetings shareholders.
with investors and at Group conferences.
Actions arising from the 2017 review Reviewing the format of Board papers A standard format has been agreed for presentations from senior management so that the and meetings to ensure the right balance sessions can focus more on discussion and debate.
Increasing informal contact between More opportunities for informal contact have been arranged between Board members, and also Board members outside of Board the Non-Executive Directors continue to meet regularly with members of senior management.
Deepening the Boards understanding The Board already takes part in an annual day of dual calling, visiting some of our customers with ofthe views and perspective of our a member of the sales team.
This year, the Board will also be offered the opportunity to take part customers.
in call listening, and now receive a weekly roundup of customer views and issues from our sales and service team.
Continuing to enhance the Boards Updates will continue to be provided to the Board after each key investor event.
understanding of the views of major All Directors will be invited to the analyst presentations and group sales meetings.
In addition, an assessment of the Chairmans performance was carried out, led by the Senior Independent Director, and feedback was provided to him individually.
Overall, the results showed that the Board and its Committees continue to operate well, and that each individual Director continues to make an effective contribution.
In the next financial year, we intend our Board evaluation to be externally facilitated.
52 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Board, assisted by the Audit Committee, There is also an ongoing programme of has carried out a review of the effectiveness attendance at conferences, one-to-one C Accountability of the system of risk management and meetings and group meetings with internal controls during the year ended institutional investors, fund managers and The Board has established an Audit 31March 2017 and for the period up to analysts.
These meetings cover a wide range Committee, chaired by David Keens and the date of approval of the consolidated of issues, including strategy, performance comprised entirely of Independent financial statements contained in the and governance, but care is exercised to Non-Executive Directors.
The review covered all ensure that any price-sensitive information has defined Terms of Reference which material controls, including financial, is released to all shareholders, institutional include assisting the Board in discharging operational and compliance controls and and private, at the same time.
Meetings many of its responsibilities with respect risk management systems.
The Board which relate to governance are attended by to financial and business reporting, risk considered the weaknesses identified and the Chairman or another Non-Executive management and internal control.
The reviewed the developing actions, plans and Director as appropriate.
Private shareholders work of the Committee is described on programmes that it considered necessary.
are encouraged to give feedback and pages 56 to 59.
The Board confirms that no significant communicate with the Board through weaknesses or failings were identified ir@autotrader.
co. uk Financial and business reporting as a result of the review of effectiveness.
Assisted by the Audit Committee, the Board The Board receives regular reports on issues has carried out a review of the 2017 Annual relating to share price, trading activity and Report and considers that, in its opinion, the movements in institutional investor D Remuneration report is fair, balanced and understandable shareholdings.
The Board is also provided and provides the information necessary with current analyst opinions, forecasts and The Board has established a Remuneration for shareholders to assess the Companys feedback from its joint corporate brokers, Committee, chaired by Jill Easterbrook and performance, business model and strategy.
Bank of America, Merrill Lynch and Numis, comprised entirely of Independent Refer to the Audit Committee Report on on the views of institutional investors on Non-Executive Directors.
The work of the page 58 for details of the review process.
a non-attributed and attributed basis, and Committee is described on pages 60 to 68. on the views of analysts from its Finance See pages 10 to 13 in the Strategic report PR agency, Powerscourt.
Any major for a description of our business model, shareholders concerns are communicated E Relations with strategy and operating priorities.
to the Board by the Executive Directors.
shareholders See page 32 for the Boards statement on The Chairman, the Senior Independent going concern and the viability statement.
Director and other Non-Executive Directors Risk management and internal control are available to meet with shareholders and The Company does not have a separate arrangements can be made through the Risk Committee: the Board is collectively Company Secretary.
200 responsible for determining the nature Annual General Meeting and extent of the principal risks it is willing meetings or calls with investors The AGM of the Company will take place to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
and analysts during the year.
at 10.00 am on Thursday 21 September 2017 The processes in place for assessment, at the Companys registered office at 1 management and monitoring of risks are TonyWilsonPlace, Fourth Floor, Manchester, The Board has a comprehensive investor described in a separate section on M154FN.
All shareholders have the relations programme to ensure that existing pages 30 to 31. opportunity to attend and vote, in person and potential investors understand the The Board acknowledges its responsibility or by proxy, at the AGM.
for establishing and maintaining the Groups As part of this programme, the Executive All proxy votes received in respect of each system of risk management and internal Directors give formal presentations to resolution at the AGM are counted and the controls and it receives regular reports from investors and analysts on the half-year and balance for and against, and any votes management identifying, evaluating and full-year results in November and June withheld, are indicated.
At the meeting itself, managing the risks within the business.
These updates are posted on voting on all the proposed resolutions is The system of internal controls is designed the Groups website and are available to all conducted on a poll rather than a show of to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk shareholders.
In response to feedback from hands, in line with recommended best of failure to achieve business objectives analysts and investors, the half-year results practice.
The Chairman, the Chair of each of and can provide only reasonable and not in November 2016 were audiocast and the the Committees and the Executive Directors absolute assurance against material full-year results in June 2017 were webcast are present at the AGM and available to misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee for the first time.
reviews the system of internal controls The results presentations are followed through reports received from management, The Notice of the AGM can be found in a by formal investor roadshows in the UK along with others from internal and external booklet which is being mailed out at the and overseas.
Management continues to focus same time as this Report.
The Notice of the on how internal controls and risk AGM sets out the business of the meeting All announcements, investor presentations management can be further embedded and an explanatory note on all resolutions.
and the Annual Report are on the Companys into the operations of the business and on Separate resolutions are proposed in website about-us.
co. uk how to deal with areas of improvement respect of each substantive issue.
Results investors which come to the attention of of resolutions proposed at the AGM will management and the Board.
be published on the Companys website about-us.
co. uk investors following the AGM.
Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 53
