Governance Corporate Governance The Board and Committees Responsibility for effective governance lies with the Board.
The governance framework of the Company reflects the fact that as an Investment Company it has no employees and outsources portfolio management to OrbiMed and risk management, company management, company secretarial, administrative and marketing services to Frostrow.
The Board Chairman Sir Martin Smith Senior Independent Director Dr David Holbrook Four additional non-executive Directors, all considered independent except for Samuel D. Isaly, as noted on page 33.
Key responsibilities: to provide leadership and set strategy, values and standards within a framework of prudent effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed: to ensure that a robust corporate governance framework is implemented: and to challenge constructively and scrutinise performance of all outsourced activities.
Management Audit Nominations Engagement & Committee Committee Remuneration Chairman Committee Humphrey van der Klugt, FCA Chairman Chairman All Independent Directors Dr David Holbrook Doug McCutcheon excluding the Chairman, All Independent Directors Sir Martin Smith All Independent Directors Key responsibilities: Key responsibilities: Key responsibilities: to review regularly the Boards to review regularly the to review the Companys structure and composition: contracts, the performance financial reports: and and remuneration of the to oversee the risk and control Companys principal service to make recommendations for environment and financial providers: and any changes or new reporting: and appointments.
to set the Directors to review the performance of Remuneration Policy of the the Companys external Company.
Copies of the full terms of reference, which clearly define public or private in the UK or abroad to secure any improper the responsibilities of each Committee, can be obtained benefit for themselves or for the Company.
from the Company Secretary, will be available for inspection The Board ensures that its service providers apply the same at the Annual General Meeting, and can be found at the standards in their activities for the Company.
A copy of the Companys Anti Bribery and Corruption Policy can be found on its website at www.
The Anti-bribery and corruption policy policy is reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee.
The Board has adopted a zero tolerance approach to instances of bribery and corruption.
Accordingly it expressly Relations with shareholders prohibits any Director or associated persons when acting on Details of the Companys activities undertaken to promote behalf of the Company, from accepting, soliciting, paying, the Company and manage relations with shareholders are offering or promising to pay or authorise any payment, set out on page 24.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 38 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 Governance Corporate Governance The Board supports the principle that the Annual General Resolution 14 Authority to buy back shares Meeting be used to communicate with investors, with all Resolution 15 Authority to hold General Meetings other than Directors attending the Annual General Meeting, under the the Annual General Meeting on at least 14 Chairmanship of the Chairman of the Board.
Details of proxy working days notice.
votes received in respect of each resolution are made The full text of the resolutions can be found in the Notice of available to shareholders at the meeting and are also Annual General Meeting on pages 76 to 80.
Explanatory published on the Companys website at notes regarding the resolutions can be found on pages 81 www.
Representatives from the Portfolio Manager attend the Exercise of voting powers Annual General Meeting and give a presentation on The Board and the AIFM have delegated authority to OrbiMed investment matters to those present.
to vote the shares owned by the Company that are held on its The Company has adopted a nominee share code which is behalf by J. P. Morgan Securities LLC.
The Board has set out later on this page.
instructed that OrbiMed submit votes for such shares wherever possible.
This accords with current best practice The annual and half-year financial reports, and a monthly fact whilst maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
sheet are available to all shareholders.
The Board, with the OrbiMed may refer to the Board on any matters of a advice of Frostrow, reviews the format of the annual and contentious nature.
The Company does not retain voting rights half-year financial reports so as to ensure they are useful to all on any shares that are held as collateral in connection with shareholders and others taking an interest in the Company.
In the overdraft facility provided by J. P. Morgan Securities LLC.
accordance with best practice, the annual report, including the Notice of the Annual General Meeting, is sent to shareholders Nominee share code at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Separate Where shares are held in a nominee company name, the resolutions are proposed for substantive issues.
Company undertakes: Annual General Meeting to provide the nominee company with multiple copies of THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION TO BE DISCUSSED AT THE shareholder communications, so long as an indication of FORTHCOMING ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING IS quantities has been provided in advance: IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
to allow investors holding shares through a nominee If you are in any doubt about the action you should take, you company to attend general meetings, provided the should seek advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, correct authority from the nominee company is available: solicitor, accountant or other financial adviser authorised and under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended.
If you have sold or transferred all of your that investors in the Alliance Trust Savings Scheme or ordinary shares in the Company, you should pass this ISA are automatically sent shareholder communications, document, together with any other accompanying including details of general meetings, together with a documents, including the form of proxy, at once to the form of direction to facilitate voting and to seek authority purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or to attend.
other agent through whom the sale or transfer was Nominee companies are encouraged to provide the effected, for onward transmission to the purchaser necessary authority to underlying shareholders to attend the or transferee.
Resolutions relating to the following items of special business will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Resolution 11 Authority to allot shares Frostrow Capital LLP Resolution 12 Authority to disapply pre-emption rights Company Secretary Resolution 13 Authority to sell shares held in Treasury on a non pre-emptive basis 14 June 2017 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 39 Governance Audit Committee Report Committee met with PwC and Frostrow to discuss in Introduction from the Chairman detail the outcome of the audit and the draft Annual I am pleased to present my first formal report to Report.
The Audit Committee then met PwC, without shareholders as Chairman of the Audit Committee, for the Frostrow or OrbiMed, to review and discuss the outcome year ended 31 March 2017. of the audit and the draft Annual Report.
To consider any non-audit work to be carried out by the The Committee, which comprises those Directors Auditors.
The Audit Committee reviews the need for considered to be independent by the Board and also non-audit services to be provided by the Auditors and excluding the Chairman of the Company, met twice during authorises such on a case by case basis, having the year.
Attendance by each Director is shown in the table consideration to the cost effectiveness of the services and on page 26.
I was appointed Chairman of the Committee on the independence and objectivity of the Auditors.
the retirement of my predecessor Jo Dixon on Non-audit fees of 3,500 were payable to the Auditors, 21 September 2016.
The Board has taken note of the PwC, during the year for agreed upon procedures in requirements that the Committee as a whole should have relation to the Companys performance fee review.
competence relevant to the sector in which the Company operates and that at least one member of the Committee The Audit Committee has considered the extent and should have recent and relevant financial experience.
The nature of non-audit work performed by PwC and is Committee is satisfied that the Committee is properly satisfied that this did not impinge on their independence constituted in both respects: I am a Chartered Accountant and is a cost effective way for the Company to operate.
and am also the Chairman of the Audit Committee of two 5.
To consider the need for an internal audit function.
Since other public companies: the other Committee members the Company delegates its day-to-day operations to third have a combination of financial, investment and other parties and has no employees, the Audit Committee has relevant experience gained throughout their careers.
determined there is no requirement for such a function.
The Audit Committees terms of reference are available for Responsibilities review on the Companys website at www.
The Audit Committees main responsibilities during the year were: Significant Issues Considered by the Audit 1.
To review the Companys half-year and annual report.
In Committee during the year particular, the Audit Committee considered whether the Financial statements annual report is fair, balanced and understandable, The Financial Statements, and the Annual Report as a allowing shareholders to more easily assess the whole, are the responsibility of the Board.
The Statement of Companys strategy, investment policy, business model Directors Responsibilities is contained on page 31.
Board looks to the Audit Committee to advise them in relation to the Financial Statements both as regards their 2.
To review the risk management and internal control form and content, issues which might arise and on any processes of the Company and its key service providers.
Further details of the Audit Committees review are Although the Committee did not identify any significant included in the Internal Controls and Risk Management issues as part of its review of the annual financial section on page 41. statements, it paid particular attention to the following: 3.
To recommend the appointment of external Auditors, agreeing the scope of its work and its remuneration, Overall accuracy of the Annual Report The Audit Committee dealt with this matter by considering reviewing its independence and the effectiveness of the the draft Annual Report, a letter from Frostrow in support of audit process.
the letter of representation made by the Board to the During the year the nature and scope of the audit Auditors and the Auditors Report to the Audit Committee.
together with  LLPs PwCs audit plan were considered by the Audit Committee without PwC being present.
The Chairman of the Audit Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 40 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017
