Report of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present the formal report of the Audit Committee nature and scope of the audit, reviewing the Independent Committee to shareholders.
Auditors quality control procedures, the eectiveness of the audit process and the Auditors independence: The primary responsibilities of the Committee are to ensure the integrity of the Companys financial reporting, the appropriateness Responsibility for making recommendations on the of the risk management and internal controls processes and the appointment, reappointment and removal of the Companys effectiveness of the independent audit process and how this has Independent Auditor: been assessed for the year ended 31 March 2017.
Reviewing the eectiveness of the Companys risk Composition management and internal control systems including financial, operational and compliance controls, considering the The members of the Committee are myself as Chairman, Nicholas scope of work undertaken by the Managers internal audit Bull, Peter Pleydell-Bouverie, Elisabeth Scott and Vera Hong Wei.
department: and reviewing the Companys procedures for Nicholas Bull is a member of the Committee because the Board detecting fraud: believes it to be appropriate for all independent Directors to have such responsibility.
The Committee considers that collectively its Monitoring the integrity of the Companys half-yearly and members have sufficient recent and relevant financial experience annual financial statements to ensure they are fair, balanced to discharge their responsibilities fully.
and understandable: Role and Responsibilities Reviewing the existence and performance of all controls The Committees authority and duties are clearly defined in its operating in the Company, including the control reporting of its terms of reference which are available on the Companys pages service providers: and of the Managers website at www.
These duties include: Reviewing the relationship with and the performance of third party service providers such as the registrar, custodian and Establishing with the Companys Independent Auditor the depositary.
Meetings and Business Considered Since the date of the last Annual Report 1 June 2016, the Committee has met three times and the Independent Auditor attended two of these meetings.
The following matters are reviewed at each Committee meeting: The Companys risk management and internal controls framework The performance fee calculations The Companys compliance with its investment policy limits The fair value process of investments The Depositarys Oversight Report The Committees Terms of Reference In addition, the following matters were also dealt with at these meetings: November 2016 The Half-Yearly Report and Financial Statements and recommendation of its approval to the Board The Going Concern Statement March 2017 The Independent Auditors engagement letter and audit plan for the Companys year ending 31 March 2017 Allocation of expenses between income and capital June 2017 The Independent Auditors findings from the audit of the Company The Independent Auditors performance, independence and reappointment Compliance with Corporate Governance and regulatory requirements The Annual Report and Financial Statements and recommendation of its approval to the Board The Viability and Going Concern Statements The final dividend payment to be recommended to the Board 32 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2017 Job No: 29380 Proof Event: 19 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Annual Report and Financial Statements The Annual Report and Financial Statements are the responsibility of the Board and the Statement of Directors Responsibilities is on page 31.
The Committee advises the Board on the form and content of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, any issues which may arise in relation to these and any specific areas which require judgement.
The Committee members apply their expertise and knowledge in reviewing disclosures made in order to ensure that the Financial Statements are fair, balanced and understandable.
significant Issues considered by the Audit Committee during the Year Summarised below are the most significant issues considered by the Committee in respect of these Financial Statements, and how they were addressed.
Recognition of Recognition of investment income is undertaken in accordance with accounting policy Note 2 f on page 44.
Investment Income The Manager provided detailed revenue forecasts which the Committee reviewed and sought explanations for any significant variances to these forecasts.
The Committee reviewed the internal audit and compliance monitoring reports received from the Manager to satisfy itself that adequate systems were in place for properly recording the Companys income.
Investment income was also tested and reported on by the Independent Auditor.
Valuation, existence The valuation of investments including derivatives is in accordance with accounting policy Notes 2 l and and ownership of 2 m on pages 45 and 46.
The Committee took comfort from the Depositarys regular oversight reports investments including that investment related activities are conducted in accordance with the Companys investment policy.
The derivatives and other Committee received reports from the Manager and Depositary that the valuation, existence and ownership of unlisted investments investments had been veried.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the work of the Independent Auditor, who had also confirmed the existence and ownership the Companys investments with the Companys Custodian and that of the derivatives with the Companys counterparties.
The Companys unlisted investments, which are appraised by the FIL Fair Value Pricing Committee FVPC in accordance with IFRS, were reviewed by the Committee.
It receives reporting from the FIL FVPC and approves the proposed valuation methodologies for all unlisted investments.
Performance fee At each Committee meeting, the Manager reports any performance fee accruals that have been included in calculation the Companys NAV and confirm that it has been calculated in accordance with the Management Agreements.
These performance fee accruals are reviewed by the Committee.
It also gets comfort from the work carried out by the Independent Auditor that the Companys performance fee has been calculated in accordance with the terms of the Management Agreements.
The Company confirms that it has complied with the September With regard to the effectiveness of the audit process, the 2014 Competition and Markets Authority Order as set out below in Committee reviewed: relation to the performance and appointment of the Auditor.
The fulfilment by the Auditor of the agreed audit plan: The audit findings report issued by the Auditor on the audit Independence and Eectiveness of the Audit Process of the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year Ernst & Young LLP acted as the Companys Independent Auditor ended 31March 2017: and for the year ended 31 March 2017.
The Committee reviewed the Feedback from the Manager.
independence of the Auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process prior to recommending their reappointment to the Board Auditors Appointment and Audit Tenure at the forthcoming AGM.
Ernst & Young LLP was appointed as the Companys Independent Auditor on 30 November 2015.
The Committee reviewed the With regard to the independence of the Auditor, the Committee Auditors independence and the effectiveness of the audit process reviewed: prior to recommending their reappointment for a further year.
The Auditor is required to rotate audit partners every five years and The audit plan for the year, including the audit team and this is the second year that the audit partner, Matthew Price, has approach to significant risks: been in place.
The Committee will continue to review the Auditors The Auditors arrangements for managing any conflicts of appointment each year to ensure that the Company is receiving interest: an optimal level of service.
There are no contractual obligations The extent of any non-audit services : and that restrict the Companys choice of auditor.
The statement by the Auditor that they remain independent within the meaning of the regulations and their professional standards.
David Causer Chairman of the Audit Committee There were no non-audit services provided to the Company 9 June 2017 during the reporting period.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2017 33 Job No: 29380 Proof Event: 19 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
