Corporate Governance Statement This Corporate Governance Statement forms part of the Directors under the Management Agreements are reserved for the Boards Report.
The Company is committed to maintaining high standards decision.
Matters reserved for the Board and considered at of corporate governance.
Accordingly, the Board has put in meetings include decisions on strategy, management, structure, place a framework for corporate governance which it believes is capital, share issues, share repurchases, gearing, financial appropriate for an investment company.
reporting, risk management, investment performance, share price discount, corporate governance, Board appointments and Corporate Governance Codes the appointments of the Investment Managers and Company Secretary.
The Board also considers shareholder issues including The Board follows the principles of the UK Corporate Governance communication and investor relations.
Code UK Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the FRC in September 2014 and the AICs Code of Corporate Other than as previously disclosed in relation to John Ford, all Governance the AIC Code issued by the Association of Directors are independent of the Investment Managers and Investment Companies AIC in February 2015.
The FRC has considered to be free from any relationship which could materially confirmed that investment companies which report against the AIC interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Code and which follow the AIC Guide on Corporate Governance Board follows a procedure of notification of other interests that will meet their obligations in relation to the UK Code and may arise as part of considering any potential conflicts.
All Directors are able to allocate sufficient time to the Company The AIC Code and the AIC Guide can be found on the AICs to discharge their responsibilities fully and effectively.
co. uk and the UK Code can be found on Director is entitled to take independent professional advice, at the the FRCs website at www.
Companys expense, in the furtherance of their duties.
Statement of Compliance The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to The Company has complied with the recommendations of the discharge its duties effectively and the table on page 25 gives the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code for the attendance record for the meetings held during the reporting year.
year under review and up to the date of this report, except in The Portfolio Manager and key representatives of the Investment relation to the UK Code provisions relating to the role of the chief Managers are in attendance at these meetings.
Between these executive: executive directors remuneration: and the need for an meetings there is regular contact with the Investment Managers internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and other meetings are arranged as necessary.
Additionally, and as explained in the UK Code, the Board considers that these Board Committees and sub-groups meet to pursue matters provisions are not relevant to the Company, as it is an externally referred to them by the Board and the Chairman is in contact managed investment company and has no executive directors, with the other Directors regularly without representatives of the employees or internal operations.
THE BOARD In addition to the formal Board and Committee meetings, the Board Composition Board undertakes an annual due diligence trip to China.
During The Board, chaired by Nicholas Bull, consists of six non-executive this trip, the Board meets with the management of existing and Directors.
The Directors believe that, between them, they have potential investee companies alongside the Portfolio Manager.
good knowledge and wide experience of business in China, the The Board also meets with Fidelitys Hong Kong and Shanghai Asia Region and of investment companies, and that the Board has research teams and analysts.
Further information on the most an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and recent trip can be found in the Chairmans Statement on pages 3 knowledge of the Company and length of service to discharge and 4. its duties and provide effective strategic leadership and proper governance of the Company.
Company Secretary The Board has access to the advice and services of the Company Elisabeth Scott is the Senior Independent Director and fulfils the Secretary.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for role as a sounding board for the Chairman, an intermediary for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable the other non-executive Directors as necessary and to act as rules and regulations are complied with.
a channel of communication for shareholders in the event that contact through the Chairman is inappropriate.
Changes to the Board Changes to the Board take place in accordance with the Biographical details of all Directors are on page 20.
Companies Act 2006, the Companys Articles of Association and the AIC Code.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee Board Responsibilities and Board Meetings is responsible for identifying possible candidates, however, any The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs and proposal for a new Director is discussed and approved by the for promoting the long-term success of the Company.
which are not delegated to the Companys Investment Managers 24 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2017 Job No: 29380 Proof Event: 19 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Nomination and Management Regular Remuneration Audit Engagement Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Nicholas Bull 4 4 1 1 3 3 1 1 David Causer 4 4 1 1 3 3 1 1 1 John Ford 2 2 n a n a n a 2 John Owen 2 2 1 1 2 2 1 1 Peter Pleydell-Bouverie 4 4 1 1 3 3 1 1 Elisabeth Scott 4 4 1 1 3 3 1 1 Vera Hong Wei 3 4 1 1 2 3 1 1 3 Andrew Wells 1 2 0 1 n a n a 1 Appointed on 22 July 2016 2 Retired on 22 July 2016 3 Retired on 22 July 2016 Figures indicate those meetings for which each Director was eligible to attend and attended in the year.
Regular Board meetings exclude ad hoc meetings for formal approvals as well as the annual due diligence visit to China.
Director Training functioning and performance of the Board and action is taken on the basis of the results.
The Board considers tenure of individual Upon appointment, each Director is provided with all relevant Directors during the evaluation process.
information regarding the Company and receives training on the investment operations and administration functions of As a FTSE 350 company, and in accordance with Code B.
6.2 of the the Company, together with a summary of their duties and 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Company is required responsibilities to the Company.
Directors also receive regular to carry out an externally facilitated evaluation of the Board every briefings from, amongst others, the AIC, the Companys third year.
The next such evaluation will be for the year ending 31 Auditor and the Company Secretary, regarding any proposed March 2018. developments or changes in law or regulations that affect the Company and or the Directors.
Directors Remuneration and Share Interests Election and Re-Election Details of the Directors remuneration and share interests are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 29 All newly appointed Directors stand for election by the and30.
shareholders at the AGM following their appointment by the Board.
As the Company is a constituent member of the FTSE BOARD COMMITTEES 350 Index, all other Directors are subject to annual re-election.
Directors standing for re-election at this years AGM are The Board has four Committees: the Audit Committee, the accompanied by sufficient biographical details on page 20 to Investment Committee, the Management Engagement enable shareholders to make an informed decision.
The terms and Committee and the Nomination and Remuneration Committee letters of appointment of Directors are available for inspection at through which it discharges certain of its corporate governance the registered office of the Company and will be available at the responsibilities.
Terms of reference of each Committee can be AGM.
found on the Companys pages of the Managers website at www.
Board Evaluation An annual evaluation of the Board, its Directors and its Audit Committee Committees is undertaken ahead of each AGM.
It takes the form The Audit Committee is chaired by David Causer and consists of of written questionnaires and discussions.
For the year under all of the Directors, except John Ford for reasons stated on page review, the performance and contribution to the Company of 21.
Full details are disclosed in the Report of the Audit Committee each Director was considered.
The performance of the Chairman on pages 32 and 33. is evaluated by the other Directors.
It was concluded that the Chairman and each Director have been effective and continue to Investment Committee demonstrate commitment to their roles.
The process is considered The Investment Committee is chaired by Peter Pleydell-Bouverie to be constructive in terms of identifying areas for improving the and consists of all of the Directors, except John Ford for the Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2017 25 Job No: 29380 Proof Event: 19 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Corporate Governance Statement continued reasons stated on page 21.
A representative of the Unlisted The Committee also concerns itself with the remuneration of the Investment Manager, with the requisite investment experience, Directors, considering their roles and the responsibilities and the attends the Committee meetings on an advisory basis.
time involved in carrying out their duties effectively.
It also makes itself aware of directors fees of other comparable investment The Committee is charged with reviewing and monitoring the trust companies.
Details of this can be found in The Remuneration ongoing performance of the investments: discussing with the Policy on page 28.
Investment Managers the strategy for the investment portfolios: reviewing all investments including pre-IPO opportunities: and ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT reporting to the Board on a periodic basis.
Financial Reporting Set out on page 31 is a statement by the Directors of their The Committee meets when appropriate or as required by the responsibilities in respect of the preparation of the Annual Report Chairman of the Committee.
The Auditor has set out its reporting responsibilities within the Independent Auditors Report on pages Management Engagement Committee 34 to 39.
The Management Engagement Committee is chaired by Nicholas Bull and consists of all of the Directors, except John Ford for The Board has a responsibility to present a fair, balanced and reasons stated on page 21. understandable assessment of annual, half-yearly, other price sensitive public reports and reports to regulators, and to provide The Committee is charged with reviewing and monitoring the information required by statutory requirements.
All such reports are performance of the Investment Managers and for ensuring that reviewed and approved by the Board prior to their issue to ensure the terms of the Management Agreements remain competitive and that this responsibility is fulfilled.
The criteria taken into consideration in reviewing the performance of the Investment Managers are the Risk Management and Internal Controls quality of the team: commitment to the Company and investment The Board is responsible for the Companys systems of risk trust business: investment management skills, experience and management and internal controls and for reviewing their track record: administration, accounting and the secretaryship of effectiveness.
The review takes place at least once a year.
Such the Company: shareholder relations and discount management: systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk the Management Agreements, including fees, notice periods and of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide duties: and marketing to secure potential long-term investors.
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Ahead of the AGM, the Committee has reviewed the performance of the Investment Managers and concluded that it was in the The Board determines the nature and extent of any risks it is interests of shareholders that the Management Agreements should willing to take in order to achieve its strategic objectives.
Details of the Management Agreements and the current responsible for the design, implementation and maintenance fees are in the Directors Report on page 21. of controls and procedures to safeguard the assets of the Company although these tasks have been delegated on a dayNomination and Remuneration Committee to-day basis to the Manager.
The system extends to operational The Nomination and Remuneration Committee is chaired by and compliance controls and risk management.
Clear lines of Elisabeth Scott and consists of all of the Directors.
It is charged accountability have been established between the Board and with nominating new Directors for consideration by the Board, the Manager.
The Manager provides regular reports on controls and for subsequent approval by shareholders.
The search for a and compliance issues to the Audit Committee and the Board.
candidate is carried out against a set of objective criteria, with In carrying out its review, the Audit Committee has regard to the due regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board, including activities of the Manager, the Managers compliance and risk gender.
New Directors are appointed on the basis of merit and functions and the work carried out by the Independent Auditor and care is taken to ensure that appointees have enough time to also includes consideration of reports concerning internal controls devote to the role.
External consultants, who have no connection issued by other service providers.
with the Company, may be used to identify potential candidates.
The Board, assisted by the Manager has undertaken a rigorous The Committee is responsible for succession planning for Directors risk and controls assessment.
It confirms that there is an effective appointments.
ongoing process in place to identify, evaluate and manage the Companys principal business and operational risks, and that it The Committee also considers the election and re-election of has been in place throughout the year ended 31 March 2017 and Directors ahead of each AGM.
It has considered the performance up to the date of this report.
This process is in accordance with the and contribution to the Company of each Director and has FRCs Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial recommended their continued service to the Board.
26 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2017 Job No: 29380 Proof Event: 19 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function to canvass shareholder opinion and to communicate its views and has determined that the systems and procedures employed by to shareholders.
All Directors are made aware of shareholders the Investment Managers, which are subject to inspection by the concerns and the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director Managers internal and external audit processes, provide sufficient and, where appropriate, other Directors are available to meet assurance that a sound system of internal controls is maintained to with shareholders to discuss strategy and governance.
The safeguard shareholders investments and the Companys assets.
Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the Company An internal audit function, specific to the Company, is therefore and liaises and receives regular reports from the Manager on considered unnecessary.
The Audit Committee met the Managers meetings attended with shareholders.
If any shareholder wishes to internal audit representative three times in the reporting year.
It contact a member of the Board directly they should either email receives a summary of the Managers externally audited internal the Company Secretary at investmenttrusts@fil.
com or write to controls report on an annual basis.
the address provided on page 73.
The Company Secretary will attend to any enquiries promptly and ensure that they are directed Whistle-Blowing Procedure to the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or the Board as a whole, as appropriate.
Part of the Investment Managers role in ensuring the provision of a good service pursuant to the Management Agreements include the The Board encourages all shareholders to attend the AGM at ability for employees of FIL to raise concerns through a workplace which there will be a presentation by Dale Nicholls, the Portfolio concerns escalation policy or whistle-blowing procedure.
FIL has Manager, of the past years results and prospects for the advised the Board that it is committed to providing the highest level forthcoming year.
Shareholders will have the opportunity to meet of service to its customers and to applying the highest standards and address questions to the Board, the Portfolio Manager and of quality, honesty, integrity and probity.
The aim of the policy is representatives of the Investment Managers and Manager.
The to encourage employees and others working for FIL to assist the Board is looking forward to having the opportunity to speak to Company in tackling fraud, corruption and other malpractice within shareholders.
the organisation and in setting standards of ethical conduct.
This policy has been endorsed accordingly by the Board.
The Notice of Meeting on pages 65 to 67 sets out the business of the AGM and the special business resolutions are explained more Bribery Act 2010 fully on page 23 of the Directors Report.
A separate resolution The Company is committed to carrying out business fairly, is proposed on each substantially separate issue including the honestly and openly.
The Board recognises the benefits this has Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The Notice of the AGM to reputation and business confidence.
The Board, the Investment and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working Managers, the Managers employees and others acting on the days before the Meeting.
Companys behalf, are expected to demonstrate high standards of behaviour when conducting business.
Voting rights in the Companys shares Every shareholder on a show of hands has one vote.
On a The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the implementation poll every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy or and oversight of the Companys procedures for preventing bribery, representative has one vote for every Ordinary Share held.
At and the governance framework for training, communication, general meetings all proxy votes are counted and, except where monitoring, reporting and escalation of compliance together with a poll is called, proxy voting is reported for each resolution after it enforcing action as appropriate.
The Board has adopted a zero has been dealt with on a show of hands.
The proxy voting results tolerance policy in this regard.
are disclosed on the Companys pages of the Managers website Responsibility as an Institutional Shareholder at www.
The Board has adopted the Managers Principles of Ownership in Articles of Association relation to investments.
These Principles include the pursuit of an Any changes to the Companys Articles of Association must be active investment policy through portfolio management decisions, made by special resolution.
voting on resolutions at general meetings and maintaining a continuing dialogue with the management of investee companies.
On behalf of the Board Fidelity is a signatory to the UK Stewardship Code setting out the responsibilities of institutional shareholders and agents.
Further details of the Managers Principles of Ownership and voting may be found at www.
Relations with Shareholders Communication with shareholders is given a high priority by the Nicholas Bull Board and it liaises with the Manager and the Companys broker Chairman who are in regular with the Companys major institutional investors 9 June 2017 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2017 27 Job No: 29380 Proof Event: 19 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
