Governance Report of the Directors Directors indemnities Political and charitable donations The Company has not in the past and does not intend in the During the year under review and to the date of this report, future to make political or charitable donations.
indemnities were in force between the Company and each of its Directors under which the Company has agreed to indemnify Modern Slavery Act 2015 each Director, to the extent permitted by law, in respect of The Company does not provide goods or services in the certain liabilities incurred as a result of carrying out his or her normal course of business, and as a financial investment role as a Director of the Company.
The Directors are also vehicle does not have customers.
The Directors do not indemnified against the costs of defending any criminal or civil therefore consider that the Company is required to make a proceedings or any claim by the Company or a regulator as they statement under the Modern Slavery Act 2015 in relation to are incurred provided that where the defence is unsuccessful slavery or human trafficking.
the Director must repay those defence costs to the Company.
The indemnities are qualifying third party indemnity provisions Global greenhouse gas emissions for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has no greenhouse gas emissions to report A copy of each deed of indemnity is available for inspection from its operations, nor does it have responsibility for any at the Companys registered office during normal business other emissions producing sources under Large and hours and will be available for inspection at the Annual Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts and General Meeting.
Reports Regulations 2008 as amended, including those within our underlying investment portfolio.
Capital structure The Companys capital structure is composed solely of ordinary Common Reporting Standard CRS shares.
CRS is a global standard for the automatic exchange of information commissioned by the Organisation for Economic During the year under review, 1,425,062 shares were bought Cooperation and Development and incorporated into UK law back by the Company to be held in treasury at an average by the International Tax Compliance Regulations 2015.
CRS discount of 6.9% to the prevailing diluted ex income NAV per requires the Company to provide certain additional details to share.
A total of 291,295 shares were then reissued from HMRC in relation to certain shareholders.
The reporting treasury during the year at an average discount of 2.7% to the obligation began in 2016 and will be an annual requirement prevailing diluted cum income NAV per share at the time of going forward.
The Registrars, Capita Asset Services, have issue.
The share buyback and issuance activities resulted in a been engaged to collate such information and file the net profit to shareholders of 1,656,000 2016: 762,000. reports with HMRC on behalf of the Company.
1,332,742 shares held in treasury were cancelled by the Corporate governance Company on 27 September 2016.
This figure comprised The Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 32 to 198,975 shares held in treasury at the beginning of the year 39 forms part of the Report of the Directors.
and 1,133,767 shares bought back during the financial year to 2 September.
Requirements of the Listing Rules Listing Rule 9.8.
4 requires the Company to include certain Since the year end, to the date of this report, 35,000 new shares information in a single identifiable section of the Annual have been issued at an average premium of 0.7% to the Report or a cross reference table indicating where the prevailing cum income NAV per share.
No shares were bought information is set out.
The Directors confirm that there are back by the Company during this period.
no disclosures to be made in this regard.
Voting rights in the Companys shares Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares at the By order of the Board date of this Annual Report are given in note 9 to the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 79.
Frostrow Capital LLP Company Secretary 14 June 2017 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 30 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 Governance Statement of Directors Responsibilities Company law in the United Kingdom requires the Directors Going concern to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The The financial statements have been prepared on a going Directors are responsible for preparing the Financial concern basis.
The Directors consider this is the appropriate Statements in accordance with applicable law and basis as the Company has adequate resources to continue in regulations.
In preparing these financial statements, the operational existence for the foreseeable future, being taken Directors have: as 12 months after approval of the financial statements.
In considering this, the Directors took into account the selected suitable accounting policies and applied them diversified portfolio of readily realisable securities which can consistently: be used to meet funding commitments and the ability of the made judgments and estimates that are reasonable and Company to meet all of its liabilities, including the overdraft prudent: and ongoing expenses from its assets.
followed applicable UK accounting standards: and Disclosure of information to the auditors prepared the financial statements on a going concern So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant basis.
information of which the Auditors are unaware.
The Directors have taken all steps they ought to have taken to The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate make themselves aware of any relevant audit information accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy and to establish that the Auditors are aware of such at any time the financial position of the Company and enable information.
them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for Responsibility statement of the directors in safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for respect of the annual financial report taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of The Directors, whose details can be found on pages 26 and fraud and other irregularities.
27, confirm to the best of their knowledge that: The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Report of the Financial Statements, within this Annual Report, the Directors and other information included in the Annual have been prepared in accordance with applicable Report is prepared in accordance with company law in the accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the United Kingdom.
They are also responsible for ensuring that assets, liabilities, financial position and the return for the the Annual Report includes information required by the year ended 31 March 2017: Listing Rules of the FCA.
the Chairmans Statement, Strategic Report and the The financial statements are published on the Companys Report of the Directors include a fair review of the website www.
com and via Frostrows website information required by 4.1.
The maintenance and integrity of these Disclosure and Transparency Rules: and websites, so far as it relates to the Company, is the responsibility of Frostrow.
The work carried out by the the annual report and financial statements taken as a Auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance whole are fair, balanced and understandable and provide and integrity of these websites and, accordingly, the Auditors the information necessary to assess the Companys accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred performance, business model and strategy.
to the financial statements since they were initially presented on these websites.
Visitors to the websites need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing On behalf of the Board the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
Sir Martin Smith Chairman 14 June 2017 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 31 Governance Corporate Governance Corporate Governance The Directors are accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
The UK Listing Rules require all listed companies to disclose how they have applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the FRC.
The UK Code can be viewed at www.
The Association of Investment Companies AIC publishes a Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code and a Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
In July 2016 the AIC published a revised AIC Code and AIC Guide.
The Financial Reporting Council has confirmed that by following the AIC Code and the AIC Guide, boards of investment companies will meet their obligations in relation to the UK Code and paragraph 9.8.
The AIC Code and AIC Guide address the principles set out in the UK Code as well as additional principles and recommendations on issues that are specific to investment trusts.
The AIC Code can be viewed at www.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
Statement of Compliance The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, except as follows: The UK Code includes certain provisions relating to: the role of the chief executive executive directors remuneration the need for an internal audit function For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, being an externally managed investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day management and administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no executive directors, employees or internal operations.
Therefore with the exception of the need for an internal audit function which is addressed further on page 40, the Company has not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The principles of the AIC Code The AIC Code is made up of 21 principles split into three sections covering: - The Board - Board Meetings and relations with AIFM and Portfolio Manager - Shareholder Communications Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 32 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 Governance Corporate Governance The Board AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 1.
The Chairman should be The Chairman, Sir Martin Smith, continues to be independent of the AIFM and the independent.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman, the Directors, the AIFM, the Portfolio Manager and the Companys other third party service providers.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and for ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
A majority of the Board should The Board consists of six non-executive Directors, each of whom with the exception of be independent of the Samuel D. Isaly who is the Managing Partner at OrbiMed, the Companys Portfolio manager.
Manager is considered by the Board to be independent of the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager.
No other member of the Board is a Director of another investment company managed by Frostrow or OrbiMed, nor has any Board member been an employee of the Company, OrbiMed, Frostrow or any of its service providers.
Mr Isaly, and also Sir Martin Smith and Dr David Holbrook have all served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of their first election.
Given the strongly independent mindset of Sir Martin Smith and Dr Holbrook, the Board is firmly of the view that they can be considered to be independent.
Mr Isaly, due to his connections with OrbiMed, is not considered to be independent by the Board.
Directors should be submitted for All Directors submit themselves for annual election or re-election by shareholders.
The individual performance of each Director standing for election or re-election is Nomination for re-election evaluated annually by the remaining members of the Board and, if considered should not be assumed but be appropriate, a recommendation is made that shareholders vote in favour of their based on disclosed procedures election or re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board should have a policy The Nominations Committee considers the structure of the Board and recognises the on tenure, which is disclosed in need for progressive refreshment.
The Board subscribes to the view expressed within the AIC Code that long-serving Directors should not be prevented from forming part of an independent majority.
It does not consider that a Directors tenure necessarily reduces their ability to act independently and, following formal performance evaluations, believes that each of the independent Directors is independent in character and judgment and that there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect their judgment.
The Boards policy on tenure is that continuity and experience are considered to add significantly to the strength of the Board and, as such, no limit on the overall length of service of any of the Companys Directors, including the Chairman, has been imposed.
In view of its non-executive nature, the Board considers that it is not appropriate for the Directors to be appointed for a specified term, although new Directors are appointed Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 33 Governance Corporate Governance AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement with the expectation that they will serve for a minimum period of three years subject to shareholder approval.
The terms and conditions of the Directors appointments are set out in letters of appointment which are available for inspection on request at the office of the Companys AIFM and at the Annual General Meeting.
There should be full The Directors biographical details, set out on pages 26 and 27 demonstrate the wide disclosure of information range of skills and experience that they bring to the Board.
Details of the Boards Committees and their composition are set out on page 38 of this annual report.
The Board should aim to The Nominations Committee considers annually the skills possessed by the Board and have a balance of skills, identifies any skill shortages to be filled by new Directors.
Following a skills audit experience, length of carried out during the year it was agreed that the Board was equipped with the service and knowledge of necessary skills and experience required for the sound stewardship of the Company the company.
and to enable the Directors to hold meaningful debates at its meetings.
When considering new appointments, the Committee reviews the skills of the Directors and seeks to add persons with complementary skills or who possess the skills and experience which fill any gaps in the Boards knowledge or experience and who can devote sufficient time to the Company to carry out their duties effectively.
The experience of the current Directors is detailed in their biographies set out on pages 26 and 27.
The Companys policy on diversity is set out on page 25.
The Board should During the year the performance of the Board and its committees was evaluated undertake a formal and internally by the Directors.
An independent external review will be carried out in 2018. rigorous annual evaluation The Board is satisfied that its structure and mix of skills, experience, independence, of its own performance and knowledge and diversity continue to be effective and relevant for the Company.
that of its committees and individual directors.
Director remuneration The Management Engagement & Remuneration Committee reviews the fees paid to should reflect their duties, the Directors and compares these with the fees paid by the Companys peer group and responsibilities and the the investment trust industry generally, taking into account the level of commitment value of their time spent.
and responsibility of each Board member.
Details on the remuneration arrangements for the Directors of the Company can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 45.
Individual Directors take no part in discussions regarding their own remuneration.
The Board periodically takes advice from external independent advisers on Directors remuneration.
The Independent Directors Subject to there being no conflicts of interest, all members of the Nominations should take the lead in the Committee are entitled to vote on candidates for the appointment of new Directors and appointment of new Directors on the recommendation for shareholders approval of the Directors seeking election or and the process should be re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The membership of the Committee disclosed in the annual report.
comprises solely those Directors considered to be independent by the Board.
Details of the Boards commitment to Diversity are set out on page 25.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 34 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 Governance Corporate Governance AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 10.
Directors should be New appointees to the Board are provided with a full induction programme.
The offered relevant training programme covers the Companys investment strategy, policies and practices.
Directors are also given key information on the Companys regulatory and statutory requirements as they arise including information on the role of the Board, matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference for the Board Committees, the Companys corporate governance practices and procedures and the latest financial information.
It is the Chairmans responsibility to ensure that the Directors have sufficient knowledge to fulfil their role and Directors are encouraged to participate in training courses where appropriate.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of a Company Secretary, through Frostrow, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring good information flows between all parties.
The Chairman and the Principle 11 applies to the launch of new investment companies and is not applicable to Board should be brought the Company.
into the process of structuring a new launch at an early stage.
Board Meetings and relations with the Frostrow and OrbiMed 12.
Boards and managers The Board meets regularly throughout the year and a representative of the AIFM and should operate in a the Portfolio Manager is in attendance at each Board meeting.
The Chairman supportive, co-operative encourages open debate to foster a supportive and co-operative approach for all and open environment.
The primary focus at The Board has agreed a schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the regular board meetings Board.
This includes establishing the investment objectives, strategy and benchmarks, should be a review of the permitted types or categories of investments, the markets in which transactions investment performance may be undertaken, the amount or proportion of the assets that may be invested in any and associated matters, category of investment or in any one investment, and the Companys share issuance such as gearing, asset and share buy-back policies.
allocation, marketing The Board, at its regular meetings, undertakes reviews of key investment and financial investor relations, peer data, revenue projections and expenses, analyses of asset allocation, transactions and group information and performance comparisons, share price and net asset value performance, marketing and industry issues.
shareholder communication strategies, the risks associated with pursuing the investment strategy, peer group information and industry issues.
Boards should give The Board is responsible for strategy and has established an annual programme of sufficient attention to agenda items under which it reviews the objectives and strategy for the Company at overall strategy.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 35 Governance Corporate Governance AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 15.
The Board should The Board has delegated the following activities to its committees: regularly review both the The Management Engagement & Remuneration Committee meets at least once a year performance of, and and reviews the performance of the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager.
This Committee contractual arrangements considers the quality, cost and remuneration method including the performance fee of with, the AIFM and the the service provided by the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager against their contractual Portfolio manager or obligations.
It also considers the performance analysis provided by the AIFM and the executives of a Portfolio Manager.
The Audit Committee reviews the risk matrix and oversees the risk and control environment of the Company, including monitoring the internal control system in operation at its principal service providers.
Further details can be found on pages 40 to 42.
The Board should agree The Portfolio Management Agreement between the Company, the AIFM and the Portfolio policies with the AIFM and Manager sets out the limits of the Portfolio Managers authority, beyond which Board the Portfolio Manager approval is required.
The Board has agreed detailed guidelines and limits with the AIFM covering key operational and the Portfolio Manager, which are considered at each Board meeting.
Representatives from the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager attends each meeting of the Board to address questions on specific matters and to seek approval for specific transactions which the Portfolio Manager is required to refer to the Board.
The AIFM has delegated the management of the Companys portfolio and also the voting powers relating to the securities held therein to the Portfolio Manager.
Contentious or sensitive matters are referred to the Board for consideration.
The Board has reviewed the Portfolio Managers Proxy Voting and Class Action Policy which includes its Corporate Governance and Voting Guidelines.
Reports on commissions paid by the Portfolio Manager are submitted to the Board regularly.
Boards should monitor the The Board considers any imbalances in the supply of and the demand for the level of the share price Companys shares in the market and has put in place a discount control mechanism discount or premium if as described on page 24. any and, if desirable, take action to reduce it.
The Board should monitor The Management Engagement & Remuneration Committee reviews, the performance and evaluate other service of all the Companys third party service providers, including the level and structure of providers.
fees payable and the length of the notice period, to ensure that they remain competitive and in the best interests of shareholders.
The Audit Committee reviews reports from the principal service providers on compliance and the internal and financial control systems in operation and relevant independent audit reports thereon, as well as reviewing service providers anti-bribery and corruption policies to address the provisions of the Bribery Act 2010.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 36 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 Governance Corporate Governance Shareholder Communications AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 19.
The Board should regularly Details of the Company activities undertaken to promote the Company and manage monitor the shareholder relations with shareholders are set out on page 24.
In addition, all shareholders are profile of the company and encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting, where they are given the put in place a system for opportunity to question the Chairman, the Board and representatives of OrbiMed.
canvassing shareholder Shareholders wishing to communicate with the Chairman, or any other member of the views and for communicating Board, may do so by writing to the Company, for the attention of the Company the Boards views to Secretary at the Offices of Frostrow.
The Directors welcome the views of all shareholders and place considerable importance on communications with them.
The Board should normally All substantive communications regarding any major corporate issues are discussed by take responsibility for, and the Board taking into account representations from the AIFM and the Portfolio have a direct involvement in, Manager, the Companys Auditors, legal advisers and the Corporate Stockbroker.
the content of communications regarding major corporate issues even if the manager is asked to act as spokesman.
The Board should ensure The Company places great importance on communication with shareholders and aims that shareholders are to provide them with a full understanding of the Companys investment objective, policy provided with sufficient and activities, its performance and the principal investment risks by means of information for them to informative Annual and Half Year reports.
This is supplemented by the daily publication, understand the risk reward through the London Stock Exchange, of the net asset value of the Companys shares.
balance to which they are In line with its primary focus, the Board retains responsibility for all key elements of exposed by holding the the Companys strategy and business model.
Further details can be found in the shares.
The Annual Report provides information on the Portfolio Managers investment performance, portfolio risk and, operational and compliance issues.
Further details on the risk reward balance are set out in the Strategic Report under Principal Risks on pages 22 to 24 and in note 16 beginning on page 64.
The Portfolio is listed on pages 8 to 10.
com, is regularly updated with monthly factsheets and provides useful information about the Company including the Companys financial reports and announcements.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 37
