REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Committee leads the process for Board appointments Welcome to the report of the Nomination Committee.
The Committee considers that the Board consists of individuals with the right balance of skills, experience and knowledge to provide strong and effective leadership of the Company.
The majority of the Board are independent Non-Executive Directors, and the Boards collective experience covers a range of relevant sectors, as illustrated on page 56.
As well as a breadth of property and financial experience, many Board members have personal experience of working in the retail and corporate environments that are typical of many of our occupiers.
In December 2016 Lord Macpherson was appointed as a Non-Executive Director, In addition, on 1 September 2017 Preben Prebensen will join the Board and the Remuneration Committee.
Details of our appointment process are given on page 72.
John Gildersleeve We recognise the importance of continuity and the value that Directors Chairman of the Nomination Committee who serve for many years bring.
Aubrey Adams will be approaching the end of his ninth year as a Non-Executive Director by the time of our 2017 AGM.
Nomination Committee members attendance Aubreys considerable expertise in the property sector is an important for the year ended 31 March 2017 part of the mix of skills and experience on our Board.
The Committee undertook a rigorous review of Aubreys contributions to the Board and the Audit Committee and his independence and determined that Aubrey John Gildersleeve Chairman A.
1.2 2 2 remained independent in character and judgement.
We are delighted William Jackson 2 2 to recommend that Aubrey be invited to serve as an independent Lord Turnbull 2 2 Non-Executive Director for a further one year term.
The process to recruit an additional Non-Executive Director with property sector experience is under way B.
Committee composition and governance Role and responsibilities Membership of the Committee remained unchanged during the year The Committees role and responsibilities are set out in to 31 March 2017 and comprised William Jackson, Lord Turnbull its terms of reference found on the Companys website at and myself as Committee Chairman.
With effect from 1 April 2017, ww w. britishland.
Tim Score, Chairman of the Audit Committee joined the Committee.
The Committees principal responsibilities are: We announced in March that Lord Turnbull will retire from the Board, and its Committees, at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
I would like reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board to thank Lord Turnbull for the support and advice he has provided and its Committees and recommending changes to the Board to the Nomination Committee during his tenure.
His guidance and considering succession planning for Directors and other experience will be missed.
senior executives reviewing the independence and time commitment The Committee met twice during the year.
By invitation, Tim Score requirements of Non-Executive Directors and and Chris Grigg, Chief Executive, attended both meetings.
making recommendations as to the Directors standing for election or re-election at the AGM British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 71 Governance REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED Key activities during the year Succession During the year, the Committee has undertaken each of its principal The Committee regularly reviews the adequacy of succession responsibilities as set out on page 71. arrangements for the Board, including the Chief Executive, and other members of senior management.
The Chief Executive is responsible Composition of the Board and Committees for developing succession plans for the remaining Executive Directors The Committee reviewed the composition of the Board, and considered and senior management which are presented to and commented on whether the range of skills, experience and knowledge that the Directors by the Committee.
The Chairman is responsible for developing the bring continue to provide strong and effective leadership of the Company, succession plan for the Chief Executive, which is considered at least and their length of tenure.
The Zygos Partnership Zygos, an external search agency, was engaged Board diversity by the Committee to assist with the recruitment process in relation British Land pays full regard to the benefits of diversity, including to Lord Macpherson and Preben Prebensen.
Zygos role included gender diversity, both when the Nomination Committee is searching the preparation of detailed role specifications, searching for and for candidates for Board appointments and when the Company is benchmarking suitable candidates, and producing detailed personal searching for candidates for other appointments.
profiles for the Committees consideration.
Other than the provision of recruitment consultancy services, Zygos does not have any British Land currently has three female Board members: Lynn Gladden connection with British Land B.
2.4. and Laura Wade-Gery, both Non-Executive Directors, and Lucinda Bell, Chief Financial Officer.
This represents 23% female Board membership The Boards collective experience covers a range of relevant sectors, 2016: 25%.
The percentage of female Board members is expected to as illustrated on pages 56 to 59.
The Committee considered the skills, return to 25% once the announced Board changes have taken place.
experience and knowledge of each candidate as well as their ability to provide the appropriate level of scrutiny and challenge expected Achieving a more diverse Board, including increasing in the percentage of independent Non-Executive Directors.
of female Board members, will be subject to the availability of suitable candidates: the Board must ensure that appointments are of the Throughout the year, the membership of the Audit, Remuneration candidates best able to promote the success of the Company.
and Nomination Committees comprised independent Non-Executive Subject to this requirement, the Board remains committed to further Directors to the extent required by the Code B.
William Jackson strengthening diversity, including female representation, at Board succeeded Lord Turnbull as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and senior management level.
following the 2016 AGM when Lord Turnbull retired from that role.
Lord Turnbull remains a member of the Remuneration Committee Focus for the coming year until the conclusion of the 2017 AGM when he will stand down as For the coming year, the Committee will continue to review and a Director and Senior Independent Director.
William Jackson will develop succession planning for Executive Directors and senior succeed Lord Turnbull as the Senior Independent Director at that time.
management and will oversee the triennial externally facilitated Board evaluation.
On 1 April 2017, Lord Macpherson was appointed to the Audit Committee and Tim Score joined the Nomination Committee.
The Committee undertook a detailed review of the continued independence of each of the Non-Executive Directors, the time commitment required and whether it was in the best interests of John Gildersleeve the Company for each Director to be recommended for re-appointment.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee Detailed consideration was given to each Non-Executive Directors contribution to the Board and its Committees, together with the overall balance of knowledge, skills, experience and diversity on the Board.
In accordance with the Code, all continuing Directors will retire at the Annual General Meeting in 2017 and submit themselves for election, in the case of Lord Macpherson, or re-election by shareholders.
Following their review, the Committee is of the opinion that each Director continues to demonstrate commitment to his or her role as a member of the Board and its Committees, discharges his or her duties effectively and that each makes a valuable contribution to the leadership of the Company for the benefit of all stakeholders.
72 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017
