REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE We monitor the quality and integrity of the financial reporting and valuation processes Committee composition and governance During the year, the Committee was wholly composed of independent Non-Executive Directors, being Aubrey Adams, Simon Borrows and myself as Committee Chairman.
With effect from 1 April 2017 Lord Macpherson joined the Committee.
British Land has announced that Simon Borrows will retire from the Board, and this Committee, at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
I would like to thank Simon for his valuable contribution as a member of this Committee.
The Board remains satisfied that each of the Committee members is appropriately qualified and experienced to undertake their roles.
For the purposes of the Code, I am deemed to meet the specific requirement of having significant, recent and relevant financial experience C. 3.1.
Tim Score Chairman of the Audit Committee By invitation, members of management attend Committee meetings.
These include the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Executive Officer, Company Secretary and General Counsel, Group Financial Controller, Head of Investor Relations, Head of Financial Reporting and Head of Audit Committee members attendance Planning and Analysis as well as representatives of both external and for the year ended 31 March 2017 internal auditors.
The Committee met privately with both external and internal auditors three times during the year and is satisfied that neither is being unduly influenced by management.
1.2 5 5 Aubrey Adams 5 5 As Committee Chairman, I additionally hold regular meetings Simon Borrows 5 5 with the Chief Financial Officer and other members of management.
These meetings provide me with a better understanding of key issues and identify those matters which require meaningful discussion at Terms of reference Committee meetings.
I also meet the external audit partner, internal The Committees role and responsibilities are set out in the audit partner and representatives from each of the valuers to discuss terms of reference which can be found on our website at any matters or concerns they have.
com committees C. 3.1 C. 3.2 C. 3.3 During the year, the Committee received reports from management, I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for the external and internal auditors, external valuers and the Risk Committee.
These reports have allowed the Committee to scrutinise and ask questions where further clarification or discussion was required.
Further details This year, the key areas of focus for the Committee have been: on the work undertaken by the Committee are set out in the section on Key activities during the year on page 68. scrutinising the valuation of investment and development properties monitoring the effectiveness of the new internal auditor and reviewing the internal audit plan agreeing a best practice policy for the appointment of the Companys external valuers reviewing the appropriateness of continuing to publish interim management statements and monitoring the quality, consistency and integrity of the Companys financial reporting, including assessing whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 67 Governance REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Provision of non-audit services C. 3.8 Role and responsibilities The Committee has adopted a policy for the provision of non-audit The principal responsibilities of the Committee are: services by the external auditor.
The policy helps to safeguard the external auditors independence and objectivity and was reviewed 1 External audit Oversight and remuneration of the external and updated during the year.
The policy allows the external auditor auditor, assessing effectiveness and making recommendations to provide the following non-audit services to British Land where to the Board on the appointment of, and the policy for, non-audit they are considered to be the most appropriate provider: services provided by the external auditor Audit related services: including formal reporting relating to 2 Financial reporting Monitoring the integrity of the Companys borrowings, shareholder and other circulars and work in respect financial statements and any formal announcements relating of acquisitions and disposals.
In some circumstances, the external to financial performance, and considering significant financial auditor is required to carry out the work because of their office.
reporting issues, judgements and estimates In other circumstances, selection would depend on which firm was best suited to provide the services required 3 Investment and development property valuations Sustainability assurance: PwC currently provides an assurance Considering the valuation process and the effectiveness opinion to the Company over selected sustainability data.
of the Companys valuers This appointment is reviewed annually.
4 Risk management and internal controls Reviewing the In addition, the protocols that apply to non-audit fees are: system of internal control and risk management Total non-audit fees are limited to 70% of the audit fees in any one year.
5 Internal audit Monitoring and reviewing reports on the work Details of the audit and non-audit fees paid during the year are set out performed by the internal auditor and reviewing effectiveness, in Note 5 on page 109.
The audit and non-audit fees for the three year audit plans and resourcing average are calculated in line with the methodology set out in the 2014 EU Regulations and include fees for joint ventures and funds Committee approval is required where there might be doubts Key activities during the year as to whether the external auditor had a conflict of interest and The key activities undertaken by the Committee are set out below.
Pre-approval by the Audit Committee Chairman is required for each additional project or incremental fee over 25,000 previously 1.
External audit 100,000 and Committee approval required for any additional The Committee is responsible for overseeing the relationship with projects over 100,000 the external auditor and for considering their terms of engagement, remuneration, effectiveness, independence and continued objectivity.
During the year one engagement relating to Sustainability assurance The Committee annually reviews the audit requirements of the Group, required approval.
This was approved by the Audit Committee Chairman for the business and in the context of the external environment, placing on the basis that PwC were best placed to provide this service and great importance on ensuring a high quality, effective external audit that it created no conflict of interest with their role as external auditor.
In particular, during the year, the Committee reviewed and approved the annual audit plan and reviewed the findings of the 2.
Financial reporting external audit and managements responsiveness to those findings.
At the request of the Board the Committee reviewed the content and tone of the preliminary results press release, Annual Report and half year In accordance with best practice and its own terms of reference, results as well as the quarterly trading updates.
the Committee undertakes an annual review of the performance of the external auditor.
During this review, the Committee considered The Committee received a broad outline of the Annual Report structure the external auditors technical competence, strategic knowledge, and content early in the process.
Further drafts of the Annual Report reporting, their independence, and compliance with relevant were reviewed by the Committee prior to formal consideration by the statutory, regulatory and ethical standards.
Board, with sufficient time to allow feedback.
The Committee considered the key messages included in the Annual Report, half year results and The Committee noted the results of the Financial Reporting Councils the trading updates issued during the year.
As well as content and tone Audit Quality Review AQR of PwCs audit of the Company, along with of results, the Committee paid particular attention to financial reporting their performance on other audits of listed companies.
matters it considers to be important by virtue of size, complexity, level of judgement required and potential impact on the financial statements and The Committee reviewed PwCs performance during the year ended wider business model.
Identification of the issues deemed to be significant 31 March 2017 and was content with the quality of the audit work took place following open and frank discussion between the Committee, undertaken and the knowledge and competence of the audit team.
Chief Financial Officer, PwC, internal audit and other relevant British The external auditor confirmed to the Committee that it maintains Land employees.
appropriate internal safeguards to ensure its independence and objectivity.
The Committee considered and approved PwCs Following the Committees review, and receipt of an external audit assessment of its independence and has recommended to the opinion from PwC, the Committee has satisfied itself that controls Board that a resolution for the reappointment of PwC as external over the accuracy and consistency of the information presented in the auditor be put to shareholders at the 2017 AGM C. 3.7.
The Committee recommended to the Board that the Annual Report presented a fair, balanced and understandable British Land undertook a tender of external audit services in 2014 overview of the business of the Group and that it provides stakeholders resulting in the appointment of PwC as external auditor.
This is the with the necessary information to assess the Groups position, third year that PwC have audited the Annual Report.
The Committee will performance, business model and strategy C. 3.4. consider the need for a competitive tender for the role of external auditor every five years, with a competitive tender taking place at least every The Committee also considered the continuing use of interim management ten years.
There are no contractual obligations which would restrict statements between the full and half year announcements.
Having taken the selection of a different auditor.
The Committee will also ensure into account the views of investors, the Committee recommended to the that the rotation of audit partner is undertaken as required by Board that the Company should cease publishing interim management legislation to the extent that this is not undertaken earlier by PwC.
68 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The significant issues considered by the Committee during the year ended 31 March 2017 and the actions taken to address these issues, are set out in the table below C. 3.8.
Significant issues in relation to How these issues financial statements considered were addressed by the Committee during the year by the Committee Viability Whether the assessment The Committee considered whether the assessment performed by management adequately statement undertaken by management reflected the Groups risk appetite and principal risks as disclosed on pages 50 to 53: whether regarding the Groups long the period covered by the statement was reasonable given the strategy of the Group and the term viability appropriately environment in which it operates: and whether the assumptions and sensitivities identified reflects the prospects of and stress tested represented severe but plausible scenarios in the context of solvency the Group and covers an or liquidity.
Following this evaluation, along with consideration of the external auditors report, the Committee agreed with managements assessment and recommended the viability statement for approval by the Board.
The viability statement, together with further details on the assessment undertaken, is set out on page 49 of the Strategic Report.
Going concern The appropriateness The Committee reviewed managements analysis supporting the going concern basis statement of preparing the Group of preparation, including consideration of forecast cash flows, availability of committed financial statements on debt facilities and expected covenant headroom.
The Committee also received a report from the external auditor on the results of the testing undertaken on managements analysis.
As a result of the assessment undertaken, the Committee satisfied itself that the going concern basis of preparation remained appropriate.
The going concern statement is set out on page 65 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Valuation The valuation of investment The external valuers presented their reports to the Committee prior to the half year of property and development properties and full year results, providing an overview of the UK property market and summarising portfolio conducted by external valuers the performance of the Groups assets.
Significant judgements were also highlighted.
is inherently subjective as it is undertaken on the basis The Committee analysed the reports and reviewed the valuation outcomes, challenging of assumptions made by assumptions where thought fit.
In particular this year, the effect of the EU referendum the valuers which may not on property valuations and market sentiment was examined in detail.
The Committee was satisfied with the valuation process and the effectiveness of the The outcome of the valuation Companys valuers.
The Committee also approved the relevant valuation disclosures is significant to the Group in to be included in the Annual Report.
terms of investment decisions, results and remuneration.
Accounting The accounting treatment The Committee reviewed management papers on key judgements, including those for significant of significant property for significant transactions, as well as the external auditors findings on these matters.
transactions acquisitions, disposals and financing transactions, is a In particular, the Committee considered the accounting treatment of The Leadenhall recurring risk for the Group Building transaction, the disposal of Debenhams, Oxford Street and the impact of share with non-standard accounting price movements on the accounting treatment of the 2012 convertible bond, including entries required, and in the change in dilutive impact on the Companys key metrics.
some cases management judgement applied.
The external auditor confirmed that managements judgements in relation to these transactions were appropriate.
The Committee agreed with this conclusion.
REIT status Maintenance of the Groups The Committee reviewed the Companys compliance with the REIT tests.
Management REIT status through compliance presented details of the methodology and results of their process for REIT testing, with certain conditions has highlighting any change in long term trends and the current level of headroom.
a significant impact on the Groups results.
The external auditor presented the conclusions of their review of the REIT tests performed by management and the Committee concluded that the Companys REIT status had been maintained in the year.
Revenue For certain transactions, The Committee and the external auditor considered the appropriateness of the accounting recognition judgement is applied by treatment applied by management in relation to revenue recognition.
In particular the management as to whether, Committee considered the accounting of significant payments received inthe year in and to what extent, they relation to the development and occupation of 5 Broadgate and were satisfiedwith their should be treated as revenue treatment as capital items.
The Committee considered the scope of the accounting standard and agreed with the reasonableness of the judgement made.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 69 Governance REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED 3.
Investment and development property valuations 5.
Internal audit The external valuation of British Lands portfolio is a key determinant As set out in the 2016 Annual Report, a formal tender of internal audit of the Groups balance sheet, performance and senior managements services was undertaken during the first quarter of 2016.
In accordance with its terms of reference, the Committee panel was established which I chaired, comprising the Chief Financial adopts a rigorous approach to monitoring and reviewing the valuation Officer, Company Secretary and General Counsel and senior members process and the effectiveness of the Groups valuers, Knight Frank, CBRE of the Finance team.
The principal criteria considered by the panel and Jones Lang LaSalle.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the included the skills and experience of the proposed teams, cultural fit external valuers bi-annually: focusing on a quantitative analysis of capital with British Land, insight and external perspectives to add value and values, yield benchmarking, availability of comparable market evidence expected fee arrangements.
Ernst & Young LLP EY were identified and major outliers to subsector movements, with an annual qualitative as the preferred candidate and appointed to the role following review of the level of service received from each valuer.
approval by the Board on the Committees recommendation.
The valuers attended the Committee meetings which considered the The Committee reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for the year, half year and annual results, and presented their reports including including a consideration of its alignment to the principal risks of the providing confirmation of the valuation process, market conditions Group and its joint ventures.
EY have attended all Committee meetings and significant judgements made.
PwC reviewed the valuations and during the year to present their observations arising from the audits valuation process, having had full access to the valuers to determine undertaken and the status of any resulting management actions.
that due process had been followed and appropriate information used.
It reported its findings to the Committee.
The valuation process was Internal audits undertaken by EY and reviewed by the Committee in the also subject to regular review by internal audit.
year included: property development including procurement, third party contract management, property valuations and statistics, property British Land has fixed fee arrangements in place with the valuers management contract acquisitions, property disposals and the wider in relation to the valuation of wholly-owned assets, in line with the risk management process, treasury, payroll and human resources.
recommendations of the Carsberg Committee Report.
Copies of the The audits revealed no significant issues however a number of process valuation certificates of Knight Frank, CBRE and JLL can be found and control improvements were suggested and implemented in the year on the corporate website at ww w. britishland.
EY also provided assurance over the effectiveness of key financial controls in the year and a number of advisory reviews were The Company has adopted a best practice policy on the appointment conducted over business continuity and IT processes including the ongoing of external valuers.
The policy covers duration of appointments and design and implementation of a new finance general ledger system.
the number of valuers engaged across the portfolio.
Implementation of the policy will commence during the year ending 31 March 2018 The performance of internal audit was monitored throughout the and further details will be given in the 2018 Annual Report.
year through the review, challenge and discussion of EYs findings.
The Committee reviewed the internal audit charter which defines 4.
Risk management and internal controls EYs role and responsibilities.
A formal review of the effectiveness The Committee is responsible for overseeing the effectiveness of of the internal auditor was undertaken and, as a result of this review, the Groups risk management and internal control systems on behalf the Committee believed that EY discharged its duties effectively of the Board.
This Committee has oversight of the activities of the Risk C. 3.6 during the year ended 31 March 2017.
Committee, receiving minutes of all Risk Committee meetings and discussing any significant matters.
Prior to the announcement of full Other matters discussed and reviewed by the Committee year and half year results the Committee reviews the Groups principal In addition to the key areas set out above, the Committee considered risks.
This includes a commentary on how risk exposures have changed the following matters during the year ended 31 March 2017: during the period and any emerging risks in the Companys risk register.
In particular, consideration has been given to the effect on the Companys Reporting and Changes to accounting policies external economic and internal strategic aims following the EU external audit Annual audit plan and external referendum result, geopolitical unrest and capital growth forecasts.
auditors remuneration The Committee reviewed managements response to these matters Risk and internal Review of the Treasury Policy including including impact on near term budgeting and future investment and control liquidity, interest rate and foreign development strategy.
The Committee considered and recommended currency management the Groups risk appetite to the Board for approval, ensuring that it Anti-fraud and anti-bribery and corruption was set at an appropriate level to achieve strategic goals without taking policies and procedures undue risk.
The Committee reviewed the status of key risk indicators Whistleblowing arrangements C. 3.5 throughout the year against the risk appetite set, with focus on those Cyber security that were outside optimal ranges.
Risk exposure and reward outcome Insurance for corporate, property Half-yearly, the internal auditor reports to the Committee on the and development risks effectiveness of managements internal controls, including a thematic Internal audit Annual internal audit plan analysis of control issues identified by management.
Internal audit Internal audit charter setting out its role and the Risk Committee work closely together to ensure that identified and responsibilities risk areas are incorporated in the internal audit plan and similarly, the findings of internal audits are taken into account when identifying Other Reviewing the Committees terms of reference and evaluating risks within the business.
For the year ended Annual tax update and approach to tax 31 March 2017, the internal auditor confirmed that the system Evaluation of the Committees effectiveness of risk management and internal controls had been effective.
Further details of the Companys internal control systems can be found on page 65 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Tim Score Chairman of the Audit Committee 70 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017
