pp20-41 Governance 30 05 2017 15:42 Page 25 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Governance Audit Committee Report For the year ended 31 March 2017 Committee Composition and Role Audit Committee Responsibilities The Audit Committee comprises all the The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: Directors with the exception of Jim consideration of the integrity of the annual and half-yearly financial reports Pettigrew, under my chairmanship.
prepared by the Manager, the appropriateness of the accounting policies applied and any financial judgements and key assumptions, together with ensuring The Committee has written terms of compliance with relevant statutory and listing requirements: reference which clearly define its at the Boards request, advising it on whether the Committee believes the annual authority, meetings, duties and financial report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides reporting.
These were updated during the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys position and the year, to ensure good practice and performance, business model and strategy: compliance with the latest AIC Code.
evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control systems and risk They will be available for inspection at management systems, including reports received on the operational controls of the the AGM and can be inspected at the Companys service providers and the Managers whistleblowing arrangements: registered office of the Company or consideration of the scope of work undertaken by the Managers internal audit and viewed on the Managers website.
compliance departments, monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Managers internal audit and reviewing the Companys procedures for detecting fraud: and management of the relationship with the external auditor, including evaluation of their reports and the scope, effectiveness, independence and objectivity of their audit, as well as making recommendations to the Board in respect of their appointment, reappointment and removal and for the terms of their audit engagement.
Audit Committee Activities The Committee meets three times a year to review the internal financial and nonfinancial controls and, when applicable, the contents of the half-yearly and annual financial reports, including accounting policies.
In addition, the Committee reviews the auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness, the quality of the services provided to the Company and, together with the Manager, reviews the Companys compliance with financial reporting and regulatory requirements as well as risk management processes.
Representatives of the Managers Compliance and Internal Audit Departments attend at least two meetings each year.
Representatives of the auditor, KPMG LLP, attend the Committee meetings at which the draft half-yearly and annual financial reports are reviewed and are given the opportunity to speak to Committee members in the absence of representatives of the Manager.
The external audit programme and timetable are drawn up and agreed with the auditor in advance of the end of the financial period and matters for audit focus are discussed and agreed.
The auditor ensures that these matters are given particular attention during the audit process and reports on them, and other matters as required, in its report to the Committee.
In addition, the Committee reviews any material issues raised by the auditor.
There have been no such issue raised during the year.
The auditors report, together with reports from the Manager, the Managers Internal Audit and Compliance Departments and the depositary, form the basis of the Committees consideration and discussions with the various parties and any recommendations to the Board, including the Committees recommendation to sign the 2017 financial statements.
25 pp20-41 Governance 30 05 2017 15:42 Page 26 Governance Audit Committee Report For the year ended 31 March 2017 Accounting Matters and Significant Areas For the year end, the accounting matters that were identified for specific consideration by the Committee follow: Significant area How addressed Accuracy of the portfolio valuation, with emphasis Actively traded listed investments are valued using stock exchange prices provided on any investments held at Directors valuation.
by third party pricing vendors.
Investments that are unlisted or not actively traded are valued using a variety of techniques to determine their fair value.
This is set out in accounting policies note 1C v. Any such valuations are carefully considered by the Managers pricing committee and the Committee.
Proof of existence of portfolio holdings.
The Manager, the auditor and the depositary confirmed that the holdings shown in the accounting records agreed with the custodian records.
Recognition of investment income, with emphasis Investment income is recognised in accordance with accounting policies note 1F.
The Manager provides detailed revenue estimates for the Boards review, and income is assessed to ensure it is complete and accounted for correctly.
Careful consideration is given to special dividends.
These are allocated to revenue or capital according to the nature of the payment by the underlying company and the allocation is also reviewed by the auditor.
The allocation of management fees and The allocation is reviewed by the Committee annually taking into account the finance costs.
long-term split of returns from the portfolio, both historic and projected: yield: the objective of the Company: and the latest market practice of peers.
These matters were discussed with the Manager and the auditor in pre year end audit planning, and were satisfactorily addressed through consideration of reports provided by, and discussed with, the Manager and the auditor at the conclusion of the audit process.
Consequently, and following a thorough review process of the 2017 annual financial report, the Audit Committee advised the Board that the report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at the AGM to answer questions relating to the annual financial report.
Review of the External Auditor, including Non-Audit Services and Reappointment The Committee evaluated the performance and effectiveness of the external auditor and their audit process.
This included a review of the audit planning, execution and reporting and the quality of the audit work, results and audit team.
This review sought the view of the Manager in their dealings with the auditor.
The Committee also considered the independence of KPMG LLP KPMG and the objectivity of the audit process.
No modifications were required to the external audit approach.
Combining the output of all the above, and the Audit Committee Chairmans and the Committees direct interaction with KPMG, the Committee concluded that it continued to be satisfied with the performance of KPMG and that the auditor continued to display the necessary attributes of objectivity and independence.
Prior to any engagement for non-audit services, the Audit Committee consider whether the skills and experience of the auditor make them a suitable supplier of such services and ensures there is no threat to objectivity and independence in the conduct of the audit as a result.
Excluding VAT and any expenses, the annual audit fee was 20,550 2016 19,765 and the non-audit fee was 6,750 2016: 6,500 : this latter item covered the review of the half-yearly financial report and the annual certificate of compliance to the trustees of the debenture stock.
The Committee does not believe that this has impaired the auditors independence and objectivity.
Non-audit services up to 5,000 do not require approval in advance of the Audit Committee: amounts in excess of this require the approval of the Audit Committee.
26 pp20-41 Governance 30 05 2017 15:42 Page 27 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Under European legislation, mandatory auditor rotation has been implemented.
The Company was incorporated in 1889 and the tenure of KPMG including its predecessor firms is at least fifty years.
Transition arrangements for companies where the auditor has been in place for twenty years or more mean that the Company, having undertaken an audit tender in 2013, will not be required to tender or rotate the auditor until after the year ended 31 March 2020.
However, the Committee will keep the situation under review.
Resolutions proposing the reappointment of KPMG LLP as the Companys auditor for the year to 31 March 2018 and authorising the Audit Committee to determine its remuneration will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
Internal Controls and Risk Management The Committee undertakes a robust assessment of the risks to which the Company is exposed by reference to a risk control summary, which maps the risks, mitigating controls in place and relevant information reported to the Directors, throughout the year.
The resultant ratings of the mitigated risks allow the Directors to concentrate on those risks that are most significant and also form the basis of the list of principal risks and uncertainties set out in the Strategic Report on pages 13 to 16.
The Committee, on behalf of the Board, is responsible for ensuring that the Company maintains a sound system of internal control to mitigate risk and safeguard the Companys assets.
The effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance and risk management systems, is reviewed at least annually.
Appropriate action is taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from these reviews.
No significant items were identified in the year.
As part of this, the Committee receives and considers, together with representatives of the Manager, reports in relation to the operational controls of the investment manager, accounting administrator, custodian, company secretary and registrar.
These reviews identified no issues of significance during the year.
Internal Audit The Company, being an externally managed investment company with no executive employees and in view of the Manager having an internal audit function, does not have its own internal audit function.
Committee Evaluation The Committees activities formed part of the review of Board effectiveness performed in the year.
Details of this process can be found under Board, Committee and Directors Performance Appraisal on page 30.
Gordon McQueen Chairman of the Audit Committee 25 May 2017 27
