Remuneration Principles Our remuneration principles are to maintain a competitive remuneration package that promotes the long-term success of the business, avoids excessive or inappropriate risk taking and aligns managements interests with those of shareholders.
We believe in pay for performance against In setting directors remuneration, the challenging targets and stretching goals for committee takes account of the pay and the annual bonus including deferred shares employment conditions of all our employees, and long-term incentive shares.
A significant the performance of the group and the individual, proportion of the total remuneration package the current views and guidelines of shareholders is therefore variable and linked to corporate and their representatives, and general market performance.
Remuneration arrangements at other companies of a similar size and complexity are The committee determines the remuneration also reviewed for guidance.
policy for the executive directors and the chairman.
The chairman is not currently a The committee continues to keep under review member of the committee.
the relationship of risk to remuneration.
The chair of the Audit & Risk Committee is currently The committee reviews the performance a member of the Remuneration Committee.
targets regularly to ensure that they are both challenging and closely linked to the groups The committee is also satisfied that the strategic priorities.
Furthermore, because a large incentive structure for senior executives does part of the remuneration package is delivered in not raise environmental, social or governance shares and senior executives are required to build risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible up a significant shareholding themselves, they behaviour.
Part of the annual bonus depends are directly exposed to the same gains or losses upon an assessment of each senior executives as all other shareholders.
personal contribution which typically includes the environmental, social, health and safety and governance agenda.
The committee retains absolute discretion to reduce variable compensation in light of risk and the groups overall performance.
We would only use this in exceptional circumstances.
124 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017
