THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 1.
Seller Warranties, Indemnities and Covenants The Sellers or the relevant members of their groups, BT, and EE 1.1 Warranties agreed appropriate conditions for the continued use of the Orange The Share Purchase Agreement contains customary warranties or T-Mobile as applicable brands by EE.
Such agreement included given by the Sellers, including in relation to authorisations, valid appropriate modifications to the existing brand licences to reflect obligations, filings and consents for the entry of the Sellers into the the change in ownership of EE, and continued use of the brands will Transaction Documents, and including in relation to the EE Group, be for the purpose of an orderly wind-down and extraction of the its share capital, accounts and financial condition, material licences Orange and T-Mobile brands from EEs business and subject to the and approvals, compliance with laws, condition and sufficiency continued payment of royalties.
of its network and assets, tax, material contracts, related party arrangements, litigation, IP and IT systems, employees and benefit BT has also undertaken to Deutsche Telekom AG to provide, from arrangements, pension schemes, real estate and ownership and Completion, a back-to-back guarantee of Deutsche Telekom AGs conduct of the MBNL joint venture arrangement.
guarantee to Hutchison, to a maximum value of 750 million.
Deutsche Telekom AGs existing arrangement guarantees EEs obligations in 1.2 Indemnities respect of any liability incurred by EE under the MBNL joint operation.
The Sellers agreed, amongst other things, to indemnify BT in the event that BT suffers loss as a result of certain regulatory fines being 4.
Guarantee levied against BT or the EE Group, and against losses suffered by BT or Deutsche Telekom AG agreed to guarantee the performance by the EE Group as a result of certain other investigations and disputes.
Deutsche Telekom, and Orange S. A. agreed to guarantee the performance by Orange, of their respective obligations under the The warranties and indemnities given by the Sellers are subject to Share Purchase Agreement.
customary financial and other limitations.
Relationship Agreement with Deutsche Telekom AG and The Share Purchase Agreement contains customary covenants DeutscheTelekom restricting the Sellers from competing with EEs business for a period At Completion, BT entered into the Relationship Agreement with of three years following Completion subject to customary exceptions Deutsche Telekom AG and Deutsche Telekom, which regulates for existing businesses and financial investments and from soliciting aspects of the ongoing relationship between BT, Deutsche Telekom employees of the EE Group for a period of two years following AG and the Deutsche Telekom Group.
Completion subject to customary exceptions.
The Relationship Agreement will terminate if a the Ordinary Shares The Share Purchase Agreement also contains a customary tax are no longer listed on the premium listing segment of the Official covenant in respect of liability for taxes due pre and post-Completion.
List and traded on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities or b the Deutsche Telekom Group ceases to be 2.
Company Warranties and Indemnity interested in more than 3% of the issued ordinary share capital of BT.
The Share Purchase Agreement contains warranties given by the Company as to, amongst other things, its capacity and authority The Relationship Agreement contains, among other things, to enter into and perform its obligations under the Transaction undertakings from Deutsche Telekom AG that for such period as the Documents, compliance by the Company in all material respects with Deutsche Telekom Group holds 10% or more of the issued share certain laws and regulations, the availability of financing for the cash capital of BT: element of the consideration for the Acquisition, the accuracy of its public filings, and there having been no material adverse change to i transactions and arrangements between BT and the Deutsche its financial position since its last accounts date.
Telekom Group will be entered into on an arms length basis and on normal commercial terms: BT also agreed that it will indemnify the Sellers in the event that ii neither it nor any member of the Deutsche Telekom Group will they suffer loss as a result of BT having taken certain actions in take any action that would have the effect of preventing BT respect of the EE defined benefit pension scheme or the BT defined from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules: and benefit pension scheme but in relation to the BT Pension Scheme, iii neither it nor any member of the Deutsche Telekom Group will only where Deutsche Telekom is identified as being connected to propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder resolution which BT by virtue of the appointment of a Director to the Board by the is intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the proper Deutsche Telekom Group.
application of the Listing Rules the Independence Provisions.
The warranties and indemnity given by BT are subject to customary Deutsche Telekom AG undertakes to procure the compliance of its financial and other limitations.
group members with the Independence Provisions.
Standstill Provisions The Sellers and BT agreed the scope and terms of certain transitional The Relationship Agreement contains standstill provisions pursuant services arrangements required after Completion.
The purpose of to which Deutsche Telekom AG undertakes on behalf of itself and these transitional services agreements is to document any services the Deutsche Telekom Group for a period of three years from the that are currently provided by a party or a member of its group date of the Relationship Agreement the Initial Standstill Period, and that the recipient of those services wishes to continue to subject to certain exceptions, not to: receive for a transitional period from Completion.
Any services that a service recipient elects to continue to receive from Completion will i acquire or offer to acquire any interest in any shares or other be provided on the current terms or agreement applicable to the securities of BT as a result of which the aggregate interest of provision and receipt of those services.
Unless otherwise agreed, the Deutsche Telekom Group and any of its concert parties the maximum term of each service is between six and 18 months increases above 12% of Ordinary Shares in issue at any time: depending on the type of service.
ii act in concert with any person with respect to the holding, voting or disposition of any shares or other securities of BT: 268 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 269 Information for shareholders continued iii solicit or participate in any solicitation of Shareholders to vote in Financial Investors, provided that any transferee enters into a a particular manner at any meeting of Shareholders: or lock-up agreement on substantially similar terms to the lock-up iv actively or publicly make any proposals for any merger, provisions of the Relationship Agreement.
consolidation or share exchange involving shares or other securities of BT for the purposes of this Part only, the Standstill 4.
Prior to any Disposal by Deutsche Telekom AG, Deutsche Telekom or any of their group members in accordance with paragraph 3 iii The exceptions to the Standstill Provisions include circumstances: above, BT has a right of first offer in relation to the relevant shares subject to the passing of the Buy-Back Resolution, and such right is i where the Deutsche Telekom Group acquires an interest in any set out in the DT CP Contract.
shares or other securities of BT from the Orange Group provided that such acquisition does not increase the aggregate interest of Pursuant to the DT CP Contract, prior to an intended Disposal to the Deutsche Telekom Group and its concert parties above 15% Financial Investors, the relevant selling entity is obliged to issue a of the Ordinary Shares in issue: notice to BT specifying the number of Ordinary Shares proposed to ii where the Deutsche Telekom Group announces an offer under be sold or transferred.
BT has nine Business Days within which to Rule 2.7 of the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers the Code make an offer for all of the Ordinary Shares detailed in the notice, or or takes any action requiring it to make an offer under Rule 9 else its right to make an offer will lapse.
If the offer is not accepted, of the Code, in each case if such offer is recommended by the the selling entity may make the sale or transfer within three months Directors of BT: of the delivery of the notice to BT at a price equal to or greater than iii where any third party makes or announces under Rule 2.7 of the price offered by BT.
If BT does not make an offer within the the Code an offer to acquire the issued ordinary share capital of allotted time, the selling entity may sell the Ordinary Shares within BT, whether such offer is recommended by the Directors of BT three months of the delivery of the notice to BT at any price.
The DT or not: and CP Contract will terminate 18 months from Completion.
iv where BT makes any offering or issue of shares or other securities and the Deutsche Telekom Group takes up its rights to subscribe The notice from the selling entity may be issued to BT during a close for or acquire the shares or other securities offered to it by BT.
period or prohibited period as such terms are defined in the Model Code of Chapter 9 of the Listing Rules of BT.
If any such period does Under the Relationship Agreement, Deutsche Telekom AG not expire prior to the end of the nine Business Day period within undertakes, among other things, that for a period of two years which BT may elect to make an offer to buy-back the shares, BT will from the expiry of the Initial Standstill Period, in the event that not be able to exercise its right of first offer.
the Deutsche Telekom Group acquires other than as a result of a reduction or re-organisation of share capital or re-purchase of When exercised in conjunction with BTs right of first offer in relation shares or other securities of BT any Shares in excess of 15% of the to Ordinary Shares held by Orange and Orange SA, the maximum Ordinary Shares in issue the Excess Shares, it shall procure that amount of Ordinary Shares BT can acquire by exercise of its rights of the votes attaching to such Excess Shares shall be exercised subject first offer is approximately 14% of BTs share capital on an enlarged to the provisions of the Code and applicable law or regulation in basis post-Acquisition.
The price at which Ordinary Shares can be accordance with the recommendation of the Board of Directors of bought back shall be no more than the higher of the closing price BT on all shareholder resolutions which relate to a transfer of an of the Ordinary Shares on i the date on which BT makes an offer interest in Ordinary Shares carrying in aggregate 30% or more of to buy-back the Ordinary Shares and ii the last trading day before the voting rights of BT and on all special resolutions of BT.
After the buy-back takes place.
In addition, BT has separately undertaken expiry of the Initial Standstill Period, the Deutsche Telekom Group to give the Sponsor prior notice of its intention to make an offer will otherwise be free to increase its shareholding in BT.
for Ordinary Shares under the DT CP Contract, to consult with the Sponsor regarding such offer and not to make such offer unless at 3.
Lock-up Provisions the relevant time the Board, having been so advised by the Sponsor, The Relationship Agreement contains lock-up provisions pursuant to considers such offer to be fair and reasonable as far as Shareholders which Deutsche Telekom AG and Deutsche Telekom undertake for a are concerned.
After expiry of the lock-up period described period of 18 months from the date of the Relationship Agreement, above, the Deutsche Telekom Group will be free to dispose of its subject to certain exceptions, that neither they nor any of their group shareholding in BT without further restriction.
members will, directly or indirectly, offer, sell, contract to sell, grant 5.
Rights of Deutsche Telekom AG or sell options over, purchase any option or contract to sell, transfer, Under the Relationship Agreement, subject to compliance with any charge, pledge, grant any right or warrant or otherwise transfer, applicable regulatory requirements, Deutsche Telekom AG is able lend or dispose of any shares in BT or any securities convertible to appoint one Non-Executive Director the Deutsche Telekom into or exercisable or exchangeable for such shares, or announce or Representative Director to the Board for so long as the Deutsche otherwise publish an intention to do any of the foregoing each of Telekom Group holds 10% or more of the issued share capital of BT the above activities being a Disposal.
The exceptions include: provided that, if the shareholding is reduced below 10% as a result i where Deutsche Telekom AG or Deutsche Telekom accepts any of a non-pre-emptive share issuance by BT, the board appointment offer by a third party for the whole of the ordinary share capital right shall continue for as long as the Deutsche Telekom Group holds of BT, whether by tender offer or scheme of arrangement, or at least 8% of BTs shares but provided further that such reduced provides an irrevocable undertaking or letter of intent to accept shareholding shall not have occurred as a result of the Deutsche or vote in favour of any such offer: Telekom Group selling Ordinary Shares, and also provided that the ii any Disposal to any member of the Deutsche Telekom Group, Deutsche Telekom Group must top up to 10% within 12 months provided that the transferee agrees to be bound by the or the right will lapse.
Any such appointment shall be made in restrictions of the Relationship Agreement: and consultation with the BT Nominating & Governance Committee and iii any sale of shares via any single off-market trade to a Financial the appointee must be approved by the BT Chairman such approval Investor of no more than 5% each of the Ordinary Shares in not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
issue of BT or, on one occasion only, the sale of two stakes of not more than 5% each at the same time to two different 270 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 271
