THE S THE STRA TRATE TEGIC REPOR GIC REPORT T GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE FINANCIAL S FINANCIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S ADDITIONAL INF ADDITIONAL INFORMA ORMATION TION Key to membership of Board committees Board of Directors ARC Audit & Risk CSRB Sustainable & Responsible Business EAB Equality of Access Board Committee Chair IC Integration NAG Nominating & Governance OC Operating TC PEN BT Pensions REM Remuneration Technology CSRB NAG PEN IC OC TC CSRB IC OC PEN REM IC NAG TC ARC NAG TC Sir Michael Rake Gavin Patterson Simon Lowth Tony Ball Iain Conn Tim Httges Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Non-independent, non-executive director Appointed to the Board as chairman in Appointed chief executive in September Appointed to the Board as group finance Appointed to the Board in July 2009.
Appointed to the Board in June 2014.
Appointed to the Board in January 2016.
2013 and on the Board since June 2008. director in July 2016.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Tony brings international business expertise Iain has significant international experience, Skills and experience Sir Michael has financial, risk, international Skills and experience Simon has experience in finance, accounting, in addition to financial, operational, sales, and understanding of technology and Tim has international telecoms experience business and professional services expertise Gavin has experience in sales, marketing, risk, corporate strategy and mergers and marketing and media experience.
Iain joined Centrica as chief having been CEO of Deutsche Telekom since gained during his time at KPMG 1974 to technology and operations.
He was CFO and executive 1999 to 2003 Tony was chief executive executive in January 2015 having been January 2014, and with the company since 2007 where he was senior partner in the previously CEO, BT Retail and from 2004 to director of BG Group before the takeover of BSkyB and until 2013 chairman of with BP since 1986.
From 2009 until his appointment UK from 1998 and international chairman 2008 was managing director, BT Consumer by Royal Dutch Shell in February 2016.
Germanys largest cable operator, Kabel Iain was executive director of BP and chief as CEO, he was a member of the board of from 2002.
He was knighted in 2007 and BT Retail.
Before joining BT, Gavin was Simon was CFO and an executive director Deutschland GmbH.
He has held a number executive downstream from 2007 to 2014. management responsible for finance and is a former president of the Confederation of managing director of the consumer division of AstraZeneca from 2007 to 2013, and of senior executive positions in broadcasting Until May 2014, Iain was a non-executive controlling.
From 2006 to 2009 he was British Industry.
of Telewest now Virgin Media.
Prior to that an executive director of ScottishPower from and telecoms businesses in the UK, US and director of Rolls-Royce for nine years, and a member of the board of management he spent nine years at Procter & Gamble, 2003 to 2007, and was appointed finance Continental Europe.
responsible for the T-Home unit.
In this Other appointments include rising to become European marketing director in 2005.
Prior to that, Simon was a position, he was in charge of fixed-network Chairman of Worldpay Group, International director.
Other appointments include Other appointments include and broadband business, as well as Chamber of Commerce UK and Majid Al Senior adviser to Providence Equity Partners, Member of the CBI Presidents Committee, integrated sales and service in Germany.
Futtaim Holdings and a director of S&P Other appointments include Other appointments chairman of the advisory council of Portland chairman of the advisory board of the Global formerly McGraw Hill Financial.
Non-executive director of British Airways None outside BT.
PR, Ambassadors Theatre Group and Bite Imperial College Business School and Other appointments include and a member of the CBI Presidents Group.
member of the Imperial College Council.
Chairman of T-Mobile US and a supervisory Committee.
board member of FC Bayern Mnchen AG and of Henkel AG & Co. KGaA.
EAB PEN NAG REM REM TC ARC REM TC ARC IC NAG REM ARC CSRB Jan du Plessis Isabel Hudson Mike Inglis Karen Richardson Nick Rose Jasmine Whitbread Jan will join BT on 1 June 2017 as a Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director non-executive director and will become Appointed to the Board in November 2014.
Appointed to the Board in September 2015.
Appointed to the Board in November 2011.
Appointed to the Board in January 2011 Appointed to the Board in January 2011. chairman from 1 November 2017.
Age 54. and senior independent director since March Age 53.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Isabel has experience in the financial sector Mikes technology experience includes With a career over 30 years in the Skills and experience Jasmine has experience in transforming as well as pensions, risk, control, governance serving on the board of ARM Holdings from technology and software industry, Karen Nick brings experience in finance, risk, large complex organisations in the UK and and international business.
Isabel was 2002 to 2013, with roles including chief brings experience in technology having held control, governance and international internationally and brings an understanding previously a non-executive director of The commercial officer, executive vice president a number of senior operating roles in both business expertise.
He was chief financial of corporate social responsibility and Pensions Regulator, MGM Advantage, QBE and general manager of the processor the public and private technology sector.
She officer of Diageo prior to his retirement in sustainable business.
She was previously Insurance, Standard Life and an executive division and executive vice president of sales is a former adviser to Silver Lake Partners, December 2010, having joined the board chief executive of Save the Children director of Prudential Assurance Company in and marketing.
Prior to joining ARM, Mike was with NASDAQ-listed software company in 1999. International and has a background in the UK.
worked in management consultancy with Epiphany Inc, latterly as chief executive and technology marketing.
Dan Fitz AT Kearney and held a number of senior has served on a number of corporate boards Other appointments include Company Secretary Other appointments include operational and marketing positions at including VirtuOz, Proofpoint, Hi5 Networks Chairman of Williams Grand Prix Holdings, Other appointments include Dan is the group general counsel & Executive chair of National House Building Motorola.
Mike was previously a director at and Convercent.
senior independent director of BAE Systems Chief executive of London First and noncompany secretary.
He joined BT in April Council and senior independent director of Pace.
and non-executive chairman of Loch executive director of Standard Chartered.
2010 as its group general counsel.
Isabel is also an ambassador Other appointments include Lomond Scotch Whisky.
Adviser to CCMP for the disability charity, SCOPE.
Other appointments include Director of AYASDI, Exponent, HackerRank, Capital.
Non-executive chairman of Ilika and a and Worldpay Group.
director of Advanced Micro Devices.
106 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 107
