Governance Directors 1 3 4 JM Barry Gibson 65 Richard Harpin 52 Martin Bennett 48 Appointed to the Board in April 2004 Founder and Chief Executive Ocer of Appointed as Chief Executive Ocer of and appointed as Chairman in April 2010 HomeServe, which was set up in 1993 as the UK business in January 2014, following following a year as Senior Non-Executive a joint venture with South Staordshire two years as Group Chief Operating Director.
Appointed to the Board in May Ocer and three years as Group Chief Director at BAA plc, Group Chief Executive 2001.
Also founder and Non-Executive Financial Ocer.
Previously Finance of Littlewoods plc and Non-Executive Director of Growth Partner LLP, investing Director of the UK business, having been Director of Somereld plc, National in and helping small consumer businesses Finance Director of the Warranties business Express plc, William Hill plc, SSP Group to step change their growth.
Prior to joining Ltd, bwin.
party digital entertainment plc brand manager with Procter & Gamble, HomeServe in 2003, he spent three years and Non-Executive Chairman of Harding followed by management consultancy as Group Finance Director of Clarity Group Brothers Holdings Ltd. with Deloitte and his own company.
and ten years at Arthur Andersen where he qualied as a Chartered Accountant.
David Bower 45 Johnathan Ford 47 1 3 4 Appointed as Chief Financial Ocer in Appointed as Chief Operating Ocer in Stella David 54 February 2017.
He joined HomeServe in June 2016 having served as Chief Financial Appointed to the Board in November 2005 and has undertaken a number of Ocer for four years.
Previously Chief Executive Ocer senior divisional and group finance roles Finance Director of NWF Group plc.
Prior of William Grant & Sons following more including spending six years as Group to joining NWF in March 2009, he spent than 15 years with Bacardi Ltd where she Finance Director.
Before HomeServe, he four years at HomeServe, rstly as Group undertook a number of roles culminating spent 12 years at Arthur Andersen, later Commercial Director and later as Finance in five years as Global Chief Marketing Deloitte LLP, where he qualied as a Director of the Emergency Services Ocer.
Before joining HomeServe he was Director of C&J Clark Ltd, Bacardi Ltd and Head of Corporate Finance at Kidde plc.
Norwegian Cruise Line Holdings, she also 1 2 Previously a Non-Executive Director of Chris Havemann 49 spent seven years as a Non-Executive Lakehouse plc where he chaired the Audit Appointed to the Board in December 2015.
Director at Nationwide Building Society.
He has followed a largely entrepreneurial 1 2 3 4 career.
He took Research Now onto AIM Mark Morris 57 1 2 3 4 in 2005 and oversaw its takeover by a US Ben Mingay 52 Appointed to the Board in February 2009 business becoming CEO of the combined Appointed to the Board in January and as Senior Independent Director in group, a global leader in online research 2012.
Managing Partner of Smith Square April 2015.
Previously in audit, business data collection.
He was subsequently CEO Partners, an independent corporate advisory and corporate finance with Price of online marketplace, Rated People.
He has more than Waterhouse before joining Sytner Group is also Chairman of RM222 Ltd, parent 25 years experience as a corporate finance plc as Finance Director, later becoming company of Reality Mine Ltd and a adviser.
Prior to co-founding Smith Square Managing Director.
Currently Chairman governor of London Business School.
Partners, he was a Managing Director of of Motorpoint Group plc and previously Hawkpoint Partners Ltd and Credit Suisse a Non-Executive Director of LSL Property 5 First Boston Europe.
Guillaume Huser 50 Executive Director of AIM-listed Alternative Appointed as Chief Executive Ocer, 5 Networks plc.
Previously H Stephen Phillips 50 at Anion Group where he undertook Appointed as Chief Executive Ocer of 5 a number of roles culminating in four Tom Rusin 48 HomeServe Spain in March 2010 having years as President of Anion Groups Appointed as Chief Executive Ocer, joined HomeServe in 2005 as Country International Division.
Before joining HomeServe USA in July 2011.
He is a licensed Anion in December 2002, he spent 13 at Anion Group where he undertook a insurance broker and is a Non-Executive years at American Express rstly in finance, number of roles culminating in three years Director of Assured Enterprises Inc.
Prior sales and business development roles and as President and Chief Executive Ocer of to joining HomeServe, he spent 12 years later in the Corporate Services Division Anion Groups North American Division.
in senior business development, sales, where he was VP Commercial Card, Before joining Anion, he owned Just and marketing roles in Diversied Business Western Europe.
He was previously a NonCommunications S. A. and E. J. Krause fide Executive Director of The Ambassadors Mxico, working across the US and Latin Anna Maughan 47 Group.
Appointed Company Secretary in July 2008 following 12 years as Assistant Company Secretary.
Also a Trustee of, and Secretary to, the industry wide Water Companies Pension Scheme.
64 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Key: 1 Non-Executive.
2 Audit & Risk Committee Chairman: Mark Morris.
3 Nomination Committee Chairman: Barry Gibson.
4 Remuneration Committee Chairman: Stella David.
5 Member of Executive Committee only.
