Nominating & Governance Committee Chairmans report This chart shows how we allocated our time.
Allocation of time 56% Succession 10% Committee governance 8% Board membership 26% Governance structure and eectiveness We have focused on succession, Board membership, and our governance structures Succession for BT and Openreach.
I believe the decisions Our senior independent director, Nick Rose, led the process to find and we have made this year will have a meaningful appoint my successor.
We engaged with external search consultants MWM Consulting to identify potential candidates.
BT instructs impact in setting BT and Openreach up for long MWM Consulting from time to time for search assignments, but term future success.
they otherwise have no connection to the company.
The committee discussed the process used to compile the candidate list, and agreed that MWM Consultings methodology and rationale were appropriate Who we are and that there was sufficient diversity in the proposed field of I chair the Nominating & Governance Committee at the request of the candidates.
Our role is to ensure our Board and committee members have the right balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge to Nick Rose, Gavin Patterson and other Board members then met effectively discharge their duties and responsibilities.
We also oversee with potential candidates.
MWM Consulting also commissioned an BTs governance framework.
independent report from Montrose Associates, to provide a thorough profile on each candidate.
Our members and their meeting attendance are set out below.
The company secretary attends our meetings, as does the chief executive Following this comprehensive process the committee was able to make where appropriate.
a clear recommendation with which the Board agreed.
As a result, Im delighted to welcome Jan du Plessis as a non-executive director Committee members of the Board from 1 June 2017, before he becomes chairman on my Meetings retirement on 1 November 2017.
Jan has led a number of high profile organisations, having been chairman of British American Tobacco, Eligible to SABMiller and Rio Tinto.
I wish Jan every success as he joins BT at this Member attend Attended important time.
Sir Michael Rake chairman 5 5 Board membership Tony Ball 5 5 We keep the composition of our Board under close review.
In order Iain Conn 5 5 to best serve all of our customers, we believe the composition of our Board should support diversity in its widest sense.
As part of Isabel Hudson 5 5 our gender diversity policy we aim to have at least 25% female Nick Rose 5 5 representation on the Board.
We currently have 27% female representation, with 3 female members out of 11.
Gender diversity on our Board continues to be in line with the Davies Report target and What weve done we make sure that our external search consultants consider diversity We met five times this year.
We spent a considerable amount of time as part of the candidate shortlisting process as we work towards Lord discussing and agreeing the appointment of my successor.
This process Daviess new target of 33% female Board representation by 2020. was led by Nick Rose as our senior independent director, who chaired Read more about BTs approach to diversity on page 29. the meetings when the appointment of my successor was discussed.
Our Board members each contribute individual knowledge, skills In accordance with our proposals to Ofcom on the DCR, we discussed and experience, which we regularly review using a skills matrix.
This the independent appointments to the Openreach board, and approved covers the skills needed for running a listed company: knowledge the appointment of Mike McTighe as the first chairman of Openreach and understanding of different customer sectors: industry specific from January 2017.
Mike is an experienced telecoms executive and knowledge: stakeholder engagement: and regional experience in brings a wealth of industry and regulatory knowledge to this role.
different parts of the world.
This year, we asked Board members to re-evaluate their own skills, and considered the skills we may wish to prioritise when evaluating potential new candidates.
116 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 117 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION We believe our Board currently has an appropriate composition and The following table summarises our progress against the key areas of mix of skills and we continue to keep under review the retirement focus: dates of our non-executive directors.
KEY AREAS OF FOCUS ACTIONS This year, we recommended that Nick Roses appointment as senior Succession planning independent director be extended for a further three-year term Chairman succession This has been a key focus of the starting from 1 January 2017, and that Jasmine Whitbreads committee this year: Nick Rose, our appointment as a non-executive director should also be extended senior independent director has led the for a further three-year term starting on 19 January 2017.
did not participate in any discussions regarding his reappointment.
The impact of Ofcoms DCR on Openreach and Group governance The UK Corporate Governance Code states that any term beyond six Openreach board In line with our proposals to Ofcom years should be subject to a particularly rigorous review, therefore this on the DCR, the committee received recommendation followed a thorough appraisal of Nicks and Jasmines updates on the Openreach board performance.
We concluded that both make a valuable and broad appointment process.
Mike McTighes ranging contribution to the Board and the various committees of appointment as chairman was approved which theyre members, as well as to the business as a whole.
by the committee and announced on 29November 2016.
The appointment We also reviewed Nick and Jasmines roles outside BT, and as a result of the remaining three independent we're confident that these dont prevent either Nick or Jasmine from non-executives was completed in effectively discharging their Board responsibilities and making a full January.
We were able to assure ourselves that Nick Integrating BTs and EEs governance cultures post EE acquisition and Jasmine continue to be independent in character and judgement, Integration Committee The Integration Committee oversees the and that there are no conflicts of interest that could affect their integration of EE and BT, and has met decision making.
Governance arrangements for a non-independent non-executive All non-executive appointments can be terminated on three months director notice and are subject to automatic termination in the event of a Conflicted Matters Committee The Conflicted Matters Committee director not being elected or re-elected by shareholders at the AGM.
reviews all Board papers and agenda items to make sure we dont share Governance structure and effectiveness any conflicted matters with the nonWe keep our governance structure and the membership of our Board independent, non-executive director.
The committee reviewed the role of committees under continuous review: the Conflicted Matters Committee at its In light of the new Investigatory Powers Act passed in November meeting in March.
2016, we recommended that the Board approve the creation of Governance requirements for data privacy and data protection an Investigatory Powers Governance Committee with immediate effect.
This will help us to develop and refine our governance of Investigatory Powers Governance In December 2016, the committee investigatory powers requests so that we meet our new legal Committee recommended, and the Board subsequently approved, the formation obligations and our human rights commitments.
of the Investigatory Powers Governance After reviewing the terms of reference of this committee we Committee.
Its role is to make sure we recommended a change to allow any independent non-executive balance our legal obligations under the director to attend its meetings, unless the topic being discussed new investigatory powers legislation, relates to their appointment.
The Board approved this change in and our human rights commitments, October 2016. particularly the right to privacy.
We also reviewed the terms of reference of our Regional Governance Committees RGCs which monitor governance and Board evaluation 2017 18 compliance in their respective regions.
We approved a number of In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, we have changes to help improve the effectiveness of the RGCs.
commissioned an external evaluation of our Board effectiveness for 2017 18.
We agreed that the company secretary would conduct Committee evaluation 2016 17 the tender exercise and recommend an external facilitator to the As part of our internal Board review in June 2016, we evaluated the chairman.
Following the tender exercise, we chose Independent committees effectiveness.
Committee members, the chief executive Board Evaluation to conduct the evaluation, which comprised an and the group general counsel & company secretary completed an interview with each Board member, and observations of the Board and online questionnaire based on the committees terms of reference.
The review focused on Board accountability and composition, the Boards role in setting strategy, risk management, We noted the results of the questionnaire in October 2016, and in succession planning, and the effectiveness of the Board committees.
March 2017 we reviewed our progress in addressing the various The evaluation took place in March and April 2017.
The Board will challenges and priorities it highlighted.
receive a full report in June 2017, and will discuss the results at a future Board meeting.
The chairman will also conduct one-to-one interviews with directors on their individual performance and the senior independent director, Nick Rose, will conduct the annual evaluation of the chairman.
Sir Michael Rake Chairman of the Nominating & Governance Committee 11 May 2017 116 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 117
