THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Integration Committee Chairmans report What weve done We met four times this year.
This chart below shows how we allocated our time.
Allocation of time 20% Financial performance and synergies 11% Governance 14% People and culture 17% Technology Im pleased with the progress weve made 19% Customers this year integrating EE and BT.
We can now 19% Strategy offer exciting converged propositions such The first year of our integration has gone well.
Weve delivered 152m as BT Sport to EE customers and Plusnet of run rate cost synergies, which is higher than our public commitment Mobile, and were realising the cost savings and of 100m in year 1. efficiencies set out in our deal case.
Weve successfully launched converged propositions such as BT Sport for EE customers and Plusnet Mobile, which support our strategy of improving our entire customer experience.
We want the combined EE and BT to remain a great place to work, with exciting opportunities for development.
There are many things we can learn from each other, so Who we are were using a best of both approach to integrate EE and BTs cultures I chair the Integration Committee.
We oversee the integration of and policies.
EE and BT, including monitoring progress towards financial synergy targets, creating a fit for future organisation, improving customer In 2017 18, our priorities are to: experience, and integrating the cultures of the two organisations.
continue to launch converged propositions to improve our customers experience: Our membership and meeting attendance are set out below.
The deliver revenue and cost synergies: group HR director and integration project director, although not continue to integrate the two organisations and cultures to create members of the committee, attend meetings at my invitation.
a brilliant place to work: and preserve EEs tax losses through the integration activities.
Committee members Meetings Gavin Patterson Eligible to Chairman of the Integration Committee Member attend Attended 11 May 2017 Gavin Patterson chairman 4 4 Tony Ball 4 4 a Thomas Dannenfeldt 4 4 Simon Lowth 4 4 Nick Rose 4 4 a Deutsche Telekom member.
120 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 121
