BT Pensions Committee Chairs report What weve done BT management provides regular updates on BTs performance and strategy at BTPS Trustee meetings, and held extra sessions with the Trustee Board over the course of the year, including reporting on Ofcoms Strategic Review of Digital Communications.
We met six times during the year.
The chart below shows how we allocated our time.
Allocation of time 38% Risk management and investment performance 5% Other 8% BTPS administration During the year the committee focused on a number of areas, including how well approach the 30 June 2017 valuation, and the potential 18% Governance, legal and regulatory implications of Ofcoms Strategic Review 31% Funding of Digital Communications for our pension arrangements.
Areas of work Who we are Key areas of work carried our in the year include: I chair the BT Pensions Committee.
Were responsible for BTs interactions with the Trustee of the BT Pension Scheme BTPS.
The Risk management and investment strategy: At each meeting BTPS is a defined benefit pension scheme with around 300,000 we reviewed the investment performance and risk associated with members.
It pays out over 2bn a year of pensions and has liabilities the BTPS.
During the year we agreed enhancements to the Trustees of around 60bn.
reporting of investment performance and strategy to the committee.
We received an improved information pack, updated each quarter, Id like to welcome Simon Lowth who joined the committee during together with presentations from the BTPS management team the year.
Id also like to thank Tony Chanmugam, who stepped down every six months.
Investment return was around 21% for the year to on 13 July 2016, for his contribution to the committees work.
Our 31 March 2017. membership and meeting attendance are set out below.
We reviewed the BTPSs approach to reducing risk over the year, which Committee members included increasing its interest rate and inflation hedging levels.
Over Meetings the course of the year we provided views to the Trustee on various elements of the investment strategy, including the Trustees approach Eligible to Member attend Attended to hedging.
We also received a presentation from the CEO of Hermes the investment management company wholly owned by the BTPS Isabel Hudson chair 6 6 on its financial performance and future strategy.
Sir Michael Rake 6 5 Funding: We received regular updates on the development of the a Simon Lowth 4 4 funding position throughout the year.
We also started planning our Alison Wilcox 6 6 approach to the next funding valuation that will take place as at an effective date no later than 30 June 2017, including how we might b Tony Chanmugam 2 2 deal with an increased deficit given the continued low interest rate a Simon Lowth was appointed to the committee from 12 July 2016. environment.
b Tony Chanmugam retired from the committee on 13 July 2016.
Governance, legal and regulatory: We looked at the potential Further information impact of Ofcoms Strategic Review of Digital Communications on You can find out more about BTs pension schemes in note 20 to the the BTPS.
We also dealt with other governance matters, including accounts.
BTPS administration: We monitored BTPS Trustee progress on improving administration services to members.
Isabel Hudson Chair of the BT Pensions Committee 11 May 2017 118 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 119
