Audit & Risk Committee Chairmans report What weve done We met nine times during the year and the chart below shows how we allocated our time.
Meetings are scheduled in line with the financial reporting timetable and after each meeting, I report to the Board on the main issues that we discussed.
During the year, we hold separate sessions with the internal and external auditors in the absence of management.
Allocation of time 24% Risk and controls 27% Financial matters 13% Internal audit matters My report this year is dominated by the clear 13% External audit matters deficiencies in relation to the financial control of our Italian business.
We have focused on the independent investigation led by KPMG and other advisers, and our internal investigations 23% Governance and compliance into the deficiencies, the subsequent accounting adjustments that the company has The committee has an annual work plan.
This includes standing items needed to make, and the actions which the that the committee considers regularly in addition to any specific matters that require the committees attention and topical items on which company has already taken.
We will continue we have chosen to focus.
to give these actions the highest priority in Activities during the year 2017 18 to ensure that issues such as these BT Italy will never re-occur in BT.
Italy has been a major area of focus for the committee and the improper practices that came to light in our Italian business via a whistle-blower are extremely disappointing.
A large part of our work in the second half of the year has been in relation to the financial Who we are irregularities that were discovered and which are detailed on page 6.
In I chair the Audit & Risk Committee and have recent and relevant October, the committee instructed KPMG, with support and oversight financial experience as required by the provisions of the Code and am from our Legal, Governance & Compliance function and Freshfields the designated financial expert for Sarbanes Oxley Act purposes.
The Bruckhaus Deringer, to commence an independent investigation.
committee acts independently of the executive and all its members Throughout the investigation, KPMG reported directly to me and are independent non-executive directors with diverse skills and the BT Group chairman and the full committee has received regular experience.
reports from both KPMG and from the management team.
This investigation is now complete.
The investigation identified collusion, Although they arent members of the committee, the company circumvention and override of controls within our Italian business that secretary, group finance director, deputy finance director, group was not identified by our monitoring controls thereby resulting in financial controller and director internal audit attend each meeting the misstatement of results going undetected for a number of years.
as does the lead audit partner and representatives from our external There are a number of recommendations arising from the KPMG work auditors.
I meet with this group ahead of the meetings to discuss key and our own observations that we are acting on.
We are undertaking areas for discussion with the committee.
The external auditors are steps to improve the groups systems, processes and controls, not only not present at meetings when we discuss their performance and or in Italy but also in our shared service centres, in Global Services and remuneration.
This includes increasing the resources and improving the capabilities of the controlling function and the audit function Committee members outside the UK, and further developing our integrated risk and Meetings assurance reporting processes.
We are also enhancing our controls and compliance programme to strengthen awareness of the standards we Eligible to Member attend Attended expect, the capabilities of our people, and to reinforce the importance of doing business in an ethical, disciplined and standardised way.
The Nick Rose chairman 9 9 committee has specifically focused on: understanding and investigating the override of controls and Iain Conn 9 6 accounting processes in Italy: Karen Richardson 9 9 understanding how the financial irregularities have accumulated over time.
We considered managements conclusions in Jasmine Whitbread 9 9 determining the accounting treatment and disclosure of the prior year errors: 112 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 113
