Resources, relationships and sustainability In this section we describe the key resources and relationships that underpin our business model.
We also report on how our purpose can help to protect the environment.
Financial strength Our people Our financial strength means we can take a Our people help shape the modern world.
The products and services they create and manage underpin everything from global trade Our goal is to deliver sustainable profitable revenue growth.
Together with further cost transformation, we aim to grow our and industry, to economic growth and social EBITDA and cash flow over the long term.
Our financial strategy has been consistent for a number of years: Our people are a vital part of our ambition to deliver a great customer experience and sustainable, profitable revenue growth.
Our people strategy supports this ambition by creating an Deliver sustainable profitable revenue growth environment where great people can do brilliant things as part of a dynamic business.
Grow EBITDA Grow free cash flow Support Pay Invest in Reduce net pension progressive business debt fund dividends We have a prudent financial policy and strong governance, both of which help us make the right decisions in terms of planning investments, managing our debt and growing our business.
Strategic investment, based on our financial strength, will ensure the long-term growth and health of our business.
At the same time, were working hard to reduce our net debt, support our pension fund in a responsible way and pay progressive dividends to our shareholders.
We recruited 3,600 new people into customer-facing Our financial strength also means we can support the business in roles at our BT UK contact centres other ways, for example by making sure we continue to innovate and stay at the forefront of a rapidly-changing industry, and by investing in the training, development and support of our people.
How our people make a difference Our success isnt just about what we do: its how we do things that really makes the difference.
We want great people to work for BT.
We want them to feel engaged and inspired to be the best they can be.
Together we create a highperforming, thriving organisation, where difference is celebrated and innovation is a big part of who we are.
At the heart of this are our people values.
Theyre aspirational, but realistic, capturing the spirit of BT at our best and reflecting how our customers want us to understand their needs, be easy to deal with and show we care.
26 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 27
