Leadership The Board Who we are Composition Gender diversity Balance of non-executive directors executive directors Tenure years chairman and non-executive directors Read more about the Board directors and the skills and experience they bring to BT on pages 106 and 107.
12.5% 73% Male 1 Chairman 45% 0-3 The Board consists of: the chairman, the chief executive, the group finance director, seven independent non-executive directors including 11% 3-6 the senior independent director and one non-independent, non- 2 Executive directors executive director.
The Board is supported by the company secretary.
87.5% 27% Female The roles of the chairman and the chief executive are separate.
They 33% 6-9 are set out in written job descriptions which provide clear, distinct 1 Non-independent non-executive director responsibilities for each role.
Simon Lowth joined the Board on 12 July 2016.
Hes also a member of the BT Pensions, Integration and Operating Committees.
7 Independent non-executive directors 11% 9-12 Following the Nominating & Governance Committees recommendation, we approved the re-appointments of Nick Rose and Jasmine Whitbread on the expiry of their second three-year Composition Gender diversity Balance of non-executive directors executive directors Tenure years chairman and non-executive directors terms.
The majority of the Board is made up of independent non-executive 12.5% 73% Male 1 Chairman 45% 0-3 directors.
We judged the chairman to be independent at the time of his appointment, and consider all other non-executive directors to 11% 3-6 be independent under the terms of the Code, with the exception of 2 Executive directors Tim Httges, a non-independent, non-executive.
87.5% 27% Female Read about the roles of the Board members and the company 33% 6-9 secretary below.
1 Non-independent non-executive director The Chairman The chairmans role is to: lead the Board and create a culture of openness characterised by debate and appropriate challenge: 7 Independent non-executive directors 11% 9-12 promote the highest standards of corporate governance: ensure that the Board determines the nature and extent of the significant risks BT is willing to take to implement its strategy: Composition Gender diversity Balance of non-executive directors executive directors Tenure years chairman and non-executive directors make sure that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information, and is consulted on all relevant matters: 12.5 %monitor the contribution and performance of Board members: 73% Male 1 Chairman 45% 0-3 make sure that BT communicates clearly with shareholders, and discusses their views and concerns with the Board: and 11% 3-6 acts as a key contact for important stakeholders, as well as 2 Executive directors 27% Female 87.5% working with the chief executive and senior independent director to represent BT in key strategic and government relationships.
33% 6-9 The Chief Executive 1 Non-independent non-executive director The chief executives role is to: lead the groups performance and management: propose strategies, business plans and policies to the Board: implement Board decisions, policies and strategies: 7 Independent non-executive directors 11% 9-12 develop and promote compliance with BTs policies on conducting business around the world: maintain an effective framework of internal controls and risk management: lead the Operating Committee in the day-to-day running of every part of the business: and lead, motivate and monitor the performance of BTs senior management team, as well as overseeing succession planning for roles on the Operating Committee.
com for more information 108 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 THE S THE STRA TRATE TEGIC REPOR GIC REPORT T GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE FINANCIAL S FINANCIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S ADDITIONAL INF ADDITIONAL INFORMA ORMATION TION The Independent Non-Executive Directors The chart below shows how the Board allocated its time.
A number The independent non-executive directors role is to: of these areas are also considered by the Board committees.
bring experience and independent judgement to the Board: and Allocation of time develop and constructively challenge strategy proposals.
Each non-executive director is appointed for an initial three-year 21% Strategy term but they are all subject to annual re-election by shareholders 20% Governance, risk and audit at the Annual General Meeting.
Provided each director is re-elected by shareholders every year, their appointment may be extended.
The Senior Independent Director 4% People, health and safety The senior independent director is a non-executive director whose role is to: meet with BTs major institutional shareholders and shareholder representative bodies, to discuss matters that wouldnt be 33% Business and CEO updates appropriate for discussion with the chairman or chief executive: act as a sounding board for the chairman and as an intermediary between the chairman and other directors: and 22% Finance and investor relations review the chairmans performance during the year, taking account of feedback from other Board members.
The Board has a flexible forward programme of business that makes The Non-Independent Non-Executive Director sure key areas get the time they need, and that items can be added After acquiring EE, we appointed Deutsche Telekoms nominated to agendas as necessary.
During 2016 17 we spent considerable director Tim Httges to the Board.
Tim owes a fiduciary duty to both time discussing our Italian business, the issues around Deemed BT and Deutsche Telekom.
As a non-independent, non-executive Consent and Ofcoms Strategic Review of Digital Communications.
director, Tim has the same responsibilities as the other directors: Read more about these matters on pages 6, 7 and 39. weve set up a Conflicted Matters Committee to identify potential or The Boards annual programme included: actual conflicts of interest.
Read more about this committee below.
Chief executives reports Succession planning The Company Secretary Financial reports Customer experience The company secretarys role is to: Strategy Regulation manage the flow of timely, accurate and well-considered Line of business updates Governance and compliance information to the Board: Risk management Approach to tax recommend corporate governance policies and practices to the Dividend policy Annual Report & Form 20-F chairman and the chief executive: Investor relations Human rights put in place and promote corporate governance policies across Health, safety and well-being Board evaluation the group: BT Sport Investing for the future advise the Board and its committees on corporate governance We also received updates from the respective chairs on key matters and compliance across the group: and put in place the right discussed at the Board committees.
procedures for managing their meetings and duties.
The Board also sets time aside to hold a strategy offsite, giving directors the opportunity to focus solely on strategic issues and The company secretarys appointment and removal is a matter for challenges and opportunities in the short and longer term areas of the whole Board.
particular focus were Global Services, Business and Public Sector, the network and market developments.
What weve done The Board is responsible for deciding the groups strategy and Conflicted Matters Committee CMC overseeing its performance, while passing the responsibility for dayThe CMC is chaired by the company secretary.
Its responsible for to-day operations to executive management.
The Board is directly deciding to what extent Board meetings and papers are likely to involved with approving major acquisitions, providing oversight consider or refer to a conflict of interest between BT and DT or and control, growing shareholder value and promoting corporate their respective affiliates.
The committee considers both actual governance.
and potential conflicts of interest including situations where BT and DT or their respective affiliates are considered competitors.
The CMC helps the non-independent, non-executive director Tim Httges comply with his fiduciary duties although ultimate responsibility rests with him, supports good governance and protects the groups competitively sensitive information.
If a conflict arises the CMC makes sure the non-independent, non-executive director doesnt receive related documents or information and that he absents himself from related Board discussions.
During the year a number of Board papers were identified as containing conflicted material.
Tim either didnt receive these documents or he received a redacted version.
Tim also didnt receive any reports regarding Global Services which contained conflicted material and wasnt present when these reports were discussed by the Board.
Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 109 The Leadership continued Attendance at Board meetings Investigatory Powers Governance Committee The following table shows each directors attendance at Board The Investigatory Powers Act 2016 made changes to the meetings during the financial year.
The chairman meets privately investigatory powers regime in the UK.
To enhance our own with independent non-executive directors before most scheduled processes we have created the Investigatory Powers Governance Board meetings.
We encourage directors who cant attend a Board Committee, chaired by Sir Mike Rake, to help ensure we strike the meeting to give the chairman their views in advance.
right balance between complying with the law and respecting human rights, including the right to privacy.
Board members We reviewed our Board committee structure and approved changes Meetings to some committees terms of reference.
Eligible to Member attend Attended Director election and re-election Sir Michael Rake chairman 12 12 Jan du Plessis appointed to the Board with effect from 1 June 2017 will be proposed for election.
All other directors will be Gavin Patterson 12 12 proposed for re-election by shareholders at the AGM in line with the a Tony Chanmugam 5 5 Code.
b Simon Lowth 8 8 Length of appointment of chairman and non-executive directors Tony Ball 12 12 Iain Conn 12 11 Sep 2007 Sir Michael Rake Tim Httges 12 10 Jul 2009 Tony Ball Isabel Hudson 12 12 Jan 2011 Jasmine Whitbread Mike Inglis 12 12 Jan 2011 Nick Rose Karen Richardson 12 12 Nov 2011 Karen Richardson Nick Rose 12 12 June 2014 lain Conn Jasmine Whitbread 12 12 a Nov 2014 Isabel Hudson Tony stepped down from the Board on 13 July 2016. b Simon was appointed to the Board from 12 July 2016.
Sep 2015 Mike Inglis The chairman reviews the directors attendance, contribution and Jan 2016 Tim Httges performance.
He currently considers that each of them continues 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 to make an effective contribution to the Board on a wide range of issues, as well as demonstrating commitment to their role.
Calendar year Nick Rose reviewed and discussed the chairmans performance during the year, taking into account feedback from other Board We include details of all directors contracts letters of appointment in members.
the Report on Directors Remuneration.
Board induction On appointment, directors take part in an induction programme to increase their understanding of our business.
Meetings are arranged with the chairman, chief executive, senior independent director and company secretary, as well as other Board members and senior members of management to ensure directors gain a thorough overview and understanding of the business.
They receive information about BT including financial data and the key policies supporting BTs business practices.
We also give new directors details on: the role of the Board, its terms of reference, the membership of our main Board committees and matters reserved for decision by the Board, the Board committees or BTs most senior executives.
110 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 THE S THE STRA TRATE TEGIC REPOR GIC REPORT T GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE FINANCIAL S FINANCIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S ADDITIONAL INF ADDITIONAL INFORMA ORMATION TION Training and information Board evaluation We encourage all directors to regularly update their skills and The chairman and company secretary carried out a Board evaluation knowledge.
As part of this the Board and individual directors receive in 2016 through an electronic questionnaire.
We discussed the ongoing training as required.
The chairman works with individual resulting report and noted that the overall results were positive.
directors to identify any specific training they need to perform their role.
The chief executive regularly includes information on the Directors commented positively on the effective operation of the business in his report to the Board.
This can include updates on Board.
They felt that Board members work well together as a unit, operational matters, the competitive and regulatory environment and that the non-executive directors strike a good balance between affecting the group and the wider communications industry, group supporting and challenging management.
Directors commented and line of business performance, strategy, investor relations and favourably on the Board strategy day, and they felt that the Board corporate responsibility.
The chairman also provides a weekly written played an important and positive role in the EE transaction.
update to the non-executive directors on key business activities, high level meetings, regulation and relevant sector highlights.
The table below shows progress against the main actions: The company secretary provides briefings during the year on any KEY AREAS ACTIONS significant developments in legal, governance and compliance areas.
Regulation The Board spent considerable time on Non-executive directors regularly meet with management and the Digital Communications Review.
increase their understanding of the business through formal briefing Integration of EE The Board has received regular updates sessions, breakfast meetings with senior staff and site visits which from the chair of the Integration this year included a meeting at the BT Sport studios.
In addition Committee and have heard from the to the private session the chairman holds with the independent CEO, EE.
non-executive directors before Board meetings, Board dinners are Improving customer The Board continued to focus on held before most Board meetings which are also attended by the experience customer experience throughout non-independent, non-executive director and the chief executive.
The group finance director attends most dinners.
At least once a year, a dinner is held for members of the Board and Operating Committee.
Succession planning and This has been an area of significant senior management focus for the Board during the year.
We have appointed a new chairman as well as the chair of the Openreach board.
The chief executive has also given regular updates on senior management changes.
We have commissioned the triennial external evaluation of the Board for 2017 18.
This is being conducted by Independent Board Evaluation.
You will find further details on this evaluation process on page 117.
Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 111
