THE S THE STRA TRATE TEGIC REPOR GIC REPORT T GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE FINANCIAL S FINANCIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S ADDITIONAL INF ADDITIONAL INFORMA ORMATION TION How we govern the group Our governance structure The Board is responsible for managing the group, agreeing strategy, overseeing performance, and discharging The Board certain legal responsibilities.
The Board delegates day-to-day responsibility for running the group to BTs executive management, with specialist tasks passed to various Board committees.
PG106 and 107 For the Board biographies PG116 For Board diversity www.
com for Board news PG109To read about the Board activities for the year Equality of Audit & Risk Nominating Remuneration BT Pensions Committee for Technology Access Board Committee & Governance Committee Committee Sustainable and Committee Committee Responsible Business The Equality of The Nominating The Audit & Risk The Remuneration The BT Pensions The Committee The Technology Access Board EAB & Governance Committee is Committee agrees Committee is for Sustainable Committee agrees monitors, reports Committee makes responsible for the remuneration responsible for and Responsible the development and advises on BT's sure the Board has financial and framework for our overseeing the BT Business provides and implementation compliance with the the right balance narrative reporting, chairman, executive Pension Scheme the strategic of BTs major Undertakings given of skills, experience, internal controls and directors and certain BTPS.
oversight necessary technology by BT to Ofcom.
independence risk management, senior executives.
to make sure BT strategies.
The EAB reports and knowledge.
including core is a sustainable regularly to the It also oversees compliance and responsible Board and publishes BTs governance programmes and business.
an annual report to framework.
assurance, internal audit and external audit.
com eab PG112 PG116 PG122 PG118 PG119 PG120 The Operating Committee OC is our key management committee.
It makes decisions on operational issues Operating and other matters within the framework established by the Board.
Committee PG14 For the OC biographies Conflicted Matters Committee Integration Committee Investigatory Powers Governance Committee This committee is responsible for overseeing The Integration Committee monitors and Following the appointment of Tim Httges BTs role in the use of official investigatory oversees the integration of EE and BT.
to the Board, we established the Conflicted powers.
Matters Committee to review all Board papers and agenda items that could give rise to a conflicted matter.
com  Annual R Annual Repor eport 2017 t 2017 B BT Gr T Group plc oup plc 105 105
