THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Governance Governance Chairmans governance report 104 How we govern the group 105 Board of directors 106 The Board 108 Reports of the Board committees Audit & Risk Committee chairmans report 112 Nominating & Governance Committee In this section we describe our governance chairmans report 116 BT Pensions Committee chairs report 118 structure.
We talk about the people on the Committee for Sustainable and Responsible Board, how it works and what the Board Business chairmans report 119 Technology Committee chairmans report 120 focused on during the year.
We also report Integration Committee chairmans report 121 on the work of our Board committees.
Report on Directors Remuneration 122 Directors information 146 General information 148 Our directors Shareholders and Annual General Meeting 152 Our directors skills and experience, together with their wide range of backgrounds, help them challenge constructively BTs management and develop our effective strategy for the future.
Financial statements 153 Our committees Additional information 251 The Board gives certain responsibilities and authorities to a number of Board committees.
Our governance framework Our governance and internal control framework helps the Board exercise proper oversight.
Our corporate governance statement Notwithstanding the very disappointing findings of issues in our Italian business, we remain committed to operating in accordance with best practice in business integrity and ethics and maintaining the highest standards of financial reporting and corporate governance.
The directors consider that BT has complied throughout the year with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code as currently in effect.
The directors also consider that BT has applied the main principles of the Code as described on pages 103 to 152 of this report.
In particular, for details of our internal controls as affected by the issues identified in our Italian operations, see US Regulation on page 148.
The directors submit their report and the audited financial statements of the company, BT Group plc, and the group, which includes its subsidiary undertakings, for 2016 17.
BTGroup plc is the listed holding company for the BT group of companies.
Its shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, and on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares.
The Code and associated guidance are available onthe Financial Reporting Council website at www.
uk PB BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 103
