Directors information the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 102 includes a fair review Statement of directors responsibilities of the development and performance of the business and the The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, position of the group, together with a description of the principal the Report on Directors Remuneration and the financial risks and uncertainties it faces.
statements in line with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each Fair, balanced and understandable financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the consolidated financial statements in accordance with International In accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Code, we have processes and procedures in place to ensure that the Union.
Theyve also prepared parent company financial statements information presented in the Annual Report is fair, balanced and in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice understandable.
We describe these processes and procedures on UK GAAP, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced page 113.
Disclosure Framework FRS 101, and applicable law.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the directors have also Based on the advice of the Audit & Risk Committee the Board elected to comply with IFRS, issued by the International Accounting considers that the Annual Report, as a whole, is fair, balanced Standards Board IASB.
Under company law, the directors must not and understandable, and provides the information necessary for approve the financial statements unless theyre satisfied that it gives shareholders to assess the groups position, performance, business a true and fair view of the group and the company and of the profit model and strategy.
or loss of the group and the company for that period.
Critical accounting estimates and key To prepare these financial statements, the directors: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them judgements, and significant accounting consistently: policies make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Our critical accounting estimates, key judgements, and significant and prudent: accounting policies conform with IFRS and are set out on page state whether IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, and IFRS 176 of the consolidated financial statements.
The directors have issued by the IASB and applicable UK GAAP including FRS 101 reviewed these policies and applicable estimation techniques and have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed have confirmed them to be appropriate for the preparation of the and explained in the consolidated and parent company financial 2016 17 consolidated financial statements.
statements respectively: notify the parent companys shareholders in writing about the use of any disclosure exemptions of FRS 101 used in the preparation Disclosure of information to auditors of financial statements: and As far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant prepare financial statements on a going concern basis unless its information as defined by section 418 3 of the Companies Act inappropriate to presume that the group and the company will 2006 that has not been disclosed to the auditors and each of the continue in business.
directors believes that all steps have been taken that ought to have been taken to make them aware of any relevant audit information The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting and to establish that the auditors have been made aware of that records that show and explain the group and companys transactions information.
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Report on Directors Going concern Remuneration comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 102 includes information on regards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS the group structure, strategy and business model, the performance Regulation.
Theyre also responsible for safeguarding the assets of each line of business, the impact of regulation and competition of the company and the group and for taking reasonable steps to and principal risks and uncertainties.
The Group Performance section prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
on pages 91 to 102 includes information on our group financial results, financial outlook, cash flow and net debt and balance sheet The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of position.
Notes 23, 24, 25 and 27 of the consolidated financial the corporate and financial information included on the companys statements include information on the groups investments, cash and website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the cash equivalents, borrowings, derivatives, financial risk management preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ objectives, hedging policies and exposure to interest, foreign from legislation in other jurisdictions.
exchange, credit, liquidity and market risks.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on In line with IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements, and revised pages 106 to 107 confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: FRC guidance on risk management, internal control and related the company financial statements, which have been prepared in financial and business reporting, management has taken into accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting account all available information about the future for a period of at Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising least, but not limited to, 12 months from the date of approval of the FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law, financial statements when assessing the groups ability to continue as give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position a going concern.
and profit of the company: the consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared The directors carried out a robust assessment of the main risks in accordance with IFRS, and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and affecting the group including any that could threaten our business International Accounting Standards, as adopted by the European model, future performance, insolvency or liquidity.
Details of those Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial risks and how we manage and mitigate them are set out in Our Risks position and profit of the group: and on pages 44 to 55.
146 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 147 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Having assessed the main risks and other matters discussed Power to authorise conflicts in connection with the viability statement, in accordance with All directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 the UK Corporate Governance Code and the FRC guidance, the Act to avoid a situation in which he or she has, or can have a direct directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the basis of accounting when preparing the financial statements.
This interests of the company.
The companys Articles of Association assessment covers the period to May 2018, which is consistent with include provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest the FRC guidance.
in accordance with the 2006 Act.
The company has procedures in place, which it follows, to deal with such situations.
These require the Independent advice Board to: consider each conflict situation separately on its particular facts: The Board has a procedure that allows directors to seek independent consider the conflict situation in conjunction with the rest of its professional advice, at BTs expense.
duties under the 2006 Act: keep records and Board minutes on any authorisations granted by All directors also have access to the advice and services of the directors and the scope of any approvals given: and company secretary.
Directors and officers liability insurance and In addition, we have a Conflicted Matters Committee.
Tim Httges owes duties to both BT and Deutsche Telekom and the Conflicted indemnity Matters Committee helps him comply with his fiduciary duties For some years, BT has bought insurance cover for the directors, although ultimate responsibility rests with him.
You can find more officers and employees in positions of managerial supervision of BT details about the Conflicted Matters Committee on page 109.
Group plc and its subsidiaries.
This is intended to protect against defence costs, civil damages and, in some circumstances, civil fines and penalties following an action brought against them in their personal capacity.
The policy also covers individuals serving as directors of other companies or of joint ventures or on boards of trade associations or charitable organisations at BTs request.
The insurance protects the directors and officers directly in circumstances where, by law, BT cannot provide an indemnity.
It also provides BT, subject to a retention, with cover against the cost of indemnifying a director or officer.
One layer of insurance is ring-fenced for the directors of BT Group plc.
As at 8 May 2017, and throughout 2016 17, the companys wholly-owned subsidiary, British Telecommunications plc, has provided an indemnity for a similar group of people who would be covered by the above insurance.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover where the person has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Interest of management in certain transactions During and at the end of 2016 17, none of BTs directors was materially interested in any material transaction in relation to the groups business and none is materially interested in any presently proposed material transactions.
As explained below, Tim Httges is a member of the Board as well as the CEO of Deutsche Telekom.
146 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 147
