THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Remuneration Policy Executive Directors and Chairman Policy Element Operation and Opportunity Performance measures or basis of payment Base salary Salaries for the executive directors and the chairman are reviewed Whilst there is no maximum salary level, any Purpose - a annually, although an out-of-cycle review may be conducted if the increase will typically be broadly in line with core element of committee determines it appropriate.
A review may not necessarily BTs UK employee population.
remuneration, lead to an increase in salary.
Salaries are paid monthly in cash.
For the executive directors, higher increases used to attract and The pay and conditions for all UK employees are considered when may be made under certain circumstances, retain executive setting salaries for executive directors and the chairman.
such as: directors of the calibre required incr ease in the scope and or responsibility to develop and of the individuals role: deliver our dev elopment of the individual within their business strategy.
role: and wher e an executive director has been appointed to the Board at a lower than typical level of salary, for example to reflect less experience, larger increases may be awarded to move them closer to market practice as their experience develops.
Individual and business performance are taken into account in deciding salary levels.
Benefits Executive directors and the chairman receive benefits which While no maximum level of benefits is Purpose typically include but are not limited to company car or monthly prescribed, they are generally set at an to support health allowance in lieu of a car or part of such allowance not used for a appropriate market competitive level and wellbeing and car, fuel and or driver, personal telecommunication facilities and determined by the committee, taking into provide employees home security, medical and dental cover for the directors and their account a number of factors including: with a market immediate family, life cover, professional subscriptions, personal the jurisdic tion in which the employee is competitive level tax advice and financial counselling up to a maximum of 5,000 based: of benefits.
the lev el of benefits provided for other Where executive directors are required to relocate, the committee employees within the group: and may offer additional expatriate benefits, if considered appropriate.
market practice for comparable roles within appropriate pay comparators in that The company purchases directors and officers liability insurance jurisdiction.
to cover the directors, and has in place a directors and officers indemnity.
The insurance operates to protect the directors in The committee keeps the benefit policy and circumstances where, by law, BT cannot provide the indemnity.
benefit levels under regular review.
Further details of the directors and officers liability insurance and indemnity are set out on page 147.
Annual bonus Executive directors are eligible for an annual bonus.
The The committee seeks to effectively reward Purpose chairman is not eligible for an annual bonus.
Awards are based performance against the key elements of our to incentivise and on performance in the relevant financial year.
Measures used typically include, but reward delivery of is paid in two elements, a cash element, and a deferred element are not limited to: our business plan awarded in shares.
Annual bonus amounts are not pensionable.
financial per formance measures these on an annual basis.
The committee sets annual bonus performance targets each year, are chosen carefully to ensure alignment taking into account key strategic priorities and the approved between reward and underlying financial budget for the year.
As an example, such measures may include free cash flow and The committee ensures that targets set are appropriately earnings per share: and stretching in the context of the corporate plan and that there is an non-financial performance measures appropriate balance between incentivising executive directors to these reflect key company, strategic meet targets, while ensuring that they do not drive unacceptable and individual goals.
For example, levels of risk or inappropriate behaviours.
such measures may include customer experience, purposeful company and At least one-third of the annual bonus will be granted in the personal objectives.
form of deferred shares to strengthen further the alignment of management interests with the long-term interests of In terms of weighting, non-financial measures shareholders.
The deferred element in shares must be held for a will typically account for no more than 50% deferral period which will not be less than three years.
If following of the total annual bonus.
the grant of an award, facts subsequently become known to the committee which would justify a reduction in the award, the A sliding scale between 0% and 100% of committee may reduce the number of deferred shares, including the maximum award applies for achievement to nil.
Further information on the malus and clawback provisions is between threshold and maximum set out on page 145.
The maximum annual bonus opportunity is performance under the bonus plan.
Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 139 Remuneration Policy continued Policy Element Operation and Opportunity Performance measures or basis of payment Incentive Share Executive directors are eligible to participate in the ISP.
The The committee aligns the performance Plan ISP chairman is not eligible to participate.
The ISP forms the longmeasures under the ISP with the long-term Purpose term variable element of executive remuneration.
Awards are strategy of the company and considers to incentivise discretionary and normally vest subject to performance measured that strong performance under the chosen executive over a period of at least three years.
measures should result in sustainable value directors over the creation: Under the terms of the plan rules the current ISP has no maximum longer-term, by award level.
The committee have determined that it will impose financial measur es to reflect the financial rewarding delivery limits for executive directors to apply to future awards.
The performance of our business and a direct of stretching maximum normal ISP award that may be awarded to an executive and focused measure of company success targets linked to director in respect of any financial year of the company will be and, for example, may include free cash our strategy and 400% of basic salary.
In exceptional circumstances, for example flow and revenue measures.
We set targets long-term value recruitment, this limit may be increased to 500% of basic salary.
to be appropriately stretching, with regard creation.
to a number of internal and external The proposed award levels for 2017 18 are set out on page 134. reference points including our business plan and consensus market expectations: In respect of ISP awards made to executive directors there is and normally a further holding period of two years, commencing from shar e price performance measures, to the end of the performance period applicable to the net number reflect the ultimate delivery of shareholder of shares received after tax and other statutory deductions.
During returns which may, for example, include the holding period, no further performance measures will apply.
This promotes alignment between If following the grant of an award, facts subsequently become executive director reward and shareholder known to the committee which would justify a reduction in the value creation.
Targets are set with award, the committee may reduce the number of shares, including reference to wider market practice and to nil.
Further information on the malus and clawback provisions is positioned at a level which we consider set out on page 145. represents stretching performance.
Targets will be measured against a comparator group containing other telecommunication companies and or companies which are either similar in size or market capitalisation and or have a similar business mix and spread as BT or operate in comparable markets.
In terms of weighting, share price performance measures will typically account for no more than 50% of the total award.
Under each performance measure, performance below threshold levels would result in nil vesting for that element.
For threshold levels of performance, no more than 25% of the maximum for that element would typically vest, rising to 100% for maximum performance.
Pension Executive directors currently receive a cash allowance in lieu of Purpose pension.
to attract and The committee may determine that alternative pension retain executive provisions will operate for new appointments to the Board.
When directors of the determining pension arrangements for new appointments, the right calibre by committee will give regard to: providing market competitive the cost of the arrangements: post-retirement pension arrangements received elsewhere in the group: and income.
The chairman does not receive a pension benefit or payment in lieu of such benefit, but does receive a lump sum death in service benefit of 1m.
For executive directors, the maximum cash allowance or equivalent contribution to an executive directors pension may not exceed 30% of salary.
Executive directors who are not members of the BT Pension Scheme benefit from a death in service cover of a lump sum of 4xsalary and a dependants pension of 30% of capped salary.
140 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 THE S THE STRA TRATE TEGIC REPOR GIC REPORT T GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE FINANCIAL S FINANCIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S ADDITIONAL INF ADDITIONAL INFORMA ORMATION TION Policy Element Operation and Opportunity Performance measures or basis of payment Save As You Earn Executive directors and the chairman may participate in the There are no performance measures attached Saveshare Scheme all-employee saveshare HMRC approved savings related share to these awards.
Purpose option plan on the same basis as other eligible employees.
to encourage All participants may invest up to the limits operated by the employee share company at the time set in line with HMRC guidance.
ESIP directshare Executive directors and the chairman may participate in the There are no performance measures attached Purpose Directshare HMRC approved purchase of shares from gross to these awards.
to encourage salary on the same basis as other eligible employees.
employee share All participants may invest up to the limits operated by the ownership.
company at the time set in line with HMRC guidance.
Notes to the policy table be gr anted as conditional share awards or in such other form that the committee determines has 1.
For further information on the performance measures applicable to the annual bonus and ISP the same economic effect: see pages 139 and 140. ha five any performance conditions applicable to them varied or substituted by the committee if an 2.
No performance measures are applicable to salary, benefits, pension, BT saveshare and BT event occurs which causes the committee to determine that the performance conditions no longer directshare in line with market practice.
achieve their original purpose, provided that the varied or substituted performance condition 3.
Common award terms would be not be materially less difficult to satisfy: Awards under any of the companys share plans referred to in this report may: be settled in cash at the committees discretion: and inc orporate the right to receive the value of dividends that would have been paid on the shares be adjust ed in the event of any variation of the companys share capital or any demerger, special subject to an award that vests, which may be calculated assuming the shares were reinvested in dividend or other event that may affect the current or future value of awards.
This value will normally be delivered in the form of additional shares: Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 141 Remuneration Policy continued Payment for loss of office Remuneration arrangements throughout the In a departure event, the committee will typically consider: company BT operates in a number of different environments and has many whe ther any element of annual bonus should be paid for the employees who carry out diverse jobs across a number of countries: financial year.
Any bonus paid will normally be limited to the all emplo yees, including directors, are paid by reference to the period served during the financial year in which the departure market rate: occurs: per formance for managers is measured and rewarded through a whe ther any of the share element of deferred bonus awarded in number of performance-related bonus schemes across the group: prior years should be preserved either in full or in part: and busines s unit performance measures are cascaded down through whe ther any awards under the ISP should be preserved either in the organisation: full or in part and, if relevant, whether the post vesting holding B T offers employment conditions that reflect our values and are period should apply.
commensurate with a large publicly listed company, including The committee has historically maintained a discretionary approach high standards of health and safety and equal opportunities: to the treatment of leavers, on the basis that the facts and B T operates all employee share plans in many countries.
These are circumstances of each case are unique.
open to all employees where offered: and B T offers a range of employee benefits many of which are In an exit situation, the committee will consider: the individual available to everyone.
circumstances: any mitigating factors that might be relevant: the appropriate statutory and contractual position and the requirements Recruitment of the business for speed of change.
Our recruitment policy is based on a number of key principles: we aim t o provide a remuneration package which is sufficient to The default position is that an unvested ISP or DBP award or attract, retain and motivate key talent, while at all times ensuring entitlement lapses on cessation of employment, unless the that we pay no more than is necessary, with due regard to the committee applies discretion to preserve some or all of the awards.
best interests of the company and our shareholders: This provides the committee with the maximum flexibility to review the c ommittee will take a number of factors into account in the facts and circumstances of each case, allowing differentiation determining the appropriate remuneration package.
For example, between good and bad leavers and avoiding payment for failure.
these may typically include the candidates experience and calibre, their circumstances, external market influences and arrangements When considering a departure event, there are a number of factors for existing executive directors: which the committee takes into account in determining appropriate the ongoing r emuneration package offered to new directors will treatment for outstanding incentive awards.
only include those elements listed within the policy table: These include: the c ommittee may also consider providing additional benefits to the po sition under the relevant plan documentation: expatriate appointments, where appropriate: and the individual cir cumstances of the departure: the c ommittee will provide full details of the recruitment package the per formance of the company individual during the year to for new executive directors in the next Annual Report on date: and Directors Remuneration and will provide shareholders with the the na ture of the handover process.
rationale for the decisions that were taken.
In some cases, the treatment is formally prescribed under the The maximum level of variable pay excluding buyouts for which rules of the relevant plan so that where there are good leaver see below which may be awarded in respect of a recruitment circumstances awards, which would otherwise lapse by default, vest event internal or external, will not exceed 740% of base salary, either on the normal vesting date or on cessation of employment.
representing the current maximum award under the annual bonus These circumstances include death, injury, ill-health, disability, and ISP.
redundancy or sale of the company or business.
If the director dies In addition, to facilitate recruitment, the committee may make or leaves due to ill health, injury or disability, ISP awards which have awards to buy-out variable incentives which the individual less than 12 months of the performance period remaining or DBP would forfeit at their current employer.
The committee will give awards which have less than 12 months of the deferred period to consideration to any relevant factors, typically including the form of run, vest automatically on leaving.
In other leaver circumstances the award eg cash or shares, the proportion of the performance the committee has discretion to determine whether, when, and to vesting period outstanding and the potential value of the forfeited what extent, awards vest.
Where a director leaves where some of his remuneration, including performance conditions attached to the shares acquired under an ISP award are subject to a holding period, awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met, and the timing that holding period will continue to apply unless the committee of any potential payments.
In making buying-out awards, the committee may use the relevant The committee considers the leaver circumstances along a provision in the Financial Conduct Authority Listing Rules.
continuum, ranging from bad leaver scenarios such as termination of employment for gross misconduct or resignation, through to the This allows for the granting of awards specifically to facilitate, in good leaver scenarios outlined above.
Accordingly the committee unusual circumstances, the recruitment of an executive director, may apply or disapply such performance conditions or time without seeking prior shareholder approval.
In doing so, the pro-rating to awards vesting in these circumstances as it considers committee will comply with the relevant provisions in force at the appropriate.
Where an executive director is appointed from within the organisation, the company will honour legacy arrangements in line with the original terms and conditions.
In the event of the appointment of a new non-executive director, remuneration arrangements will be in line with those detailed on page 135.
142 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 THE S THE STRA TRATE TEGIC REPOR GIC REPORT T GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE FINANCIAL S FINANCIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S ADDITIONAL INF ADDITIONAL INFORMA ORMATION TION All-employee plans leavers Employment conditions elsewhere in the group The treatment of saveshare options and directshare shares on The committee considers the pay and conditions of employees leaving is as determined under the respective HMRC approved rules.
throughout the company when determining the remuneration For saveshare, someone who ceases to be an employee in special arrangements for executive directors although no direct comparison circumstances for example injury, disability, death, or following metrics are applied.
sale of the company or business where they work may exercise the In particular, the committee considers the relationship between option within six months after leaving or 12 months in the case general changes to UK employees remuneration and executive of death or the relevant corporate event.
If someone leaves for a director reward.
reason not falling within special circumstances, the option lapses on the date the individual leaves.
Whilst the committee does not directly consult with our employees as part of the process of determining executive pay, the Board does ISP DBP change of control receive feedback from employee surveys that takes into account In the event of a takeover or scheme of arrangement involving the remuneration in general.
The committee also receives updates from company, ISP and DBP awards will vest, at a minimum, to the extent the group HR director.
that any applicable performance measures have been satisfied at the time subject to the committees discretion to determine the Executive director and chairman service contracts appropriate level of vesting, having regard to such relevant factors The other key terms of the service contracts for the current as it decides to take into account.
If the acquiring company offers executive directors and the chairman are set out below.
to exchange awards over BT shares for awards over its shares or The termination provisions described above are without prejudice shares in another company, awards will normally be exchanged and to BTs ability in appropriate circumstances to terminate in breach continue under the rules of the relevant plan.
If within 12 months of the notice period referred to above, and thereby be liable for of a change of control, a participants employment is terminated damages to the executive director or chairman.
by his employer other than for misconduct or performance or he or she resigned as a result of a reduction of his or her duties or In the event of termination by BT, each executive director and the responsibilities constituting a material breach of the individuals chairman may have entitlement to compensation in respect of his or contract, the participant is entitled to receive an amount equal to her statutory rights under employment protection legislation in the the difference between the value he or she received on the change UK.
of control he would have received if the relevant performance Where appropriate, BT may also meet a directors reasonable legal condition had been met in full.
expenses in connection with either his or her appointment or In the event of a voluntary winding up of the company, awards termination of his or her appointment.
may vest on the members resolution to voluntarily wind-up the company being passed.
There are no other service agreements, letters of appointment or material contracts, existing or proposed, between the company and any of the executive director Provision Policy Notice period 12 months notice by the company, six months notice by the executive director or chairman there is no fixed expiry date.
Termination payment In lieu of giving an executive director or the chairman 12 months notice, BT may terminate the directors contract and make a payment in lieu of notice to which the director was entitled if he or she had received salary and the value of contractual benefits for the period.
In respect of the executive directors, the payments in lieu will be payable in equal monthly instalments until the date on which the notice period would have expired or if earlier the date on which the director secures alternate employment with the same or higher basic salary or fee.
In the event that the director secures alternate employment at a basic salary of 30,000 or higher, but lower than their salary, payment in lieu will be reduced by the amount of the new lower salary received.
The Board retains the right to lower the payment in lieu of the directors new employment if it considers the new employment terms of the director are not appropriately balanced between basic salary and other elements, and may cease making payments entirely where the Board is not satisfied the director is making reasonable efforts to secure alternative employment.
In respect of the chairman, the payment in lieu will be payable in equal monthly instalments until the earlier of 12 months from the date of termination or the date the chairman secures alternate full-time employment.
Remuneration and Participation in the incentive plans, ISP, DBP and annual bonus, saveshare and directshare, is nonbenefits contractual.
The chairman does not participate in the ISP, DBP or any annual bonus.
Other benefits include pension including life cover, dental cover, company car, fuel or driver, private health care including spouse and children under age of 18 or 21 if in full time education, telecommunication facilities, home security and professional subscriptions.
The chairman does not receive pension benefits but is entitled to all other benefits.
The chairman receives an all-inclusive fee for the role.
Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 143 Remuneration Policy continued Illustration of executive director pay scenarios ISP awards have been shown at face value, with no share price Our remuneration policy aims to ensure that a significant proportion growth or discount rate assumptions.
All-employee share plans of pay is dependent on the achievement of stretching performance saveshare and directshare have been excluded, as have any legacy targets.
The committee has considered the level of total awards held by executive directors.
remuneration that would be payable under different performance scenarios and is satisfied that, as the graph below illustrates, Chief executive - performance scenario chart executive pay is appropriate in the context of the performance required and is aligned with shareholders interests.
Minimum Minimum 1.3m The illustrative scenarios below set out the total remuneration that On-Target On-Target 3.5m might be received by each executive director for different levels of performance, based on our remuneration policy.
Maximum Maximum 7.7m The minimum reflects base salary, pension and benefits only which are not performance related.
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Fixed remuneration Performance Assumptions Variable remuneration Long-term incentives Fixed pay All scenarios Consists of total fixed pay base salary, benefits and pension: Group finance director - performance scenario chart Base salary salary effective as at June 2017 Minimum Minimum 0.9m Benefits amount received by each director in 2016 17 On-Target On-Target 2.4m Pension cash supplement in Maximum Maximum 5.1m lieu of pension provision for 2016 17 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 Fixed remuneration Variable Minimum No payout under the annual Variable remuneration pay bonus Long-term incentives No vesting under the ISP On-target On target payout under the Fixed pay is calculated as follows: annual bonus Salary Benefits Pension Total 000 000 000 fixed pay 25% of maximum vesting Chief executive 997 54 298 1,349 under the ISP Group finance Maximum 100% of the maximum payout director 700 24 210 934 under the annual bonus 100% of maximum vesting under the ISP For the purposes of the scenarios chart for the group finance director, we have increased the amount received in 2016 17 on a pro-rata basis to reflect a full financial year.
The chief executive has a target bonus of 120% of salary, with a maximum bonus of 240% of salary.
The group finance director has a target bonus of 120% of salary, with a maximum bonus of 180%.
For these purposes, we have assumed a usual maximum ISP award of 400% of base salary for the chief executive and 350% of base salary for the group finance director.
The absolute maximum ISP award under our remuneration policy is 500% of base salary 144 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 THE S THE STRA TRATE TEGIC REPOR GIC REPORT T GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE FINANCIAL S FINANCIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S ADDITIONAL INF ADDITIONAL INFORMA ORMATION TION works and or worked: iii a material misstatement of the companys Other Remuneration Policies audited financial accounts other than as a result of a change in Malus and clawback accounting practices : iv misconduct of a participant which results Under the terms of the DBP and ISP, if following the grant of in or is likely to result in reputational damage to the company: an award, facts subsequently become known to the committee v a material failure in risk management: vi negligence or gross which would justify a reduction in the award, the committee may misconduct of a participant: and or vii fraud effected by or with reduce the number of shares under award to take account of this, knowledge of a participant.
In order to retain flexibility, the events under which this may apply are not formally stipulated in the rules.
However, for Other elements of remuneration are not subject to recovery illustration, such events may include, for example, mis-statement of arrangements.
the financial accounts, fraud or material failure of risk management.
Consideration of shareholder views Clawback provisions are also in place for the cash part of the annual The committee is strongly committed to an open and transparent bonus and ISP awards granted from June 2015 onwards.
Under the dialogue with shareholders on remuneration matters.
We believe annual bonus, clawback will normally apply for one year following that it is important to meet regularly with our key shareholders to payment.
The ISP clawback arrangements may be enforced by the understand their views on our remuneration arrangements and committee in the two year period post-vesting of any awards.
The discuss our approach going forward.
circumstances in which the committee may consider it appropriate The committee will continue to engage with shareholders going to apply clawback include, but are not limited to i the behaviour forward and will aim to consult on any material changes to the of the participant which fails to reflect the companys governance Policy or other relevant matters.
and business values: ii material adverse change in the financial performance of the company or any division in which the participant Non-executive director fees Element purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Purpose NEDs receive a basic fee, paid monthly in Current fee levels can be found in the Annual Core element of remuneration, respect of their board duties.
Report on Remuneration on page 135. paid for fulfilling the relevant role Further fees may be paid for chairmanship or Fees are set at a level which is considered membership of Board committees or to the appropriate to attract and retain NEDs of the senior independent director.
Additional fees of up to 6,000 may also Fee levels are normally set by reference to the be payable to NEDs travelling regularly from level of fees paid to NEDs serving on boards overseas on an intercontinental basis to Board of similarly-sized, UK-listed companies, taking and committee meetings.
into account the size, responsibility and time NEDs are not eligible for annual bonus, share commitment required of the role.
incentives, pensions or other benefits.
The companys Articles of Association provide Expenses incurred in the performance of the maximum fee level payable.
The maximum non-executive duties for the company may be is based on NED fees benchmarked as at reimbursed including any relevant tax or paid 1April 1999 with increases linked to the directly by the company, as appropriate.
Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 145
