Technology Committee Chairmans report What weve done We met twice this year.
The chart below shows how we allocated our time.
Allocation of time 19% Governance 37.61% 31.62% 24% Future technology 17.95% 19% Technology risk Were proud of the role BT plays in shaping the success of the UKs digital economy.
Our 38% Technology strategy ambition is to be the first to build a truly converged fixed and mobile network.
We want Technology strategy This year, we reviewed our ultrafast broadband programme, which to give our customers a seamless service on a is on track to deliver G. fast technology to 10m homes, with an trusted network with the best connectivity.
ambition to deliver Fibre to the Premises FTTP to a further 2m locations by 2020.
We looked at ways we will improve the capability and agility of our core IP network, and agreed our vision for 5G mobile services.
Who we are Future technology I chair the Technology Committee.
Our role is to agree the Its important we understand emerging future technologies, to development and implementation of BTs technology strategies, and identify potential opportunities for investment and growth.
We oversee technology risk management across the group.
spent time looking at the future of mobile, the Internet of Things and other emerging technologies such as transportation and finance This table shows our membership and meeting attendance.
Committee members Cyber security The threat of cyber-attacks has continued to increase this year, as Meetings we see attacks growing in both scale and sophistication.
We receive Eligible to regular updates on cyber security to improve our understanding of Member attend Attended the nature of these attacks, and how to prevent them.
Gavin Patterson chairman 2 2 Weve several major programmes underway to help us protect our Tony Ball 2 2 systems, people and customers.
Our focus is on prevention, so Iain Conn 2 2 were working to detect pro-actively and repair vulnerabilities in our systems and networks.
Mike Inglis 2 2 Karen Richardson 2 2 Gavin Patterson Chairman of the Technology Committee Howard Watson 2 2 11 May 2017 120 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 121
