Audit & Risk Committee Chairmans report What weve done We met nine times during the year and the chart below shows how we allocated our time.
Meetings are scheduled in line with the financial reporting timetable and after each meeting, I report to the Board on the main issues that we discussed.
During the year, we hold separate sessions with the internal and external auditors in the absence of management.
Allocation of time 24% Risk and controls 27% Financial matters 13% Internal audit matters My report this year is dominated by the clear 13% External audit matters deficiencies in relation to the financial control of our Italian business.
We have focused on the independent investigation led by KPMG and other advisers, and our internal investigations 23% Governance and compliance into the deficiencies, the subsequent accounting adjustments that the company has The committee has an annual work plan.
This includes standing items needed to make, and the actions which the that the committee considers regularly in addition to any specific matters that require the committees attention and topical items on which company has already taken.
We will continue we have chosen to focus.
to give these actions the highest priority in Activities during the year 2017 18 to ensure that issues such as these BT Italy will never re-occur in BT.
Italy has been a major area of focus for the committee and the improper practices that came to light in our Italian business via a whistle-blower are extremely disappointing.
A large part of our work in the second half of the year has been in relation to the financial Who we are irregularities that were discovered and which are detailed on page 6.
In I chair the Audit & Risk Committee and have recent and relevant October, the committee instructed KPMG, with support and oversight financial experience as required by the provisions of the Code and am from our Legal, Governance & Compliance function and Freshfields the designated financial expert for Sarbanes Oxley Act purposes.
The Bruckhaus Deringer, to commence an independent investigation.
committee acts independently of the executive and all its members Throughout the investigation, KPMG reported directly to me and are independent non-executive directors with diverse skills and the BT Group chairman and the full committee has received regular experience.
reports from both KPMG and from the management team.
This investigation is now complete.
The investigation identified collusion, Although they arent members of the committee, the company circumvention and override of controls within our Italian business that secretary, group finance director, deputy finance director, group was not identified by our monitoring controls thereby resulting in financial controller and director internal audit attend each meeting the misstatement of results going undetected for a number of years.
as does the lead audit partner and representatives from our external There are a number of recommendations arising from the KPMG work auditors.
I meet with this group ahead of the meetings to discuss key and our own observations that we are acting on.
We are undertaking areas for discussion with the committee.
The external auditors are steps to improve the groups systems, processes and controls, not only not present at meetings when we discuss their performance and or in Italy but also in our shared service centres, in Global Services and remuneration.
This includes increasing the resources and improving the capabilities of the controlling function and the audit function Committee members outside the UK, and further developing our integrated risk and Meetings assurance reporting processes.
We are also enhancing our controls and compliance programme to strengthen awareness of the standards we Eligible to Member attend Attended expect, the capabilities of our people, and to reinforce the importance of doing business in an ethical, disciplined and standardised way.
The Nick Rose chairman 9 9 committee has specifically focused on: understanding and investigating the override of controls and Iain Conn 9 6 accounting processes in Italy: Karen Richardson 9 9 understanding how the financial irregularities have accumulated over time.
We considered managements conclusions in Jasmine Whitbread 9 9 determining the accounting treatment and disclosure of the prior year errors: 112 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 113 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION reviewing managements assessment of the nature of the specific January 2017 BT Italy items in the 2016 17 financial year and the judgements taken in Third quarter results determining these changes on estimates: Audit tender update External and internal audit reports ensuring, in discus sion with the chief executive, group finance Ethics and Compliance & Speak Up cases director, the internal auditors, the external auditors, and other Accounting policies and reporting developments advisors that the remedial steps proposed are appropriate and March 2017 BT Italy sufficient to prevent a repetition of these issues: Regional Governance Committee update sa tisfying itself that the issues in BT Italy are discrete and isolated External audit report and do not exist across our business more widely: and examining the culture and behaviours that have come to light in Financial reporting the investigation into BT Italy and analysing the culture across BT We: more widely.
reviewed the Annual Report & Form 20-F, together with annual, half-year and quarterly results announcements for In the course of and following the investigation into BT Italy, the recommendation to the Board: business took immediate steps to strengthen the financial processes c onsidered the appropriateness of the groups accounting policies and controls in BT Italy and a number of BT Italys senior management and critical accounting estimates and key judgements: and team have now left the business.
A new chief executive and chief c onsidered the Annual Report in the context of advising the finance officer of BT Italy are in place having moved from other parts Board that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced of BT and they will report back to us on the improvements that have and understandable and provides the information necessary for been made to the governance, compliance and financial safeguards in shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, our Italian business.
Other key matters considered by the committee In addition to BT Italy, other significant issues we considered in relation A summary of key matters we considered and discussed at each to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2017 are set meeting during the financial year are set out below: out below.
We have discussed these with the external auditors during the year.
MEETING AREAS OF FOCUS April 2016 External audit & non-audit fees Group accounting policies, critical accounting estimates and Sarbanes Oxley update judgements Draft Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 Major contracts We reviewed the accounting policies, including a paper from External audit report management and the disclosures in the consolidated financial Internal audit plan of work statements that relate to critical accounting estimates and judgements, Ethics & Compliance & Speak up cases and re-confirmed they remained appropriate for the group.
In particular Anti-corruption & bribery update we reviewed and challenged the judgements and assumptions in April 2016 Full year results statement relation to provisions, including regulatory risks and litigation, and the Going concern and viability statement assumed level of take-up in the BDUK programme which affects the Annual Report & Form 20-F 2016 including a value of the potential obligation to re-invest or repay grant funding.
review to ensure the report was fair, balanced and understandable Going concern External and internal audit reports Internal control requirements under the UK Corporate We considered managements forecasts of group cash flows and net Governance Code including risk management debt as well as the financing facilities available to the group.
Following processes this review and a discussion of the sensitivities, we confirmed that Internal audit performance report it continues to be appropriate to follow the going concern basis of June 2016 Regional Governance Committee update accounting in the financial statements.
Further detail on the basis of Review of the Regulatory Financial Statements the going concern assessment by the directors is set out on page 146.
Security risk management July 2016 Regional Governance Committee update Viability statement External and internal audit reports We received a paper from management which summarised how we Sarbanes Oxley update meet the requirement in the UK Corporate Governance Code to include First quarter results a viability statement in the annual report.
We were satisfied that the Ethics and Compliance & Speak Up cases viability statement could be provided and endorsed the continued September 2016 Risk updates from the chief executive and the lines of selection of a three year time horizon as a basis for the statement and the business approach to its development.
Further detail on the assessment of viability October 2016 BT Italy and the viability statement are set out on page 55.
Major contract review Going concern assessment Regulatory reporting Half year results We reviewed and were supportive of the changes across people, External and internal audit report processes and systems that were put in place to ensure that we met Internal controls our 2016 17 regulatory financial obligations.
December 2016 BT Italy Major contracts Goodwill impairment Data protection update Regional Governance Committee effectiveness review We reviewed managements process and methodology for assessing the carrying value of goodwill.
This included the impact of the reorganisation of the group on 1 April 2016.
We also considered the cash flow forecasts for the groups cash generating units CGUs that hold goodwill, being Consumer, EE, Business and Public Sector, Global Services, and Wholesale and Ventures.
We considered the key 112 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 113 Chairmans report continued assumptions, resulting headroom and the sensitivities applied by no later than 2019 but that the committee would keep the external management in forming its assessment that no goodwill impairment audit arrangements under review annually.
In our annual review, charges were required.
With regards to Global Services we reviewed we recommended to the Board that the audit tender process be the impact of the deterioration in international corporate markets accelerated with a view to appointing new auditors for the financial and the outlook for our Italian business.
We expect the audit tender process to be completed assessment that there was no impairment of goodwill this year.
We by the companys Annual General Meeting in July 2017, such that also discussed and agreed with managements disclosures in respect there can be an effective transition by the selected audit firm during of the headroom in Global Services in note 12 to the financial the 2017 18 audit process.
The company confirms that it complied with the provisions of the BT Pension Scheme BTPS Competition and Markets Authoritys Order for the financial year We reviewed the assumptions underlying the valuation of the pension under review.
liabilities in the financial statements and considered the financial assumptions including the discount rate, future inflation, salary Auditor effectiveness increase expectations and pension increases as summarised in note We discussed the quality of the audit throughout the year 20 to the financial statements.
We also considered sensitivities around and consider the performance of our external auditors, the assumptions and reviewed the accounting impacts, as well as the , annually, taking into account feedback from impact of the assumptions on the 2016 17 balance sheet statement a survey targeted at various stakeholders across the business and the and 2017 18 income statement and the related disclosures.
We were committees own assessment.
The evaluation focused on: robustness satisfied that these were appropriate.
of the audit process, quality of delivery, reporting and people and services.
Based on the committees own view and the survey input, Major contracts PwC have been informed of some specific areas for improvement In addition to our review of the appropriateness of accounting policies, which will ensure that they are able to deliver the very best outcomes management provided regular updates on the performance of major for BT in the coming year.
contracts within Business and Public Sector and Global Services.
This included an overview of the trading and operational performance Independence and objectivity of the contracts, the assessment of the recoverability of dedicated BT has agreed policies in place on what non-audit services can be contract assets, the assessment of the future performance of the provided by the external auditors.
The external auditors are not contracts and any requirement for loss provisions.
permitted to perform any work which they may be later required to audit or which might affect their objectivity and independence or Asset verification and asset lives create a conflict of interest.
There are internal procedures in place for We considered the results of managements annual review of asset the approval of work given to the external auditors.
lives, verification of assets and fully depreciated assets.
We considered the judgements taken in relation to asset lives and the methodology During the year we have considered independence matters and areas applied to consider asset verification.
We were satisfied that the which could give rise to a conflict of interest.
We noted the safeguards proposed adjustments were appropriate.
that the external auditors have in place to prevent compromising their independence and objectivity.
Other matters We reviewed and approved changes to BTs non-audit fee policy in Each quarter, as part of our review of the quarterly results, we are light of the new FRC Revised Ethical Standard for auditors issued in provided with a summary of specific items and managements view June 2016 which applied to BT from 1 April 2017. of the quality of earnings and of the effective tax rate.
We considered whether specific items are appropriately categorised.
At the half-year We monitored compliance with the agreed policies and the level and full-year, a detailed assessment of provisions is also provided and of non-audit fees paid to the auditors in order to satisfy ourselves discussed.
In each quarter and for the full year, the committee was that the types of services being provided and the fees incurred satisfied with the information, analysis and explanations provided in were appropriate.
You can see details of non-audit services carried relation to the results.
out by the external auditors in note 7 to the consolidated financial External audit statements.
In this context audit-related assurance services which We: included the audit of the Regulatory Financial Statements, are considered and approved the auditors group audit plan this considered to pose a low threat to auditor independence and followed discussion with the auditors on the scope of the work to therefore the proportion of other non-audit services to total services be undertaken as well as their consideration of risk informing their is considered the most suitable measure of the non-audit services plan: provided.
These represented 20% of the total fees 2015 16: 26%.
reviewed reports on audit fees, external audit findings and the The most significant changes year on year relate to services performed letter of engagement: and on the EE acquisition prospectus in the prior year and advice in relation c onsidered and approved the letter of representation.
to Ofcoms Digital Communications Review in the current year.
Further details of the non-audit services that are prohibited and allowed under The committee and the external auditors have discussed the issues the policy can be found in the corporate governance section of the BT addressed by the committee during the year and the areas of website.
particular audit focus, as described in the Independent Auditors Report on pages 154 to 164.
The committee is satisfied that when assessed against all relevant factors, the overall levels of audit and non-audit fees are not Audit tender material relative to the income of the external auditors as a whole  PwC and its predecessor firms have been and therefore that the objectivity and independence of the external BTs auditors since BT listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1984 auditors was not compromised.
and their reappointment has not been subject to a tender in that time.
I reported to you last year that we proposed to tender the audit 114 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 115 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Internal audit Governance & Compliance We monitor and review the effectiveness of internal audit annually and We received and considered reports from management on: endorse the internal audit plan of work.
This integrates the assurance ethics and compliance plan of work: requirements for the internal financial controls testing programme, anti-corruption and bribery: the groups overseas footprint, and the groups risk assurance mapping.
Speak Up arr angements, cases, outcomes statistics and trends It includes coverage of static and dynamic risks.
Going forward the including the confidential, anonymous submission by employees committee has asked for greater emphasis to be given to the audit of regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing financial controls, and our overseas operations.
We ensure that arrangements are in place for the proportionate, independent investigation and follow up of these We receive regular reports from the internal auditors and monitored matters.
We will review our whistleblowing arrangements in managements responsiveness to the findings and recommendations light of the issues found in our Italian business and consider if as well as discussing with them the action required to bring matters to improvements are needed: resolution.
data protection: and the eff ectiveness of our Regional Governance Committees As mentioned above, in light of the learnings arising from BT Italy, which monitor governance and compliance in their respective we are increasing the resources and improving the capabilities of the regions.
We were also updated on the work of several of these controlling function and audit function outside the UK and further committees.
developing our integrated risk and assurance reporting processes.
Internal audit will also play a critical role as we move towards a more Committee review integrated risk and assurance reporting processes.
We review our performance annually by inviting members and regular attendees at our meetings, including the external auditors, to Internal controls and risk management complete online questionnaires.
The results, as expected, reflect the In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance disappointment concerning the issues found in our Italian business.
Code, BT has in place an internal control environment to protect the We will ensure that we act upon the lessons learnt from this issue to business from material risks which have been identified within the enhance the role of the committee.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal controls over financial reporting and we have Conclusion responsibility for ensuring the effectiveness of these controls.
To The events in 2016 17 surrounding BT Italy are a matter of enable us to do this, each quarter the lines of business certify substantial disappointment to the committee.
We have undertaken compliance with the Financial Reporting Councils risk management a significant number of actions in response to these events and to guidance and Sarbanes-Oxley controls.
The outcomes of these reviews thoroughly investigate and deal with the issues identified, including: are reported to us.
the c ommissioning and oversight of KPMGs comprehensive investigation into the nature, extent and causes of the issues: As set out in the description of the committees activities during the o versight of multiple other related internal workstreams, the year the investigations into the irregular practices in the Italian including scrutiny of the accounting treatment of the issues business identified a number of control deficiencies which were identified, analysis of the controls framework in Italy and across not identified by our monitoring controls thereby resulting in the Global Services, and testing and review to satisfy ourselves that misstatement of results going undetected for a number of years.
the issues are isolated to BT Italy: Immediate steps were taken to strengthen the financial processes driving f orward how we can learn from this issue, including to and controls in our business and control improvement plans have reflect the recommendations of the KPMG investigation and our been instituted where appropriate.
Steps will continue to be taken to own observations: and improve further our control, governance and compliance environment.
the ac celeration of the companys audit tender.
BTs risk management processes which have been in place throughout We believe that these actions will ensure that the events surrounding the period under review identify and monitor the risks facing the BT Italy will never be repeated in the company.
The risks which are considered material are reviewed regularly by the Operating Committee and the Board.
We also continue and will continue to work on a number of specific areas to further strengthen our systems, controls and culture During the year we heard from the chief executive on the enterpriseincluding: wide risk management process and the key risks facing the group as a analy sis of the culture of the company in the context of the whole.
Each line of business CEO presented the key risks in their part of events in BT Italy and how this can be improved: and the business as well as the actions they are taking to address them.
an incr eased focus on integrated assurance across a range of functions, together with the development of a system to better The Board is ultimately responsible for the groups systems of internal integrate the range of financial and non-financial risk factors that controls and risk management.
You can find details of the Boards exist across the group to enable a better understanding of them.
and our review of the groups systems of internal control and risk management on page 149 and for details of the assessment of Going forward, the committee will seek to ensure that all the lessons internal controls, as affected by the issues identified in our Italian that need to be learnt from the events surrounding BT Italy have been business for the purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, see US learnt.
Nick Rose Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee 11 May 2017 114 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 115
