ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 49 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BOARD executive management is respected by the BOARD PERFORMANCE Board for their knowledge and willingness In line with the effective governance to listen and debate requirements of the Code, the Board all Board participants, especially NEDs, reviews its own performance annually.
added value to the debate around The assessment covers the effectiveness Directors are generally dividend policy and performance of the Board as a whole, the functioning of the Executive Committee, very engaged and there is NEDs have a good range of skills an evaluation of individual Directors and and backgrounds a clear message that they the effectiveness of the Board Committees.
Board support is professional want to do the right thing.
The Non Executive Directors NEDs, led The report also highlighted some areas Although the Board is quite by the Senior Independent Director, and where Board performance, processes or taking into account the views of Executive small which is viewed as operations could be improved.
The points Directors, are responsible for evaluating an advantage as it allows identified were: the performance of the Chairman.
everyone to contribute management information should be In addition, the Code requires that every there is a good mix of people reviewed to ensure that it relates to the three years an external third party performs measures that the Board will find most round the board table and an evaluation of the Board.
This exercise useful in assessing progress against the was carried out by Independent Audit a culture of openness and Groups strategy and principal risks from November 2016 to January 2017, mutual respect.
with the Board receiving a formal report the Groups management systems should and presentation to the Board meeting be reviewed to ensure that they remain INDEPENDENT AUDIT in March 2017. proportionate to the needs of the business Board Evaluation Report while ensuring adequate oversight for During their review, Independent Audit the Board received full access to the Board and the role of the Audit Committee Secretary employees of the Group, and carried out should be reviewed over 15 interviews with Board members, Committee secretaries and a number the Audit Committees meeting agenda of other senior employees.
They also should ensure that appropriate time conducted an extensive on site review of is given to all matters all Board and Committee papers and minutes the Risk Committee should use for the preceding year and attended a Board its consideration of the Groups meeting and several Committee meetings ICAAP as an opportunity for wider as observers.
Finally, they provided detailed business discussions follow up questions to the Chairman and the Remuneration Committee should the Company Secretary.
consider how its Chairman can be best The final report concluded that there were supported by other members and advisors no significant areas for concern in respect of the Nomination Committee should the performance of the Board, the individual prioritise succession planning for Directors or the Committees.
It contained a the Senior Independent Director number of positive findings about the Board Remuneration Committee Chairman and the Committees, including: A number of the suggested actions are Directors are engaged and want to do the already taking place and the others will right thing be addressed during the year.
there is a culture of openness and The findings of the formal external review mutual respect will be kept under review by the Board the new Chairman has improved and an update will be provided in the next Board processes annual report.
50 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT ENGAGEMENT WITH Senior Independent Director feedback: Engagement with staff: See page 36.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT The Senior Independent Director has PROGRAMME Annual General Meeting: At the AGM met with principal shareholders and also The Company has a comprehensive held in July 2016, the Chairman, CEO with shareholder bodies including the programme which aims to help existing and other Directors were available to Investment Association, Institutional and potential investors understand shareholders for discussion and to Shareholder Services and Glass Lewis.
and communicate with the Group.
All shareholders He is available to meet shareholders as The programme is designed to ensure are welcome to attend the AGM.
required, in particular in respect of any regular engagement with institutional Informal feedback: Executive Directors matter that has been previously raised investors, shareholder groups and debt and the Head of Investor Relations with the Chairman, but not resolved.
Regular feedback is provided received feedback from analysts and to the Board to ensure that they understand Analyst meetings: In addition to investors during the year, both directly and the views of stakeholders.
During the year, presentations to analysts that coincide through the Groups corporate advisers.
the programme included: with the announcement of the Groups The Company Secretary also received full year and half year financial results, feedback on governance matters from, Meetings with principal shareholders: the Groups CEO, CFOO and the Head and met with, investors and shareholder Throughout the year, the Chairman, of Investor Relations have regularly met bodies.
This information was shared with Senior Independent Director who is also with analysts to enhance the financial the Board to help members develop their Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, communitys understanding of the Group.
understanding of shareholders views CEO and CFOO have met with a number The Executive Directors also hosted a and expectations.
These meetings dinner for a number of analysts providing were largely after the interim and full year an opportunity for informal discussions Relationships with shareholders results announcements and in the lead and queries.
The Chairman has been The Company recognises the importance Engagement with debt investors: proactive in meeting a number of large of communication with its shareholders.
The CFOO and Head of Treasury have shareholders throughout the year and also Accordingly, the Board is happy to enter into held regular meetings with the Groups hosted a dinner for a number of principal a dialogue with institutional shareholders key relationship banks, and have also shareholders with the Senior Independent based on a mutual understanding of actively engaged with potential lenders.
Director and Executive Directors in objectives, subject to its duties regarding Update meetings were held with current attendance.
The full Board has been kept equal treatment of shareholders and and potential holders of public and private informed of the issues raised at these the dissemination of inside information.
debt instruments issued by the Group, meetings and the views of shareholders The CEO and the CFOO meet institutional and with both Standard & Poors and Fitch on a regular basis.
shareholders on a regular basis, and the rating agencies.
Chairman and the Senior Independent Engagement with fund investors: Director periodically contact the Companys The Executive Directors and the Groups major shareholders and offer to meet with portfolio managers maintain engagement them.
When requested to do so, the Senior with fund investors through regular Independent Director and other Non reporting, investor days and other Executive Directors are happy to attend update meetings.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 51 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AUDIT COMMITTEE DEAR SHAREHOLDER In September 2016 I joined the Committee as Chairman, and it is in that capacity that I am pleased to report on the work of the Audit Committee during the year.
I would like to start by thanking Kevin Parry for his contribution to, and stewardship of, the Committee prior to standing down upon his We oversee the Groups financial appointment as Chairman of the Company.
reporting and related elements of A key responsibility of the Committee its accounting, internal controls and is to oversee that financial information regulatory compliance, in addition presented by the Group is fair, balanced and understandable.
to the corresponding internal and The financial statements of the Group external auditing processes.
are prepared in accordance with IFRS Our work focuses on the evaluation of and include the consolidation of 12 credit significant estimates and judgements funds which are determined by IFRS to underlying the financial statements be controlled by the Group, although the Groups loss exposure to these funds is and the overall fairness and clarity limited to the capital invested by the Group of reported financial information.
The Committee therefore believes that the presentation of alternative RUSTY NELLIGAN performance measures, including the Chairman of the Audit Committee elimination of the impact of the consolidation of credit funds, enhances shareholders understanding of the Groups performance.
During the year, the Committee has considered the Groups use of alternative performance measures, in part due to the guidance issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority and the increased attention on this area by the Financial The following pages set out the Audit Committee Reporting Council.
The Committees focus Committee report for financial year 2017.
The report has been to ensure that where alternative is structured in five parts: performance measures are used, they do not detract from IFRS GAAP measures and they 1.
Committee governance: roles and responsibilities, are appropriately presented, defined and, composition and effectiveness page 52 where possible, reconciled to relevant IFRS 2. Review of the year: significant financial reporting GAAP measures see page 163. and auditing issues we addressed page 54 The investment portfolio remains a 3.
Internal controls: assessment of the adequacy significant component of the Groups of the control framework page 57 financial statements and, therefore, as in prior years, the valuation of investments 4.
External auditor: appointment, independence and associated provisions remains an area and effectiveness page 57 of significant judgement.
Internal audit: performance and effectiveness other review work, this year the Committee page 59 obtained specific, satisfactory assurance 52 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED from internal audit on the quality and Reviewing and assessing the annual COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE effectiveness of the processes underpinning internal audit plan and resources, receiving On behalf of the Board, the Committee investment valuation.
internal audit reports, and monitoring encourages and seeks to safeguard high managements responsiveness to internal standards of integrity and conduct in More broadly, the Committee evaluates audit findings and recommendations.
financial reporting and internal control.
the independence and effectiveness of our external auditors, the direction and nature In carrying out its duties, the Committee Role and responsibilities of assurance provided by internal audit, is authorised by the Board to obtain any and the quality and reliability of financial information it needs from any Director The Committee meets regularly, at least management.
We have overseen investment or employee of the Group.
It is also four times a year.
The terms of reference in these areas to reflect the increasing levels authorised to seek, at the expense of the which are set out below are unchanged of regulation, combined with the evolution Group, appropriate external professional from last year.
of best practice and the expansion of the advice whenever it considers it necessary.
Selecting and recommending the business.
I consider our oversight of these The Committee did not need to take any appointment and reappointment processes to be a critical responsibility independent advice during the year.
including conducting any tender of of the Committee.
the external auditor and negotiating and Composition The Audit Committee continued to work agreeing their fees and scope of audit The Committee consists of independent closely with the Risk Committee and the Reviewing the performance of the external Non-Executive Directors only.
The current Remuneration Committee with the aim of auditor in respect of scope of work, members are Rusty Nelligan Chairman of effectively covering pertinent topics in the quality of opinion and quality of service: the Committee, Peter Gibbs, Kim Wahl and most suitable forum.
The Audit and Risk and ensuring the successful rotation Kathryn Purves.
Kevin Parry was a member Committees have worked closely together of the lead audit partner and Chairman of the Committee prior to to enable the Group to prepare its financial Reviewing the independence and being appointed Chairman of the Company accounts on a going concern basis and to remuneration of the external auditor in July 2016. issue its viability statement see page 34, and the relationship between audit taking into account the Groups ICAAP.
Biographical details can be found on and non-audit work performed by the The Audit Committee supported the Risk pages 42 and 43. external auditor Committees review of the effectiveness of Reviewing the annual and interim accounts The Committee members have a wide material controls see page 29, including before they are presented to the Board, in range of business and financial experience, material controls over financial reporting.
particular addressing any significant issues including risk management, fund Further details can be found in the Risk arising from the audit: accounting policies management and investment, regulation Committee report on pages 60 to 64. and clarity of disclosures: compliance with and compliance, M&A, tax and international I believe the comprehensive reporting of applicable accounting and legal standards: business practices.
These skills ensure our Audit Committees work is a valuable and information used in making significant the Committee has the relevant sector component of the Annual Report and judgements, including provisioning, going competence to enable it to fulfil its terms should reassure shareholders of the concern and viability of reference in a robust and independent importance placed on formal reporting and manner.
Rusty Nelligan, a US Certified Monitoring the integrity of the financial challenge of executive management by the Public Accountant, was previously a partner statements of the Group, including Non-Executive Directors.
I would therefore at PwC working for over 20 years as lead its annual and half yearly reports, be pleased to discuss the Committees work client partner for  trading updates and any other formal with any shareholder.
global companies in financial services and announcements relating to its financial pharmaceutical life sciences.
The Board performance and advising the Board considers that he has competence in whether it considers the Annual Report RUSTY NELLIGAN accounting and auditing as well as recent Chairman of the Audit Committee to be fair, balanced and understandable and relevant financial experience.
24 May 2017 Approving the appointment or termination of the Head of Internal Audit: approving the internal audit charter: and monitoring the effectiveness of the internal audit function in the context of the Groups overall risk management framework ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 53 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Executive Directors and Chairman of the AREAS OF COMMITTEE FOCUS Board are not members of the Committee but regularly attend meetings at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee, FAIRNESS AND CLARITY OF REPORTED GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL INFORMATION Committee governance together with Deloitte LLP, the Companys Content of annual and other periodic Best practice developments external auditor, the Head of Internal Audit, financial reporting People and business changes the Head of Finance and the CRO.
Annual Report: fair, balanced and understandable The Committee meets separately with the external auditors and Head of Internal Audit without management present at least twice a year to ensure that they are receiving full cooperation from management, obtaining all the information they require and are able to raise matters directly with the Audit Committee if they consider it is desirable to do so.
ACCOUNTING AND INTERNAL CONTROLS FINANCIAL REPORTING AND INTERNAL AUDIT Effectiveness Evaluation of significant Oversight of internal estimates and judgements The Committee reviews its terms audit function Assessment of going of reference and effectiveness Evaluation of concern and the viability financial operations statement including annually.
The terms of reference are EXTERNAL AUDIT consideration of ICAAP Assessment of effectiveness summarised above.
Appointment and remuneration of auditors of internal controls over financial reporting Oversight of auditor independence During the year the Committee engaged a Evaluation of audit scope, quality third party, Independent Audit, to conduct and effectiveness an effectiveness review.
Independent Audit noted that while the new Chairman had yet to fully embed his own style onto the Summary of meetings in the year operation of the Committee, the Committee operates effectively.
The Committee held four meetings during the year in line with the quarterly The effectiveness review proposed that the reporting dates.
The Committee members Committees meeting agenda should include attending each of the meetings can be a guideline time allocation for each item to found on page 41.
In addition, there were improve the balance and focus of discussion.
two sub-Committee meetings to review In addition, the role of the Committee key aspects of the report and accounts Secretary should be reviewed with the aim in April 2017.
The bulk of the Committees of removing some of the more administrative time has been spent on financial reporting tasks.
The Committee has already actioned and presentation, the valuation of these items and will further review them investments and the external and internal during the new financial year.
54 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED REVIEW OF THE YEAR The agenda of the Committee comprises recurring, seasonal and other business.
Over the course of the year, the Committee considered and discussed the following significant matters: THE ISSUE AND WORK COMMENTS ITS SIGNIFICANCE UNDERTAKEN AND CONCLUSION FINANCIAL REPORTING Alternative performance The Group uses a number of alternative performance measures, We were satisfied that alternative performance measures non GAAP aid including but not limited to: measures, which are widely used in the asset understanding of the financial management industry, can provide insight Weighted average fee rate statements but must not detract into performance from the perspective of our Operating margin from GAAP measures.
see shareholders and other stakeholders.
We reviewed Investment portfolio KPIs on pages 15 to 17 and the the alternative performance measures and were Cash generated from operating activities Finance and operating review satisfied that they did not detract from IFRS GAAP Impairments on pages 20 to 26 measures, were sufficiently defined, consistently Cash and debt position applied, and, where possible, reconciled to Gearing relevant IFRS GAAP measures.
Return on equity A full list can be found in the glossary on page 163.
We discussed the use of alternative performance measures and reviewed their consistency with prior years.
We received comfort from internal audit that the alternative performance measures had been prepared on a consistent basis with prior years.
The content of the annual, We reviewed all sections of the Annual Report having particular We concluded that, whilst the Group did not semi-annual and quarterly regard for the Committees specific responsibilities for the financial control any portfolio companies, it exercised financial reporting needs to be statements.
We reviewed and challenged the information analysed significant influence over eight entities and appropriate, complying with by management to assess which third-party funds and portfolio controlled 12 credit funds during the financial year.
see page companies are either controlled by the Group or over which the Group Accordingly the controlled entities have been 106 and the Auditors Report exercises significant influence.
We reviewed all accounting policies for consolidated into the Groups financial statements, on pages 108 to 113 continued appropriateness and consistency.
and the entities over which the Group exercises significant influence have been equity accounted.
We also reviewed the appropriateness and effectiveness of the This has had the impact of grossing up the balance financial control environment, including the controls over financial sheet, with total assets and total liabilities both reporting and the preparation of financial information included in increasing by 3.6bn 2016: 2.0bn.
Our assessment of these controls was taken into account by the Board when undertaking its review of the effectiveness There were no significant changes to accounting of material controls see page 29. policies see pages 120 to 125 and we concluded the accounting policies remained appropriate.
Based on our enquiries of management and external auditors, we concluded policies are being properly applied in areas such as assessing control and significant influence, revenue recognition, valuation of financial assets, impairments and taxation provisions.
We concluded that the areas of judgement see pages 125 and 126 are properly explained.
We gained comfort from financial management and the external auditors that the Group complied with reporting requirements.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 55 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THE ISSUE AND WORK COMMENTS ITS SIGNIFICANCE UNDERTAKEN AND CONCLUSION FINANCIAL REPORTING CONTINUED Taken as a whole, the Annual We held preparatory discussions with management to determine We received confirmation that individuals Report needs to be fair, the format of the Annual Report and reviewed the assigned responsibilities had been fulfilled and confirmed balanced and understandable responsibilities for its content and overall cohesion and that the overall report was consistent with the so that it is relevant to understandability.
Management compared our Annual Report with Directors knowledge.
This supported the readers see page 106 that of other alternative asset managers and best practice more Committees, and the Boards, assessment that the of the Annual Report widely.
In light of that work we commented on design and detailed Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced content, ensuring that feedback on the prior year Annual Report had and understandable.
been addressed and examples of best practice had been carefully We were satisfied that the information presented considered in the context of the Group.
A late draft of the Report and in the Strategic Report was consistent with the Accounts was reviewed by both the Audit Committee and the Board.
performance of the business reported in the We used the Executive Directors and the Committees knowledge to financial statements.
In particular, we were satisfied determine the overall fairness, balance and understandability prior to that the estimates and quantified risk disclosures in final approval by the Board.
We considered judgemental matters such the financial statements are consistent with those as the key risks see pages 30 to 33, estimates and the period covered identified in the Strategic Report.
The Committee by the viability statement.
concluded that appropriate judgements had been applied in determining the estimates and that sufficient disclosure has been made to allow readers to understand the uncertainties surrounding outcomes.
We were satisfied that the viability statement should consider a three year time horizon reflecting both our internal planning cycle and the timescale over which changes to major regulations and the external landscape affecting our business typically take place.
We will continue to monitor feedback for future enhancements to the Annual Report.
Investments represent 80% of We reviewed a detailed report on the valuation process management The Committee concurred with the valuations and our total assets.
96% are carried have undertaken and the judgements made in determining the value determined that no adjustments were necessary.
at fair value and 4% are carried of the portfolio.
We enquired into the realised gains in the income at amortised cost.
As the assets statement as an indicator of the valuation process.
In addition to are mainly unquoted and illiquid, reliance on executive management procedures and the work of considerable professional the external auditors, internal audit reviews the valuation process judgement is required in and provides the appropriate assurance to the Committee of determining their valuations managements compliance with the Groups valuation procedures.
and associated provisions and impairments.
see notes 5 and 9 to the financial statements and the Auditors report on pages 108 to 113 Revenue recognition and cash We reviewed the income recognition of management fees, We concluded that revenue has been properly flows are not entirely aligned performance fees and interest income carefully to ensure that the recognised in the financial statements.
which can result in income being treatments were consistent with the Groups accounting policies.
recognised prematurely or too late.
see note 3 to the financial statements and the Auditors report on pages 108 to 113 56 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED THE ISSUE AND WORK COMMENTS ITS SIGNIFICANCE UNDERTAKEN AND CONCLUSION EXTERNAL AUDIT The auditor needs to be We reviewed the standing policies on services that can be provided We concluded that our conflicts of interest policy independent of management to by Deloitte see External auditor on page 57 for their continued remains appropriate and in line with current report on the truth and fairness appropriateness.
We received confirmations from management and guidance.
We determined that the Group audit fee of the Annual Report without Deloitte of adherence to this policy and agreed the fees paid.
We also of 0.9m 2016: 0.9m appropriately reflected conflicts of interest.
see the reviewed the audit fees in the context of the size and complexity of the scope and complexity of the work undertaken Auditors report on pages 108 the audit.
to 113 The Committee approved a revised policy for non audit services The Committee determined that any non audit that may be performed by the external auditors with effect from services performed by Deloitte during the period 9 November 2016.
The revised policy reflects recent legislative were in compliance with the Groups non audit changes which prohibit the auditors from performing certain tax services policy and applicable regulation, and services.
Consequently, Deloitte have been replaced as the Groups were not deemed to impair their independence.
corporate tax advisers see page 58.
A detailed analysis of fees paid to Deloitte LLP is shown in note 11 on page 144.
The audit process needs to be We discussed the areas of risks that may result in a material We were satisfied that the audit is effective effective so that the auditors misstatement of the financial statements with Deloitte.
We determined and the opinion is robust and based on the opinion is robust.
see the that we had a shared understanding of these risks.
representations, and that the approach was Auditors report on pages 108 directed to provide a reliable audit opinion with Whilst planning the audit, Deloitte set out for the Audit Committee the to 113 a reasonable expectation of detecting material key tests that they would perform on the higher-risk areas, and the errors, irregularities and fraud.
Committee was satisfied with the proposed scope.
The Committee requested detailed feedback on findings and discussed those findings prior to the approval of the Annual Report.
The Committee also discussed the findings of the Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Review teams independent review of the Groups prior year audit.
Further details on the work the Committee undertook to assess the effectiveness of the audit, including a review of the Audit Quality Review of Deloitte, an interview with Deloitte about their approach to the audit of the financial statements, and an oral report from the funds audit partner in Jersey can be found on pages 57 and 58.
INTERNAL AUDIT Oversight of the internal During the year the Committee considered and approved the updated The Committee is satisfied that the Internal audit function Internal Audit Strategy including the risk-based plan for FY17 and FY18 Audit Strategy and Plan will provide appropriate and other internal audit activities.
assurance on the controls in place to manage the principal risks to the Group.
The Committee reviewed the scopes of the internal audit reviews performed, the agreed reports produced, and monitored The Committee is satisfied that reports are issued managements progress in implementing the actions agreed.
in a timely manner following reasonable challenge of recommendations: and that deadlines for The Committees review of the work undertaken by internal audit changes are being set appropriately.
focused on significant risk issues identified, ensuring that reports were agreed and issued in a timely manner and that the timetable for implementation of agreed recommendations was both realistic and adhered to.
Further details of the work of internal audit can be found on page 59.
In addition to the significant matters addressed above, the Committee maintained a rolling agenda of items for its review including the capital strategy, financial and management reporting, risk and treasury management capabilities, relevant people changes, the going concern concept of accounting see page 101, the viability statement see page 34, the Auditors report see pages 108 to 113, accounting developments and the auditors management letter.
No issues of significance arose.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 57 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Committee complies with the UK is based in part on the results of observation, INTERNAL CONTROLS Corporate Governance Code, the Financial inquiry and questionnaires completed by Risk management and internal control Reporting Council FRC Guidance on Audit the Committee members, the Executive matters are the responsibility of the Groups Committees and the EU Regulation on Audit Directors and other relevant senior Risk Committee.
Its report is set out on Reform.
In addition, the Committee complies management.
The results of the evaluation pages 60 to 64. with all aspects of the Competition and were last reported to the Audit Committee The Committee reviewed the operation Markets Authority Statutory Audit Services in September 2016. of the finance function to ensure it was Order.
Accordingly, we are required Having completed the review, and discussed sufficiently resourced and had the to change our audit firm for the 2022 its findings with the auditors, the Committee appropriate processes and controls over year end audit.
remains content with Deloittes work financial reporting to fulfil its first line Absent any major service or quality issues, the whilst identifying some areas for service of defence duties.
The Committee was desirability of a change of auditor is a delicate improvement including strengthening their satisfied that the function was able to meet balance between a fresh pair of eyes and on-site team and increasing the level of its relevant responsibilities and noted that accumulated knowledge applied to produce pre year end work.
The Audit Committee the control environment had been enhanced a robust audit.
The Committee is satisfied that discussed the output with Deloitte who during the year with the implementation David Barnes has the experience and industry acknowledged that changes could be made of a new general ledger and consolidation knowledge to be an effective lead audit to improve their service delivery, and have system.
The Committee also noted that ad partner and do not propose to undertake responded accordingly.
hoc projects, such as the implementation an early audit tender process.
of the new finance system, often benefited In addition to the annual evaluation, from specialised external resource.
The Committee intend to tender the audit the Committee undertakes an ongoing during 2018 with the successful firm assessment of external audit quality and The Group has an established control succeeding Deloitte when David Barnes effectiveness in the following ways: framework as described on page 29. term as lead audit partner comes to an end The framework is designed to manage The Committee discusses and agrees with the completion of the 2020 year end but not eliminate risks, and is designed the scope of the audit prior to its audit.
The selection of new auditors will to provide reasonable but not absolute commencement.
The full scope audit need to be completed by 31 March 2019 so assurance against material losses or coverage amounted to 96% 2016: 93% that the successful firm can ensure they are misstatements.
The Group is expanding of the Groups profit before tax and independent for the 12 months preceding and this adds to complexity and risk.
99% 2016: 98% of the Groups net formal appointment, in line with regulations.
Specific review procedures The Boards responsibilities for the These plans will be kept under annual review were performed on another 13 nonmanagement of risk are addressed further and, if legislation changes, or there are any significant entities in the report of the Risk Committee.
concerns as to Deloittes independence or The Committee reviewed, and was the quality of their audit or the service levels, satisfied with, the content of Deloittes EXTERNAL AUDITOR the audit tender might be undertaken sooner.
Audit Transparency Report for the Audit appointment year ended 31 May 2016 which sets out Audit quality and effectiveness Following the review of the 2016 audit, Deloittes commitment to audit quality The Audit Committee places great the Audit Committee recommended that and governance importance on the quality and effectiveness Deloitte LLP should be proposed to The Audit Quality Review team AQRt of the external audit.
In assessing quality shareholders as the Companys auditors.
of the FRC performed a review of and effectiveness, the Committee The shareholders voted in favour of this Deloittes audit of the Groups 2016 looks to the audit teams objectivity, reappointment.
Deloitte has been the financial statements as part of their 2016 professional scepticism, continuing Companys external auditor since its inspection of audit firms.
The focus of professional education and its relationship commencement of trading.
In accordance the review and their reporting was on with management.
with professional and regulatory standards, identifying areas where improvements the lead audit partner has changed The Committees assessment includes an were required, rather than highlighting regularly since that time to safeguard the annual evaluation of the independence and areas performed to, or above, the independence and objectivity of the audit objectivity of the external auditor and the expected level.
The Chairman of the process.
The most recent audit partner effectiveness of the audit process, taking Audit Committee received a full copy rotation occurred following the conclusion into consideration relevant professional and of the findings of the AQRt and has of the 2015 audit.
This assessment discussed these with both Deloitte and
