Board Committee reports Report of the Nominations Committee Membership of the Committee Responsibilities of the Committee The Nominations Committee is chaired The Committee is responsible for by the Chairman of the Company and its making recommendations to the Board, other members are the Companys Nonwithin its agreed terms of reference, on Executive Directors all of whom are appointments to the Board.
The Committee sometimes of reference of the Committee are invites Executive Directors to attend available on the Companys website.
meetings of the Committee, if appropriate.
The Committee also assists the Board The current membership of the in discharging its responsibilities in Committee, and its membership respect of: throughout the year to 31 March 2017 Regularly reviewing and evaluating as well as attendance at Committee the size, structure and composition meetings during the year, is including the balance of skills, Mike Turner CBE shown opposite.
diversity, knowledge and experience Committee Chairman No individual participates in discussion of the Board and making or decision-making when the matter recommendations to the Board Committee membership under consideration relates to him or her.
with regard to any changes and attendance The Company Secretary is Secretary to Considering succession planning for Mike Turner Chairman 2 of 2 the Committee.
Directors and other senior executives, Sir David Omand 2 of 2 In addition to its formal meetings, taking into account the challenges and Ian Duncan 2 of 2 members of the Committee also met opportunities facing the Company and Anna Stewart 2 of 2 together informally to discuss senior the skills and expertise needed on the executive succession planning.
Jeff Randall 2 of 2 Board in the future Myles Lee 2 of 2 Matters within the Committees remit Reviewing the leadership needs of Victoire fide Margerie 2 of 2 are also sometimes taken as specific the Group, both executive and nonitems at full Board meetings, principally executive, with a view to ensuring consideration of succession planning the continued ability of the Group to more widely within the Group and compete effectively in the marketplace talent identification, management Identifying and making and development.
recommendations for the approval of the Board regarding candidates to fill Board vacancies and reviewing the time required from Non-Executive Directors for the performance of their duties to the Company.
92 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 92 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Diversity Activities undertaken by the Committee When considering recommendations during the year for appointment to the Board the During the year ended 31 March 2017, Committee has in mind the strategic the Committee: plans and the development of the Oversaw the appointment of Archie business in both existing and new Bethel as Group Chief Executive, market sectors and with new, and new effective 1 September 2016, following types of, customers, both in the UK and the retirement of Peter Rogers: internationally, and the need to maintain Considered the governance the Boards credibility in its chosen structure established by the Groups business areas.
The Committee also takes realignment: and into account as part of its deliberations Considered and recommended the the Boards aspiration and intent to foster extension of the term of appointment and encourage greater diversity of as Chairman of Mike Turner and the gender, outlook, background, perception extension of the term of appointment and experience at Board level.
as Non-Executive Director of Jeff The Board is clear that it wants to see an Randall, in both cases for up to a increasing number of women in senior further three years.
executive management roles and The Committee was pleased with the throughout the workforce as a whole.
smooth succession of Archie Bethel, as However, we believe that diversity should his appointment was the culmination not be about firm quotas or solely a of a number of years planning.
The gender debate and that instead we Committee will continue to focus should look at a wide-ranging approach.
on ensuring that the Board has the For this reason the Board has chosen appropriate balance of skills, experience, not to set any specific objectives but independence and knowledge of the will continue to maintain its practice Company in order to meet the of embracing diversity in all its forms Companys strategic goals.
when compiling a shortlist of suitable candidates and recommending any future Board appointments.
Further Mike Turner CBE insight into the work being done to foster Committee Chairman female participation in the industries in 23 May 2017 which we operate is provided in the Strategic report on pages 64 to 65.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 93 Babcock International Group PLC 93 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
