Royal Mail plc | Statement of corporate governance Statement of corporate governance Compliance with the UK Corporate fully documented.
A summary is set out on productivity and efficiency of the page 55. operations: Governance Code, September 2014, future technology: and its statement of requirements During the financial year, the NonExecutive the Board's composition: The UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 Directors and the Chairman met on a key stakeholder relations: Code applied to the 201617 financial year.
number of occasions without the Executive Groups financial performance, including The following sections explain how the Directors being present.
These meetings are the management of share plans: Company applies the main principles set out an important way to develop the working human resources updates: in the Code, issued by the Financial Reporting relationships between the NonExecutive Groups property portfolio: and Council FRC, as required by the Listing Directors and to assess the performance health and safety.
Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority of senior management.
In addition, the FCA, and how it meets other relevant Senior Independent Director met with Key areas of focus for the next year: requirements, including the provisions of the the NonExecutive Directors to assess Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Groups strategy: the Chairmans performance without the FCA.
Both Codes are publically available at revenue growth opportunities: Chairman being present.
the website of the FRC www.
technological developments: digitisation of Royal Mail: Executive Directors have rolling 12month The Board considers that the Company composition of the Board: contracts and NonExecutive Directors are complied with the full provisions of the Code succession planning and talent pipeline: generally appointed for three year terms.
security, including cyber risk and data protection: and In accordance with the requirements of Board leadership health and safety.
the Code, copies of the Directors service The Board contracts and letters of appointment for Independence of Directors The Board is responsible for the stewardship the NonExecutive Directors are available The Board reviews the independence of its of the Company and overseeing its conduct for inspection at the Companys registered NonExecutive Directors as part of its Annual and affairs to create sustainable value for the office during normal office hours and by the Board Effectiveness review.
shareholders at each AGM for a period of 15minutes prior to the commencement of The Board considers that each of the The Board is committed to ensuring that it the meeting and also during the meeting.
provides effective leadership and promotes Thismeans that, in the view of the Board, uncompromising ethical standards, setting Role of the Board they have no links to the Executive Directors the tone for the Company.
All its members The Board is responsible for setting the and other managers and no business or other have the knowledge, talent and experience to objectives and strategy for the Group and relationship with the Company that could perform the functions required of a Director for monitoring its performance and risk impact their judgement.
The Board has adopted matters reserved for the Board setting out its Shareholder relations At the end of the year, the Board of Royal Mail duties and obligations and has defined those Communication with shareholders is plc comprised the Chairman, two Executive matters that are reserved exclusively for its given high priority.
The full Annual Report Directors and five NonExecutive Directors.
These include the approval and Financial Statements is sent to all Prior to their appointment as Directors of of strategic plans, financial statements, shareholders who wish to receive one.
the Company, each of the Directors, with the acquisitions and disposals, major contracts, Presentations are given following the exception of Peter Long and Rita Griffin, had projects and capital expenditure.
announcements of the half year and full year been a Director of Royal Mail Group Limited.
results, which are available to watch live and The biographies of each of the Directors, Board focus on replay on our website.
All information on setting out their current roles, commitments Some of the key areas of focus during the our activities, published financial results and and previous experience, are on pages 4951. year were as follows a number of these the Annual Report and Financial Statements areas are also considered by the Board can be found on our Company website The Board holds regular scheduled meetings Committees : www.
The Board met eight times during the year.
Groups strategy, structure and viability: The AGM is used to communicate with all compliance and regulation: investors and the Board welcomes their The division of responsibilities between the revenue growth in the core businesses as participation.
Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer is well as new areas: 54 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information There is regular dialogue with our as well as standing reports on Health and Risk management and institutional shareholders.
The Chairman and Safety, Regulation, Market Dynamics and internalcontrols the Senior Independent Director SID are from the Company Secretary.
In addition, the The Board is responsible for maintaining a also available to consult with shareholders.
Directors have access to an online reference risk management and internal control system manual to support them in the performance and for managing principal risks faced by The Board regularly receives an update of their duties.
The Directors receive regular the Group.
This is described in more detail on interaction with investors and updates and training on developments in in the Audit and Risk Committee report on shareholders to ensure that the Board has matters such as corporate governance and pages5963.
an understanding of their views.
These processes enable the the SID provides a point of contact for those Company to comply with the provisions of shareholders who wish to raise issues with the Code requiring the timely provision of the Board, other than through the Chairman.
Board information The Board receives business and financial performance reports at each Board meeting Board roles Chairman Senior Independent Director NonExecutive Directors Peter Long Orna NiChionna Rita Griffin Cath Keers Key responsibilities Key responsibilities Paul Murray Leads the Board Provides a sounding board for the Les Owen Promotes the highest standard of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer corporate governance Leads the annual appraisal of the Key responsibilities Sets its agenda and ensures that Directors Chairmans performance Constructively challenge Management receive accurate, timely and clear Acts as a trusted intermediary through Help develop strategy information with adequate time available which NonExecutive Directors can Scrutinise Managements performance for discussion of all agendaitems express their views or concerns Satisfy themselves on the integrity Builds an effective and complementary Available to meet with shareholders of financial information and on the Board, including effective contribution and should they have issues or concerns effectiveness of financial controls and risk sufficient challenge from theDirectors management systems Ensures effective communications with Determine the appropriate level of shareholders and makes the Directors remuneration for Executive Directors aware of their views Ensures the Board determines the nature and extent of the significant risks that the Company is willing to embrace in implementing its strategy Chief Executive Officer Chief Finance Officer Company Secretary Moya Greene Matthew Lester Kulbinder Dosanjh Key responsibilities Key responsibilities Key responsibilities Has daytoday responsibility for Supports the Chief Executive Officer Provides advice on corporate governance managing the Groups operations and leads on the financial and risk issues and ensures all statutory and Makes decisions on matters affecting the management of the Group regulatory requirements are met operations, performance andstrategy Develops the financial and operational Acts as a secretary to the Board and Provides leadership and direction to strategy and the metrics tied to itsCommittees seniormanagement thatstrategy Maintains and ensures efficiency Coordinates all activities to implement Develops and monitors control systems of the Companys and Boards strategy for managing the business in designed to preserve company assets and governanceframework accordance with the Groups risk appetite report accurate financial results Organises Directors induction andtraining and business plan set by theBoard Ensures good information flows and On 15 May 2017, we announced that Stuart Simpson, Promotes the Companys culture comprehensive practical support is Director of Group Finance, will be appointed CFO and andstandards provided to the Board join the Royal Mail Board at the conclusion of the AGM Communicates with shareholders on 20July2017.
ensuring due regard is paid to theirinterests Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 | 55 Royal Mail plc | Statement of corporate governance Board diversity Officer and at 26March 2017, three of the The Board believes that there are significant Diversity, including professional, international six 50 percent NonExecutive Directors, benefits to both the Group and the and ethnic diversity, is a key factor when including the SID, were also female.
The individual when Executive Directors accept assessing the Boards composition.
Committee does not feel that it is appropriate NonExecutive directorships from companies Itensures there is the correct balance of to set a quota regarding the number of outside the Group.
The Boards approach is skills, experience and expertise amongst women on the Board.
But, we will look to normally to limit Executive Directors to one NonExecutive Directors so they can lead maintain a strong representation of women NonExecutive directorship, for which the decision making and assess the performance on the Board.
Director may retain the fees.
and strategy of the Company.
See pages44 and 45 for further External appointments The Board has adopted a Board Diversity information on diversity.
Peter Longs Directorships listed in his Policy to ensure transparency and biography on page 49 qualify as his other diversity in making appointments to Board terms of appointment significant commitments for the purposes the Board on the recommendation of of the Companies Act 2006.
These were Time commitments the Nomination Committee.
This policy discussed on his appointment to the Board The terms of appointment for the expresses the commitment to principles and during this financial year.
The Board has NonExecutive Directors require them to of nondiscrimination against protected considered the time commitment required devote a minimum of two days a month to 1 characteristics and the promotion of fair of the Chairmans role and believes that working for the Company.
In practice, they participation and equality of opportunity Peter Long continues to lead and support tend to devote more time than the stated for all.
The Board assesses whether it is the Board and demonstrates the appropriate minimum requirement.
compliant with that policy through its Board time commitment required.
The Board has also considers that there is no impact on his role The NonExecutive Directors were required adopted within this policy a process for or performance as Chairman as a result of to declare any of their other significant Board appointments including procedures his external directorships.
commitments prior to their appointment.
for appointing a new Chairman where an TheBoard is informed of any subsequent appointment becomes necessary following Matthew Lester was appointed as a changes as and when they arise.
The a resignation or additional characteristics NonExecutive Director of Capita plc Company announces to the London Stock are identified as necessary during the Board on 1March2017, bringing his external Exchange any changes to their directorships effectiveness review.
This is not the on the boards of other publicly quoted Companys usual Policy but, as Matthew companies.
The Board is also informed The gender balance of the Board is also announced his intention to leave after the of any nonpublicly quoted appointments taken into consideration when recruiting a AGM in July 2017, the Board approved and assesses external appointment levels new NonExecutive Director.
This is reflected Matthews appointment toCapita plc.
to ensure the Board members are not too by the current composition of the Board.
We are one of the few companies in the FTSE 100 that has a female Chief Executive Board diversity at 26March 2017 Board composition Gender balance Experience NonExecutive Directors 62% Male 50% Retail and marketing 32% Executive Directors 25% Female 50% Finance 26% Chairman 13% Public utilities 10% Accounting 16% Logistics 16% 1 Race, colour, ethnic origin, nationality, disability, marital or civil partner status, sexual orientation, pregnancy or maternity, age, religion or belief including political opinion in Northern Ireland, sex and gender reassignment.
56 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Conflicts of interest Board Committees The Companies Act 2006 and the Articles require the Board to consider any potential conflicts of interest.
The Board considers Royal Mail plc the conflicts during the financial year and, if appropriate, authorises each Directors reported actual and potential conflicts of interest regularly.
The conflicts of interest register was reviewed several times during the year by the Board.
It concluded that Directors conflicts had been appropriately authorised and that the process for authorisation was operating effectively.
Each Director abstains from approving their own reported potential conflicts.
The Board operates a policy to identify and, where Chief Audit and Risk Nomination Pensions Remuneration appropriate, manage potential conflicts of Executive's Committee Committee Committee Committee interest for Directors.
The Board will continue Committee to monitor the status of each conflict and will review potential conflicts of interest and take action to mitigate them as necessary.
The minutes of each Committee meeting For 201617, the effectiveness reviews were Related parties are made available to Directors on a timely conducted internally in February 2017 via Internal controls are in place to ensure basis.
In addition, the Chair of each of the online questionnaires and, for the Board, Directors advise the Board of any related Board Committees reports to the Board on through individual discussions with each party transactions involving themselves or matters discussed at Committee meetings Director.
The Senior Independent Director, their connected persons and that these are and highlights any significant issues requiring Orna NiChionna, conducted the evaluation conducted at an arms length basis.
of the Chairmans performance through both have an ongoing obligation to advise any a questionnaire and individual discussions changes which would be reviewed and Board and Committee with Directors.
The results of the evaluation monitored by the Board.
As at 26 March exercises were reviewed by the Board and evaluations 2017, no Director had advised the Board of Committees in March and April 2017.
Having any related party transactions.
Note 26 on In accordance with the Code and recognising completed the effectiveness reviews, the page 131 sets out the Groups related party the significant benefits, the effectiveness of Directors are satisfied that the Board and transactions.
the Board, its Committees, Chairman and each of its Committees operated effectively Directors are reviewed annually.
Director induction and training facilitated by an independent third party at The Chairman and Company Secretary least once every three years.
Last year, we For the Board and each of its Committees, are responsible for the induction of engaged Independent Board Evaluation to the Directors agreed areas of focus for the new Directors.
They participate in a conduct an external evaluation of the Board forthcoming year which would strengthen the comprehensive induction programme and the Remuneration Committee.
The other performance of the Board overall, as set out following appointment to the Board.
Committees, the Chairman and the Directors below.
Opportunities to review these topics in Thisis tailored to each Director.
It includes reviews were conducted internally.
depth have been built into the 201718 Board facetoface meetings with management and and Committee programme.
operational site visits to understand the key For 201516, the effectiveness reviews for strategies and risks of the business.
the Board and the Remuneration Committee were conducted by Independent Board Ongoing training is also provided to the Board Evaluation, who also conducted individual and additional training is available on request interviews with each Board member and and where appropriate.
The evaluation for the Audit and Risk Committee was The Board is also kept up to date with legal, undertaken by way of an online questionnaire regulatory and governance matters by the facilitated by Thinking Board and internal Company Secretary at each Board meeting.
evaluations were carried out for the Nomination and Pensions Committees.
Board Committees and Following these reviews, it was concluded that the Board and its Committees were governance structure effective and an action list, focusing on The Board has delegated authority to the strategy, succession and Director induction Committees to carry out certain tasks.
This is and training was developed and completed defined in each Committees respective terms during 201617. of reference.
The Committees established by the Board are shown in the Board Committees diagram above.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 | 57 Royal Mail plc | Statement of corporate governance Key areas of focus for 201718 Board to continue to progress the Board Succession Plan for both Executive and NonExecutive directors and ensure smooth succession plan for the executive directors: to ensure adequate time is spent on labour issues as part of the business transformation agenda of the core network and ensure sufficient time is given to growth opportunities in the UK: with regards the expansion of GLS geographic footprint, to ensure full Board support is provided to Management on the execution of this strategic priority: and to explore more deeply what digital means for the Royal Mail Group and its relevance for its customers.
Audit and Risk Committee provide full support to ensure the successful transition to the new Director of Internal Audit and Risk Management: continue to focus on the Groups risk appetite and the risk framework with indepth reviews into specific areas that might materially impact the delivery of the Groups strategy: and introduce an enhanced training programme to complement the induction programme for new directors to widen their knowledge both from a corporate governance regulatory perspective and to give depth to their knowledge of the Group.
Remuneration Committee ensure greater transparency by the Committee of the senior management team and review the remuneration strategy for the broader Royal Mail management: and introduce regular formal training sessions into the annual meeting cycle to understand emerging governance themes, legislation changes and other trends in remunerationmatters.
Nomination Committee support the Board in delivering the Board Succession Plan for both the Executive and NonExecutive Directors: and talent and succession planning across the senior leadership group as well as for the Board, ensuring sufficient time can be afforded to the succession planning programme across theGroup.
Pensions Committee continue to fully understand the broader pension developments and ensure full awareness at Board level: provide relevant pensions training to both the Board and the Committee: complete the 2018 Pension Review: and determine appropriate future investment strategy for the pensions within the Group.
58 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Audit and Risk representatives from the external auditor, Reporting Council's current areas of focus KPMG.
The Board considers that a number of has been considered: Committee report the members of the Committee have recent and relevant financial experience, in particular risk reviews, management and internal myself, Rita Griffin and Les Owen.
control, receiving regular updates from IA and RM on the results of their reviews and During the year, the Committee continued the introduction of a strengthened risk and to challenge the assumptions and control self assessment process: judgements made by the management team in determining the half year and full continued compliance with the Code, year financial results of the Company and including the longer term viability to assess the appropriateness of their statement: disclosure in the financial statements.
compliance framework, including The Committee has continued to consider the receiving quarterly updates from the assessment and supporting papers provided by Group Compliance team on areas within management in relation to the Groups longer their oversight: term viability statement and the increased focus on risk management and internal technology, including progress of Dear Shareholder, controls.
We have reviewed the Group Risk the ongoing major transformation The Audit and Risk Committee ARC has Profile at each of our meetings, with particular programme, the cyber risks facing the two fundamental responsibilities which focus on risks where likelihood or impact had business and the risks associated with inform the work we do as a Committee of changed, along with their supporting action data protection: independent Directors.
The first is to review plans to manage those risks.
We paid particular and recommend for approval by the Board attention to changes in employment tax: parcels the annual evaluation of the Committees all financial statements and associated competition: regulatory stance: GLSexpansion: effectiveness: disclosures.
The second is to continually digitisation of Royal Mail and data loss, satisfy ourselves that internal controls and seePrincipal Risks pages 3741.
Group taxation, governance, policy risk management processes put in place by andrisk: the management team are working effectively.
The Statutory Audit Services for Large The Committee receives independent Companies Market Investigation the consideration of the selection criteria assurance from the Groups Internal Audit IA Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender for the new Director of Internal Audit and and Risk Management RM function.
It also Processes and Audit Committee Risk Management and the approval of receives regular reports from the Compliance Responsibilities Order 2014 their appointment: and function as well as the external auditor, KPMG, We have complied fully throughout the across a wide range of issues in support of external auditor and audit process review.
year with the Statutory Audit Services their respective oversight responsibilities.
Order 2014 issued by the Competition and Key areas of focus for next year MarketsAuthority.
The Committee is further supported by evolving practice in external reporting: the Risk Management Committee RMC, Paul Murray a management committee of the Chief assurance mapping across the Group: and Chair, Audit and Risk Committee Executives Committee with a reporting line 17May 2017 to the ARC.
The RMCs key responsibilities prioritised risk reviews.
are to drive the monitoring, identification and management of key risks in the organisation.
Meeting cycle and agenda items Audit and Risk Committee Terms During the year, the Committee considered The Committee has a meeting planner, ofReference the selection criteria and approved the approved once a year, which provides a The full Terms of Reference for the appointment of the new Director of Internal framework for each meeting agenda.
Committee can be found on our website Audit and Risk Management.
com During 201617, the Committee met six times.
aboutus managementcommittees Alongside myself, the members of the .
Committee are all independent NonExecutive two meetings mainly focused on the half Directors Orna Ni Chionna, Rita Griffin, year and full year results: and Key areas of focus during the year Cath Keers and Les Owen.
Nick Horler was Matters the Committee considered during the a member of the Committee until he retired four meetings mainly focused on internal year include: from the Board at the end of February 2017. audit and risk management.
The number of Committee meetings held financial reporting, particularly in during 201617 and Committee members All regular meetings contain elements of both considering information presented by attendance is set out on page 51. financial reporting and internal audit and risk Management on significant accounting management, with reports from the Director judgements and policies adopted in respect Meetings of the Committee were also attended, of Group Finance and the Director of IA and of the Companys half year and full year where relevant, by the Chairman of the Board, RM being standing items on all agendas.
results and the assessment of whether the the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Finance Annual Report and Financial Statements Officer, the Director of Internal Audit and were fair, balanced and understandable.
Risk Management, the Company Secretary, Apaper considering the Financial other members of senior management and Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 | 59 Royal Mail plc | Statement of corporate governance Reliance on external and in house experts The Committee also relies on the advice and The external auditor had full access to these The Groups actuary, Willis Towers Watson information provided by the General Counsel experts and, using their own actuarial and Limited, provides expert opinion and long with respect to specific provisions and other statistical experts, was able to provide further term assumption advice with respect to contingent liabilities assurance to the Committee on these matters.
Aon Limited provides similar expertise in relation to other long The Committee is satisfied that the General term liabilities.
The Committee has concluded Counsel has, or has access to, the relevant that these companies have the necessary necessary expertise and resources and expertise and resources.
that the company conducting the statistical surveys also has the relevant necessary expertise and resources.
Key activity in relation to the financial statements The main areas of focus for the Committee during the year in relation to the financial statements were: Oneoff matters considered due to their materiality or nature Matter considered What the Committee did Ofcom investigation Following the receipt of the Statement of Objections, the Committee sought detailed Contingent liability, see Note 25 on page 130 background information from General Counsel and an assessment of accounting An Ofcom investigation was launched in February 2014, following a complaint treatment from Management.
brought by TNT Post UK now Whistl, relating to certain Contract Change Notices We reviewed and challenged Managements assessment of the issue with reference issued by the Group in January 2014.
As part of that investigation, on 28July 2015, to the accounting standards.
the Group received a Statement of Objections setting out Ofcoms provisional, preliminary findings of anticompetitive conduct.
We concluded that it is appropriate to treat this issue as a contingent liability.
TheCommittee have reviewed and approved the wording of its disclosure.
Ongoing matters considered due to their materiality and or the application of judgement We continued to review and challenge the outcome from the statistical survey at Advance customer payments 289 million, see Note 19 on page 122 the half year and full year, along with the judgement made by Management as to Included within Advance customer payments is an estimate of the amounts of the level at which a stamp holding is considered abnormal.
We compared the level stamps and meter credits that have been sold but not used prior to the reporting of deferred income recognised by Management at each reporting date to ensure a date.
At March 2017, this estimate totalled 240 million March 2016 252 million.
Separately, the auditor used their own experts to review the statistical processes and assess the judgemental assumption.
We concluded that Although the relevant survey and extrapolation is conducted by an independent the level of deferred revenue remained appropriate.
company, the level at which a stamp holding is considered to be abnormal, and therefore excluded from the estimate, is a judgement made by Management.
Thisjudgement impacts revenue, profit and net assets.
Royal Mail Defined Benefit Pension Surplus Key long term assumptions were prepared by the Groups actuary, Willis Towers 3,839 million, see balance sheet and Note 9 on page 108 Watson Limited, and benchmarked to prevailing economic indicators and other The valuation of the pension liabilities relies on the estimation of long term large pension schemes.
The assumptions were reviewed and approved by the assumptions such as RPI CPI and mortality.
Small movements in these Pensions Committee see Report on page 64.
All of these assumptions are assumptions can lead to material impacts on the balance sheet.
disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements.
Changes in the assumptions were summarised for the Committee and explanations provided for the returns on In view of the complexity of accounting for pension schemes, significant focus scheme assets, particularly as a result of the liability hedging strategy.
is required on the associated disclosure to ensure that it is fair, balanced and understandable.
The auditor used their own independent actuarial experts to confirm that the assumptions used were reasonable and appropriate.
Industrial diseases claims provision To determine whether the level of provisioning in the balance sheet was reasonable, 84 million, see Note 22 on page 128 the Committee examined reports from Management and estimates of the gross The Group is liable for claims brought by employees past and current and by provision including the number of claims incurred but not received and the individuals who were employed in the General Post Office Telecommunications associated expected cash outflow, undiscounted calculated by Aon Limited.
division and whose employment ceased prior to October 1981.
The provision covers Thediscount factor used by Aon, as advised by Management, to calculate the the estimate of claims that could be received over the next 2535 years.
Changes to present value of the provision was validated against applicable bond rates.
the provision will impact the income statement and net assets.
We received KPMGs comments on the assumptions and the calculation used to reach the discounted provision and concluded that the approach taken to setting the provision continued to be appropriate.
Impact of changing employment legislation Throughout the year, the Committee received regular updates on relevant see Principal Risks on page 40 employment law cases from the General Counsel along with impact assessments The Group has a large workforce and changes to laws and regulations relating to of judgements on the Group.
employment can have a significant effect on the Groups results.
In light of the legal updates, we examined reports prepared by Management to determine whether their interpretation of the potential liabilities for the Group wasappropriate.
We concluded that these potential liabilities were accounted for appropriately based on the legal assessments provided by the General Counsel.
Accounting for acquisitions The Committee examined reports from Management and the calculations of the fair See Note 10 on page 114 values of assets acquired prepared by BDO.
The Group made a number of acquisitions during the year including ASM in June and We received KPMGs comments on the assumptions and the calculation used to GSO in October.
IFRS 3 requires the purchase price to be allocated between Tangible calculate the fair value of assets acquired and concluded that the approach taken assets, Intangible assets and Goodwill.
60 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Audit Committee effectiveness Safeguarding the independence and Risk management and internal control An internal evaluation was carried out in objectivity of the external auditor overview 201617 and is discussed in greater detail on The Committee has a policy in respect of non The Board collectively, including the page57.
audit work which requires Management to Committee members, believes that effective seek pre approval prior to the engagement of risk management and a sound control Effectiveness of the external audit process the external auditor for the provision of any environment are fundamental to the Group.
Following their appointment as external non audit services.
This is to ensure that the The Code requires the Board to maintain auditor in July 2015, KPMG and Management level of fees earned from non audit services sound risk management and internal control have worked closely and the transition has and the type of services provided do not impair systems, to review their effectiveness at been successful.
Meetings between the the external auditors independence and least annually and to report on this review senior audit team and Finance have been objectivity.
In general, the external auditor is to shareholders.
A sound system of internal held at least monthly, giving the opportunity not approached to perform non audit work.
control depends on a thorough and regular for any concerns to be raised and addressed However, the auditor may be engaged to evaluation of the nature and extent to which on a timely basis.
KPMGs 2016 Audit Quality perform non audit services if they are uniquely the Group is exposed to risk.
Inspection Report has also been discussed.
placed to undertake them, or if the performance of the non audit services will support a future The Groups risk management and internal The Committee received a report on the statutory audit including the provision of control system is designed to manage, rather areas of audit risk identified by KPMG and buyer assist due diligence.
Theengagement than eliminate, risk as taking on manageable approved their proposed audit approach.
may follow a competitive tender process.
risk is an inherent part of undertaking The Committee also reviewed and approved TheCommittee currently permits the external the commercial activities of the Group.
the respective engagement letters for the auditor to provide non audit services in respect The system can only provide reasonable, statutory and regulatory audits.
of audit related services, tax services and not absolute, assurance against material other services insofar as permitted by auditor misstatement or loss.
At the end of the half year review and year independence rules.
The Committee has end statutory audit, the Committee received delegated authority to the Chief Finance Officer There is an ongoing process for identifying, reports from KPMG covering significant to preapprove assignments up to 25,000, evaluating and managing the principal risks issues identified and discussed during the with an annual limit of 500,000. faced by the Group in accordance with the audit visits.
In addition KPMG presented guidance detailed by the Code, including updates on their data and analytics approach, During the year, KPMG have been engaged financial, operational and compliance risks, and their control findings.
These reports were to provide financial due diligence and review and risks to reputation.
The process has compared with the matters that Management the conversion of UK subsidiary accounts been in place throughout the year and up had identified, to ensure consistency.
Total fees earned for non audit to the date of approval of these financial The Committee also held regular private services during 201617 were 508,000 statements.
meetings with the external auditor.
which represented around 23per cent of the external audit fee.
In addition to the In addition, the Directors carry out a robust The formal evaluation of the external fees earned from the Company, KPMG has risk assessment of the Principal Risks audit process is being addressed using an been engaged by the respective Pension facing the Group as set out on pages37 online questionnaire.
The first part was Trustee as external auditor of the Royal Mail to 41.
Theseinclude those principal risks completed shortly before our full year Pension Plan and the Royal Mail Defined that threaten the business model, future results announcement and responses were ContributionPlan, the fees for which were performance, solvency and liquidity of the sought from individuals who had been 116,000 in 201617.
These reviews have been informed closely involved in the audit predominantly by the financial evaluation of severe but IT, Finance and HR as well as Executive The Committee also has a policy that restricts plausible scenarios of our principal risks Directors and audit partners.
the recruitment or secondment of individuals which has also been used to support our employed by the external auditor into positions Viability Statement on page 41.
The results of the online questionnaire will that provide financial reporting oversight where be supplemented with a further survey they could exercise influence over the financial Internal control framework following the conclusion of the year end audit or regulatory statements of the Group or the The Group has in place an internal control and will focus on the execution of the audit: level of audit and non audit fees.
framework in relation to the Groups thepreparedness of the business: sufficiency financial reporting process and the Groups of resources: communication and interaction: External auditor process for preparing consolidated and overall satisfaction.
KPMG was appointed as external auditor in accounts.
This framework includes an July 2015, following a competitive tender established organisational structure with While the outcome of the second survey process during the 201415 financial year.
clear lines of responsibilities, approval will not be available until after the signing of Under the current regulations, the Company levels and delegated authorities: policies the financial statements, the feedback from will be required to tender no later than the and procedures to ensure that adequate the first survey and the review of reports 202526 financial year and the current audit accounting records are maintained and presented by Management and KPMG to partner will be required to rotate after the transactions are recorded accurately: robust their May 2017 meeting have enabled the 202021 audit.
quarterly business unit performance reviews Committee to conclude that there has been by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief appropriate focus on the primary areas of The Committee has recommended the Finance Officer: and a rigorous preparation audit risk and KPMG have applied robust reappointment of KPMG as the Groups process for the consolidated financial results challenge and scepticism throughout.
external auditor to the Board for approval by including technical and disclosure reviews.
shareholders at the AGM in July 2017.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 | 61 Royal Mail plc | Statement of corporate governance Royal Mail Governance and Three Lines of Defence Risk management framework The Groupwide risk management Royal Mail plc Board framework includes risk governance, risk identification, measurement and management, and risk reporting and sets out the top down and bottom up approach to risk identification for the Group.
Chief Executives Committee Audit and Risk Committee During the year the business has: Risk Management assessed its approach to risk Committee management in line with the Code requirements, reviewed its Risk Management Policy and continued Senior Management to strengthen the management and monitoring of risk within the Group including strengthening the Risk & Control Self Assessment RCSA process: and First Line Second Line Third Line continued its emerging risk identification Operational and Business Internal Monitoring and Independent Assurance Management Assurance Mechanisms process through regular structured Independent evaluation over dialogue with subject matter experts Primary business as usual Internal monitoring and the adequacy and effectiveness across the business.
controls over the risks to the oversight of the first line, of risk management, control business, located in the day to through regular reviews, and governance processes day operation.
assessments and dedicated by IA and RM and other The Groups approach to risk management oversight functions.
asssurance providers external to the business.
is based on the underlying principle of line management accountability for effective 1 implementation of internal controls to RCSA Monitoring and Reporting of Risks and Internal Controls manage risk as illustrated below.
1 Risk & Control Self-Assessment Speak Up Line Role of the Committee in assessing the principal risks Arrangements are in place to enable The Committee routinely assessed the risks that might impact the achievement employees to raise concerns about potential of the Business Plan, including consideration of whether these should wrongdoings in confidence and to ensure be categorised as a principal risk to the business see Principal Risks on independent investigation of such matters.
Committee discussions on risk also covered new and emerging Review of During the year, IA and RM reported to the risks and the interrelationships between the significant risks to the business.
principal risk Committee on the number of cases received In particular, the Committee reviewed changes to the Group Risk Profile on areas and an analysis of the outcomes through a quarterly basis and held deep dive discussions of principal risk areas with the Employee Confidential Disclosure EDC riskowners.
The Committee holds the business to account for the management of risk and operation of control across the Group.
Assessing the effectiveness of the system During the year, deep dive risk discussions included: of risk management and internal control In addition to the specific constitution, Cyber risks meetings, reliance on experts, and focus Competition areas highlighted above, the Committee uses Deep dive Delivery of efficiency benefits versus maintenance of Quality of Service levels a number of mechanisms to help it to arrive discussions at its conclusions on the effectiveness of the Employment legislation and regulation system of risk management and internal Growing in new areas control in the business.
Risk governance The Board has delegated responsibility for on the operation of risk management and an annual plan of assignments and activities specific review of risk and control processes control processes on a cyclical basis.
covering the whole Group, including GLS, to the Committee and the Committee, based on discussions with the Board and in turn, is supported by the RMC, to help 2.
Assurance from Internal Audit Management.
This also takes into account discharge its duties.
The RMC meets to IA and RM provide independent assurance known issues in the business, areas of promote and support the establishment, to the Committee, Executive Management importance to the delivery of the business communication and embedding of risk and the Board on the effectiveness of the plan, areas subject to strong or emerging management throughout the Group.
It also internal control system and elements of the regulation or legislation or specific issues in seeks to ensure that risks that are significant risk management process.
During the year, the Committee at Group level are being effectively managed.
compliance with the Risk Management evaluated the performance of IA and RM.
The RMC oversees and evaluates a bottom Mandatory Standards and validation of Itconcluded that the function continued to up assessment of risks on a quarterly basis.
mitigation plans for Group level risks.
Itreceives presentations from Business Units RM establish and agree with the Committee 62 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 Lines of Defence Governance Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information The IA work programme during 201617 Nomination Committee conclusion of the AGM on 20July2017.
included more than 30 risk based reviews in Stuart's appointment follows a comprehensive report the UK and over 140 reviews in GLS covering search that included both internal and external both depots and head office.
was focused towards the key business priorities and included: Alongside myself, the Committee members are Cath Keers, Orna NiChionna and business transformation and key Paul Murray, who was appointed to the programme reviews, including PDA Committee on 16November 2016.
Meetings service transformation, parcels of the Committee were also attended by the programme activity and identity Company Secretary and, where relevant, the basedproducts: Group HR Director.
The Chief Executive Officer and other NonExecutive Directors may major business process reviews including also be requested to attend when required.
data loss prevention, payroll, aviation The number of Committee meetings held security, operational compliance and during 201617 and Committee members ITdisaster recovery: attendance is set out on page 51. continued rolling programme of review The following report outlines the Committees of the basic business controls and Dear Shareholder, membership and attendance, its role, its independent validations related to the The role of the Nomination Committee is to focus during the year, Directors reelection management of Group level risks: and review the composition of the Board and plan and diversity.
for its refreshment as applicable with regard conformance of key units functions to to composition, balance and structure.
Nomination Committee Terms of Reference defined Risk Management Mandatory The full Terms of Reference for the Standards.
As well as succession planning and the Committee can be found on our website continued evaluation of the balance of skills, www.
External audit activity knowledge and experience of the Board, the  External audits and reviews take place Committee continues to focus on diversity, nomination committee during the year to provide Management, the reviewing leadership attributes and approving Board and Ofcom with assurance on specific changes to senior management.
Role of the Committee matters.
Activity includes: A summary of the responsibilities of the See page56 for further information on Committee in connection with appointments the external auditor performs a statutory diversity.
to the Board and senior management is year end audit: shown below: There were a number of changes to our Board composition during the year.
We were pleased the external auditor performs an audit to regularly review the structure, size to appoint Rita Griffin in December 2016 as of the regulatory accounts as part of and composition of the Board and to a NonExecutive Director and a member of Universal Service Provider accounting evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge, the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Board requirements: experience and diversity of the Board employed the executive search firm, Egon to inform the capabilities required for a Zehnder, to assist with Ritas appointment.
the externally measured end to end particular appointment: The Nomination Committee considered Quality of Service is audited by an candidates against objective criteria, having independent accounting firm appointed by to give full consideration to succession due regard for the benefits of Board diversity, Ofcom as part of Royal Mails Designated planning for Chairman, Directors, Chief and, following interviews with other Directors, Universal Service Provider condition Executive Officer and senior management: recommended to the Board that they appoint requirements: and Rita as a Director of the Company.
The to identify, and nominate for approval Company also employs Egon Zehnder for the Universal Service Obligation daily by the Board, candidates to fill Board both senior executive appointments and some collections and deliveries performance vacancies as and when they arise: executive development.
Our NonExecutive reporting and methodology is assured by Director Nick Horler retired in February an independent accounting firm appointed in identifying suitable Board Candidates 2017, having served on the Board for nearly by Royal Mail as part of RoyalMails the Committee shall: seven years.
We have also announced further designated Universal Service.
changes with the stepping down of our use open advertising or the services Chief Finance Officer Matthew Lester at the In the carrying out of these activities, of external advisers to facilitate the conclusion of this years AGM.
the Board considers it has fulfilled its search: obligations under the Code in respect of risk The Chief Executive led the search and consider candidates from a wide range management and internal controls.
Further proposed candidates to the Nomination of backgrounds: and details of the Principal Risks and how they Committee based on the skill, knowledge and are managed and mitigated can be found on consider candidates on merit and experience required for the role.
against objective criteria and with due 2017, we announced that Stuart Simpson, regard to the benefits of diversity for Director of Group Finance, will be appointed the Board, including gender, taking CFO and join the Royal Mail Board at the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 | 63 Royal Mail plc | Statement of corporate governance care that appointees have enough time Key areas of focus during the year Pensions Committee report available to devote to the position: Matters the Committee considered during the year include: to ensure that, on appointment to the Board, NonExecutive Directors receive a assessing the composition of the formal letter of appointment setting out Board and its Committees in view of clearly what is expected of them in terms the appointment of Rita Griffin as a of time commitment, committee service NonExecutive Director, the retirement and involvement outside meetings: of Nick Horler as a NonExecutive Director, the forthcoming departure for the appointment of a Chairman, to of Matthew Lester as Chief Finance prepare a job description including the Officer and the appointment of Paul time commitment expected.
A proposed Murray, aNonExecutive Director to this Chairmans other significant commitments Committee: should be disclosed to the Board before appointment.
Any changes to the succession planning and executive talent Chairmans commitments should be review and management: reported to the Board as they arise: the annual evaluation of the Committees Dear Shareholder, to review annually the time required performance: and Recognising the significance of the Groups from NonExecutive Directors to fulfil pension schemes to its financial management theirduties: the annual review of the Committees and affairs, and to its employees, the Board Terms of Reference.
has appointed a standing committee to to make recommendations to the provide additional oversight and review of Boardconcerning: Key areas of focus for next year pension matters.
During 201718, the Committee will continue succession planning for Executive to focus on the succession plans for both Role of the Committee and NonExecutive Directors and, the Board and senior management with a The Committee reports and makes in particular, for the key roles of keen focus on the diversity framework and recommendations to the Board and to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: ensuring the skills and experience within the RoyalMail Group Limited as principal nominations for the role of SID: Group help it deliver its strategic framework.
employer of the Groups pension schemes, and, where appropriate, to the Risk and Audit membership of the Board Committees Nomination Committee effectiveness Committee, on: in consultation with the Chairs of An internal evaluation of the Committee was thosecommittees: carried out in 201617 and is discussed in pension matters which are of strategic the reappointment of any greater detail on page 57. importance to the Group: NonExecutive Director at the conclusion of their specified term of Directors reelection pension matters involving a financial office having given due regard to their The Committee has considered the impact of over 100 million: performance and ability to continue to performance of each individual Director: contribute to the Board: whether he or she continues to be material changes to benefits that require effective and can continue to demonstrate rule changes or changes to the pension the reelection of Directors by commitment to the role.
Biographical details schemes Trust Deeds: and shareholders under the re election of each of the Directors, together with details provisions of the Code or the of their skills and experience, may be found the actuarial assumptions to be used in retirement by rotation provisions in the on pages4951.
Following a performance calculating the accounting charge and Companys Articles of Association the evaluation of each Director and the Board as pension disclosures in the Companys Articles, having due regard to their a whole, all Directors are considered by the Financial Results.
performance and ability to continue to Board to be fully effective.
This supports the contribute to the Board and the need proposal for their reelection at the AGM.
In particular, the Committee: for progressive refreshing of the Board: nominations for the appointment of Peter Long reviews advice and information provided Director positions on the Boards of Chairman by the Groups external pension advisers: subsidiary joint venture Boards main 17May 2017 Business Unit Executive Committee: reviews and provides input on the and assumptions to be used by the Trustees relating to funding valuations, and nominations for the appointment of provides the Groups opinion and trustees of the Companys pension feedback on the Trustees Statement of schemes and trustees of the Postal InvestmentPrinciples: Heritage Trust.
reviews major policy, regulatory, legislative, accounting, reporting, industrial relations and Governmental 64 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information issues impacting the pension schemes the impact of pension legislation changes, Other Committees and makes decisions, recommendations pensions accounting and treatment of TopCo Committee and reports to the Board accordingly: scheme surplus and current developments TopCo Committee provides overall support in corporate pensions: for the Chief Executive in discharging the reviews reports from the Trustee responsibility for managing the business and Executive on the schemes financial the actuarial assumptions used in accountability to the Board.
The Committee position, investment performance, calculating the accounting charge and also oversees performance management administration levels and other activities: pension disclosures in the Companys and outlook for the business, achievement and interim and full year Financial Results: and of KPIs and the Corporate Balanced Scorecard, the Companys compliance with approves the appointment, the annual evaluation of the Committees the Market Abuse Regulations and any other reappointment, period of appointment, effectiveness and its Terms of Reference.
The Committee removal, and remuneration of the Chair meets monthly and is chaired by the Chief ofTrustees.
Key areas of focus for next year ExecutiveOfficer.
In addition to the ongoing matters under its The full Terms of Reference for the Terms of Reference, the Committee expects See pages5253 for Committee Committee can be found at www.
to be giving particular consideration during members' biographies.
com aboutus management the year ahead to: andcommittees pensionscommittee Chief Executives Committee the conclusion of 2018 Pension The Chief Executives Committee supports the Membership Review and the proposals for future Chief Executive Officer on matters concerning In addition to myself, the members of the pension benefits prior to these being the Groups overall framework, including Committee are Paul Murray and Matthew recommended to the Board for approval: risk management, financial and operating Lester.
The meetings of the Committee performance, annual and strategic plans, have also been attended by the Group HR the implementation of the outcomes external stakeholders, industrial relations Director, the Chief of Staff, the Company of the Review and communication to and health and safety policy.
The Committee Secretary, Legal Director, Pensions and members: and also develops and monitors deployment of Employee Benefits, the Director of Corporate the Groups strategy, annual operating plans Finance, the Head of Pensions Strategy, the results and implications of the RMPPs and budgets for plc Board approval.
The and representatives from the Companys 2015 valuation.
Committee meets monthly and is chaired by pensions advisers, Willis Towers Watson the Chief Executive Officer.
The number of Committee meetings Pension Committee effectiveness held during 201617 and Committee An internal evaluation of the Committee was See pages5253 for Committee members attendance is set out on page 51. carried out in 201617.
The Committee was members' biographies.
judged to be fully effective in carrying out its Risk Management Committee Key areas of focus during the year responsibilities.
The results are set out in The Risk Management Committee is a For some time, Royal Mail has been greater detail on page 57.
Management Committee of the Chief reviewing the future of its pension plans Executives Committee with a reporting line as part of the 2018 Pension Review.
Les Owen to and which supports the Audit and Risk Recognising the affordability challenge Chair of the Pensions Committee Committee.
It meets to promote and support of the Groups current arrangements, 17May 2017 the establishment, communication and Royal Mail consulted during 201617 with embedding of risk management throughout approximately 90,000 members of the the business.
The Committee meets quarterly Royal Mail Pension Plan RMPP.
Royal Mail and is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer.
confirmed that it is committed to continue to provide sustainable, good quality pension benefits.
The Committee engaged with Management throughout the year regarding the 2018 Pension Review, and provided input on Managements thinking and proposals in advance of discussions with stakeholders.
Further information on the 2018 Pension Review can be found on page 110.
In addition, the Committee reviewed: the likely results of the April 2015 Valuation and Scheme funding review and the implications for future affordability and benefit design: investment strategy and risk management, investment performance, fees and costs and scheme administration: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 | 65
