81 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Leadership & Effectiveness Other information Nominations Committee report Introduction Nominations Committee Andrew Duff As Chairman of the Nominations responsibilities Chairman of the Committee, I am pleased to introduce the The responsibilities of the Nominations Nominations report of the Nominations Committee Committee include: Committee which details the role of the Committee.
review of the structure, size and The pages that follow provide additional composition including the skills, knowledge, experience, time available details on the role of the Committee anddiversity of the Board: and the work it has undertaken during A significant part of the review the leadership needs of the the year.
Committees work this year Company, both Executive and NonElsewhere in this Annual Report I provided Executive, at regular intervals: has been in developing our details on the Board changes during the review of the adequacy of Board and talent pipeline with a focus Executive succession planning in the year.
The Committee has continued to longand short term: play a key role in supporting the Board in on the need for diversity ensure an effectiveness review is discharging its succession planning and within our talent pipeline.
conducted annually of the Board, its diversity responsibilities, culminating with Committees and Directors: the appointment of Kevin Beeston and recommend to the Board the appointment Dominique Reiniche as Non-Executive or reappointment by shareholders of Attendance table Directors with effect from 1 June and Directors at the AGM, in accordance with Member of the the Code: and 20 July 2016 respectively.
Following the Nominations Meetings Max 2016 AGM, Martin Lamb and Gordon annual review of the Company policy on Committee attended possible Board level diversity.
Fryett retired from the Board, at which Andrew Duff 2 2 The Nominations Committee terms of point Kevin Beeston succeeded Martin Chairman reference, which were updated in March 2017, as Senior Independent Non-Executive John Coghlan 2 2 can be found at www.
Director and Dr. Angela Strank succeeded Dominique Reiniche 1 1 Gordon as Chair of the Corporate Appointed 20 July 16 Responsibility Committee.
Kevin Beeston 1 1 As well as these specific appointments, Appointed 1 June 16 much focus continues to be given to the Philip Remnant 2 2 Groups succession and contingency Dr. Angela Strank 2 2 planning and diversity needs, with Martin Lamb 1 1 discussion centred on the importance Retired20 July 16 of developing, and maintaining, a Gordon Fryett 1 1 diverse range of perspectives, skills, Retired20 July 16 experiences and expertise, essential to ensuring our long term viability and The members of the Committee in 2016 17 were the Non-Executive Directors of the commercial success.
Only members of the Committee have Other significant parts of the Committees the right to attend Committee meetings.
Other individuals such as the Chief Executive, work this year have been the evaluation of members of senior management, Director the Board, its Committees and Directors of Human Resources and external advisers and developing our talent pipeline for may be invited to attend meetings as and Directors and high performing individuals when appropriate.
below Board level with a focus on the need for diversity within our talent pipeline.
Andrew Duff Chairman of the Nominations Committee Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 82 Leadership & Effectiveness Nominations Committee report continued Talent development Nominations Committee activities Severn Trent Board diversity gures Severn Trent recognises the importance Tenure years Diversity and succession planning of developing our people, and talent As highlighted earlier in the report, the 8 management remained a key topic Board and Nominations Committee 7 of discussion.
During the year, the continue to drive the agenda of diversity 6 Committee reviewed progress against across the Group and are proud of the the Groups five year talent plan, which 5 progress made, especially in respect focuses on building both technical 4 of female representation on the Board and leadership capability within the 3 and Executive Committee now at 44% Group.
We have a total of 63 graduates and 60% respectively.
A breakdown by 2 and 126 apprentices in training and a gender of the number of persons who 1 significant programme of STEM Science, were Directors of the Company, senior 0 Technology, Engineering and Maths managers and other employees as at activities was undertaken through 31 March 2017 is set out below.
Engineering UK to further support our future technical talent pipeline and Gender diversity as at 31 March 2017 encourage young people to maintain an Male Female Board Executive Committee Figures as at the date of this report.
interest in science and technology courses at schools and universities.
The Board also remains focused on Our Awesome Leaders Programme, promoting broader diversity, and 4 aimed at our team leaders and team 4 creating an inclusive culture.
A diverse managers, continues to nurture and 5 6 organisation benefits from differences in develop our internal talent, particularly in skills, regional and industry experience, relation to succession planning for senior background, race, gender, sexual positions within the Company.
orientation, religion, belief and age, as Senior manager Graduates well as culture and personality.
The Board Development for Executive Directors and is committed to building on existing high performing individuals below Board graduate, apprentice and leadership level continues to be an area of focus.
19 programmes to embed inclusivity in Coaching and mentoring is provided to 27 our succession planning and talent develop and enhance specific skill sets, 36 development work to strengthen our and the Committee believes the benefits 35 talent pipeline, with an enhanced focus on of this approach are critical for developing ensuring appropriate representation from our own talent for the future.
minority ethnic candidates, as well as Apprentices Group Details can be found on page 33. other relevant diverse cohorts.
9 At Board level, the Nominations 2,192 Committee reviews the Boards effectiveness and composition each year and, in particular, considers the balance 5,247 of skills, experience and independence 117 of the Board.
It considers the benefits of all aspects of diversity when identifying Male Female candidates for appointment.
The selection of candidates to join the Board will continue to be made based on merit and the individuals ability to contribute to the effectiveness of the Board, which in turn will be dependent on the pool of candidates available.
To support this, we continue only to engage with executive search firms who have signed up to the voluntary Code of Conduct on gender diversity and best practice.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Liv Gareld James Bowling John Coghlan Andrew Duff Kevin Beeston Dominique Reiniche Philip Remnant Dr. Angela Strank Emma FitzGerald 83 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Leadership & Effectiveness Other information Evaluation of the Board The effectiveness of the Board is reviewed at least annually, and conducted according to the guidance set out in the Code.
The last externally facilitated evaluation was conducted by Manchester Square Partners in 2015, with the next externally facilitated session scheduled for 2018.
The 2016 17 evaluation was internally conducted by the Chairman with support from the Company Secretary through a series of one-to-one meetings in February and March 2017 and supported by a questionnaire.
D ISCUSSION WITH CHAIRMAN, MEETINGS: REPORTING: NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE ANDBOARD: A comprehensive Board members The Company Secretary Draft conclusions were discussed with questionnaire with an participated compiled responses from the Chairman and subsequently the opportunity to provide in one-to-one questionnaires and one-toNominations Committee and then the qualitative feedback in respect meetings with the one meetings into a report, Board in April 2017.
Separate meetings of all areas covered was sent Company Secretary.
identifying areas requiring were held to consider the effectiveness of to all Board members, along further focus and attention, the CEO led by the Chairman, and of the with a summary of the previous where appropriate.
The report Chairman led by Kevin Beeston.
years evaluation, action plan included recommendations and a progress update against taking account of best practice, actions identified.
the Code and other corporate governance guidance.
Board evaluation highlights 2016 17 The evaluation concluded that excellent progress had been made in respect of areas for further focus identified in the 2016 review as detailed below.
It also concluded that the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees remained strong, and that the planned succession and induction process for Non-Executive Directors was operating effectively.
The following matters were identified during the 2016 17 internally facilitated review as requiring further focus and attention: Continue development of talent management and succession planning below Executive Committee level: Whilst excellent progress had been made in respect of diversity, including skills, experience and gender across the Group, there remained an opportunity to further consider opportunities to enhance the ethnic diversity of the Board: Further development of the NED induction programme to include one-to-one follow up sessions on regulatory topics: Board and Committee forward plans to be reviewed against strategic priorities identified as part of the 2017 review and used to refine focus areas for debate at future meetings: External facilitation to be investigated for future Board strategy days: and More detailed discussion on communication of Board Committee proceedings to the Board as a whole.
The evaluation also concluded that the Board and its Committees were effective and that all Directors were considered to have demonstrated considerable commitment and time to their roles, well in excess of that required by the Charter of Expectations notwithstanding any other positions held by them outside of Severn Trent.
In addition, the review concluded that all Non-Executive Directors continued to demonstrate their independence and objectively challenge management.
In addition, the review concluded that all Non-Executive Directors were considered to be independent in judgement and there were no relationships or circumstances which were likely to affect, or could affect this.
This was also the case for those Directors who had served a term in excess of six years by the time the AGM notice was issued.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 84 Leadership & Effectiveness Nominations Committee report continued As part of the evaluation, full consideration was given to the number of external positions held by the Non-Executive Directors.
We reviewed Directors other appointments, including the time commitment required for each, as part of the evaluation exercise.
The outcome of which can be found below: Number of Listed Number of Listed Company Appointments Company Appointments as Chairman as Non-Executive Director Director including Severn Trent Plc including SevernTrent Plc Kevin Beeston 2 1 James Bowling 0 0 John Coghlan 0 2 Andrew Duff 2 0 Emma FitzGerald 0 1 Liv Garfield 0 0 Dominique Reiniche 0 3 Philip Remnant 1 2 Dr. Angela Strank 0 1 Dominique Reiniche was a Non-Executive Director of AXA SA until April 2017, and retired from the AXA Board at their 26 April AGM.
As a result of this review, the Committee did not identify any instances of overboarding and confirms that all individual Directors have sufficient time to commit to their appointment as a Director of Severn Trent Plc.
The full list of external appointments held by our Non-Executive Directors can be found on pages 72 to 73.
Progress against 2015 16 Action Plan The following matters were identified during the 2015 16 internally facilitated review as requiring further focus and attention: Area for further focus identified in 2015 16 internalreview Progress against areas for further focus identified in2015 16 internal review Talent management and succession planning Regular discussion and review of talent and succession at 2016 17 Board belowExecutive Committee level to remain a meetings.
2017 plan submitted to the Nominations Committee.
Board strategy day to be scheduled outside of the 2016 Board Strategy Day held outside of the normal Board meeting calendar.
normal Board meeting calendar and preferably off-site.
2017 Board Strategy Day held off-site outside the Board meeting calendar.
Ensure a breadth of skills and general business Kevin Beeston and Dominique Reiniche, appointed to the Board on 1 June and experience to balance subject matter expert 20July 2016 respectively, broadened the range of skills, business experience memberson the Board going forward.
and perspectives on the Board.
Additional Board time to be spent on health, Discussion and review of health and safety held at all 2016 17 Board meetings.
Ethics culture discussed at the Board during the year with a dedicated Board training session scheduled for 2017 18.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
