Audit Committee report Chairmans statement on the Audit Committee Dear Shareholder, Committee composition and meetings The Audit Committee comprised myself, Gill Barr, and I am pleased to present the Audit Committee report for the Neil Carson.
The board considers that I have recent and year ended 31 March 2017 which sets out the activities and relevant financial experience in accordance with the Code.
focus of the committee for the period.
Full biographical details of each of the committee members, Corporate transactions including relevant financial experience, are set out on page 29.
During the year, there were two major corporate The committee met six times during the period.
The details transactions within PayPoint being the sale of the Mobile of meeting attendance are set out on page 35.
By invitation, payments business and the re-structuring of the Collect during the year, meetings were also attended by the Chairman joint venture agreement.
The committee ensured that both of the board and non-executive directors, the Chief Executive, transactions were properly recognised and accounted for.
Finance Director, Business Development Director, the Financial Controller, and recently the Head of Risk and Compliance.
Risk management Our external auditor, Deloitte and internal auditor, Grant The committee carried on with its robust risk management Thornton UK LLP, also attended the committee meetings process which saw the committee review a different risk as appropriate.
area on the risk register at each committee meeting and assess the management and mitigation of these risk The committee meetings generally take place on the same areas.
A welcome development to the committees risk day as, but prior to, the Company board meetings.
Where management process was that, at the invitation of the all the board members have not been in attendance at committee, the Head of Risk and Compliance has begun an Audit Committee meeting, either as a member of the to attend meetings of the committee in order to present committee or by invitation, the Chairman of the committee the risk management reports and respond directly to reports to the board as part of a separate agenda item, any queries the committee may have in this respect.
This on the activities of the committee.
provides the opportunity for the committee to interact directly with the employee responsible for risk management Key responsibilities and internal controls at a senior management level, and The key responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: thereby gain a better understanding of the risk and internal monitoring the integrity of the Companys reporting control matters reported on.
process and financial management: External auditor oversight of the internal control and risk management The committee has approved the formal commencement systems in place: of an audit tender in the summer of 2017 which will result in a new audit firm replacing Deloitte LLP Deloitte as in-depth review of the full and half year financial external auditor.
Further details on the decision to put the statements before recommending these to the board external audit out to tender are on page 43. for approval: Annual report recommendation oversight of the internal and external audit processes.
The committee assessed and recommended to the board In conclusion, I would like to thank the members of the Audit that, taken as a whole, this 2017 annual report of the Committee for their support throughout the year.
I hope this Company is fair, balanced and understandable.
statement and the report that follows provides insight into the Committee effectiveness work of the committee for the year ended 31 March 2017.
The committee undertook an internally facilitated evaluation Giles Kerr which followed the same process as the previously described Chairman, Audit Committee board evaluation see page 38.
The general conclusion of 25 May 2017 this evaluation was that the Audit Committee is effective in carrying out its roles and responsibilities and its members continue to work well together.
42 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Committee activities for 2016 17 Committee governance: In the year under review, the work undertaken by the Audit Review and update of the Audit Committee terms of Committee was as follows: reference in accordance with the 2016 version of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Financial reporting: Committee evaluation of its performance, which followed Review of the preliminary and interim results the same format as the internal board evaluation exercise announcement and the annual report.
see page 38. Review of significant accounting issues and accounting for major corporate transactions as reported below.
The significant issues considered by the committee in relation to the 2017 accounts, and how these were Consideration of the going concern basis for preparation addressed, were: of the financial statements.
Accounting for the Collect transaction: We have Consideration of the elements of the viability statement reviewed the relevant accounting considerations in and the appropriate forward-looking period to be applied.
connection with the Collect transaction and are satisfied Recommendation of the viability statement and going that the position taken is appropriate.
In the context of concern statement to the board.
accounting for the arrangement on a go forward basis, this has been evaluated against the requirements of Advising the board on whether the annual report IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements.
We are satisfied that the and accounts taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and arrangement is a joint operation and that the accounting understandable.
for the Groups interest in Collect is appropriate.
Review of the external auditor reports and the outcomes Revenue Recognition: We reviewed the recognition of of the audit process.
income to ensure that the approach adopted is accurate and consistent.
The Group relies heavily on its computer External auditor: systems to record this data accurately.
We have reviewed Approval of the commencement of an audit tender.
the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control See details opposite.
and risk management, reviewed the results of internal audit, and reviewed the results of the auditors tests of Review and update of the non-audit services policy in line general computer controls relating to the applications with changes to the Financial Reporting Councils FRC that underpin the revenue cycle, which were found to be Revised Ethical Standard in 2016. effective.
We are comfortable with this conclusion.
Assessment of external auditor appointment, Management override of controls: The internal audit independence and effectiveness for recommendation programme will continue to address the effectiveness of to the board.
The external auditors also test the key Review and approval of audit and non-audit fees.
We have reviewed the results of internal audit, the external audit and audits by clients, Internal auditor: Link and BSI and we review and challenge managements actions to resolve any points arising from these audits Review of the internal auditors engagement and and risk reviews carried out throughout the year.
We are agreement for the extension of the engagement.
satisfied that adequate controls are in place.
Consideration of internal audit reports presented during Audit tendering the year.
Deloitte were initially appointed as external auditors following a formal tender process, for the year ended 31 Audit plans: March 2001.
For the two periods prior to this, from the date Consideration and approval of the internal and external of incorporation of the Company, the auditors were Arthur audit plans.
These two periods are required to be included in the determination of the duration of auditor appointment.
Risk management and internal controls: The appointment of Deloitte LLP as external auditor, including the rotation of the audit partner, is kept under Review of insurance renewal proposals.
Hadleigh Shekle is the current audit partner Confirmation at every meeting of the committee, that and he has completed two years of his five year term.
there were no whistleblowing incidents to report.
An annual review of the effectiveness of the external audit is undertaken by the committee.
Review of reports produced by the Head of Risk and Compliance on risk management and internal controls In March 2017, the committee, in carrying out its review of within the Group.
the external auditors performance considered whether to initiate or defer an external audit tender process.
It was Review of the six monthly BSI assessment reports.
noted that under the terms of the transitional provisions BSI carry out independent audits of the PayPoint applicable under EU Regulation, PayPoint will be required network operations.
to appoint a new auditor for the year ending 31 March Review of the principal risks and the mitigation of these 2025.
The committee in its consideration also had regard risks as set out on page 20. to the Revised Ethical Standard published by the FRC in 2016, which incorporated changes relating to auditor Review of the risk review action register which shows independence, including new prohibitions and restrictions the actions arising from the group risk review.
In its assessment, the committee concluded that Deloitte remain independent and their PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 43 Audit Committee report continued performance satisfactory.
Nevertheless it was decided that of Deloitte LLP as auditor to hold office until the in order to avoid conflict situations pertaining to provision appointment of a new external auditor following the audit of non-audit services which could arise in future, it was in tender process, details of which are on page 43. the best interest of shareholders that the external audit be Non-audit services put out to tender in the summer of 2017.
Deloitte will not be During the year, the committee considered the nature of asked to participate in the tender process, however Deloitte non-audit services and the level of fees for non-audit services has agreed to be re-appointed as auditor at the 2017 annual provided by the auditor, in order to satisfy itself that auditor general meeting and will hold office until the new auditor is independence is safeguarded.
Under the non-audit services appointed following the tender process.
The committee will policy for the Group which was applicable for the whole of the supervise the tender process including the implementation year under review, the auditor was prohibited from providing of a robust audit tender governance process, to be agreed certain services which might impair their independence.
on, which would deliver a successful external audit tender The committee monitored compliance with the policy process with minimal disruption to the Group.
The policy also prescribed that any fees Consequently, based on its assessment, the committee excluding tax, for non-audit services performed by the has provided the board with its recommendation to the auditor in a particular year, were to be provisionally capped at shareholders on the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as an aggregate total equivalent to the level of the annual audit external auditor to hold office until the appointment of fee.
Any proposal to use the auditor for non-audit services a new external auditor following the conclusion of the whereby the fees exceeded the stated cap, was subject to audit tender process.
There are no contractual obligations the prior approval of the Audit Committee.
restricting the committees choice of auditor.
A resolution In determining the most appropriate provider of non-audit for re-appointment of the auditor will be proposed at the services, the committee considered the knowledge and forthcoming annual general meeting, the notice for which can expertise of the potential providers and the proposed be found on pages 95 to 99, to fulfil the legal requirement costs.
Where non-audit services were provided by the for the Group to have an auditor until the conclusion of the external auditors, it was based on a conclusion by the audit tender.
committee that they were best placed to provide the External audit services in view of their knowledge of the business, and The effectiveness of the audit process is underpinned by that the provision of the services posed no threat to their appropriate audit planning and risk identification at the independence.
Details of the remuneration paid to the outset of the audit cycle.
The auditor provides a detailed auditor for the statutory audit and non-audit services, audit plan identifying its assessment of the risks and other which normally are limited to assurance and tax advice, key matters for review.
For the year ended 31 March 2017, are set out in note 8. the primary risks identified were: accounting for the Collect In light of the changes introduced by the FRC to the transaction, revenue recognition and management override Revised Ethical Standard in 2016, the committee reviewed of controls.
and updated its policy on auditor independence and the The committee reviews and challenges the work undertaken provision of non-audit services by the external auditor by the auditor to test managements assumptions on these with effect from 1 April 2017.
This policy is a guide on matters.
An assessment of the effectiveness of the audit the types of work that it is acceptable for the external process in addressing these items is performed through the auditor to undertake, and provides clarity on the process reporting received from the auditor at the half-year and year to be followed for approval of the provision of non-audit end.
The committee seeks feedback from management on the services by the external auditor.
The policy also covers the effectiveness of the audit process.
No significant issues were 70% cap on non-audit fees as prescribed by the EU audit raised with respect to the audit process for the period and the regulation.
It states that the fees for permitted non-audit quality of the audit process was assessed to be good.
services provided by the external auditor must not exceed a specified amount and must have a cumulative annual total The 2016 audit of PayPoint plc was subject to inspection of less than 23% of that years audit fee before VAT.
from the Financial Reporting Councils Audit Quality Review team the AQR team.
The review commenced in August Risk management and internal control 2016 and focused on those matters assessed to be most The board is responsible for establishing and maintaining significant to the audit, both from a Group perspective and the Groups system of internal control, and for regularly in reviewing the component work for UK and Ireland.
The board has carried out a PayPoint group audit file was given a Grade 1, by the AQR robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, team, which means it was rated as good, and there were including those that would threaten its business model, no significant areas for improvement identified with regard future performance, solvency or liquidity.
These risks are to the component audit work.
The chairman of the Audit disclosed on pages 20 to 22 together with how they are Committee received a full copy of the findings of the AQR being managed or mitigated.
PayPoint has risk management team and has discussed these with Deloitte.
The Audit processes in place, the purpose of which is to identify, Committee is satisfied that there is nothing within the report assess, quantify, control, avoid, transfer or accept risk in which might have a bearing on the audit appointment.
order to ensure that the business can maximise and protect its value.
Risk management is embedded in the organisation The Audit Committee meets the external auditor without the and within all projects and operational processes.
It is executive directors being present and procedures are in place, entrenched in the operation of the business at all levels in which allow access at any time of both external and internal order to drive improvements and prevent non-compliance auditor to the Audit Committee.
The Chairman of the in business processes.
The risk management system in committee reports the outcome of each meeting to the board.
place is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and therefore can The committees assessment of the external auditors performance and independence was found to be only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
satisfactory and this underpinned its recommendation to the board to propose to shareholders the re-appointment 44 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The framework for the risk management process is as Employees who bring information about malpractice to follows: the attention of management through the whistleblowing processes, are protected.
In accordance with the policies Head of Risk and Compliance identifies risks through in place, the executive board and senior management have discussions with executive board members and senior a duty to ensure that they are approachable, welcome managers in each business function across PayPoint.
disclosure, value communication and that there is no fear of reprisal.
Under no circumstances would the informant be subject to victimisation or harassment as a consequence of their disclosure.
Identified risks are documented in risk registers The committee has whistleblowing as a standing item associated with business functions.
Newly identified on the agenda of all its meetings, and any instances of risks are reported to the Audit Committee prior to their employee disclosures concerning malpractice are reported documentation.
There were no instances of malpractice reported to the committee during the year.
Anti-bribery and corruption The main areas of risk to the Group are recorded in the The Company operates an anti-bribery and corruption Corporate Risk Register CRR which contains a highpolicy which was put in place in response to the UK Bribery level description of risks that fall within seven distinct Act 2010.
This policy sets out the responsibilities of areas of the business, being: Cyber, technology & employees of the Group in observing and maintaining the process: Fraud: Legal, regulatory & compliance: Clients, Groups position on bribery and corruption, which is that agents & other third parties: Economic growth: Product PayPoint will uphold all laws relevant to countering bribery project management: and HR personnel.
and corruption in all the jurisdictions in which it operates.
All employees are required to undertake a Bribery and Corruption Awareness training programme as part of their Reports on each of the seven risk areas in the CRR induction process upon joining the Group.
Subsequent to are presented by the Head of Risk and Compliance at their induction, employees who are deemed to be at risk by least once per calendar year for review at every Audit virtue of their roles, are required to attend a tailored antiCommittee meeting.
In addition the Audit Committee bribery and corruption training course which is organised receives regular updates on the on-going risk internally on a yearly basis.
management, control systems and processes which are Internal audit discussed at its meetings.
The committee is responsible for approving a rigorous internal audit programme the Programme covering all of the Groups key business areas.
The Programme was The key features of the Groups internal control systems approved in March 2014 when the current internal auditors, that ensure the accuracy and reliability of financial Grant Thornton UK LLP Grant Thornton, were appointed reporting include: clearly defined lines of accountability following a tender process.
Each year the Programme is and delegation of authority: policies and procedures that reviewed during the internal audit planning process, to cover financial planning and reporting: preparation of ensure that any changes are taken into account.
In addition monthly management accounts: project governance and to reviewing the Programme, Grant Thornton, in forming the information security: annual certifications from business internal audit plan for the year under review, also: consulted managing directors and finance directors: and review of with a number of key stakeholders in the business including the disclosures within the annual report and accounts the Audit Committee Chairman, the Finance Director and from functional leads.
The reviews by the functional leads the Head of Risk and Compliance and reviewed previous ensure that the disclosures made appropriately reflect the internal audit and other assurance work.
The committee developments within the Group in the year and meet the approved the internal audit plan for the year and reviewed requirement of being fair, balanced and understandable.
the audit findings which were presented to it by Grant All procedures necessary to comply with the FRCs Internal Thornton following the internal audit.
Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined During the year, the committee assessed the effectiveness Code have been in place throughout the period under review of Grant Thornton as internal auditors and concluded they and up to the date of approval of the annual report and were performing well and had demonstrated continued financial statements.
The directors have conducted a formal improvement.
review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control during the year under review and up to the date of The Audit Committee report was approved by the board approval of the annual report and accounts.
No significant of directors on 25 May 2017 and signed on its behalf by: failings or weaknesses were identified during the review.
Giles Kerr Whistleblowing Chairman, Audit Committee The Company continuously seeks to prevent malpractice including criminal offences or activity, fraud, financial mismanagement or corruption, health and safety issues, breach of compliance or legislation, bribery and corruption in its business.
However, if any malpractice is discovered, there are whistleblowing processes in place to ensure that this is properly addressed in accordance with guidance published by the UK Department for Business Innovation & Skills.
