58 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED the Committee.
The Committee confirms Overall audit materiality was set at determine that all significant non audit that there were no significant areas for 11.9m 2016: 12.2m.
This equates to work performed by the auditor in excess improvement identified within the report approximately 1% of net assets.
A lower of 50,000 is approved in advance by and that they are satisfied that there is materiality of 3.7m 2016: 3.7m has the Committee.
Engagements are only nothing within the report which might have been applied for fund management approved if they do not, and will not, impair, a bearing on the audit appointment: revenues.
This is within the range that or appear to impair, the auditors judgement audit opinions are conventionally thought or independence.
The Committee enters into a formal to be reliable.
The auditors use the overall engagement with the auditor, negotiates The procedures set out the categories of materiality combined with their knowledge and agrees its audit fee non audit services which the external auditor of the Group, controls environment and The Committee Chairman has at least is and is not allowed to provide to the Group, assessment of significant risks, to determine bi-monthly meetings with the lead audit including those which are pre-approved which group entities require full scope partner to discuss Group developments by the Committee and those which require audits or specific audit procedures to be specific approval before they are contracted The Committee receives at every performed in order to confirm that the for, subject to fide minimis levels.
A copy Audit Committee meeting an update financial statements are free of material of the policy can be found on the Groups of Deloittes work, compliance with misstatement.
Further details can be found website www.
The policy independence and its findings in the Auditors Report on page 108. prohibits the external auditor from being There was a detailed interview by the To manage the risk that aggregate contracted to perform the following work: Audit Committee Chairman, the CFOO uncorrected errors become material, and the Head of Finance of the audit Book-keeping and other services we agreed that Deloitte would draw to partner and director focusing on the work related to accounting records and the Committees attention all identified undertaken to support their opinion on the financial statements uncorrected misstatements greater than financial statements and the consistency Internal audit services 215,000 2016: 244,000 and for of the remainder of the report and fund management revenues 72,000 Financial information system design accounts with their work.
In addition, the 2016: 72,000. and implementation Committee received an oral report from Actuarial services the funds audit partner in Jersey at the The aggregated net difference between conclusion of the local audit the reported pre-tax profit and the Management functions auditors judgement of pre-tax profit was The Committee reviewed and discussed Valuation services 0.1m, which was significantly less than the audit findings, including audit Legal services audit materiality.
The gross differences differences prior to the approval were attributable to various individual In accordance with recent legislative of the financial statements components of the income statement.
changes, from 1 April 2017 the policy has In accordance with relevant independence No audit difference was qualitatively or prohibited the external auditor from being standards, the external auditors do not place quantitatively material to any line item in contracted to perform certain tax services.
direct reliance on the work of internal audit.
either the income statement or the balance This has resulted in Deloitte being replaced sheet.
Accordingly, the Committee did not as the Groups corporate tax advisers.
Audit materiality require any adjustment to be made to the The prohibited tax services are as follows: We have discussed the accuracy of financial financial statements as result of the audit Preparation of tax filings and other reporting known as materiality with differences reported by the auditor.
services related to tax filings Deloitte both as regards accounting errors Provision of tax advice that will be brought to the Committees Non audit services attention and as regards amounts that The Board has an established policy In addition, the level of permissible non audit would need to be adjusted so that the setting out what non audit services can services must not exceed 70% of the average financial statements give a true and fair be purchased from the firm appointed as of the statutory audit fees for the previous view.
Errors can arise for many reasons external auditors.
The Committee regularly three years.
The cap applies prospectively ranging from deliberate errors fraud monitors non audit services being provided from 1 April 2017 and will therefore first etc.
to estimates that were made at a to the Group by Deloitte to ensure there apply for our financial year beginning point in time that did not consider all is no impairment to their independence 1 April 2020. available information.
Procedures are in place to ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 59 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS During the year the Group paid 0.3m The Committee, having considered The Committee has monitored the working 2016: 0.4m to Deloitte LLP for the compliance with our policies on relationship between the Head of Internal provision of corporate non audit services independence, the findings of our quality Audit and the CRO, ensuring that the roles which is within the 70% audit fees limit that review and service enquiries, and the results are coordinated and optimised to reduce will apply over a rolling three year period.
of the AQRt review, is satisfied that Deloitte the potential for significant gaps in oversight Of this, 0.1m is in respect of services has demonstrated the skills and service and unnecessary duplication of efforts.
in their capacity as auditor and 0.2m of standards to justify a recommendation to The Committee is satisfied that internal fees were incurred for tax compliance and shareholders for their reappointment as audit is independent of the first and second advisory services not related to the audit auditors for the year ending 31 March 2018. lines of defence.
During the year the Head of the financial statements.
All non audit Accordingly, a motion to that effect will be of Internal Audit and the CRO have worked services were approved by the Committee.
together on improving reporting on the Deloitte also provides services to funds that effectiveness of internal controls to meet the are managed by the Group but over which INTERNAL AUDIT revised requirements of the UK Corporate it does not exercise control.
The Group has a Head of Internal Audit who draws on the services of our outsourced Deloitte is a leading market participant in Internal audit effectiveness internal audit providers, RSM and KPMG the non audit sector, having a reputation to supplement her capacity.
The Head During the financial year the Committee for quality, and having a local presence of Internal Audit reports to the Audit appointed a third party, Independent Audit, in the countries in which the services Committee Chairman.
to undertake a review of the effectiveness were performed.
Audit objectivity and of the Internal Audit function.
The review independence was safeguarded by The Committee approves the annual concluded that Internal Audit had, in its all advice being provided by partners internal audit plan and the internal audit short life, succeeded in establishing itself and staff that have no involvement in charter.
The scope of internal audit is not as a necessary and valuable element of the audit of the financial statements.
restricted, and the plan is developed from the Groups risk and control framework.
Advice was not dependent on a particular a consideration of the principal risks to Independent Audit made their assessment accounting treatment and the outcome or the Group and coverage of the Group as a based on certain observations and consequences of the advice did not have whole.
Its development reflects the priorities document inspections, together with a material effect on the Groups financial of management, the CRO, our regulators interviews with Committee members, statements.
No services were provided to and the Committee.
Internal audit retains the Executive Directors and other relevant ICG Group entities pursuant to contingent sufficient flexibility to embrace intra-year senior management.
changes, such as the establishment of new investment strategies or changes to the The Committee also asked Independent A detailed analysis of fees paid to Deloitte principal risks of the Group.
Audit to consider whether the function is LLP is shown in note 11 on page 144. expected to continue to meet the needs During the year 15 reviews were completed, of the organisation.
Independent Audit Auditor reappointment responded to by management and reviewed provided some suggestions for the Deloitte has reviewed its own and its by the Audit Committee.
The Committee Committee to consider as the function relevant affiliates independence in line with pays particular attention to remedial actions matures.
The suggestions included regular its internal criteria and ethical standards.
and timescales and deadlines that are visits to all significant locations, enhancing They have confirmed to the Committee not achieved.
the reports to include more context about that following the review, they are satisfied Throughout the year, the Committee the control environment and consideration that they have acted in accordance with monitored the development of internal audit of succession planning.
The review findings relevant regulatory and professional reports, commenting specifically on scopes and a plan for implementing the suggested requirements.
Deloitte has also confirmed of reviews.
Reports have been tailored improvements were discussed with the Head to us that the audit complies with their to the Groups risks, focusing on areas of of Internal Audit.
concern and future indicators of risk whilst As previously noted, last years audit was at the same time highlighting opportunities subject to an independent quality assurance to streamline processes.
process undertaken externally by the AQRt.
60 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT RISK COMMITTEE DEAR SHAREHOLDER Our work focuses on defining The Board is accountable for the oversight the risk appetite of the Group, of risk management, and an effective risk assessing risk exposures, including management framework and risk culture external and emerging risks, and the are critical components to support the achievement of our strategic goals.
oversight of risk-related regulations Good risk management practice requires such as the ICAAP a sound understanding of the Groups risks, the appetite for risk taking and KATHRYN PURVES mitigations to limit downside exposure and Chairman of the Risk Committee maximise opportunities.
I am pleased to report that during the year the Board has overseen the continued enhancement of the Groups risk management framework.
The Committee undertook a robust assessment of the Groups principal risks and associated risk appetite, taking into account changes in the business and the external environment.
Enhancements were made to management information and risk reporting, and there was a greater focus on emerging risks.
Additionally, the senior management team has recently established an Executive Risk Committee to complement the activities of the Operational Risk Group and further strengthen the robust governance processes.
The principal risks faced by the Group and how they are managed are set out on pages 30 to 33 of this Annual Report.
The following pages set out the Risk Committee Committee report for financial year 2017.
The report is structured in three parts: 1.
Committee governance: roles and responsibilities, composition and effectiveness page 61 2. Review of the year: significant risk areas we addressed page 63 3.
Internal audit and compliance monitoring page 64 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 61 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As I mentioned last year, I consider that a core A particular focus of the Committee has GOVERNANCE OF RISK component of an effective risk management been the work being undertaken by the On behalf of the Board, the Committee framework for a financial services business Group to prepare for the implementation of encourages, and seeks to safeguard, high is the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment MiFID II and the impact of the UKs decision standards of risk management and effective Process ICAAP.
The ICAAP is an important to leave the EU.
Cyber risk continues to be internal controls.
tool in understanding the impact of business closely and carefully monitored as this risk decisions and external events on the Groups area continues to evolve.
The Committee Roles and responsibilities regulatory capital position.
The ICAAP is is satisfied with the work done to date, and The Committee meets regularly, at least utilised on an ongoing basis, in particular to will continue to monitor progress over the three times a year, and is responsible for: assess the regulatory capital implications of coming year.
business decisions, and is formally reviewed Advising the Board on the Groups overall The Committee continued to work by the Committee on at least an annual risk appetite and tolerance closely with the Audit Committee and the basis.
The Committees current year review Reviewing the Groups risk management Remuneration Committee throughout the included the challenge of the operational framework and approving risk policies, year with the aim of effectively covering risk capital calculations and consideration standards and limits within the overall pertinent topics in the most suitable forum.
of whether the Groups consolidated CLOs appetite and tolerance approved by should be included in the regulatory capital The Committee will continue to focus on the Board calculations.
Benchmarking with peers, advice maintaining a strong control environment Annually reviewing, and recommending from lawyers consultants and feedback from and monitoring the risks faced by the to the Board, the Groups principal risks the FCA have helped the Board to clarify Group in delivering its strategic objectives, Keeping under review the effectiveness these points and enhance our ICAAP.
particularly emerging and external risks of the Groups risk management systems which include the impact of the UKs The Committee has continued its focus departure from the EU and other possible Reviewing and approving the statements on systems of control and monitoring.
Key areas of priority to be included in the annual report In particular, it has considered the ongoing will be the implementation of MiFID II and the concerning risk management development of the process to assess Senior Managers and Certification Regime Reviewing any reports on the the effectiveness of material controls for Asset Managers.
effectiveness of systems of risk operated to manage the principal risks management and or the Groups attitude to the Group.
This year, greater focus I would be pleased to discuss the to, and tolerance of, risk, including has been placed on senior managers Committees work with any shareholder.
financial and non financial risks accountability for operating key controls and this Committee, together with the Audit Reviewing the Companys procedures KATHRYN PURVES Committee, reviewed the reporting on the for identifying, assessing, controlling and Chairman of the Risk Committee effectiveness of material controls meeting mitigating the material risks faced by the 24 May 2017 the requirements of the UK Corporate Group: and ensuring these procedures Governance Code see page 29. allow proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and appropriate follow up action 62 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT RISK COMMITTEE CONTINUED Annually considering and approving the AREAS OF COMMITTEE FOCUS remit of the risk management function: and ensuring it has adequate resources and appropriate access to information to GOVERNANCE PRINCIPAL AND EMERGING RISKS Committee governance Identification and management enable it to perform its function effectively People changes of principal risks and in accordance with the relevant Best practice developments Risk appetite and tolerances professional standards Receiving timely notification of material breaches of risk limits and the remedial action taken or proposed Advising the Remuneration Committee on the alignment of remuneration with risk appetite Informing the Remuneration Committee of the conduct of any individual who RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES FRAMEWORK has acted without appropriately taking AND CONTROLS Review of the updated risk account of risk Effectiveness of risk management framework management systems Oversight of risk policies Review of risk events Composition and remedial actions The Committee consists of Non Executive REGULATORY RISKS Impact of regulatory change Directors only.
The current members ICAAP are Kathryn Purves Chairman of the Resourcing Committee, Peter Gibbs, Kevin Parry, Rusty Nelligan and Kim Wahl.
Biographical details can be found on pages 42 and 43 Effectiveness Summary of meetings in the year The Committee members have a wide The Committee reviews its terms The Committee held four meetings during range of business and financial experience, of reference and effectiveness the year.
In each of its meetings, it received including risk management, fund annually.
The terms of reference are a report from the CRO providing an management and investment, regulation summarised above.
assessment on each principal risk versus and compliance, M&A, tax and international appetite, key risk events, key emerging risks, During the year the Committee engaged a business practices.
In particular, Kathryn actions taken or being taken to manage third party, Independent Audit, to conduct Purves was the CRO of Partnership the risks, reports on global compliance an effectiveness review.
Independent Audit Assurance Group plc and Kevin Parry is including the monitoring programme and noted that the implementation of a risk the former chairman of Schroders plcs regulatory developments.
Other work is management framework was nearing executive risk committee.
These skills enable undertaken periodically including deep completion and commented that it was the Committee to fulfil its terms of reference dives into particular risk areas such as cyber important that the purpose of the Committee in a robust and independent manner.
risk to allow the Committee to consider over was clearly communicated and understood.
the course of the year, the full spectrum of The Executive Directors of the Board The effectiveness review recommended risks facing the Group.
Over the course of are not members of the Committee but that the Committees scope and objectives the year the Committee considered and attend meetings at the invitation of the were clearly defined in order to ensure that discussed the following significant matters.
The CRO, discussions focused on consideration of the Group Compliance Officer, Head of Internal organisations risk appetite, risk exposures Audit and the Company Secretary attend and major outcomes, and oversight of all the meetings.
risk-related regulations such as the ICAAP.
