75 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Leadership & Effectiveness Other information Governance report The Groups principal decision-making Governance framework Group Authorisation Arrangements body is the Board.
In line with the Code, The Board is responsible to all The Group Authorisation Arrangements the Board delegates certain roles and GAA are the framework through which the stakeholders, including the Companys responsibilities to its various Committees.
Severn Trent Plc Board authorises the right shareholders, for the approval and The Committees assist the Board by people, at the right level, to take important delivery of the Groups strategic objectives.
decisions to effectively control and manage fulfilling their roles and responsibilities, It makes sure that the necessary financial, legal, financial and administrative decisions focusing on their respective activities, technical and human resources are throughout the Group.
These arrangements reporting to the Board on decisions and are reviewed annually, with the last review in place for the Company to meet its actions taken, and making any necessary undertaken in March 2017. objectives.
The Board leads the Group recommendations in line with their Terms The flow of authority is from the Severn Trent within a framework of practical and of Reference.
The Terms of Reference Plc Board to the Chief Executive and the effective controls which enable risk to be of each Committee comply with the Severn Trent Executive Committee.
In respect assessed and managed.
of certain decisions, the delegated authority is provisions of the Code and have been subject to an obligation to work with specialist Responsibility for the development and updated to take account of best practice, business service areas such as Tax, Treasury, implementation of the Groups strategy and reflect the requirements of the Group Finance, Group Commercial and and overall commercial objectives is revised UK Corporate Governance Code General Counsel, which provides additional delegated to the Chief Executive who is expertise and a Group-wide perspective.
April 2016, as part of their annual review in supported by the Severn Trent Executive March 2017.
The sub-committee structure is detailed in the governance framework overleaf and key responsibilities are set out on page 76.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 76 Leadership & Effectiveness Governance report continued Governance framework CHAIRMAN Andrew Duff BOARD 5 4 Leads our unified Board, ensuring that the The Boards role is to: understand and meet its obligations to the Companys stakeholders: principles and processes of the Board are lead the Group within a framework of practical and effective controls which enable risk to be maintained in line with our Code of Conduct assessed and managed: approve the Groups strategic objectives and ensure that sufficient andCharter of Expectations.
resources are available to enable it to meet those objectives: and monitor and review the operating and financial performance of the Group.
It has responsibility and accountability forthe long term success of the Group.
BOARD COMMITTEES CEO Liv Garfield AUDIT COMMITTEE 3 Delegated responsibility for the development Chair John Coghlan and implementation of the Groups strategy and overallcommercial objectives.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities for Responsible for the day-to-day management of the the integrity of the Companys financial statements, the assessment of the business and the communication of Board agreed effectiveness of the systems of Internal Controls, Risk Management and the objectives to employees.
It also reviews the adequacy of the Companys whistleblowing arrangements.
More information can be found on page 85.
SEVERN TRENT EXECUTIVE 4 6 COMMITTEE STEC TREASURY COMMITTEE 4 Chair John Coghlan STEC operates under the directionand authority of theCEOoverseeing the development and execution of The Treasury Committee provides oversight of treasury activities in strategy.
It also has accountability for achieving financial implementing the policies, funding and treasury risk management plan and operational performance.
These include inter alia: the measurement and management of risks in respect of interest rates: funding: counterparty credit: liquidity and treasury operations: funding proposals: relationship withrating agencies: debt investor relations: bank relationship management:and treasury internal controls.
EXECUTIVE SUB-COMMITTEE DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE 2 2 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 3 1 Chair James Bowling Chair Philip Remnant The Disclosure Committee oversees the Companys On behalf of the Board, the Remuneration Committee determines the compliance with its disclosure obligations and Companys policy on the remuneration of Executive Directors, other considersthe materiality, accuracy, reliability and members of the Executive Committee and the Chairman of the Board.
More information can be found on page 96.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE 1 3 Chair Dr. Angela Strank The Corporate Responsibility Committee provides guidance and direction to theCompanys Corporate Responsibility and sustainability programme based onour values.
It also reviews the Groups non-financial risks and opportunities.
More information can be found on page 91.
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE 4 2 More information on Board and Committee membership can be found onpages72 and 73.
Chair Andrew Duff Each Board Committee has written Terms of Reference reviewedannually andapproved by the Board, which are available on the Companys website.
The Nominations Committee assists the Board by keeping the structure, size, composition and succession needs of the Board under review.
It also assists Membership of the Treasury Committee includes Head of Group Treasury, anon-Board position.
the Board on issues of Directors conflicts of interestand independence.
More information can be found on page 81.
Indicates membership of each Committee, Male Female including gender.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 77 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Leadership & Effectiveness Other information Key Board responsibilities Chairman Andrew Duff Leads our unified Board and is responsible for its effectiveness.
Responsible for setting agendas for Board meetings and for the timely dissemination of information to the Board, in consultation with CEO, CFO and the Company Secretary.
Responsible for scrutinising the performance of the Executive Committee.
Facilitates contribution from our Directors.
Ensures effective communication with our shareholders and other stakeholders.
Chief Executive CEO Develops and implements the Groups strategy, as approved by the Board.
LivGarfield Responsible for the overall commercial objectives of the Group.
Promotes and conducts the affairs of the Group with the highest standards of integrity, probity andcorporate governance, and sets the cultural tone of the organisation.
Manages the Groups financial affairs.
Chief Financial Officer CFO James Bowling Supports the CEO in the implementation and achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
Senior Independent In addition to his responsibilities as a NED, Kevin Beeston: Non-Executive Director supports the Chairman in delivery of his objectives: SID Kevin Beeston is available to all shareholders should they have a concern, in the event the normal channels of Chairman, CEO and CFO have failed to resolve it: leads the appraisal of the Chairmans performance with the Non-Executive Directors: and together with the Board Committees, Chairman, and NEDs, has a key role in succession planning forthe Board.
Constructively challenge our Executive Directors in all areas.
Independent Non-Executive Directors NEDs Monitor the delivery of strategy by the Executive Committee within the risk and control framework JohnCoghlan, set by the Board.
DominiqueReiniche, Satisfy themselves that internal controls are robust and that the External Audit is undertaken Dr. Angela Strank, properly.
PhilipRemnant Responsible for agreeing appropriate levels of remuneration for Executive Directors.
Together with the Board Committees, Chairman, and SID, have a key role in succession planning forthe Board.
Responsible for the Groups wholesale business.
Executive Director EmmaFitzGerald Supports the CEO in the implementation and achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
Group General Counsel Acts as Secretary to our Board and its Committees, ensuring sound information flows to the Board and between senior management and the Non-Executive Directors.
andCompany Secretary Bronagh Kennedy Responsible for advising the Board on all corporate governance matters.
Facilitates a comprehensive induction for newly appointed Directors, tailored to individual requirements.
Responsible for compliance with Board procedures.
Co-ordinates the performance evaluation of Board members and the annual effectiveness review of the Board and its Committees.
Provides advice and services to the Board.
Additional information on the role of the Board, its Committees and further information in relation to each of the roles outlined above, can be found on the corporate governance section of our website.
Biographical details of each member of the Board can be found on pages 72 and 73.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 78 Leadership & Effectiveness Governance report continued As part of this years Board effectiveness The Board recognises the Codes Matters Reserved to the Plc Board review, full consideration was given to the recommendation that Directors serve a The schedule of Matters Reserved to the number of external positions held by each fixed term of appointment and considers Board sets out the processes in place Non-Executive Director.
As a result of plans for orderly succession to the Board regarding the Boards tasks and activities this review, the Board did not identify any to maintain an appropriate balance of and the matters specifically reserved for the instances of overboarding, and confirmed skills and experience within the Company.
A copy is available that all individual Directors have sufficient As such, the Company maintains a clear on our website www.
time to commit to their role as a Director framework of Non-Executive Director The Board has reserved the following of Severn Trent Plc.
tenure and the skill sets that each Director matters, amongst other things, for its own consideration: provides.
Individual Director biographies In addition to the seven standing Board can be found on pages 72 and73.
the Groups strategic and operating plans: meetings, there were 12 additional ad hoc In accordance with the Code, all the financial reporting and controls: meetings of the Board or Committee of Directors will retire at this years AGM and major acquisition and disposals: the Board convened throughout the year submit themselves for reappointment by key Group policies: and to consider such matters as the operation shareholders.
Each of the Non-Executive GAA.
of the non-household retail market, our Directors seeking reappointment are joint venture with United Utilities, the considered to be independent in character acquisition of Dee Valley Plc, Severn Trent Board meetings and attendance and judgement.
Plcs preliminary and interim results, The composition and attendance of quarterly management statements and Conflicts members at Board meetings, as at year regulatory disclosures.
end, was as follows: The Board formally considers conflicts of interest at every meeting, and reviews the Board strategy day Meetings Max authorisation of any potential conflicts of Director attended possible In addition to formal meetings at which interest every six months.
Andrew Duff 7 7 strategic items are regularly received, in October 2016 the Board held a dedicated James Bowling 7 7 strategy meeting along with the Executive John Coghlan 7 7 Committee to consider areas of future Dominique Reiniche value creation across the Group and Appointed 20 July 16 4 4 spent time considering asset strategy and Liv Garfield 7 7 potential future disruptors, regulatory strategy and growth strategies across our Kevin Beeston Appointed 1 June 16 5 5 portfolio of businesses.
Emma FitzGerald 7 7 Independence of NEDs Philip Remnant 7 7 The independence of our Non-Executive Dr. Angela Strank 7 7 Directors is formally reviewed annually Martin Lamb by the Nominations Committee, and as Retired20 July 16 3 3 part of the Board evaluation exercise.
Further details can be found on Gordon Fryett page83.
The Nominations Committee Retired20 July 16 3 3 and Board consider that there are no The Board held seven scheduled meetings business or other circumstances that during the year, and individual attendance are likely to affect the independence of is set out above.
For additional information any Non-Executive Director and that all on the activities of the Board, see page 79.
Non-Executive Directors continue to demonstrate independence.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 79 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Leadership & Effectiveness Other information Board activities The table below sets out the main matters considered by the Board in 2016 17 at its scheduled Board meetings.
The Boards agenda is ordinarily structured as follows: performance review including health strategic items: governance and regulatory matters: and and safety, operational, customer and matters for approval: committee reports.
financial matters : matters to note: This structure ensures that Matters Reserved for the Board are addressed appropriately and that the Boards time isspent effectively.
Topic Activities Discussion Discussion and review of performance and engagement reports at every meeting.
Customers Discussion and review of digital technology.
Discussion and review customer strategy updates.
Review and discussion of feedback following stakeholder meetings with CEO and CFO, investor roadshows, Shareholders conferencesand Capital Markets Day.
Approach in respect of contract and materials management.
Strategy Review and discussion of capital programme management.
Review and discussion of the Groups security and resilience strategy, including physical, cyber and people.
Review and discussion of shareholder feedback.
Discussion and review of health and safety performance at every meeting.
Environment, Health & Safety Discussion and review of environmental matters.
Discussion and review of renewables updates.
Review of Severn Trents governance framework.
Governance &Risk Review of the GAA.
Board and Committee effectiveness review including the Board, its Committees and individual Directors.
Annual review of Terms of Reference for all Board Committees.
Reappointment of the External Auditor.
Review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk management processes.
Bi-annual Enterprise Risk Management and Assurance Map review.
Regular governance report provided by the Company Secretary, including annual review of compliance with the Code.
Bi-annual review of the Groups disclosure requirements.
Gifts and Hospitality register, conflicts of interest and interest of Directors.
Cyber Security reports from the Audit Committee.
Review of annual performance, including approval of full year, half-year results and trading updates.
Group Budget 2016 17, medium term financial plan and regulated business ODIs.
Disposal of Operating Services Italy.
Review of the Groups financial performance against budget and forecast.
Regulation Regulatory reporting and annual submissions to Ofwat.
Non-household retail market opening discussions at every meeting.
Regulatory business discussions at every meeting.
Engagement with regulators, including Consumer Council for Water and Drinking Water Inspectorate.
Discussion and review of water quality and environmental performance updates.
Acquisition of Dee Valley plc.
Discussion and review of employee engagement across the Group from the results of the employee engagement QUEST survey.
Employees & Leadership Regular discussion and review of talent development and succession planning across the Group.
Review the composition and succession of the Board and its Committees.
Discussion and review of the Groups ethics culture.
Ethics Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 80 Leadership & Effectiveness Governance report continued by external bodies and our advisers.
In addition, Kevin and Dominique took part Board Training Sessions 2016 17 CPD requirements were considered, in an extensive tour of our key operational Board through individual performance review and office sites in order to understand Date Topic attendance meetings between the Chairman and our water treatment and distribution April 2016 Operational 100% each Director, as part of the Board processes, and the customer journey, Effectiveness effectiveness review in 2016 17. inalive environment, as follows: Programme Presentation Water process from rain to tap.
Succession May 2016 Communities of 100% Waste water process from drain Practice Director inductions Kevin Beeston and to river.
October Risk Management 100% Dominique Reiniche induction Customer journey from moving into a 2016 Session new home, to moving out.
The induction programmes for Kevin November Data Centre Session 100% and Dominique were comprehensive and 2016 We will continue to enhance the Boards tailored to their individual understanding induction process following feedback from January Security Physical, 100% of the Group and Board Committee 2017 Cyber and People Kevin and Dominique.
They were facilitated by March 2017 Risk Identification 100% Induction programme content the Company Secretary and covered the and Horizon Ofwat pre-appointment process.
Scanning Board below topics, with supporting meetings Workshop Company structure including regulatory with members of Executive management overviewand performance.
and external advisers as appropriate.
Training and continuing Key stakeholder relations including employees,  customers, suppliers and service providers.
As well as Board agenda items, training Key operations and processes including operational areas and key sites.
sessions in relation to specific topics of interest that were presented to Directors Financial performance including analyst andinvestor opinion.
during the year are set out below.
Our people including health, safety and The aim of the training sessions is to wellbeing, talent and succession, trade unions continually refresh and expand the andan overviewof our remuneration policy.
Boards knowledge and skills to enable Group risk profile and our approach to risk.
them to effectively fulfil their roles on the Board procedures including our governance Board and its Committees and contribute framework, GAA, Doing the Right Thing and to discussions on technical and regulatory Grouppolicies.
The sessions also serve as Board calendar, effectiveness reviews and an opportunity for the Board to discuss actionplans.
strategy and risks with management below Executive Committee level and gain Additional sessions were held with Kevin further insight into our businesses and and Dominique to reflect their individual management capability.
Board Committee membership as follows: Kevin Insight into key Internal Audits Directors resources and areas of focus.
An online resource library and Continuing Dominique Corporate Responsibility Professional Development CPD framework and strategy.
repository is available for use by the Directors, which is constantly reviewed and updated.
The library includes a Corporate Governance Manual, a Results Centre and Investor Relations section, Strategy Day materials and details of Board training sessions.
It also contains a further reading section which covers updates and guidance on changes to legislation and corporate governance best practice.
The Directors also have access to professional development provided Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
