Nomination Committee report Chairmans statement on the Nomination Committee Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to report that the general outcome of the evaluation based on the assessment of committee On behalf of the Nomination Committee I am pleased to members was positive with the members agreeing that the present the Nomination Committee report for the year committee worked well together and had the right balance ended 31 March 2017.
The main focus for the committee of skill to be able to discharge its duties effectively.
during the year was on the processes for the appointment of new directors to the board.
The committee continued For the year under review the Nomination Committee to regularly assess the balance of skills, experience, comprised Gill Barr, Neil Carson, Giles Kerr, David Morrison independence and knowledge on the board.
This regular and myself, Nick Wiles as the committee Chairman.
assessment enabled the committee to correctly identify key Subsequently, upon his appointment, Rakesh Sharma skills and knowledge that would enhance the composition became a member of the committee.
Biographies of each of the board, and these were then used in the recruitment committee member are on page 29. process as key criteria for candidates to possess in order to Nick Wiles be considered for appointment.
Chairman, Nomination Committee The committee carried out an evaluation of its performance 25 May 2017 which followed the same process as the board evaluation set out on page 38.
The evaluation questionnaire covered the areas of: Terms of reference and composition of the committee: Committee management: Committee effectiveness: Chair effectiveness: and Overall committee performance.
40 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Activities of the committee during 2016 17 Succession planning and board appointments The committee met four times during the period and the The committee in making recommendations to the board on details of meeting attendance are set out on page 35. the appointments of new directors, adopts a transparent The activities of the committee for the year under review procedure whereby the required skills, knowledge and comprised: experience are carefully identified in order to complement and create a balance with the existing skill set on the board.
Board The committee kept the composition During the year, George Earle informed the board of his composition: of the board under constant review intention to retire as Finance Director.
In light of this in order to determine the skills, development after careful consideration the Nomination knowledge and experience required Committee commissioned an external search, using the in light of the various changes to the independent executive search firm, Zygos Partnership board.
Details of appointments to Zygos which has no other connection with the Company, the board are set out opposite.
to search for a successor to George Earle.
In deciding on the candidate specifications, the committee took into account Succession The committee considered the importance of delivery on strategy and therefore made planning: succession planning for board strong competency on strategy one of the key skills the directors.
candidates were required to have.
The other key attributes required aside from technical financial competence were: ability to engage with investors and the market, and strong Committee As highlighted in the committee commercial knowledge.
Based on the agreed required skill evaluation: Chairmans letter above, the set, Zygos produced a shortlist of suitable candidates.
The members of the committee carried committee authorised the Chairman and the Chief Executive out an internal evaluation of its to meet with each of the shortlisted candidates on its behalf.
Rachel Kentleton was identified as the candidate who met all the criteria, and upon her meeting with each member of the Terms of Review of the committees terms of committee, the committee was unanimous in its decision to reference: reference.
recommend her to the board for appointment as a director and successor to George Earle.
Neil Carson also informed the board during the year of his Diversity policy intention to step down as a director before the 2017 annual general meeting.
Again, the committee commissioned The board embraces the supporting principles on diversity Zygos to search for a non-executive director who would enshrined in the UK Corporate Governance Code relating to also act as chair of the Remuneration committee following board diversity, including gender.
Neil Carsons departure from the board.
Zygos was given The board is committed to ensuring an appropriate balance the candidate specification which was based on objective of skills, knowledge and experience on its board.
In full criteria in line with the appropriate guidelines on diversity, support of the Department of Business Innovation & Skills and included a requirement for the proposed candidates objective for FTSE 350 boards to have an appropriate to have competence and experience relevant to the female presence, 25% of the board members are women.
environment in which PayPoint operates.
Zygos submitted Diversity is a vital part of the continued assessment a shortlist of suitable candidates to the committee.
and enhancement of board composition and the board The committee authorised the Chairman and the Chief recognises the benefits of diversity amongst its members.
Executive to meet with each of the shortlisted candidates The board will take account of all aspects of diversity in its on its behalf.
Rakesh Sharma was identified as the best considerations including, but not limited to gender, industry candidate for the role and was subsequently recommended experience, background and race.
to the board by the Nomination Committee on the basis that he met the desired criteria.
The Nomination Committee puts particular emphasis on the importance of sourcing candidates appropriately The Chief Executive proactively manages succession widely so that shortlisted candidates reflect the desire for planning for the executive board and senior management and increased diversity, in line with the boards objectives as keeps the board updated on developments as necessary.
In order to assist the board in achieving its The Nomination Committee report was approved by the board commitment, the Nomination Committee ensures that only of directors on 25 May 2017 and signed on its behalf by: independent executive search firms which subscribe to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms, are Nick Wiles commissioned in respect of board appointments.
Chairman, Nomination Committee 25 May 2017 All board appointments are made on merit, in the context of balance of the skills, experience, independence and knowledge which the board as a whole requires to be effective, taking account of diversity in the manner described above.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors are made available for inspection at the annual general meeting.
Further details on diversity throughout the Group including information about the diversity and equality policy that applies to PayPoint employees can be found on pages 25 to 27.
