B, C Prior to Accenture, Sarah was CEO of Datapoint, 1.
Bronagh Kennedy BA Hons an Alchemy backed company delivering CRM C, G Chief Executive 53 services, and Senior Vice President of eLoyalty, a Please see full biography on page 72.
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary global CRM and marketing consultancy.
She was Bronagh joined Severn Trent in June 2011.
SVP of the European Business, led the sales and Bronagh is a solicitor and was previously Group 2.
James Bowling BA Hons Econ, operations activity in North America and ran C, F, G Company Secretary and General Counsel and eLoyalty Ventures L. L. C. working in Silicon Valley, ACA 48 HR Director at Mitchells & Butlers, where she Austin and New York.
Chief Financial Officer worked for 15 years.
Prior to that, she was a Please see full biography on page 72.
External appointments SeniorAssociate at Allen & Overy.
She is a Twizzletwig Limited Director member of the GC100 Group.
Emma FitzGerald MA, DPhil Twizzletwig Limited Secretary External appointments C Oxon, MBA 50 C Independent Non-Executive Director and 6.
Evelyn Dickey BSc Hons 54 Managing Director, Wholesale Operations Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Director of Human Resources Please see full biography on page 73. ofBritish Canoeing Evelyn joined Severn Trent in November 2006.
Evelyn has extensive HR experience C 4.
Dr. Tony Ballance BSc Hons, MA 9.
Helen Miles CIMA 46 leading design and delivery of major change C, G Econ, PhD 52 Chief Commercial Officer programmes, business restructuring, employee Helen joined Severn Trent in November 2014 as Director, Strategy and Regulation relations, resourcing, executive remuneration, the Chief Commercial Officer and brings with her Tonys extensive experience in utility policy organisational capability and performance a wealth of commercial experience having worked and regulation leaves him ideally placed to management initiatives.
Before joining within regulated businesses and sectors across lead the Companys strategic and regulatory SevernTrent, Evelyn worked in HR consultancy Telecoms, Leisure and Banking.
Prior to joining Severn Trent he held the and as HR Director HR Operations for Boots of the UK Board, Helen was instrumental in posts of Chief Economist for Ofwat, Director of the Chemist.
delivering HomeServes future growth strategy London Economics and Director of Stone and External appointments and ensuring a sustainable, customer focused Webster Consultants.
As an experienced finance professional, External appointments Decommissioning Authority Helen was previously Chief Financial Officer Trustee, the National Forest Company for Openreach, part of BT Group plc, and has Member of Water UK Council 7.
Martin Kane BSc, CEng, CEnv, extensive experience of delivering major business C MICE, MIWEM, FIW 64 transformation across the Group.
Sarah Bentley BSc Hons, Group, Helen worked in a variety of sectors and Chief Engineer Management Science with organisations such as Bass Taverns, Barclays Martin joined Severn Trent Water in 1975 and was C Computing 45 Bank, Compass Group and HSBC.
appointed Chief Engineer in July 2014.
He has held various senior roles giving him an extensive and Chief Customer Officer C unique understanding of the design, construction Sarah joined Severn Trent in December 2014 as the 10.
Andy Smith BTech Hons 56 and operation of water and waste water treatment Chief Customer Officer, responsible for household Managing Director, Business Services plants, water distribution networks and sewerage customers, Group IS and Group Transformation.
Andy was appointed to the role of MD, Business systems.
Martin was Director of Customer She previously worked for Accenture as Managing Services on its creation in 2014 having previously Relations, Severn Trent Plc, from May 2006 until Director of their 3 billion global digital business been responsible for the drinking water business January 2012, and Chief Executive Officer of focused on digital marketing, mobility and analytics within Severn Trent Water.
Andy brings to the role a SevernTrent Services until July 2014. for customers, employees and the enterprise.
wide range of executive and operational expertise External appointments gained from diverse sectors.
He has worked in the Member of the Boards of Utilities and Service UK and overseas with global businesses such as Committee membership key Industries Training Limited BP, Mars and Pepsi in both engineering, HR and A Audit Committee Trustee of International Society for operational management roles.
Previously he has B Corporate Responsibility Committee Trenchless Technology C Executive Committee served as a member of the Board at Severn Trent D Nominations Committee Chairman of Coventry and Warwickshire Plc and at Boots Group Plc.
E Remuneration Committee Growth Hub a subsidiary Board of the Local External appointments F Treasury Committee Enterprise Partnership G Disclosure Committee Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Diploma PLC Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
