40 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT A LETTER FROM THE plans and put processes in place to ensure DEAR SHAREHOLDER that an appropriate candidate for the role I became Chairman of the Board of the could be appointed.
After considering Company from the end of last years Annual carefully the merits of 16 individuals, the General Meeting AGM.
The subsequent exercise concluded that Benot Durteste period has been a busy one in terms of was the strongest candidate to succeed to Corporate Governance, not least due to the this role and meet the strategy and growth nomination process for a new CEO and the targets set by the Board.
Once Christophe consideration of the Groups management confirmed his intention to resign, the framework.
The last year has also seen Board was able to move quickly and KEVIN PARRY two new Non Executive Directors join the Chairman seamlessly to appoint Benot.
We continue to consider whether our Continuing to refresh the composition Board can be further enhanced by additional Key governance achievements of the Board We considered over 40 high-calibre appointments.
candidates for non executive directorships Appointment of Benot Durteste as Your Board will continue to manage the resulting in two new Non Executive our new CEO following a detailed and Company in the long term interests of Directors being appointed.
Rusty Nelligan, thorough succession process overseen shareholders.
We remain committed to an experienced audit partner, joined by the Nomination Committee maintaining high standards in the area the Board in September 2016 and has Continuation of the process of of corporate governance and have been become Chairman of our Audit Committee.
refreshing the composition of the in compliance with the requirements of Virginia Holmes, who has a background Board to include a wider range of the UK Combined Code on Corporate in investment management and has acted skills and backgrounds, including Governance throughout the year.
as a director of a number of significant the appointment of a new Chairman The volume of applicable law and regulation companies, joined the Board and of the Audit Committee and the in this area continues to increase and will Remuneration Committee in March 2017. recent addition of a further Non remain an important focus area for the Please see pages 65 to 68 for the report of the Executive with extensive experience Board.
In particular, in the year ahead Nominations Committee in investment management we will give attention to considering, Reviewing our Remuneration Policy Proposal of a new, simplified and preparing for, the potential future The Remuneration Committee has remuneration policy requirements of the FCAs Senior Manager undertaken an extensive exercise during and Certification Regime in the Groups Continued focus on engagement with the year to benchmark our Remuneration management structure.
shareholders and other stakeholders Policy and has proposed a new policy External Board evaluation concluding To support its governance objectives, the containing a number of enhancements that the Board continues to operate Board has established a system of controls which respond to shareholder feedback.
in an effective manner and management processes to ensure A particular priority has been the that risks to the Groups business can be simplification of complex policies, and this assessed and managed.
We also consider is a key driver underlying the new policy.
whether the necessary financial and human Please see pages 69 to 98 for the report of the resources are in place for the Company to Remuneration Committee meet its objectives and increase shareholder Conducting an external Board evaluation value.
We aim to exercise robust supervision An external assessment of the Board and leadership of the Group while fostering was carried out during the year.
a corporate culture that permits growth and The evaluation concluded that the Board empowers our employees.
and its Committees continue to operate Some of our key priorities during the cohesively and effectively with some minor year were: enhancements suggested.
Please see page 49 for more details Managing the appointment of a new Chief of this evaluation Executive During the year, the Nomination Increasing engagement with shareholders Committee was made aware that Members of the Board have continued Christophe Evain was considering retiring.
The Committee reviewed the succession ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 41 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS on considering the Groups management Board of Directors structure.
The Board is also keen to ensure As at 31 March 2017 and at the date of publication, the Board comprised a Non Executive that it has a detailed understanding of Chairman, five independent Non Executive Directors and three Executive Directors.
operational areas, and has received a Having duly considered their independence in accordance with the Code, the Board number of presentations from business considers each of its Non Executive Directors to be independent in character and unit heads about their products, markets judgement.
They each provide effective challenge both at and outside of Board meetings.
The Non Executive Directors are considered to be of the appropriate calibre and Please see pages 46 and 47 for more details experience to bring significant influence to bear on the Boards decision making process.
In the year ahead, governance will continue The Chairman acted as a Non Executive Director of Standard Life PLC, Daily Mail and to be an important area for the Board as General Trust plc and the Nationwide Building Society during the year.
We do not certain refinements to our management consider these appointments to have any adverse impact on his ability to perform structures may be needed as we widen our his role as Chairman of the Board effectively.
management team following the change of Chief Executive.
We will also be focusing on business culture and how this supports the to meet with shareholders to provide management and monitoring framework Boards objectives.
updates on the Groups performance for our business.
and strategy and receive their Please see pages 60 to 64 for the report of the I am very happy to respond to any Risk Committee feedback including on our proposed questions you may have, either at the AGM remuneration policy.
Continuing to oversee the Groups Please see page 50 for more details of our strategic direction During the year, the stakeholder engagement Board received a number of presentations KEVIN PARRY Continuing our focus on risk management from Executive Directors and other senior Chairman During the year, our Risk Committee, personnel about the Groups strategy and 24 May 2017 with considerable support from direction.
Time has also been spent on Executive Directors and the CRO, has succession planning for a number of key continued to review and enhance the risk roles other than Executive Directors and BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDANCE Director Board Audit Risk Nominations Remuneration a e Kevin Parry 6 6 4 4 4 4 6 6 5 5 Peter Gibbs 6 6 3 4 3 4 6 6 5 5 Kim Wahl 6 6 4 4 4 4 6 6 5 5 a e Kathryn Purves 6 6 4 4 4 4 6 6 5 5 b e Rusty Nelligan 4 4 3 3 3 3 4 4 4 4 e e e e Christophe Evain 6 6 4 4 4 4 6 6 5 5 e e e e Philip Keller 6 6 4 4 4 4 5 6 5 5 e e e e Benot Durteste 6 6 4 4 4 4 5 6 4 5 c e Justin Dowley 2 2 1 1 1 1 2 2 3 5 d Virginia Holmes N A N A N A N A N A Secretary 6 6 4 4 4 4 6 6 5 5 a Kevin Parry and Kathryn Purves also attended a sub-committee meeting of each of the Board and the Nomination Committee to confirm the appointment of the new CEO.
b Joined the Board 15 September 2016. c Retired from the Board 21 July 2016. d Joined the Board 31 March 2017. e Not a member of this Committee but attended part of some meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
