Board Committee reports continued Report of the Audit and Risk Committee Membership of the Committee Develop and implement policy on the engagement of the external auditor to The Audit and Risk Committee was during the year, and at the date of this report is, supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance made up entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Committee regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm membership and attendance at its meetings in the year are set out opposite.
Keep under review the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys internal Unless otherwise stated, members were financial controls as well as its internal members throughout the year.
Further control and risk management systems details of the backgrounds and qualifications of the members of the Monitor and keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal Committee can be found on page 83.
The Group Company Secretary and audit service Ian Duncan General Counsel was Secretary to the Report to the Board, identifying any Committee Chairman Committee throughout the year.
matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed, The Board is satisfied that Ian Duncan, Committee membership and make recommendations as to the who has been Chairman of the and attendance steps to be taken.
Committee since July 2011, has recent Ian Duncan Chairman 4 of 4 and relevant financial experience and The full terms of reference for the Sir David Omand 4 of 4 that the Committee complies with Committee can be found on the Anna Stewart 4 of 4 Code provision C. 3.1.
Ian is a chartered Companys website.
Jeff Randall 4 of 4 accountant and former Group Finance Who attends Committee meetings?
Director of Royal Mail Holdings PLC.
Myles Lee 4 of 4 In addition to the members of the Currently, Ian is a Non-Executive Director Victoire fide Margerie 4 of 4 Committee, the Committee, at its and Chairman of the Audit Committee discretion, usually invites the Group of Bodycote plc and SIG plc.
He has Chairman, Chief Executive, Group also formerly been Corporate Finance Finance Director, Group Company Director at British Nuclear Fuels plc, Secretary and General Counsel, and and CFO and Senior Vice President at Group Financial Controller to attend its Westinghouse Electric Company LLC meetings.
Divisional Chief Executives in Pennsylvania, USA.
each of whom is a Director and or Role of the Committee Group Executive Committee member The principal responsibilities of the Audit have in the past also been invited to and Risk Committee are to: attend meetings and since 1 April 2017, with the implementation of the Groups Monitor the integrity of the full-year realignment, the Committee has invited, and half-year financial statements and at its discretion, the sector Chief any formal announcements relating to Executives and the Chief Executive, the Companys financial performance Global Growth and Operations.
The Make recommendations to the Board, Committee is satisfied that having for it to put to the shareholders for these invited attendees present their approval in general meeting, does not influence or constrain the in relation to the appointment of Committees discussions or compromise the external auditor the Committees independence.
Their Review and monitor at least once presence ensures that all Board Directors a year the external auditors and the senior management of the Group independence and objectivity and are directly aware of the Committees the effectiveness of the audit process, deliberations, how it goes about the taking into consideration relevant UK discharge of its responsibilities on behalf professional and regulatory of the full Board and any areas of concern requirements or focus for the Committee.
It also assists the Committee by allowing direct 94 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 94 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Financial results questioning of executives on matters review of the assumption that the that the Committee thinks need further Companys financial statements are full-year and half-year financial challenge, clarification, explanation prepared on a going concern basis statements and related results or justification.
Should a situation arise announcements considering the Companys approach where the presence of any such attendee to the requirement on the Company to reports and reviews from the external would be inappropriate or might examine the Companys longer term auditors compromise discussion the Committee solvency and viability please see page matters that required the exercise of would either not invite the attendee for further details.
a significant element of management concerned or request that they not judgement in relation to the financial Audit plans attend the relevant part of that meeting.
statements for the year to 31 March Internal and external audit plans for The Group Risk Manager attended 2017 see page 96 the year.
Committee meetings for its discussion advising the Board on the requirement Internal audit of Group risk reports and related items.
for a statement from it that the Annual At each meeting, the Committees During the year to 31 March 2017, Ernst Report and Accounts for the year to received internal audit reports on findings 31 March 2017 are fair, balanced and & Young LLP provided internal audit from audit visits to business units, which services to the Company and understandable and provide the as a matter of course look at accounting, information necessary for shareholders  LLP was the anti-bribery and corruption controls, Groups external auditor.
Both auditors to assess the Companys position, business continuity, contract performance performance, business model and attended the Committees meetings and contract bidding risks.
These include during the year to 31 March 2017. strategy during the relevant period.
follow-up reports on any matters The Committee satisfies itself that this The Committee Chairman also met identified in earlier reports as requiring  LLP PwC and is so by circulating to Board members attention or improvement.
The reports draft wording at an early stage with Ernst & Young LLP in the absence of contain tracking information to enable executive management.
The auditors sufficient time and detailed content to the Committee easily to see the control allow for an assessment of the content are also invited to address the Committee performance of business units over without executives present at least against the reports and accounts time and how quickly any matters provided to the Board and its once a year.
discussions throughout the relevant The Committees terms of reference Risk and Internal controls period.
In addition, the Committee were reviewed during the year to asks the Group Financial Controller review of internal control processes ensure that they are in line with best to prepare a formal written report and their effectiveness practice guidelines.
for the Committee reviewing the regular detailed reports identifying Activities undertaken by the Committee relevant draft, its consistency with areas of risk at business unit, divisional during the year his knowledge and understanding of and Group level, assessing and During the year to 31 March 2017 the matters and the appropriateness of prioritising potential impact, risk Committee met four times.
The agenda the weighting given to them, in each mitigation steps in place and the for each meeting is set by the Committee case to allow for their review and preand post-mitigation risk levels Chairman in conjunction with the consideration by the Committee with focused reviews of selected major risk Company Secretary and other members all Directors and divisional or now areas: insurance strategy, business of the Committee as appropriate.
During sector Chief Executives present in the critical suppliers, treasury risk, and the year ended 31 March 2017, the context of their own understanding of contract performance.
Committee considered the following: reports and accounts provided to the Board and its discussions throughout Audit re-tender process the year.
Before drafts are submitted The Committee completed the external to the Board, the Group Director of audit re-tendering process and Investor Relations and Communications recommended the reappointment of reviews the content of the Strategic PwC as the Companys external auditor.
report to ensure consistency with other This appointment was approved by the financial statements made by the Companys shareholders at the AGM on Group during the year 21 July 2016.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 95 Babcock International Group PLC 95 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Board Committee reports continued Audit non-audit fees and auditor Fraud In planning the year-end audit, independence the Committee considered with Reports covering any suspected incidents management and the Companys of fraud, their investigation and any Audit and non-audit fees for the external auditors the key areas of focus for the and internal auditors were reviewed by remedial or preventive action.
audit having in mind their significance the Committee and considered in Whistleblowing to the Groups reporting of results and relation to their effect on auditor The Committee is responsible for the degree of judgement involved in independence.
monitoring the Group whistleblowing their evaluation.
The significant issues Significant issues considered by policy and receives regular reports of considered in relation to the financial the Committee in relation to the calls and emails to the Groups external statements for the year ended 31 March independent whistleblowing services financial statements 2017 and how the Committee addressed We are required to provide an and how these have been investigated them are set out in the table below.
The total number of explanation of the significant issues that the Committee considered in relation to whistleblowing reports in the year to 31 March 2017 was 41 2016: 60.
For the financial statements for the year to 31 March 2017 and how these issues further explanation of the whistleblowing procedure please see page 70. were addressed, having regard to matters communicated to the Committee by the auditors.
Significant issue How the Committee addressed it Contract accounting and revenue The Committee considered the material contracts which require a significant degree of recognition management judgement that could materially affect the appropriate accounting treatment for them: these were the subject of discussion and challenge with management to ensure that the Committee was satisfied as to the reasonableness of those judgements.
Pensions accounting the choice of The Committee assessed the particular assumptions proposed to be used by management and assumptions in the valuation for their impact on scheme assets and liabilities in the context of assumptions being used in respect accounting purposes of the liabilities of of the same factors by other companies and the pensions industry more widely.
See note 24 on the Groups defined benefit schemes pages 186 to 190. Business acquisitions goodwill The Committee reviewed and challenged managements assessment of the goodwill balance by impairment assessment considering, amongst other things, managements evaluation of cash flow forecasts, budget, and growth rates.
96 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 96 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 subject to external audit or work that the Internal controls and risk management of qualification, expertise and resources, the effectiveness of the audit including, Committee considers as reasonably The Committee believes that the capable of compromising their identification, control, mitigation and inter alia, the understanding of our business and reporting processes for independence as auditors.
If use of the reporting of risk is central to the delivery auditors for non-audit work would lead of the Companys strategy.
The way that subsidiary audit teams, independence and leadership.
The review includes the to non-audit fees payable to them in the the Company manages risk is set out in year exceeding 20% of their audit fee, the Strategic report on pages 68 to 70, provision to PwC, and discussion with it, of detailed feedback from those exposed the Committee Chairmans approval is with the principal risks facing the Group required.
In addition, any fee for nonset out on page 71 to page 79.
The to the audit process within the Group.
The question of PwCs continuing audit work in excess of 100,000 Committee has conducted a rigorous must be approved by the Committee and robust review of the ongoing independence in the provision of audit services is considered and discussed with Chairman.
Having considered the noneffectiveness of the Companys risk audit services provided by the auditor management processes in light of the PwC including the basis upon which that assessment can reasonably be made and during the year ended 31 March 2017, 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Committee is satisfied that these and the Financial Reporting Councils supported.
The Group and Company audits for the year to 31 March 2017, services were provided effectively and associated Guidance on Risk did not prejudice the objectivity or Management, Internal Control and were the first for audit partner, Nicholas Campbell-Lambert.
Related Financial and Business Reporting.
For the year ended 31 March 2017, the A statement regarding the effectiveness The Company expects to tender the external audit function in four years and Committee has approved the payment of the internal controls and control to PwC of fees of 2.1 million for audit processes, including those over financial PwC, having been auditor since 2002, will not be invited to participate in that services 0.4 million of which was for reporting, can be found on pages 139 the statutory audit of the Companys to 140. tender.
The Committee confirms that the Group is in compliance with the Statutory consolidated financial statements and of Internal audit fees of 0.1 million for tax related work.
Audit Services for Large Companies The Committee considers that it is still Market Investigation Mandatory use of Non-audit related work accounted for 4% appropriate to have an internal audit of the total audit and non-audit related Competitive Tender Processes and Audit service provided by an external adviser, Committee Responsibilities Order 2014. fees paid to the external auditor during but keeps this under review.
A breakdown of fees paid to the Non-audit fees to 31 March 2017, the Committee auditor is set out in note 4 on page 166.
The Committee regularly considers the was satisfied with the service provided engagement of, and level of fees payable by Ernst & Young LLP acting as to, the auditor for non-audit work, internal auditor.
Ian Duncan considering potential conflicts and the Committee Chairman External audit and the re-tender of possibility of actual or perceived threats external audit 23 May 2017 to their independence.
The Companys The Committee manages the policy is to consider whether to place relationship with the external auditor material non-audit services work with on behalf of the Board and monitors the external auditor on a case-by-case basis auditors independence and objectivity based on an assessment of who is best along with the effectiveness of the placed to do the work having regard to external audit on an annual basis.
Audit the availability, resources, capability, fees are re-evaluated periodically.
experience and any conflicts of interest For the year to 31 March 2017, PwC of potential candidate firms for the work, has been the Groups external auditors and to make the choice based on what is having been reappointed by shareholders considered to be in the Companys best at the AGM on 21 July 2016 on the interest overall having regard to potential recommendation of the Board following independence issues if the work is placed a re-tendering process.
The Chairman and with the Companys auditor.
Non-audit the Committee regularly assess PwCs services offered to the auditor would effectiveness in the provision of audit not include the design or operation of services in their meetings with PwC, and financial information systems, internal after each annual audit there is a rigorous audit services, maintenance or review of PwCs audit services in that preparation of accounting records or audit examining the level and consistency financial statements that would be Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 97 Babcock International Group PLC 97 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
