85 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Accountability Other information Audit Committee report Introduction Audit Committee responsibilities John Coghlan As Chairman of the Audit Committee, The responsibilities of the Audit Chairman of the Iam pleased to introduce the report of our Committee include: Audit Committee role and the work we have undertaken oversight of financial statements and during the year.
The pages that follow accounting policies: provide additional detail on the activities review of risk management and internal controls: and discussions of the Committee and provides an overview of the significant oversight of Internal and External Audit: The Committee continues issues the Committee assessed and steps review of the adequacy of the Groups to focus on ensuring the procedures for whistleblowing, reporting taken to address any issues identified.
fraud and other inappropriate behaviour, adequate mitigation of The Committee has continued to play including reviewing reports of all risks faced by the Group.
a key role in supporting the Board in allegations at their meetings: discharging its oversight responsibilities review of the Financial Reporting Council FRC reporting requirements on Going for the integrity of the Companys financial Concern and Viability Statements: and Attendance table statements and matters relating to the regulatory reporting obligations of our Groups system of internal controls and Member of the Meetings Max subsidiaries Severn Trent Water Limited Audit Committee attended possible risk management.
As such, there is a and Dee Valley Water plc.
John Coghlan 4 4 continued focus on ensuring the adequate The Audit Committee Terms of Reference, Chairman mitigation of risks faced by the Group.
which were updated in March 2017, can be Philip Remnant 4 4 This report provides additional detail of found at www.
com how we carried out our risk assessment Kevin Beeston 3 3 Appointed 1 June 16 activities and you can read more about how we identify and manage risks on Martin Lamb 0 1 Retired20 July 16 pages 47 and 48 of our Strategic report.
Other significant parts of the Committees Martin Lamb was prevented from attending the May 2016 Audit Committee meeting due to work this year have included: oversight of a clash with another business commitment.
the relationship with our External Auditor, In advance of the meeting, Martin provided including the assessment of its ongoing comments on the matters to be considered to objectivity: overseeing the assurance of the Chairman.
regulatory returns made by Severn Trent In addition to the attendance set out above, the Water Limited to Ofwat: accounting for the Chairman, CEO, CFO, Head of Internal Audit, Waterplus joint venture: and evaluation of Group Financial Controller and the External Auditor normally attend, by invitation, all the Severn Trent Pension Scheme deficit meetings of the Committee.
Other members and consideration of mitigating actions in of senior management are also invited to conjunction with the Schemes Trustee.
The Committee regularly holds private John Coghlan discussions with the Head of Internal Chairman of the Audit Committee Audit and External Auditor separately, without executive management present.
The Chairman regularly holds separate one-to-one meetings with the CFO, Head of Internal Audit and External Auditor to better understand any issues or areas for concern.
During 2016 17 the Committee held one additional quorate meeting convened at short notice.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 86 Accountability Audit Committee report continued Audit Committee activities A summary of the matters considered at each meeting is set out below: Meeting Matters considered May 2016 Financial results 2015 16 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16, including fair, balanced and understandable review Severn Trent Water Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Regulatory: Annual Performance Report and Annual Regulatory Compliance Statement Regulatory: Annual Performance Report assurance, including ODIs Internal control and risk management effectiveness External Audit: Deloitte year end final report Pensions update Whistleblowing update September 2016 Internal Audit: half-year report External Audit: 2016 17 plan and terms of engagement External Audit: Review of non-audit fees External Audit: Management letter on the 2016 Audit Enterprise Risk Management update Property regulation compliance Energy risk management Whistleblowing update November 2016 Interim results External Audit: Deloitte half-year report Regulatory: Annual Performance Report commitments half-year assurance, including ODIs Report from the Disclosure Committee Property regulation compliance Material litigation update Whistleblowing update March 2017 Finance: Year end considerations and Viability Statement update Regulatory: Year end considerations, Annual Performance Report and Annual Regulatory Compliance Statement External Audit: Effectiveness review External Audit: Non-audit fees policy and review of non-audit fees External Audit: Update to audit plan Committee Terms of Reference Internal Audit plan 2017 18 Internal Audit update Enterprise Risk Management update Report from the Disclosure Committee Insurance liabilities Material litigation update Whistleblowing update Bribery and fraud prevention and detection In addition to the matters considered above, the Committee reviewed the proposed presentations to analysts in conjunction with the draft results announcements for both the interim and full year results, applying particular attention to the tone of the announcements and presentations to maintain consistency with the financial statements.
In reviewing the financial statements, the Committee receives input from the Disclosure Committee, a sub-committee of the Executive Committee which is chaired by the CFO.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 87 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Accountability Other information An ad hoc meeting of the Committee was held in July 2016 to approve the PR16 submission and year end regulatory report and compliance statement.
The Audit Committee also reviewed the outcome of the process to confirm that the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
The Disclosure Committee undertook a detailed review of the Annual Report and Accounts prior to making a recommendation to the Board that it could make the fair, balanced and understandable statements contained in the Directors Responsibility Statement on page 124.
Significant financial statement reporting issues The Committee looked carefully at those aspects of the financial statements which required significant accounting judgements or where there was estimation uncertainty.
These areas are explained in note 5 of the financial statements on page 141.
The Committee receives detailed reports from both the CFO and the External Auditor on these areas and on any other matters which they believe should be drawn to the attention of the Committee.
The Committee also reviews the draft of the External Auditors report on the financial statements, with particular reference to those matters reported as carrying risks of material misstatement.
The Committee discusses the range of possible treatments both with management and with the External Auditor and satisfies itself that the judgements made by management are robust and should be supported.
The significant issues that the Committee considered in 2016 17 were: Issue How the issue was addressed by the Committee Going concern basis for the financialstatements The Committee reviewed and challenged the evidence and assumptions and long term viability statement.
underpinning the use of the going concern assumption in preparing the accountsandin making the statements in the Strategic report on going concernandlong term viability.
Determination of the provision for impairment of The Committee receives information bi-annually on the level of the provision trade receivables in Severn Trent Water Limited.
andonany changes in the methodology of calculating the provision.
Revenue recognition in relation to the estimation The Committee reviewed the process for calculating the unbilled metered ofunbilled metered revenue in Severn Trent Water revenueestimate and considered the accuracy of past estimates.
The proposed classification of costs between The Committee considered the application of the Groups accounting policy operating expenditure and capital expenditure duringthe year, focusing in particular on changes to the application of the policy.
Determination of the amount of the Groups The Committee reviewed the assumptions underlying the valuation of the obligations retirement benefit obligations.
and considered whether the assumptions taken as a whole are appropriate.
Determination of current and deferred The Committee considered the nature of the Groups uncertain tax positions and taxbalances.
determined whether appropriate provisions had been made.
The Committee reviewed the proposed accounting treatment for such transactions and the corresponding disclosures in the Groups financial statements.
For all of the matters described above the Committee concluded that the treatment adopted in the Group financial statements was appropriate.
Effectiveness of the Audit Committee The Committees performance was considered and reviewed as part of the annual review of the Board and its Committees, details of which can be found on page 83.
The Board is satisfied that the Committee members bring a wide range and depth of financial and commercial experience across various industries and that all members have competence relevant to regulated and or utilities businesses as well as significant recent and relevant financial experience.
Following the Board Effectiveness Evaluation, John Coghlan was commended for the significant additional time and focus given by him personally in respect of the remit of the Audit Committee during the year in relation to regulatory requirements and associated assurance obligations.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 88 Accountability Audit Committee report continued regulatory requirements and professional Non-audit fees Internal and External Audit standards.
Deloitte contributes a further The Company has approved a formal Internal Audit and internal controls independent perspective on certain policy on the provision of non-audit Internal Audit is an independent aspects of the Companys financial services aimed at safeguarding and assurance function available to the control systems arising from its work, supporting the independence and Board, Audit Committee and all levels and reports both to the Board and the objectivity of the External Auditor.
The policy sets out the approach to The role of Internal Audit is to provide be taken by the Group when using the Following a formal tender process in assurance that the Groups risk services of the External Auditor, including 2015 16, Deloitte LLP were reappointed management and internal control systems requiring that certain services provided as Auditor at the 2016 AGM.
The senior are well-designed and operate effectively by the External Auditor are pre-approved statutory auditor, Kari Hale, has overseen and that any corrective action is taken by the Committee or its Chairman and the audit of the Severn Trent Group since in a timely manner.
Each year, Internal separately sets out those non-audit 2015 16.
The Company intends to put the Audit develops an annual audit plan for services which are prohibited, since the External Audit out to tender at least as approval by the Audit Committee and independence of the External Auditor often as is required by applicable law, onward monitoring of the plans execution could be threatened.
rules, regulations and best practice in throughout the year.
Audits are designed line with the Competition and Markets The process for approving all non-audit to assess the operating effectiveness Authority and EU requirements for work provided by our Auditor is overseen of controls and recommend process mandatory tendering and rotation of the by the Committee in order to safeguard improvements as necessary.
Under current regulations the the objectivity and independence of the External Audit must be put out to tender The effectiveness of the controls over Auditor.
Prior to approval, consideration is by 2025 and Deloitte will not be able to financial reporting is also monitored by given to whether it is in the interests of the participate.
The Company has complied the Audit Committee, which receives Company that the services are purchased with the provisions of the CMA Audit Order regular reports of the testing conducted from Deloitte rather than another supplier.
Where Deloitte have been chosen, this is as a result of their detailed knowledge of The Committee considers the The Audit Committee is confident that, our business and understanding of our effectiveness of the External Auditor where any failings or weaknesses are industry as well as demonstrating that every year and, further to Deloittes identified in the course of its review of they have the necessary expertise and reappointment, a full effectiveness internal control systems, management capability to undertake the work costreview was conducted during this year.
puts in place robust actions to address effectively.
The review involved assessment of these on a timely basis.
the Auditor by the Committee and key The policy was revised in early 2016, ahead An internal control system can provide Executives and evaluation of whether the of new EU regulations coming into force in only reasonable and not absolute Auditor meets minimum standards of June 2016, to provide that non-audit fees assurance against material misstatement qualification, independence, expertise, and independence of our Auditor would or loss, as it is designed to manage rather effectiveness and communication.
continue to be subject to ongoing review than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve in light of those rules.
The current policy, The FRCs Audit Quality Review team business objectives.
which was reviewed by the Committee AQRT selected for review the audit The Internal Audit function is supported during the year, continues to comply with of the 2016 Severn Trent Plc financial by a co-sourcing arrangement.
the EU regulations and requires approval statements as part of their 2016 annual The Committee believes that this by the Committee or its Chairman if a inspection of audit firms.
The Chairman arrangement adds value, through non-audit service provided by the Auditor of the Audit Committee received a full greater access to specific areas of is expected to cost more than 100,000. copy of the findings of the AQRT and has expertise and the ability to independently The policy also prohibits aggregate fees discussed these with Deloitte.
from non-audit services in excess of the no significant areas for improvement audit fee for the year.
We are also External Auditor satisfied that there is nothing within the Non-audit services where the External Annually, the Committee reviews the report which might have a bearing on the Auditor may be used include: auditExternal Auditors audit plan and reviews audit appointment.
related services required by statute or and assesses information provided by regulation, services related to fraud, Based on our consideration of the them confirming their independence and Corporate Responsibility report reviews responses to the effectiveness review, objectivity within the context of applicable and regulatory support.
and taking into account the AQRT report, the Committee remains satisfied with the efficiency and effectiveness of the audit.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 89 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Accountability Other information During the year, Deloitte received 660,000 in fees for work relating to the audit services they provide to the Group, including auditrelated assurance work.
Non-audit related work undertaken by Deloitte amounted to fees of 494,000 this year, which amounts to 43% of the total fees paid to them.
Fees paid to Deloitte are set out in note 8 of the financial statements on page 145, but details of significant non-audit work undertaken are set out below: Nature of service Reason for Deloittes appointment Fees 000 Audit related assurance services Interim review This work is akin to an audit and is expected to be performed by the External Auditor.
54 The same safeguards that apply to the External Audit also apply to thiswork.
Assurance of regulatory returns Audit of sections 1 and 2 of Dee Valley Water plcs and Severn Trent Water Limiteds 32 Annual Performance Reports is closely related to the External Auditors statutory audit work and the two assignments are performed in parallel.
Reporting under Group financing documents These documents require reports from the Auditor.
48 Subtotal 134 Services related to taxation Include access to Deloittes software for managing capital allowances.
61 Other assurance services Assurance in connection with regulatory Agreed-upon procedures relating to Section 4 of Dee Valley Water plcs and 171 reports to Ofwat Severn Trent Water Limiteds Annual Performance Reports and Severn Trent Water Limiteds wholesale scheme of charges.
Assurance services related to Open Water Deloitte are the market leading firm for these services.
95 Other assurance services 33 Subtotal 360 Total 2016 17 non-audit fees 494 In approving these non-audit fees, the For each of Severn Trent Water Limited and Risk Management ERM process, through Committee considered the overall ratio of Dee Valley Water plc, Deloitte provides an which our principal risks and related non-audit fees to audit fees and, given the audit opinion on the regulatory financial controls are identified.
The Committee scope of work, considered that Deloitte was reporting and price control segmentation also reviews the effectiveness of the best placed to perform these services.
sections of the respective Annual risk management system on behalf of Performance Reports, and assurance of the Board and keeps under review ways Regulated subsidiaries certain aspects of additional regulatory in which to enhance the control and information that is included.
The Committee The regulated activities carried out Annual Performance Reports also receives half-yearly reports from the by Severn Trent Water Limited and provide an overall picture of performance, Head of Risk detailing the significant risks DeeValleyWater plc also require annual covering many aspects which are not and uncertainties faced by the Group, an reporting submissions to Ofwat which are financial including performance against assessment of the effectiveness of controls reviewed by the Committee.
They include commitments and ODIs for each of Severn over each of those risks and an action plan an annual submission on their regulatory Trent Water Limited and Dee Valley Water to improve controls where this has been performance and obligations known plc.
Both Severn Trent Water Limited and assessed as necessary.
as the Annual Performance Report, Dee Valley Water plc appoint independent together with a Compliance Statement To further enhance the clarity of reporting engineering consultants, Jacobs and and a statement to underpin the customer and insight that can be gained from this Black & Veatch respectively, to report charges made by each subsidiary.
ERM information, a reporting dashboard and provide assurance on those aspects.
for the Groups significant risks has been In November 2016, the Committee The Committee receives reports from developed and implemented during the reviewed the statement of risks, strengths Jacobs and Deloitte on their work for year.
This enhancement has helped to and weaknesses and draft assurance Severn Trent Water Limited, and Black & facilitate a more thorough review of the plans for Severn Trent Water Limited, Veatch and Deloitte for Dee Valley Water target risk positions considering risk which is a requirement of Ofwats plc, as part of its review of the respective appetite and whether improvement Company Monitoring Framework.
actions to achieve these are on target with These documents set out the process, the correct prioritisation in place.
It has timeline and assurance framework Risk management ultimately meant that moreinformation in place for information published for The Audit Committee reviews the processes can be reported, but in a clear and customers and other stakeholders, for, and outputs from, the Groups Enterprise concise format.
including the Annual Performance Report.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 90 Accountability Audit Committee report continued The Board confirms that procedures providing an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group have been in place for the year to 31 March 2017 and up to the date of this report, which is in accordance with the Code and Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting September 2014 the Guidance.
A dedicated risk identification and horizon scanning session was held with the Board in 2017.
During its review of risk management during the year, the Board explicitly considered the target position for significant risks and whether target risk positions are appropriate and confirmed that suitable timescales had been agreed for reaching them.
Risk management governance process The Groups risk management governance process is based on the three lines of defence model and is scrutinised by the AuditCommittee, through delegated authority from the Severn Trent Plc Board.
Policy oversight GAA | Doing the Right Thing | Group policies Risk tolerance Risk appetite BOARD Report ERM reports Delegated authority Internal Audit AUDIT COMMITTEE Whistleblowing Bribery and fraud Third line of defence Internal Audit Independent review and oversight by Internal Audit, which independently evaluates the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups risk management control and governance processes.
Second line of defence management ERM team Inform Inform Business units are monitored by management and the ERM team which and monitors, and provide assurance, on compliance with Group policies and and procedures.
The ERM team reports to the Audit Committee and Board on improve prioritise the ERM process, principal risks and related controls.
First line of defence line management risk champions Line management accountability for compliance with Group policies, Doing the Right Thing and GAA.
Risk champions within each business unit identify, collate and report risk data to the ERM team.
OVERSIGHT Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
