ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 33 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS LINK TO STRATEGY Grow assets under management Invest selectively Manage portfolios to maximise value KEY CONTROLS AND MITIGATION MOVEMENT IN THE YEAR FOCUS FOR FY18 The Group has a policy which seeks to ensure that debt funding is During the year the Group issued new Balance sheet efficiency obtained from diversified sources and that the repayment profile is debt into the US private placement market, Regulatory managed to minimise material repayment events.
The profile of the extending the weighted average life of its capital requirements debt facilities available to the Group is reviewed frequently by the debt facilities.
Fo llowing the payment of the 200m special dividend the Groups gearing has remained within its target range.
The Group rewards its investment professionals and other key There was no significant impact in the year Managing the impact employees in line with market practice.
Senior investment professionals as a result of the loss of any employee.
of the UKs departure typically receive long term incentives and are able to participate in from the European Union The decision of the Chief Executive to stand carried interest.
The Group periodically engages external consultants on our workforce down from his executive responsibilities at to benchmark the rewards offered by the Group to ensure they remain the AGM will not result in the breach of a Key Continued focus on attractive and competitive.
However, the risk of a breach is succession planning The Group has succession plans in place for key employees.
These are temporarily increased until additional Key reviewed by the Board.
Man nominations are approved by investors.
The Group has an appraisal and development process for all its employees to ensure that individuals remain sufficiently motivated and appropriately competent to ensure the ongoing operation and development of the business.
The Group has a governance structure in place, supported by a risk During the year the Group has continued Senior Managers and framework that allows for the identification, control and mitigation of to enhance its processes and controls Certification Regime material risks resulting from the geographical and product diversity of in order to remain compliant with current for Asset Managers the Group.
The adequacy of the systems and controls the Group has in and expected legislation.
There are no MiFID II place to comply with the regulations and to mitigate the risks that these regulatory or business developments General Data represent is periodically assessed.
This includes a tailored compliance which have resulted in an increased risk monitoring programme that specifically addresses regulatory and to the Group.
Application of the Groups information security policies is The ongoing evolution of external threats Enhancement of business supported by a governance structure and a risk framework that has resulted in an increase in risk to continuity planning and allows for the identification, control and mitigation of technology the Group.
In response, the Group has disaster recovery risks.
The adequacy of the systems and controls the Group has in continued to improve its systems and Continued focus on place to mitigate the technology risks is continuously monitored controls to identify and manage technology cybersecurity threats and subject to regular testing.
The effectiveness of the framework and information security risks.
Control procedures are in place to ensure that key business processes There were no significant business Oversight of third party are identified, documented and monitored.
Third party suppliers are process failures during the year.
service providers subject to robust selection process and performance is monitored against agreed service levels with exceptions reported and escalated as appropriate.
The effectiveness of the control framework for key business processes is reviewed by the Risk Committee see pages 60 to 64.
34 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES & MODEL & STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS MANAGING OUR VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with the provisions of the UK The plan is stress tested to assess the Corporate Governance Code, the Directors potential financial and operational impact confirm that they have a reasonable of a severe but plausible downside scenario expectation that the Group will continue as part of the Boards review of the Groups to operate and meet its liabilities, as they fall Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment due, for the next three years.
The stress test scenario The Directors have assessment has been made with reference to uses the 2008 09 financial crisis as its basis undertaken a robust the Groups current position and prospects, and reflects a number of the principal risks assessment of the Groups the Groups strategy, the Boards risk of the business through reducing new funds longer term viability and have appetite, the Groups principal risks and raised, lowering the deployment of capital, the management of those risks, as detailed and increasing impairment.
a reasonable expectation of in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 38.
As part of the ICAAP process, a reverse the Groups viability over the The Directors have assessed the Groups stress test exercise is also undertaken next three years.
longer term viability over a period of three to identify the circumstance under years to March 2020.
They are satisfied which the business model becomes KATHRYN PURVES that a forward-looking assessment of unviable.
This indicates that only under Chairman of the Risk Committee the Group for this period is sufficient to major unprecedented macroeconomic enable a reasonable statement of viability.
conditions does the Groups viability come This is the period covered by the Groups into question.
As part of this exercise it strategic plan, the typical period over which is assumed that the Group is subjected regulatory changes are implemented and the to controlled run-off, allowing the Group period over which forecasting assumptions to meet contractual maturities as they fall are most reliable.
The Groups strategy and principal risks The review of the three year strategic plan underpin the three year strategic plan is underpinned by regular briefings to the and associated stress and reverse stress Board provided by the heads of business testing, which the Directors review at least units and infrastructure functions, and annually.
In making their assessment, the discussion of any new strategies undertaken Directors consider a wide range of detailed by the Board in its normal course of business information including projections for see pages 46 and 47.
These reviews profitability, cash flows, debt and capital consider both the market opportunity and requirements, financial covenants and the associated risks, principally the ability regulatory capital headroom.
to raise third party funds, invest capital and deliver strong investment performance.
The strategic plan is built on a fund by These risks are considered within the fund basis using a bottom up model.
Boards risk appetite framework which For each fund assumptions are made on the is detailed on page 28. deployment of existing capital, the raising of successor funds, and the performance The Directors also considered it appropriate of the underlying portfolio.
In addition, the to prepare the financial statements on the strategic plan includes assumptions about going concern basis as set out on page 101. the launch of new strategies, the ability to refinance debt as it falls due and the development of the regulatory environment.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 35 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR RESOURCES AND Our business model supports the delivery of our strategic objectives and is reliant upon our key resources and relationships.
Elsewhere in this Strategic Report we have identified the importance of our local teams, sector specialists, dedicated distribution team and infrastructure platform.
In addition, building and maintaining our key external relationships is essential to delivering our strategy.
MANAGING OUR KEY RELATIONSHIPS The Group continues to expand and strengthen its relationships with third party investors.
Our investment strategies offer investors an opportunity to diversify their portfolio and generate yield.
We are continuously engaged with our investors to understand their current and future needs and to ensure that we have the investment strategies to meet these requirements.
GROW ASSETS The availability of balance sheet capital to co-invest and to support business development is underpinned UNDER by our relationships with our key finance counterparties.
These include banks, bondholders, other lenders MANAGEMENT and rating agencies.
The Group has an active compliance team who work with the business, outside advisers and our regulators to both identify and manage regulatory risk and also to promote best practice within the marketing, investment and infrastructure teams.
Our investment professionals manage the relationships necessary to originate and source investment opportunities for our funds.
These relationships include financial and investment advisers, banks and other investment managers.
Our reputation, built up over 28 years, has generated strong, supportive, asset sourcing networks.
INVEST ICG is a signatory to the UN Principles for Responsible Investment.
We acknowledge the relevance to SELECTIVELY the investor of environmental, social and governance factors, and of the long term health and stability of the market as a whole.
Our investment committees and investment professionals take responsibility for applying the principles in practice, taking a proactive approach to considering environmental, social and governance factors in all our investment decisions.
We invest across the capital structure of companies and property assets.
We seek to develop strong relationships both with owners and the management teams.
Our investment teams have local market knowledge and access to the Groups extensive sector and market experience to support those businesses.
Attendance at board meetings of originated corporate investments both increases our knowledge of the MANAGE business and allows our investment professionals to develop strong relationships with management teams.
PORTFOLIOS The Group relies on a number of key suppliers, including fund administrators, third party legal and TO MAXIMISE accounting advisors and landlords, to deliver its strategic objectives.
The Group has established a system VALUE of oversight controls to ensure that services are delivered in accordance with contractual agreements and to an appropriate quality.
36 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES & MODEL & STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS OUR RESOURCES AND CONTINUED Our people are offered access to a range As at 31 March 2017 of our permanent OUR RESPONSIBILITY of benefits designed to attract, develop and employee population of 281, 89 are women TO OUR PEOPLE retain talented employees.
While we do not record To successfully deliver our strategic levels of overall remuneration are sufficient the religion or ethnicity of employees we priorities the Group needs engaged and to attract and retain talent.
Benefits include: benefit from our employees representing motivated employees.
pension contributions, healthcare and 31 different nationalities.
Effective two way communication with our health screening, life assurance, child The senior management team excluding people is essential to build and maintain care vouchers, travel insurance, share the Groups Board comprises of one engagement.
We have a number of formal save scheme, gym membership and cycle woman and seven men.
ICGs Board of nine and informal channels to achieve this.
comprises three Executive Directors, and These include quarterly whole business The Group supports flexible working, six Non Executive Directors of which two briefings, an intranet, and regular team and with 8.2% of employees benefiting are women.
The current Biographies on pages 42 and 43 The Group conducts regular, confidential, engagement of our people is further employee surveys to identify the areas of demonstrated by staff retention, based MODERN SLAVERY the business in need of further development, on opening headcount, of 88.1%.
ICG abhors slavery and human trafficking.
and those areas that are performing well.
We will seek to ensure there are no such The last survey was conducted in 2015 DIVERSITY AND VALUES practices in our business and supply and demonstrated that the Group was chain.
During the year we have carried performing above the norm for financial out staff training and awareness raising services companies.
and incorporated slavery considerations The Group considers that training and into supplier selection and due diligence.
development are essential to attract and We have also conducted a review of our retain people of the highest calibre and own business, our investee companies that invests significantly in this area.
We are are covered by our statement, and material We are committed to providing a safe and committed to enhancing the knowledge and suppliers.
No concerns were raised in any healthy work environment for our people skills of our people and nurturing their talent.
where diversity is valued, where everyone We run an extensive programme of internal is treated fairly and with dignity and respect, The Groups full policy on Modern Slavery and external training to develop and enhance regardless of age, gender, race, sexual can be found at www.
com core skills, increase technical competency orientation, disability, religion or beliefs.
and to develop future leaders.
We do not tolerate discrimination of any The ongoing development of our people is nature and comply fully with appropriate supported by our performance management human rights legislation.
This provides a regular forum employees to have a sense of wellbeing, for employees and managers to review and we promote a working culture where performance against agreed objectives and employees can freely question practices to identify areas for further development.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 37 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR RESPONSIBILITY SUPPORTING LEVEL20 TO OUR COMMUNITY Level20 is a not-for-profit organisation set Our corporate social responsibility policies up to attract, nurture, and promote women and practises are grounded in promoting in private equity, to achieve greater gender opportunities to young people, through diversity both for the benefit of the industry The business mentoring education or work experience.
at large as well as for the good that gender diversity brings to the community.
One of programme has developed SUPPORTING THINKFORWARD our fund managers, Emma Osborne, was into one of the most one of the founders and remains heavily We have supported ThinkForward, a important interventions involved with the organisation.
ICG supports charity working to reduce the risk of young on the ThinkForward the objectives of Level20, making a 15,000 people becoming NEET not in education, contribution this year.
employment or training since its inception.
We have extended our partnership with Young people who engage a further five year, 500,000 commitment regularly, clearly develop For more information about in the current year.
ThinkForward please visit: their confidence and ICGs investment has enabled a full time http: think-forward.
It also coach to be placed into the Harpley Centre For more information about Tower at Tower Hamlets Pupil Referral Unit PRU has a positive impact on Hamlets Pupil Referral Unit please visit: to work with those young people most at their drive and aspiration to www.
The coach supports succeed in life, making the For more information about Level20 them to maximise their opportunities whilst please visit: www.
org world of work and business in full time education, to develop their skills and work readiness so that they are more seem more attainable likely to transition into long term employment something they can or further education.
ICG also provides regular business mentoring opportunities to young people SEAN PORTER from the PRU, working on different topics ThinkForward Coach including CV writing, interview preparation and team work skills.
To date, ICG has worked with over 40 young people and this year was shortlisted for the prestigious Lord Mayor of Londons Dragon Award in recognition of this work.
