Leadership & Effectiveness Board of Directors STRONG LEADERSHIP A, D, F B, D, E 1.
Andrew Duff BSc FEI 58 B, D, E Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Chairman CEng, FIChemE 64 Appointed to the Board on 23 May 2014 Appointed to the Board on 10 May 2010 and Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Audit and Treasury Committees Chairman on 20 July 2010 Appointed to the Board on 24 January 2014 Chairman of the Nominations Committee John is a chartered accountant and has a valuable Chairman of the Corporate background in financial and general management Responsibility Committee Andrews extensive experience of international across a variety of sectors.
Currently, John is also a and regulated business, strategic management Angela brings a wealth of strategic, technical and Non-Executive Director of Associated British Ports and customer service in high profile, dynamic commercial experience to the Board.
Previously, John was a Director of environments, has equipped him well for the role of Head of Downstream Technology and Group Exel Plc for 11 years to 2006, where he was Deputy Chairman of the Group.
Andrew spent 16 years at Chief Scientist at BP plc.
She is a member of Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
BP in marketing, strategy and oil trading.
He joined the Downstream Executive Leadership Team.
Since 2006, John has been a Non-Executive National Power in 1998 and the Board of Innogy Angela is responsible for enabling delivery of Director of various publicly-quoted and private plc upon its demerger from National Power in the Downstream strategic agenda through equity-owned companies.
He played a leading role in its restructuring the development of differentiated technology and transformation through the opening of advantage across the refining, fuels, lubricants External appointments competition in energy markets culminating in its and petrochemicals businesses.
Since joining Non-Executive Director of Associated British subsequent sale to RWE in 2003.
He became CEO BP in 1982, she has held many senior leadership Ports Companies of the successor company and a member of the roles around the world in business development, Chairman of Freight Transport Association RWE Group Executive Committee.
He was a Noncommercial and technology, including in 2012 Ireland Limited Executive Director of Wolseley Plc from July 2004 Vice President and Head of the Chief Executives until November 2013.
In 2010, Angela was the winner of the UK 2.
James Bowling BA Hons Econ, Executive Deputy Chairman of Elementis plc on C, F First Womans Award in Science and Technology ACA 48 1 April 2014 and became Non-Executive Chairman in recognition of pioneering UK women in Chief Financial Officer of Elementis plc on 24 April 2014. business and industry.
Her track record and Appointed to the Board on 1 April 2015 experience in strategy, operations, technology and External appointments James is a chartered accountant, having started transformational change are a complementary Non-Executive Chairman and Chairman of the his career with Touche Ross and brings significant addition to the Boards skill set.
Nomination Committee of Elementis plc financial management, M&A and business Member of the CBI Presidents Committee External appointments transformation expertise to the Board.
Prior to Trustee of Macmillan Cancer Support and Board Governor of The University of Manchester joining Severn Trent, James was interim Chief Earth Trust Financial Officer of Shire plc, where he had been B, C Fellow of the Energy Institute 4.
Olivia Garfield BA Hons 41 since 2005, first as Head of Group Reporting Chief Executive and from 2008 as Group Financial Controller.
Philip Remnant CBE Appointed to the Board on 11 April 2014 Prior to joining Shire, James spent nine years A, D, E, F FCA MA 62 atFord Motor Company in various finance roles Olivia Liv brings to the Board a wealth of Independent Non-Executive Director ofincreasing responsibility.
experience managing customer service delivery Appointed to the Board on 31 March 2014 and complex infrastructure and organisations Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in a regulated environment.
Before joining Severn Trent, Liv was Chief Executive Officer Philip is a senior investment banker and brings of Openreach, part of the BT Group, where she substantial advisory and regulatory experience spearheaded and oversaw the commercial roll-out to the Board.
A chartered accountant, he is of fibre broadband to two-thirds of the country.
Senior Independent Director of Prudential She joined BT in 2002 and held the pivotal roles Plc and Chairman of M&G Group Limited, of Group Director of Strategy and Regulation, Deputy Chairman of the Takeover Panel, Senior Managing Director Commercial and Brands, Independent Director of UK Financial Investments Global Services and UK Customer Services Limited and Chairman of City of London Director.
From 1998 to 2002, Liv worked for Investment Trust plc.
Previously, Philip was Vice Accenture as a consultant in the Communications Chairman of Credit Suisse First Boston Europe and and High Tech Market Unit, designing and Head of the UK Investment Banking Department.
implementing business change solutions across Philip was Director General of the Takeover Panel anumber of industry sectors.
for two years between 2001 and 2003, and again in 2010.
He served on the Board of Northern Rock External appointments plc from 2008 to 2010 and from 2007 to 2012 was Director of Water Plus Limited joint venture Chairman of the Shareholder Executive.
with United Utilities Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 73 Strategic report 6.
Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Committee membership key A Audit Committee B Corporate Responsibility Committee C Executive Committee D Nominations Committee E Remuneration Committee F Treasury Committee B, D External appointments 8.
Dominique Reiniche MBA 61 Board diversity Senior Independent Director and member Independent Non-Executive Director of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Appointed to the Board on 20 July 2016 The below graphics provide an Committees of Prudential Plc Dominique has a wealth of operational illustration of our Boards diversity, Chairman of M&G Group Limited experience in Europe and has international including gender split with Deputy Chairman of the Takeover Panel consumer marketing and innovation experience.
comparisons against differing levels Non-Executive Director of UK Financial Dominique is Independent Vice Chairman of Investments Limited of the Group, sector experience and CHR Hansen Holdings A S and also a NonNon-Executive Chairman of City of London Board tenure.
Further information on Executive Director of Mondi Plc and PayPal Investment Trust plc our Board Diversity Policy can be found Europe.
Dominique started her career with Governor of Goodenough College Procter & Gamble AG before moving to Kraft in the Nominations Committee report Director and Trustee of St Pauls Jacobs Suchard AG as Director of Marketing on page 82.
Cathedral Foundation and Strategy where she was also a member of the Executive Committee.
Emma FitzGerald MA, DPhil Gender diversity as at 31 March 2017 held a number of senior roles at Coca-Cola C Oxon, MBA 50 Enterprises and at Coca-Cola Company, including Board Executive Committee Managing Director, Wholesale Operations President Western Europe, President Europe Appointed to the Board on 1 April 2016 and Chairman Europe.
Until December 2015, Dominique was a Non-Executive Director of Emma joined Severn Trent in July 2015 as Managing Director, Wholesale Operations.
Until April 2017, Dominique 4 4 was a Non-Executive Director of AXA SA.
Emma was previously CEO of Gas Distribution at 5 National Grid.
Prior to joining National Grid, she 6 External appointments pursued a 20 year career with Royal Dutch Shell Non-Executive Director of Mondi Plc where she held a variety of technical, strategic Non-Executive Director of PayPal Europe and general management positions based in Asia Independent Vice Chairman of CHR Hansen and Europe, including Vice President Global Retail Holdings A S Group Network and Managing Director of Shell China Hong Kong Lubricants based in Beijing.
Kevin Beeston FCMA 54 experience and expertise brings a huge amount of 2,192 Senior Independent Director value in ensuring the delivery of the commitments Appointed to the Board from 1 June 2016 we have made in our business plan.
Kevin has a wealth of commercial, financial and External appointments high level management experience.
Kevin is BUPA Association Member 5,247 Chairman of Taylor Wimpey plc and Equiniti plc Non-Executive Director of DCC plc and also a NonExecutive Director of The Football Association Premier League Limited and Marston Male Female Corporate Limited.
Previously Kevin spent 25 years at Serco plc, where he held the roles of Finance Tenure of Non-Executive Directors Director, Chief Executive and finally Chairman until Tenure years 2010.
Kevin was previously Chairman of Domestic & General Limited and Partnerships in Care 4 Limited and a Non-Executive Director of IMI plc.
3 External appointments 2 Chairman of Taylor Wimpey plc Chairman of Equiniti plc 1 Non-Executive Director of The Football 0 Association Premier League Limited 0 1 year 1 3 years 3 6 years 6 years Non-Executive Director of Marston Figures as at the date of this report.
Corporate Limited Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
