ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 63 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REVIEW OF THE YEAR THE ISSUE AND WORK COMMENTS AND ITS SIGNIFICANCE UNDERTAKEN CONCLUSION The Group is exposed to risk as The Committee received regular updates setting out the The regular updates provide sufficient information to enable the regulatory requirements for enacted and expected changes to regulations, including the Committee to be satisfied that the Group has appropriate its activities change MiFID II and the Senior Managers and Certification Regime systems and controls to identify and implement regulatory for Asset Managers.
Furthermore, the Committee was comfortable with the changes being made to satisfy the requirements of the In particular, the Committee considered in detail the Market Abuse Regulation.
requirements of the Market Abuse Regulations and the impact on the Groups business processes.
The Committee Principal risk see pages 30 to 33 noted that the most significant impact was on the business processes related to its Capital Markets strategies.
Risk appetite and key The Committee considered its risk appetite for the principal The Committee is satisfied that the framework established risk indicators risks and how the appetite for risk varied across the classes is operating effectively to identify areas where risk is of principal risk.
decreasing and to highlight where particular risks may be approaching, or outside, risk appetite.
Key risk indicators were reviewed and the thresholds set were considered as part of the discussion of risk appetite to Principal risks see pages 30 to 33 ensure that the risk framework functioned holistically.
ICAAP the Internal The impact of the proposed special dividend on the The Committee was satisfied that the Group would have Capital Adequacy regulatory capital position of the Group was considered sufficient regulatory capital resources following the payment Assessment Process prior to the special dividend proposal being discussed at of the proposed special dividend.
The Committee is satisfied the Board.
that the Group has, and will have, adequate regulatory capital based on its current risk profile.
The Committee undertook a detailed review of the ICAAP, reviewing the current and future impact of the principal risks The ICAAP is an important tool and will continue to be used facing the Group on the Groups regulatory capital position.
As part of this review the Committee considered whether Feedback from the FCA has now been received in which the capital held in respect of Operational Risk was sufficient they confirmed that they had no objections to the proposed and the treatment of the Groups consolidated CLOs.
approach in relation to consolidation of CLOs.
Following a review of legal advice the Committee concurred The Pillar 3 disclosures are available on the Companys with management that the CLOs should not be consolidated website at www.
The Committee asked management to consult with the FCA and confirm that they had no objections prior to implementing this approach.
Following the detailed review a revised ICAAP was approved.
The Pillar 3 disclosures were reviewed and approved.
Other principal risks see pages The Committee has overseen and challenged the The Committee considers that the principal risks faced by 30 to 33 the Group uses a assessment and management of principal risks faced by the the Group and the risk appetite and key risk indicators for principal key risk register as a Group by reference to the risk scorecard which has been each principal risk are adequately captured by the processes key part of its risk management presented to the Committee regularly during the year.
The register There were no changes to the list of principal risks faced by The Committee is satisfied that the risk register is an effective summarises the principal the Group during the year.
mechanism for identifying and monitoring the principal risks faced by the Group, the risks to which the Group is exposed: and to ensure that appetite of the Group for each management actions are taken where appropriate.
respective principal risk, and key risk indicators that indicate, for each principal risk, the extent to which the risk appetite is being approached or has been exceeded 64 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT RISK COMMITTEE CONTINUED REVIEW OF THE YEAR THE ISSUE AND WORK COMMENTS AND ITS SIGNIFICANCE UNDERTAKEN CONCLUSION Specific risk reviews Major external change The Committee was satisfied with the analysis that the The Committee was regularly updated on the potential risks UKs decision to leave the EU did not give rise to any to the business of the UKs decision to leave the EU, both new principal risks and that existing risks were being in the lead up to, and following, the referendum vote.
Committee considered the impact on the Groups ability to Following the referendum the Committee supported and access clients, risks to European and UK fund investment provided oversight in relation to the actions taken to open strategies, the impact of market volatility on regulatory an AIFMD regulated entity in Luxembourg.
capital requirements, and whether there were any new Principal risk see pages 30 to 33 principal risks.
Regulatory and legislative compliance risk The Committee was satisfied that appropriate action was The Committee reviewed the results of the Groups being taken to manage the regulatory risk of the Group.
US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC mock Following the successful SEC mock process the Committee examination, including the recommendations for asked management to consider undertaking a similar improvement.
The Committee noted while there were no exercise for FCA regulated businesses.
significant recommendations, the examination did suggest the Group obtain an updated legal opinion on its SEC Principal risk see pages 30 to 33 registration status, in particular in respect of the designation of Access Persons.
Management sought updated advice, and the Committee is monitoring the implementation of the recommendations.
The Securities and Futures Commission of Hong Kong undertook a regular audit during the year.
The Committee received an update on the visit and confirmation that there were no major issues.
People risk The Committee was satisfied that managements systems to The Committee considered the implications of staff turnover identify, monitor and manage people risk were appropriate.
on the operational risk of the Group and, in particular, where Principal risk see pages 30 to 33 it relates to Fund key man clauses.
The Committee was briefed on the actions being taken to mitigate the risks associated with any potential adverse consequences associated with this contractual clause.
OTHER MATTERS CONSIDERED In addition to the significant matters addressed above, the Committee maintained a rolling agenda of items for its review including funds risk management and operational controls, the adequacy of resourcing in the compliance and risk functions, updates on key policies and review of the Money Laundering Officers annual report.
INTERNAL AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE MONITORING The Committee supported the Audit Committee in its oversight of the internal audit programme see page 59, which is risk based.
It is designed to permit changes to the programme in the light of changed circumstances.
In conjunction with the Audit Committee, the Committee reviews and approves the programme of compliance monitoring to be undertaken during the following fiscal year and at each of its subsequent meetings reviews the status and output of compliance monitoring actually undertaken relative to the planned programme.
During the year the Committee ensured that appropriate monitoring was undertaken in accordance with the approved programme for the year.
No significant matters of concern were identified.
The Committee received an update from Duff & Phelps, who undertake UK compliance monitoring activities on behalf of the Compliance function on the programme in place.
They confirmed that the programme was fit for purpose, highlighted areas of good practice and made recommendations for enhancing the monitoring.
These recommendations were taken into account in the development of the compliance monitoring programme for FY18 which was approved at the March Risk Committee.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 65 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE DEAR SHAREHOLDER The main focus of the Committee is to consider the skills and experience of the Board and ensure that the Boards membership is adequate to meet the challenges of our business.
When considering Board appointments, our priority is to identify a person who fits We focus on the composition of the with the culture and management style board and the skills and experience of the Company and ensure that the right person is appointed to the role regardless of its members.
This ensures that the of background, while bearing in mind the board has the necessary knowledge advantages of diversity at the level of and skills to meet the challenges faced the Board.
These factors were particularly important this year as Christophe Evain informed KEVIN PARRY the Committee of his intention to retire Chairman of the Nominations Committee from the Board after seven years as CEO.
As described in the report below, Benot Durteste was appointed as his successor.
The Committee also oversaw the search for, and appointment of, two new Non Executive Directors.
Rusty Nelligan appointed in September 2016 spent over 40 years as an auditor with PwC, and brings a wealth of audit experience to his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Virginia Holmes appointed in March 2017 has executive experience as an investment manager and has also served extensively on a number of other Boards in the UK and abroad: her appointment also increases the number of women on our Board to two, meaning that from the end of the annual general meeting female representation will be 25%.
The following pages set out the Nominations Committee Committee report for the financial year 2017.
The report is structured in two parts: 1.
Committee governance: roles and responsibilities, composition and effectiveness page 66 2. Review of the year: the significant issues we addressed page 67 66 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE CONTINUED The Committees focus during the year Appointments of Executive Directors GOVERNANCE OF will be on reviewing the structure and and Non Executive Directors are made as NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE composition of the Board and considering necessary as a result of discussions by the Roles and responsibilities whether further Non-Executive appointments Committee and are subject to full Board Prior to any appointment to the Board, are desirable particularly as the Senior approval and election or re-election at the Nominations Committee considers the Independent Director will cease being a General Meeting of the shareholders.
balance of skills, experience, independence deemed independent under the Corporate and knowledge appropriate to determine Governance Code in 2019.
The Committee Terms of reference the requirements and necessary capabilities will also review the executive management The Committees terms of reference are of the role.
In addition, any new Director structure of the Group in light of the change approved and reviewed by the Board on a normally meets all existing Directors of CEO and the Senior Managers and regular basis, most recently in January 2017. prior to appointment.
The terms of reference are available on the is responsible for: Groups website or by contacting the If any shareholder has questions on the Identifying, and nominating for the Company Secretary.
work of the Committee, I am very happy Boards approval, candidates to fill to respond to these at the Companys any Board vacancies Effectiveness AGM or at any other time.
Succession planning, including the An external evaluation of the Committees progressive refreshing of the Board effectiveness was undertaken by KEVIN PARRY Independent Audit during the year.
Ensuring that all appointments to Chairman of the Nominations Committee The report concluded that the Committee the Board are made on objective 24 May 2017 continues to operate effectively.
The report criteria and that candidates have highlighted that the Committee will need sufficient time to devote to their to consider: prospective responsibilities Regularly reviewing the appropriateness succession planning for the Senior of the size, structure and skills of the Board Independent Director Considering the composition of the whether further Non Executive Director Board to ensure that the balance of appointments will enhance the expertise its membership between Executive of the Board Directors and Non Executive Directors the management structure of the group is appropriate below the Executive Directors All of these topics were already on the Composition agenda for the Committee and will be The Nominations Committee consists of considered in FY18.
five Non Executive Directors, these being Kevin Parry Chairman of the Committee, Peter Gibbs, Kim Wahl, Kathryn Purves and since 15 September 2016 Rusty Nelligan.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Justin Dowley retired from the Committee on 21 July 2016.
Biographical details can be found on pages 42 to 43
