Governance statement Maintaining high standards Mike Turner CBE, Chairman Nominations Committee.
At Babcock, expected term of appointment of Jeff Dear Shareholder Randall.
Jeff has been a Director since succession planning is taken seriously The Board is committed to working in an and the Board does devote time to April 2014.
The Nominations Committee effective, transparent and ethical manner was satisfied as to both Jeffs continuing considering the talent management, so that it can make its decisions in a way recruitment and training and independence and the ongoing value of it believes will benefit shareholders by having him serve as our Chairman of the development programmes of promoting and maintaining the longthe business.
term success of the Company.
We I believe that the importance placed by understand the need to undertake a the Board and the Company as a whole formal and rigorous annual evaluation on succession planning assists in ensuring of the performance of the Board and its that the senior management team has Committees to allow the Board to test the strength in depth which means that whether it has the appropriate balance excellent candidates are ready Mike Turner CBE of skills, experience, independence and throughout the business to step up as knowledge of the Company.
This year, Chairman and when opportunities present this evaluation exercise was led by themselves, whilst ensuring that the 23 May 2017 Independent Board Evaluation, a business culture and deep understanding of with wide experience and expertise in Babcock are maintained.
carrying out senior level evaluations.
Finally, we are satisfied as a Board that No significant concerns were highlighted all our Non-Executive Directors are as a result of this process, although a independent for UK Corporate summary of the evaluations review is Governance Code purposes and have described on page 89.
We are addressing the necessary time to devote to their and will continue to address the matters duties.
We, therefore, recommend to identified as areas for focus or shareholders that they reappoint each improvement.
of our Non-Executive Directors at the The period under review saw the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in appointment of Archie Bethel as Chief July.
In this regard, the Nominations Executive on the retirement of Peter Committee, after consideration, has Rogers.
Archies appointment was the extended for a further three-year term, culmination of a number of years subject to annual re-election, the current planning for succession by the 84 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 84 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 How the Company has applied the principles of the Code Governance Code Leadership Compliance Statement The Board, led by the Chairman, sets the strategic direction for the Company, providing The Company is required to report leadership within a framework of prudent and effective controls, which enable risk to on how in the year under review be assessed and managed.
This section details the composition of the Board and its it has applied the UK Corporate Committees, how responsibilities are divided and the key areas of focus for the Board Governance Code published in during the year.
The Effectiveness Code contains broad principles and The Board and its Committees review their skills, experience, independence and specific provisions which set out knowledge to enable the discharge of their duties and responsibilities effectively.
This standards of good governance section provides details on the 2017 Board evaluation process, including the progress practice in relation to leadership, made since the 2016 Board evaluation, and sets out the induction process for new effectiveness, remuneration, Directors.
The Report of the Nominations Committee pages 92 to 93 expands on accountability and relations with the process for Board appointments including diversity policy.
Accountability The Board considers that the Company complied with all the The Board, principally acting through the Audit and Risk Committee which reviews the provisions of the Code throughout effectiveness of the risk management systems and internal controls in place, believes the year to 31 March 2017. that it has presented a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects throughout this Annual Report.
Principal risks and management The required governance and controls are described in the Strategic report pages 68 to 79 where the Board also regulatory assurances are provided makes its viability statement.
Internal controls and risk management are further discussed throughout this Directors report in the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee pages 94 to 97. and in some cases in other parts of the Annual Report.
The Other Remuneration Disclosures section on page 134 The Remuneration Committee has principal responsibility for determining and agreeing provides further cross references with the Board the overall remuneration of the Executive Directors.
The Directors to where in this Annual Report Remuneration Report on pages 98 to 133 details the Companys Remuneration disclosures under the Code Policy and how it is applied.
and also the Disclosure and Relations with shareholders Transparency Rules and Listing Rules can be found.
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining open dialogue with its shareholders.
Throughout the year the Company undertook a wide variety of presentations, meetings and roadshows.
This section pages 90 to 91 outlines how the Board has communicated with shareholders and how the shareholders can engage with the Company.
Babcock governance structure Babcock International Group PLC Board See pages 82 and 86 Audit and Risk Remuneration Nominations Group Finance Chief Executive Committee Committee Committee Director See pages 82 and 88 See page 94 See page 98 See page 92 See page 82 Executive Diversity Steering Corporate Safety International Group Security Group Finance Committee Group Steering Group Committee Committee Committee See pages 82 See page 64 See page 66 See page 89 See page 69 See page 87 and 89 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 85 Babcock International Group PLC 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance statement continued Attendance at Board meetings Leadership Board of Directors Chairman The Board of Directors of Babcock Mike Turner 12 of 12 International Group PLC the Board is Executive Directors collectively responsible to the Companys Archie Bethel 12 of 12 shareholders for the long-term success of 1 Peter Rogers 4 of 4 the Company.
This responsibility includes matters of strategy, performance, Franco Martinelli 12 of 12 resources, standards of conduct and John Davies 12 of 12 accountability.
The Board also has 2 Bill Tame 11 of 12 ultimate responsibility for corporate Non-Executive Directors governance, which it discharges either directly or through its Committees Sir David Omand 12 of 12 and the structures described in this Ian Duncan 12 of 12 Governance statement.
Anna Stewart 12 of 12 The current Directors biographies are Jeff Randall 12 of 12 set out on pages 82 and 83.
The Board 3 Myles Lee 11 of 12 is satisfied that each Director has the Victoire fide Margerie 12 of 12 necessary time to devote to the effective 1 Peter Rogers retired from the Board on 31 August 2016. discharge of their responsibilities and that 2 Bill Tame was unavailable to attend one meeting due to overseas business commitments.
between them the Directors have a blend 3 Myles Lee was unavailable for one meeting due to medical reasons.
of skills, experience, knowledge and independence suited to the Companys Composition of the Board needs and its continuing development.
The composition of the Board during the year, and as it currently stands, is shown below: The powers of the Directors are set out Independent Executive Non-Executive in the Companys Articles of Association Chairman Directors Directors the Articles, which may be amended Date by way of a special resolution of the members of the Company.
The Board 1 April 2016 31 August 2016 1 5 6 may exercise all powers conferred on it 1 September 2016 31 March 2017 1 4 6 by the Articles and in accordance with During the financial year and up to the date of this report the only change to the Board the Companies Act 2006, and other was the retirement of Peter Rogers on 31 August 2016. applicable legislation.
The Articles are available for inspection online at Board matters and delegation www.
com and The Board has established a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its can also be seen at the Companys approval.
It has delegated other specific responsibilities to its Committees and these registered office.
are clearly defined within their terms of reference.
Board meeting attendance Summary of key Board reserved matters The Board has at least 10 scheduled full Group strategy and resourcing Board meetings each financial year and Interim and final results announcements and the Annual Report and financial statements two other meetings devoted solely to Dividend policy strategy.
The Chairman also meets separately with Non-Executive Directors Acquisitions, disposals and other transactions outside delegated limits without Executive Directors or other Significant contracts not in the ordinary course of business managers present from time to time.
Major changes to the Groups management or control structure Debate and discussion at Board and Changes relating to the Companys capital structure or status as a listed PLC Committee meetings is encouraged to Annual budgets be open, challenging and constructive.
Major capital expenditure Directors regularly receive presentations by functional and senior managers.
In the Major changes in governance, accounting, tax or treasury policies annual Board and Committee evaluation Internal controls and risk management systems advised by the Audit and review, no Directors expressed Risk Committee dissatisfaction with the timing or quality Major press releases and shareholder circulars.
of information provided to them.
86 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 86 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Key areas of focus during the year Board Committee terms of reference and other delegated authorities are During the year key areas focused on by the Board included: formalised and reviewed from time to time, usually at least once a year.
Key Committee terms of reference are Strategy and business Risk available to view on our website: development Review either by itself and or www.
through the Audit and Risk Group strategy with particular In addition to the principal Committees reference to the Groups Committee of the Companys principal risks to determine the of the Board the Remuneration international development, which Committee, the Audit and Risk included two special Board meetings nature and extent of the risks the Company is willing to take and to Committee and the Nominations dedicated to strategy Committee each of which has its own review the management of those Business unit strategy updates and risks, including internal controls report in the pages that follow the presentations Board from time to time establishes and risk management Financial planning, including committees to deal with specific matters Assessment of viability as well as budgets and dividend policy on its behalf.
The Board also allows for considering the principal risks to Business development opportunities routine matters, or the implementation the Groups solvency and viability and pipeline review of formal steps for matters approved in Succession planning and talent The implementation of a new principle by the Board, to be dealt with development Enterprise Resource Planning ERP by a Board meeting of any two Consideration of the implications of application Directors, but these are later ratified political developments and outlook by the full Board.
Succession planning and through Cyber-security and information the Remuneration Committee There is also a Group Finance Committee assurance risk management Executive Directors remuneration consisting of any two Directors, one of Legal updates and litigation reports whom must be the Group Finance Insurance strategy Director, to approve borrowing, guarantees, treasury and related matters within its terms of reference.
The Company has, as described on page 89, an Executive Committee and an Shareholder relations Governance International Committee, though neither Annual Report and Accounts and Annual review of Board, Committee committee is a formal Board Committee.
half-year results and Director effectiveness Annual General Meeting Health and safety management reports and annual and halfIndependent investor relations yearly reviews surveys and feedback reports Annual anti-bribery and corruption Monthly investor relations and and risk management update shareholder engagement reports Review of terms of reference Review of analyst reports of Board Committees Monthly management reports Tax affairs Review of delegated authorities Potential conflicts of interest of Directors Consideration of revisions to the Governance Code Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 87 Babcock International Group PLC 87 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance statement continued The Chairman and Chief Executive Non-Executive Directors The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separate, The Non-Executive Directors bring clearly established and set out in writing, and have been approved by the Board.
The external perspectives and insight to Chairman is responsible for the leadership and governance of the Board as a whole, and the deliberations of the Board and its the Chief Executive for the management of the Group and the successful planning and Committees, providing a range of implementation of Board strategy.
The descriptions below summarise their current knowledge and business or other respective roles and responsibilities.
A copy of the formal written statement is also experience from a range of sectors and maintained on the Companys website at www.
undertakings see their biographies on page 83.
They play an important role Chairman Chief Executive in the formulation and progression of The Chairman is responsible for the The Chief Executive is responsible the Boards agreed strategy, and review leadership and overall effectiveness of for the day-to-day leadership of the and monitor the performance of the the Board.
In particular, his role is to: business and managing it within the executive management in the authorities delegated by the Board.
With the Chief Executive, demonstrate In particular, his role is to: ethical leadership and promote the Non-Executive Directors are appointed highest standards of integrity and probity Develop strategic proposals and for an expected initial three-year term throughout the business annual plans for recommendation though the appointments are terminable to the Board and ensure that agreed at will by either party at any time, Ensure effective operation of the Board strategies are implemented in subject to their annual re-election by and its Committees in conformity with the the business shareholders at the Annual General highest standards of corporate governance Meeting AGM, commencing with their Develop an organisational structure, Set the agenda, style and tone of Board election by shareholders at the first AGM establishing processes and systems discussions to promote constructive following their appointment by the and planning people resourcing to debate and effective decision-making Board.
Reappointment after the expiry ensure that the Company has the and ensure that the flow of information of their threeyear terms is subject to capabilities and resources required to the Board is accurate, timely and clear review by the Nominations Committee.
to achieve its plans Build an effective and complementary The Board considers the independence Be responsible to the Board for Board, with the appropriate balance of of each NonExecutive Director against the performance of the business skills, experience and knowledge, initiating criteria specified in the Code.
The Board consistent with agreed plans, change and planning succession, as well is conscious that before extending the strategies and policies as ensuring Director development and appointment of any Non-Executive leading the evaluation of the performance Demonstrate and communicate Director in office over six years they of the Board, its Committees and to the Groups employees the should be subject to a particularly individual Directors expectation of the Board with rigorous review of their performance regard to ethical and cultural values Foster effective working relationships and commitment.
and behaviours, promoting the between the Executive and Non-Executive The table below shows that we have a highest standards of good Directors, support the Chief Executive Board of Non-Executives that is clearly governance the development of strategy and, more being renewed and enjoys the benefit broadly, support and advise the Oversee the application of Group of a range of periods in office.
Chief Executive policies and governance procedures as regards health and safety and Non-Executive Period in office to date Ensure effective communication with environmental matters shareholders, governments and other Sir David Omand 8 years, 1 month relevant constituencies and that the Develop and promote effective Ian Duncan 6 years, 6 months views of these groups are understood communication with shareholders Anna Stewart 4 years, 6 months by the Board.
Jeff Randall 3 years, 1 month Senior Independent Director Myles Lee 2 years, 1 month Sir David Omand is currently and has throughout the year been the Senior Independent Victoire fide Margerie 1 year, 3 months Director.
Shareholders can bring matters to his attention if they have concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Group Finance Director, or if these channels are not deemed appropriate.
The Chairman looks to the Senior Independent Director as a sounding board and he is available as an intermediary between the other Directors and the Chairman.
The Senior Independent Director is also responsible for leading the Non-Executive Directors in the annual performance evaluation of the Chairman.
The specific role of the Senior Independent Director has been set out in writing and approved by the Board.
88 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 88 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Group Executive Committee together: as well as other factors relevant This was the subject of formal to effectiveness.
As part of the evaluation presentations at both the Board and the The Group Executive Committee reviews and discusses all matters of material process, IBE attended, as observers, a Executive Committee following detailed Board meeting and a Remuneration divisional reviews.
Further information significance to the Groups management, operational and financial performance as Committee meeting.
IBE found that the on activity in this area can be found on feedback from Board members was page 63. well as strategic development.
It is not a formal Board Committee and has no positive and concluded that the Board Strategy and awareness of potential was functioning well.
No significant delegated powers as such.
It is now made strategic risks up of the Chief Executive, the Group concerns were expressed by Board or In the year the Board, in addition to Committee members as to the way in Finance Director, the sector Chief the time spent in its regular monthly Executives, the Chief Executive, Global which the Board or its Committees meetings, devoted at least two meetings, functioned, the support given to them, Growth and Operations, the Company of which one was a full day meeting held Secretary, the Group Director of the matters covered at their meetings off-site, solely to consider the Companys or how they were dealt with, or as to the Organisation and Development, the strategy.
The Board also asks senior Group Director of Investor Relations and contribution of any individual Director.
management to attend these meetings.
Communications and the Managing Recommendations for primary areas As part of these discussions, the Board Director Technology.
It is scheduled to of focus or consideration going considers potential strategic risks.
In meet 10 times a year and minutes of its forward were: addition, the Company can also draw on meetings are circulated to Board members.
the International Committee which has as Overseeing a changing organisation its principal focus the setting and review Group International Committee Talent management and bench of the Companys international strategy, The Group International Committee strength below Board and sector level the coordination and focus of effort by reviews and discusses the Groups Planning to ensure that the Group has the Group on international development, international development.
It is not a the necessary diversity of talent and and the review of progress.
The formal Board Committee and has no skills for its long term needs.
International Committee is concentrating delegated powers as such.
It is principally on expanding the capabilities of the made up of the Group Finance Director The Board is addressing and will continue Companys international operations.
and the sector Chief Executives and is to address the above matters and will chaired by Bill Tame, Chief Executive, report back to shareholders on progress Induction and training for Directors Global Growth and Operations.
It is also in the 2018 Annual Report.
New Non-Executive Directors receive attended by the heads of the principal Follow up on the review for year ending detailed business briefings on the Groups overseas operations.
It is scheduled to 31 March 2016 operations and make induction visits to meet 10 times a year and minutes of its operational sites.
Those who have not As reported last year, the Board meetings are circulated to the Board.
previously served as a director of a listed evaluation for the year ending 31 March company receive a briefing from the Effectiveness 2016 was led internally, by the Company Companys external lawyers on their Secretary.
Key areas of focus to come Board evaluation duties and responsibilities.
out of that review and how they were The evaluation for the financial year addressed in the year to 31 March ending 31 March 2017 was carried As required by the Chairman, training 2017 included: out externally by Independent Board for new Directors and ongoing general Evaluation IBE.
Neither IBE nor any director training is arranged as necessary Executive succession plans and their of its representatives had any other or as they may request, and the Company implementation connections with the Company.
IBE Secretary briefs, or arranges briefings for, The succession of Archie Bethel to carried out confidential one on one Board members about significant changes the position of Chief Executive as of meetings with each Director, the in the law, regulations or governance 1 September 2016 was the culmination Company Secretary and other senior codes affecting their duties as Directors.
of the succession plans put into place managers, as well as representatives in the event of the retirement of Peter Non-Executive Directors may at any from certain external advisers who work Rogers.
However, the Board has time make visits to Group businesses or closely with the Board or its Committees.
continued to look to the future and operational sites and Board visits are also The review considered the balance of considers succession planning and made to sites.
Presentations on the Groups skills, experience, independence and talent development across the Group businesses and specialist functions are knowledge on the Board: its diversity: as described on page 92. made to the Board from time to time.
how the Board, its Committees, the Planning to ensure that the Group has the Chairman and individual Directors necessary talent and skills being recruited performed and how they worked and developed for its long-term needs Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 89 Babcock International Group PLC 89 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance statement continued Non-Executive Directors receive copies Election of Directors Relations with shareholders of minutes of meetings of the Group The rules relating to the appointment Dialogue with shareholders Executive Committee, the Group and replacement of Directors are The Board believes it is important International Committee and divisional contained within the Articles.
The Articles to maintain open and constructive Boards and monthly divisional provide that Directors may be appointed relationships with all of its shareholders operating reports which also cover by an ordinary resolution of the members large and small, institutional and private.
health, safety and environmental matters or by a resolution of the Directors, The Chief Executive, Group Finance and compliance with the Groups ethical provided that, in the latter instance, a Director and Group Director of Investor and security standards.
They are also Director appointed in that way retires Relations and Communications undertake invited to attend the Groups senior and is submitted for election at the first a programme of meetings, conference management conferences.
In calls and presentations to discuss the compliance with provision B.
7.1 of the Groups strategy and financial Information and support Code, all existing Directors will be seeking performance with investors, brokers for the Board re-election at the 2017 AGM.
The names sales teams and analysts.
The Company The Chairman, with the assistance and biographical details of each of the offers meetings with the Chief Executive of the Company Secretary, ensures Directors are set out on page 82 and 83. and Group Finance Director to its top appropriate information flows to the 20 shareholders at least twice a year Executive Directors are entitled under Board and its Committees to facilitate and, additionally, during the year the their discussions and allow fully informed their service agreements to 12 months Chairman wrote to our largest notice of termination of employment decisions to be made.
The Company shareholders inviting them to meet with Secretary attends all Board meetings and from the Company: Non-Executive him to discuss strategy, performance and Directors, including the Chairman, have all Directors have access to his advice corporate governance matters, resulting and, if necessary, to independent letters of appointment which can be in meetings with two shareholders.
professional advice at the Companys The Chairman of the Remuneration expense to assist with the discharge of Committee was also in contact with their responsibilities as Directors.
leading shareholders as further explained in his annual statement on pages 98 to 99.
Both the Chairman and Sir David Omand, the Senior Independent Director, are available to shareholders should they have any concerns where contact through the normal channels is deemed inappropriate or where shareholders believe a matter has not been adequately resolved.
How we communicate Results and trading updates available as audiocasts at www.
com investors When Full-year and half-year results: announcement and presentation May and November 2016 Interim management statements and conference call with Group Finance Director July 2016 and February 2017 Other presentations When June, July and September 2016 By Group Finance Director at broker organised conferences and events and March 2017 Dealings with shareholders, investors and analysts Resolutions of AGM available at www.
com investors When Meetings with shareholders and potential investors Throughout Meetings with sell-side analysts and brokers sales teams Throughout Letter from the Group Chairman to our shareholders December 2016 Annual General Meeting July 2016 Roadshow in London and Edinburgh May and November 2016 90 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 90 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Over 95% of Babcock shares are held The Company ensures that the Board has Annual General Meeting by institutional shareholders.
Whilst it is an up-to-date perspective on the views The 2017 AGM will be held at 11 am normal practice for institutional funds to and opinions of shareholders and the on Thursday 13 July 2017 at the have a greater degree of contact with investment market.
An investor relations Grosvenor House Hotel, Park Lane, the Company, all shareholders are report summarising share price London W1K 7TN.
The Company will welcome to raise questions with the performance compared to market, send notice of the AGM and any related Board at the Annual General Meeting.
changes to the shareholder register and papers at least 20 working days prior to feedback from shareholders is produced for the date of the meeting in accordance In addition, on a day-to-day basis our each Board meeting.
During 2016 17, the with best practice standards.
investor relations team engages with Company once again commissioned Clare shareholders on a wide range of issues on All shareholders are welcome.
The event Williams Associates to undertake a market a variety of platforms.
To assist our private provides a platform for the Chairman perception review to provide an and international shareholders, the investor and Chief Executive to explain how the independent evaluation of investor relations team makes sure that all priceCompany has progressed during the year.
attitudes towards the Group which this sensitive information is released in It also provides all shareholders with the year involved nine investors, including accordance with the applicable legal opportunity to put questions to the some of the Companys major and regulatory requirements.
All Chairman of the Board, the Chairmen shareholders, accounting for around 43% announcements and major presentations of the Audit and Risk, Nominations and of the shareholder register, as well as some given to institutional shareholders, along Remuneration Committees, and the underweight or non-holding institutions.
with annual reports, shareholder circulars, Senior Independent Director.
At these The results were formally presented to the shareholder services information, other meetings a poll is conducted on each Board in July 2016. stock exchange releases and share price resolution: shareholders also have the information, are made available to all opportunity to cast their votes by proxy, shareholders through the Babcock website either electronically or by post.
also make themselves available before and after the AGM to talk informally to shareholders.
Following each AGM the results of the polls are published on the Companys website and released to the London Stock Exchange.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 91 Babcock International Group PLC 91 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
