94 Stakeholder Engagement Investor relations Our website contains an archive of Institutional shareholders 2016 17 engagement Annual Reports together with other andanalysts During 2016 17, the key topics for our information relevant to investors, including investors have been a combination The Board recognises the importance comprehensive share price information, of company specific, performanceof representing and promoting the financial results, Company news and orientated factors and broader regulatory interests of its shareholders and that financial calendars.
The Company offers and macro factors.
it is accountable to shareholders for a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP, the performance and activities of the At a company level, much of the interest details of which are available on our Company.
Various mechanisms have been has been around Severn Trents website and the website of Equiniti, put in place to ensure it remains in touch outperformance against its regulatory our registrar.
with key activities and developments, contract, specifically in the three key areas including: which feed into the return on regulatory Additional investor engagement equity RoRE calculation: customer monthly update reports on the key Presentations are made to shareholders outcome delivery incentives ODIs, shareholder engagement activities and city analysts following the release totex, the pension deficit and financing.
carried out by the Executive Committee of the half-year and year end results.
Our current debt strategy has also been and the Investor Relations team: Furthermore, the Chief Executive and a source of interest, with upcoming a monthly report of our shareholder Chief Financial Officer regularly meet maturities and new debt issuance creating register, outlining the significant buyers shareholders during the year.
opportunities to reduce our cost of debt.
and sellers of Severn Trent Plc shares: The Chairman and Senior Independent Our sector-leading renewable energy and Director also meet with shareholders programme attracted a greater degree of regular summaries of sector research without the Executive Directors at least interest as it grows in importance, and our notes, allowing the Board to understand once every year and are available to meet acquisition during the year of Dee Valley the key opinions being communicated to with them at any other time upon request.
captured the attention of investors in the investors by analysts.
The progress on In line with the Code, we recognise that the formation of our joint venture with the Board has overall responsibility for Retail shareholder United Utilities, enabling us to compete ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with engagementstrategy more effectively in the recently opened shareholders takes place.
The Chairman, non-household retail market, was also The Board has an active shareholder Chief Executive and the Chief Financial of interest.
engagement strategy, the main elements Officer report to the Board at least of which are set out below.
quarterly the views of shareholders about At a broader level, investor focus has been the Company.
The Company Secretary on the further clarity received from Ofwat The Annual Report and Accounts is also provides regular updates on wider on a number of regulatory developments, the principal means of communicating investment and institutional sentiment.
giving us greater visibility through to with shareholders.
The Group has the end of the next regulatory period in adopted e-communications as an In March 2017, the Board reviewed and 2025.
Such developments include the alternative method of sending company approved an investor relations strategy, introduction of competitive markets for information.
Following a consultation with setting out the Investor Relations water resources and bio-resources, the shareholders in March 2017, a significant teams approach to identification of phased introduction of Consumer Price majority of shareholders, 85%, now view and engagement with the Companys Index CPI indexation and changes and download the Annual Report online, shareholders, sell-side analysts and to the methodology for calculating whilst 15% continue to receive a hard debt investors.
Ofwats review of the copy.
The next consultation will take place benefits of introducing competition to the in 2019. retail household market also attracted attention.
More widely, increases in the Retail Price Index RPI and its impact on the business, as well as the consequences of the leave vote in the European Union membership referendum, were of great interest to our investors.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 95 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Stakeholder Engagement Other information Primary investor events Looking ahead to 2017 18 We have already established a structured May 2016 London Roadshow programme of investor engagement May 2016 Edinburgh Roadshow for 2017 18, incorporating roadshows June 2016 New York Roadshow to many of the key locations where our June 2016 Netherlands Roadshow shareholder base is located, including London, Edinburgh, North America and June 2016 Credit Suisse Global Energy Conference several cities throughout Europe.
We have June 2016 Paris Roadshow also confirmed attendance at a number of June 2016 Bank of America Merrill Lynch Utilities & Renewables Conference industry conferences.
June 2016 Private Client Roadshow London We expect the main themes for investors September 2016 Private Client Roadshow London in the coming year to be focused around regulatory developments.
Ofwat will September 2016 North American Roadshow be publishing further clarification on September 2016 Morgan Stanley Power and Utilities Summit their proposals for the next regulatory September 2016 Bernstein Strategic Decisions Conference period, AMP7, later in 2017, which will give November 2016 London Roadshow stakeholders a greater understanding of the impacts of proposed changes and November 2016 Edinburgh Roadshow what that means for Company business November 2016 JP Morgan Utilities Conference plans.
At a Company level, we expect December 2016 London Roadshow focus will continue to be on how well we are performing against the current December 2016 Private Client Roadshow London regulatory contract.
December 2016 Frankfurt Roadshow January 2017 Citi European Utilities Conference January 2017 USA Roadshow February 2017 Australia Roadshow March 2017 Barclays Utilities Sector Update Conference March 2017 Severn Trent Digital, Innovation & Technology showcase event Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
