Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CRANSWICK PLC CONTINUED THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Adjusted Profit before tax therefore provides an appropriate basis for evaluating the financial performance of the Group in the year.
Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for STARTING BASIS Reported profit before tax from continuing operations 77.5m each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the Group financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
IAS41 fair value adjustment gain 4.1m 2016 charge 0.9m In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of ADJUSTMENTS Non-recurring gains nil 2016 impairment of goodwill 4.6m significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 17 reporting components 2016: 15 reporting components of the Group, we selected Amortisation of customer relationships 2.1m 2016 1.4m 15 components 2016: 14 components, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the 15 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information on all 15 components full scope components Adjusted profit before tax excluding impairment of goodwill and non-recurring charges 75.5m MATERIALITY which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
Materiality of 3.8m 5% of materiality basis The full scope reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 99% 2016: 99% of the Groups adjusted profit before tax measure used to calculate materiality.
99% 2016: 100% of the Groups Revenue and 97% 2016: 98% of the Groups Total assets.
Performance materiality Adjusted Profit before tax excludes non-cash transactions and non-recurring charges as they are not appropriate for evaluating the financial The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the performance of the Group in the year.
probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
Of the remaining 2 components that together represent 1% of the Groups adjusted Profit before tax excluding impairment of goodwill On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that and non-recurring charges, we performed analytical procedures to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group performance materiality was 75% 2016: 75% of our planning materiality, namely 2.8m 2016: 2.4m.
We have set performance materiality financial statements.
at this percentage due to the past history of misstatements indicating a lower risk of misstatement in the financial statements.
The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, Profit before tax Revenue Total assets the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 0.1m to 1.6m 2016: 0.2m to 1.4m.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
1% 1% 3% We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.2m 2016: 0.2m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 99% 99% 97% An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and Full scope components adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the Other procedures financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or Changes from the prior year materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent As a result of the acquisition of CCL Holdings Limited and its trading subsidiary Crown Chicken Limited, the acquisition of Dunbia Ballymena material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
and the disposal in the period of The Sandwich Factory Holdings Limited, there was a net increase of 1 entity in scope for Group reporting.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR Involvement with component teams As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 81, the directors are responsible for the preparation of All audit work performed for the purposes of the audit was undertaken by the Group audit team.
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors Materiality report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 3.8 million 2016: 3.2 million, which is 5% 2016: 5% of Adjusted Profit before tax.
Adjusted Profit before tax excludes the impact of fair value adjustments IAS41 fair value movements, non-cash transactions not directly linked to operating performance amortisation of customer relationship intangible assets and one off, non-recurring charges gain on disposal of a subsidiary in 2017 and impairment of goodwill in 2016.
Profit before tax as reported in the Income Statement is from continuing operations only and already excludes the gain on disposal of a subsidiary in the period of 4.5m.
86 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Cranswick plc 87 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CRANSWICK PLC CONTINUED OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 STATEMENT ON THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY In our opinion: OR LIQUIDITY OF THE ENTITY the part of the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything We have nothing material to add based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: reporting material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: or to draw attention to.
the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements the directors confirmation in the annual report that they have are prepared is consistent with the financial statements carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: ISAs UK and Ireland We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and We have no exceptions to report.
the directors statement in the financial statements about whether reporting non-financial information in the annual report is: they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material statements: or uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of statements: and performing our audit: or the directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have otherwise misleading.
assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its performing the audit and the directors statement that they consider liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary and understandable and provides the information necessary for qualifications or assumptions.
shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those Alistair Denton Senior statutory auditor matters that we communicated to the audit committee that we consider for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor should have been disclosed.
Hull Companies Act 2006 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its We have no exceptions to report.
reporting environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have identified no 23 May 2017 material misstatements in the Strategic Report or Directors Report.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Notes: company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Cranswick plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does from branches not visited by us: or not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred the parent company financial statements and the part of the to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Remuneration Committee Report to be audited are not in 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or other jurisdictions.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Listing Rules review We are required to review: We have no exceptions to report.
requirements the directors statement in relation to going concern, set out on page 82, and longer-term viability, set out on page 40: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
88 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Cranswick plc 89
