GOVERNANCE TR Property pp33-57 08 06 2017 15:49 Page 39 Report of the Directors continued Corporate Governance Report The Board of Directors is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
This statement describes how the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the FRC in 2014 have been applied to the affairs of the Company.
The Code can be viewed at www.
Application of the AIC Codes Principles In applying the principles of the Code, the Directors have also taken account of the Code of Corporate Governance published by the AIC the AIC Code, which established the framework of best practice specically for the Boards of investment trust companies.
There is some overlap in the principles laid down by the two Codes and there are some areas where the AIC Code is more exible for investment trust companies.
The AIC Code can be viewed at www.
The Directors believe that during the period under review they have complied with the Main Principles and relevant provisions of the Code, insofar as they apply to the Companys business, and with the provisions of the AIC Code.
Compliance Statement The Directors acknowledge that the Company did not comply with the following provisions of the Code in the year ended 31 March 2017.
2.1 Due to the nature and structure of the Company the Board of non-executive directors does not feel it is necessary to appoint a chief executive.
C. 3.5 & C. 3.6 As the Company has no employees and its operational functions are undertaken by third parties, the Audit Committee does not consider it necessary for the Company to establish its own internal audit function.
D. 2.1 The Board does not have a separate Remuneration Committee.
The functions of a Remuneration Committee are carried out by the Management Engagement Committee.
Composition and Independence of the Board The Board currently consists of five directors, all of whom are non-executive and are independent of the Manager.
None of the Directors have any other links to the Manager.
The Board believes that diversity of experience and approach, including gender diversity, amongst board members is of great importance and it is the Companys policy to give careful consideration to issues of board balance and diversity when making new appointments.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company, whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or not.
In particular, the Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of its undertakings, property, assets and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities and to give security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company to any third party.
There are no contracts or arrangements with third parties which effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
TR Property Investment Trust 39 TR Property pp33-57 08 06 2017 15:49 Page 40 Report of the Directors continued Directors The Chairman is Mr Seaborn and the Senior Independent Director is Mr Watson.
The Directors biographies, on page 33, demonstrate the breadth of investment, commercial and professional experience relevant to their positions as Directors of the Company.
Directors retirement by rotation and re-election is subject to the Articles of Association.
In accordance with the Code, all directors will be subject to annual re-election.
Mr Marrison, Mr Seaborn, Ms Procter and Mr Watson will retire at the forthcoming AGM in accordance with the Code and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
All Directors are regarded as being free of any conicts of interest and no issues in respect of independence arise.
The Board has concluded that all Directors continue to make valuable contributions and believe that they remain independent in character and judgement.
Re election recruitment Mr Glen, who has served on the Board since 2014, will not be seeking re-election and he will retire from the Board of Directors following the AGM on 25 July 2017.
Board Committees The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Nomination Committee and a Management Engagement Committee, which also carries out the functions of a Remuneration Committee.
The roles and responsibilities of each Committee are set out on the individual Committee reports which follow.
Board Meetings The number of meetings of the Board and Committees held during the year under review, and the attendance of individual Directors, are shown below: Board Audit MEC Nomination Attended Eligible Attended Eligible Attended Eligible Attended Eligible Hugh Seaborn 6 6 2 2 1 1 2 2 John Glen 6 6 2 2 1 1 2 2 Simon Marrison 6 6 2 2 1 1 2 2 Suzie Procter 6 6 2 2 1 1 2 2 David Watson 6 6 2 2 1 1 2 2 Caroline Burton 2 2 1 1 0 0 1 1 Caroline Burton retired from the Board on 26 July 2016.
In addition to formal Board and Committee meetings, the Directors also attend a number of informal meetings to represent the interests of the Company.
The Board The Board is responsible for the effective stewardship of the Companys affairs.
Certain strategic issues are monitored by the Board at meetings against a framework which has been agreed with the Manager.
Additional meetings may be arranged as required.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specically reserved for its decision, which are TR Property Investment Trust 40 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE TR Property pp33-57 08 06 2017 15:49 Page 41 Report of the Directors continued categorised under various headings, including strategy, management, structure, capital, financial reporting, internal controls, gearing, asset allocation, share price discount, contracts, investment policy, finance, risk, investment restrictions, performance, corporate governance and Board membership and appointments.
In order to enable them to discharge their responsibilities, all Directors have full and timely access to relevant information.
At each meeting, the Board reviews the Companys investment performance and considers financial analyses and other reports of an operational nature.
The Board monitors compliance with the Companys objectives and is responsible for setting asset allocation and investment and gearing limits within which the Portfolio Manager has discretion to act and thus supervises the management of the investment portfolio, which is contractually delegated to the Portfolio Manager.
The Board has responsibility for the approval of investments in unquoted investments and any investments in in-house funds managed or advised by the Portfolio Manager.
It has also adopted a procedure for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
Conicts of Interest In line with the Companies Act 2006, the Board has the power to authorise any potential conicts of interest that may arise and impose such limits or conditions as it thinks t. A register of potential conicts is maintained and is reviewed at every Board meeting to ensure all details are kept up-to-date.
Appropriate authorisation will be sought prior to the appointment of any new Director or if any new conicts arise.
Relations with Shareholders Shareholder relations are given high priority by the Board, the AIFM and the Portfolio Manager.
The prime medium by which the Company communicates with shareholders is through the Interim and Annual Reports which aim to provide shareholders with a clear understanding of the Companys activities and their results.
This information is supplemented by the daily calculation of the Net Asset Value of the Companys Ordinary shares which is published on the London Stock Exchange.
This information is also available on the Companys website, www.
com together with a monthly factsheet and Manager commentary.
At each AGM a presentation is made by the Manager following the business of the meeting.
Shareholders have the opportunity to address questions to the Chairman and the Chairman of the Audit Committee at the AGM.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM.
It is the intention of the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of the AGM be issued to shareholders so as to provide at least twenty working days notice of the AGM.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of the AGM, or to contact the Board at any other time, are invited to do so by writing to the Company Secretary at the registered address given on page 94.
General presentations are given to both shareholders and analysts following the publication of the annual results.
All meetings between the Manager and shareholders are reported to the Board.
Directors Indemnity Directors and Ofcers liability insurance cover is in place in respect of the Directors.
The Companys Articles of Association provide, subject to the provisions of UK legislation, an indemnity for Directors in respect of costs which they TR Property Investment Trust 41 TR Property pp33-57 08 06 2017 15:49 Page 42 Report of the Directors continued may incur relating to the defence of any proceedings brought against them arising out of their positions as Directors, in which they are acquitted or judgement is given in their favour by the court.
To the extent permitted by law and by the Companys Articles of Association, the Company has entered into deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each Director of the Company in respect of liabilities which may attach to them in their capacity as Directors of the Company.
These provisions, which are qualifying third party indemnity provisions as dened by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, were introduced in January 2007 and currently remain in force.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors The Directors who were members of the board at the time of approving the Directors report are listed on page 33.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors and of the Companys auditors, each of these Directors confirms that: l to the best of each directors knowledge and belief, there is no information that is, information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and l each Director has taken all the steps a director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This information is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
By order of the Board Hugh Seaborn Chairman 8 June 2017 TR Property Investment Trust 42 GOVERNANCE
