Audit Committee Mark Reckitt The Audit Committee also oversaw and assisted the Chairmans introduction Board in its responsibility to approve a fair, balanced and understandable Annual Report and Accounts for the year The financial year 2016 17 was very challenging for Mitie with profits adversely impacted by the discovery of a ended 31 March 2017. number of instances of incorrect accounting, some of These accounts should provide the information which were relating to the prior years and resulted in a necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys prior year restatement of 60.5m, of which 46.9m strategy, business mode and financial performance related to FY16.
A reassessment of previous judgements throughout the year.
and estimates impacted pre-tax profit by 37.2m, net of the prior year restatement and before any further Given the serious nature of the issues affecting the judgemental non-cash adjustments of 39.7m.
Company, the Committee has met five times during the financial year, with four further meetings held during the Accordingly, the Committee focused its attention on current financial year.
The membership of the Audit these and the other significant issues facing the Committee has been strengthened by the recent Company, particularly with regards to why some of the appointment of Nivedita Krishnamurthy Bhagat.
key estimates had changed during the financial year, why some items had not been accounted for correctly in the During the financial year to 31 March 2017, the prior year and why it was appropriate to reassess some Company received two requests for information from the of the accounting practices used in prior years.
In Corporate Reporting Review Committee of the Financial addition the Committee also ensured that the material Reporting Council the FRC under the FRCs Conduct judgements and estimates used this financial year are Committees operating procedures for reviewing the most appropriate to present a fair and balanced view corporate reporting.
The requests related to the of the position at 31 March 2017.
In January, following the treatment and disclosure of goodwill and accrued income appointment of new executive management, the in the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended Committee engaged KPMG, as independent 31 March 2016.
The Audit Committee reviewed the accountants, to review and report on the most material responses to these requests and I, together with other judgements made on the balance sheet amounts in Directors have also met with members of the Corporate relation to long-term complex contracts, accrued income, Reporting Review Committee and staff of the Corporate work in progress and mobilisation.
Their work was Reporting Review team.
The Audit Committee also undertaken between January and May 2017 and focused received and reviewed the findings of the FRCs Audit on balance sheet items as at the end of December 2016.
Quality Review AQR team following their review of the In addition, KPMG provided support to management, work conducted by Deloitte during their audit for the who carried out a review of the remaining areas of the year ended 31 March 2016.
At Group level, the AQR balance sheet.
By the completion of these reviews, all team reviewed Deloittes supervision and oversight of material balance sheet items had been reviewed and the component auditors, the quality of communications with results presented to, and discussed at the Audit the Audit Committee, goodwill impairment, quality Committee.
Over the course of five meetings, members control of the audit and the audit of revenue recognition of the Audit Committee have been briefed by KPMG on in complex long-term contracts.
At component level, the the findings of their work and the recommendations from AQR team reviewed the provisioning of trade receivables management on the changes required to ensure that and accrued income, primarily at two selected UK Mities financial reporting and control environment meets components.
The AQRs review resulted in improvements the standards required.
These reviews have led to the being required in two main areas which were reported to need for significant write-offs totalling 37.2m in FY17 the Audit Committee.
First, in relation to the challenge of and disappointingly, and most concerning, the correction certain key assumptions in the goodwill impairment of a number of a number of material errors made in the review, including the depth of analysis of related prior year to 31 March 2016.
The Audit Committee views sensitivities.
Secondly in relation to the audit of the these prior year adjustments with a very high degree of recognition of certain cost saving initiatives relating to concern, as the existence of such material errors is based one complex long-term contract.
The Audit Committee on information brought to the Committees attention in has worked with Deloitte to develop a comprehensive the period from January to May 2017. action plan to address these findings.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the AQRs findings have been addressed as part of the 2017 audit process.
com 49 Audit Committee continued Audit Committee members The Audit Committee has discussed these findings with Mark Reckitt has been Chairman of the Audit Committee Deloitte and was satisfied with the improvements that since July 2015.
Mark continues to be deemed by the Board, Deloitte have made in the audit of goodwill impairment as at the date of this report, to have significant, recent and and revenue recognition in connection with complex longrelevant financial experience through his qualifications and term contracts.
Marks biography is included on page 39 and in the Notice of AGM.
The Committee also considered the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting processes, the performance of At the date of this report, the Audit Committee comprises both the Internal Audit function and the external auditor, independent Non-Executive Directors who are all considered and the management of the Groups systems of internal appropriately experienced to fulfil their duties.
control, business risks management and related compliance activities.
Chairman Mark Reckitt Committee members Jack Boyer As a consequence of the issues discovered during the year the Audit Committee has considered the control Larry Hirst 1 environment and in particular the risks of controls being Nivedita Krishnamurthy Bhagat compromised by their override by management.
Nivedita Krishnamurthy Bhagat was appointed to the Audit Committee on 1 June 2017.
This has clearly been a very challenging year for the management team at Mitie, as well as for the Board and Key purpose of the Audit Committee Audit Committee.
I believe we have reacted to the issues The Audit Committee provides effective governance over raised in a professional and diligent manner, applying our the appropriateness of the Groups financial reporting, and independent judgement, and look forward to answering any the performance of both the Internal Audit function and the questions that shareholders wish to raise at the AGM.
The Audit Committee also Details of the Audit Committees work can be found on the oversees the Groups internal control systems, business following pages.
risks management and related compliance activities.
The Audit Committee meets with the external auditor and the Head of Internal Audit without the Executive Directors present.
As Chairman of the Audit Committee, Mark will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about the work of the Audit Committee.
50 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Key areas discussed Principal responsibilities of the Audit Committee and reviewed during year Reporting and external audit Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, including its Results, commentary and Half-Year Report and the Annual Report and Accounts, preliminary results announcements: announcements and any other formal announcement relating to its financial Key accounting judgements, performance, reviewing and reporting to the Board on significant financial including contract margins and reporting issues and estimates and judgements having regard to matters impairment reviews: communicated to it by the external auditor: Changes to accounting policies Reviewing the external auditors audit plan, nature and scope of work and overall and procedures: summary of key issues and judgements: Going concern and the Viability Assessing the effectiveness of the external auditor including the appropriateness Statement: and skills of its audit team and the quality of its services: Fair, balanced and understandable Agreeing the audit fee for the year: assessment in relation to the Reviewing summary financial statements, significant financial returns to regulators Annual Report: and any financial information contained in certain other documents, such as External auditor effectiveness: announcements of a price sensitive nature: External auditor reports on planning Reviewing the reports produced in connection with the accounting reviews the half-yearly review and the fullundertaken by KPMG and management in the period January to May 2017 and year audit, including the final opinion: also assessment of managements response to the issues raised: and and Reviewing the Half-Year Report and Annual Report and Accounts, including the The external auditors remuneration.
fair, balanced and understandable statement, statements concerning internal controls and risk management, all other material information presented with the financial statements including the strategic report, the annual Viability Statement, the corporate governance statements insofar as they relate to the audit and risk management, and recommending the same for Board approval.
Risk register, including identification Risk and internal control of the Groups principal risks and Keeping under review the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal financial movement in exposures: controls and internal control and risk management systems being the systems established to identify, assess, manage and monitor financial and other risks : Status of key risk indicators including any breaches of Providing advice on how, taking into account the Companys position and principal thresholds: risks, the Companys prospects have been assessed, over what period, why the period is regarded as appropriate and whether there is a reasonable expectation Review of activities of the Enterprise that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as Risk Management function: they fall due over the said period, drawing attention to any qualifications or Effectiveness of internal assumptions as necessary, reviewing and challenging, where necessary, control systems: accounting policies and key areas of accounting judgement: Responses to audit findings and Considering and making recommendations to the Board, to be put to shareholders recommendations for control for approval at the AGM, in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and improvements, including removal of the Groups external auditor: reviewing the external auditors Reviewing and monitoring compliance with the non-audit services policy and management letter: maintenance of auditor independence: Fraud risk assessment: Reviewing the Groups consolidated risk register prior to its approval by the Board: Cyber security and readiness: and Reviewing the adequacy and security of the Groups arrangements for its Whistleblowing procedures.
employees and business partners to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters ensuring that these arrangements allow proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and appropriate follow up action : Reviewing the Groups procedures for detecting fraud: and Reviewing the Groups systems and controls for the prevention of bribery.
com 51 Audit Committee continued Key areas discussed Principal Responsibilities of the Audit Committee and reviewed during year Annual internal audit plan, including Internal Audit consideration of its alignment to the Monitoring and reviewing the role and effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit principal risks, consideration of function, reviewing the internal audit plan and ensuring the Internal Audit function emerging areas of risk, coverage has adequate resources and appropriate access to information to enable it to across the Group and review of the perform its function effectively: Groups processes and controls: Reviewing key internal audit reports and findings: Review of the execution of the Considering managements response to any major internal or external audit internal audit plan and the resultant recommendations: and audit reports and findings: Monitoring the effectiveness of the external audit and risk management systems Internal Audit effectiveness: and functions.
Internal Audit reports: Annual internal controls overview: and Internal Audit charter, defining its role and responsibilities.
The Committees Terms of Other Reference: and Ensuring the Groups compliance with the Competition and Markets Authorities Statutory Audit Services Order, in particular with regard to audit tender.
The Audit Committees Terms of Reference are available at www.
To aid the review, the Audit Committee considers reports Frequency of Audit Committee meetings from the Chief Financial Officer and also reports from the During the financial year, the Audit Committee met five external auditor on the outcomes of the half-year review and times and held two additional ad hoc meetings at which it independent audit.
discussed the external audit plan for the financial year and the balance sheet review conducted by management and Significant issues considered by the Audit assisted by KPMG.
Invitations to attend meetings are Committee during the year normally extended to the Groups external auditor, the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial The Audit Committee pays particular attention to matters it considers to be important by virtue of their size, Officer and the Head of Internal Audit.
complexity, level of judgement required, potential Attendance impact on the financial statements and wider business Number of scheduled meetings held in year: 5 model, and matters pertaining to governance.
Identification of the issues deemed to be significant takes place following Mark Reckitt 5 open, frank and challenging discussion between the Audit Jack Boyer 5 Committee members, with input from the Chief Financial Larry Hirst 5 Officer, Deloitte and the Head of Internal Audit and other relevant Mitie employees.
The role of the Audit Committee financial The Audit Committee considered the following significant reporting matters during the course of the financial year.
In all The primary role of the Audit Committee in relation to financial cases, papers were presented to the Audit Committee by reporting is to review with both management and the external management, setting out the material matters of accounting auditor the appropriateness of the Half-Year Report and Annual estimates and the judgements associated with each item.
Report and Accounts concentrating on, amongst other matters: The external auditor provides a paper that sets out views on each area of judgement.
the consistency of, and any changes to, significant accounting policies and practices both on a year-on-year The Audit Committee discussed the papers with basis and across the Group: management and sought the views of the external auditor on each matter, and for each area of judgement concurred the clarity and completeness of disclosure in the Groups with the treatment presented by management and in the financial statements and the context in which statements Annual Report and Accounts.
are made: the methods used to account for significant or unusual transactions where different approaches are possible: and whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
52 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Issue How addressed Accounting Review of The most significant issue considered by the Audit Committee during the year related to the balance sheet balance sheet reviews carried out by executive management, with support from KPMG.
In January 2017, in consultation with the new executive management, the Audit Committee asked Instigating the review and management to conduct a detailed balance sheet review with independent expert support.
The agreeing the scope of the Audit Committee oversaw the appointment of KPMG in that and nominated its scope of work review of balance sheet and levels of materiality.
Management and KPMG reported to the Audit Committee during the items by KPMG and period March to June 2017.
The Audit Committee sought to ensure that the Accounting Review management.
has been thorough and balanced and requested recommendations for future improvements.
Full details of the outcome of these reviews are given in the Finance Review on pages 26 to 29.
Given the scale and significance of the resulting write-downs to items on the balance sheet, including material errors from prior years, the valuation of intangible software assets, onerous contract and other provisions, the Audit Committee spent a considerable time discussing and challenging management on the significant estimates and judgements made by management during the course of the review and also on the content and outcomes of this review.
The Audit Committee considered and agreed the scope of the review to ensure that it was sufficiently rigorous, setting materiality levels, and supported the engagement of KPMG and the terms for their engagement to provide financial reporting and accounting advice in connection with the reviews.
The Audit Committee considered the principal contract reviews that were undertaken as part of the review process.
The Audit Committee met regularly to review progress and ensure that management was able to apply sufficient resource to enable the review to be completed on a timely basis.
In all, four additional meetings were held prior to the publication of the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
These meetings reviewed in detail the results of the review and the key accounting papers to assess whether there was any evidence of bias in managements assessment of accounting treatment and determination of the levels of provisioning, particularly in relation to long-term complex contracts and those where there were high levels of accrued income and work in progress.
As part of the Audit Committees detailed review and challenge the Audit Committee also focused on whether there was evidence that impairments and provisions should have been identified in a prior year based on information available, or which should have been available at the time and might therefore be categorised as errors arising from the failure to use information available when prior year accounts were being prepared.
In some cases this review was complicated by changes in personnel at Mitie.
In such cases there is an inevitable element of judgement as to whether a prior year error has been made, and should be corrected, or whether changes in personnel have caused a change in judgement.
In such cases there may be a management bias in favour of judging that issues should be prior year errors rather than current year judgements.
The Audit Committee considered each of the prior year errors identified and challenged management, in particular where information made available in the prior year had changed or where management had changed.
In some cases management decided that insufficient evidence existed to support a determination of prior year error.
The Audit Committee discussed these issues with the Groups external auditor and, in particular, the differences between prior year error and changes in judgement.
The Audit Committee reviewed the treatment of items considered as being exceptional and therefore requiring separate disclosure to assist the reader in understanding the results of the Group.
Management prepared documentation to support the financial statements, which was reviewed and challenged by the Audit Committee and discussed with the external auditor.
As part of this review the Audit Committee also considered the appropriateness of the accounting policies, instructing KPMG to carry out a detailed review of the policies in relation to long-term complex contracts, mobilisation costs, accrued income and work in progress.
Management undertook a review of other policies, in particular those relating to capitalisation and amortisation of intangible software assets and amounts receivable.
At the conclusion of the process the Audit Committee concluded that the overall provisions were appropriately positioned, taking account of the range of possible outcomes.
The Audit Committee concluded that prior period errors were material and that a number of adjustments were required to ensure that the results for the financial year to 31 March 2017 were fairly stated.
The Audit Committee has also concluded that the items regarded as exceptional have been reported as such and that the accounting policies applied were appropriate.
com 53 Audit Committee continued Issue How addressed Issue How addressed Financial reporting & Since the appointment of Phil Bentley as Chief Executive Officer, the Company has made a The valuation of goodwill The Group has undertaken a number of acquisitions in the past and carries goodwill as an trading statements number of key appointments in the Finance function to increase the capability and leadership of intangible asset on its balance sheet in respect of the businesses acquired see Note 14.
Reviewing the carrying that function.
Sandip Mahajan was appointed as Chief Financial Officer on 10 February 2017 and financial reporting value of goodwill, with The Group considers the carrying value of all goodwill on at least an annual basis, or when an has provided effective leadership to the Finance function which has included ensuring clearer lines control environment particular emphasis indicator of impairment has occurred.
The valuation and impairment review of goodwill is of reporting for finance managers.
In April 2017, following discussions with the Chairman of the on Healthcare assessed for each individual cash-generating unit, or groups of cash-generating units CGUs, and In light of the significant Audit Committee, the Head of Internal Audit stepped down from that position and has been and Property considers the balance sheet value of the goodwill compared to the net present value of the postprovisions and replaced by an external appointee.
The Audit Committee supports the appointments and other Management, tax cash flows that are expected to be generated by that CGU.
This involves an estimation of the impairments made in changes made to date, and has asked management to continue to improve the training, including the impairment future cash flows deriving from each CGU and also the selection of appropriate discount rates, the year to capability and direction provided to the Finance function.
The Audit Committee has challenged of Healthcare goodwill which are then applied to the cash flows to calculate a net present value.
31 March 2017 the management to improve the clarity and effectiveness of the process by which management and acquisition related Audit Committee The assumptions underpinning the reviews were considered by the Audit Committee.
The cash across the business confirms the adequacy of the internal controls for which it is responsible.
The intangibles spent significant time flow forecasts used in the review were derived from the most recent CGU budgets which have Audit Committee has also ensured that a new independently managed whistleblowing process considering the strength been reviewed and approved by the Board and the long-term business plans of the Group.
The will be launched across the business.
In the light of the increased risk of management override of of the Groups internal assumptions underpinning the review, and also the sensitivity of the decision on goodwill controls the Audit Committee considered the additional actions undertaken by management to control environment impairment to changes in key assumptions including the discount factor were considered by provide a sufficient level of assurance on the judgements made at all levels of the business in management and presented to the Audit Committee.
relation to the determination of the financial position of Mitie.
At the half year the Audit Committee formally considered a paper on the status of Healthcare As already noted the Audit Committee has appointed a new Head of Internal Audit and goodwill.
The Audit Committee concurred with the papers conclusion that the Healthcare challenged that team to increase the proportion of its work that is focused on the review of goodwill should be fully impaired as changes in the domiciliary healthcare market and the balance sheet items, to ensure that higher risk areas of business receive a greater proportion of experience of our Healthcare business over the first six months of the financial year caused the its activity and to ensure that its reports to the Audit Committee are submitted on a timely basis Directors to decide in September 2016 that the Group would exit the social healthcare market.
following completion of the relevant audit.
Additionally the Audit Committee considered the disclosures to be made at the half year and also The Audit Committee challenged the adequacy of commentary on Healthcare impairment and received the advice of Deloitte on such disclosures.
disposal to ensure a clear explanation of the evolution of the Groups position on this division In February 2017 the Corporate Reporting Review Committee of the Financial Reporting Council from the prior year.
FRC sent Mitie a number of questions relating to the impairment testing of the Healthcare The Audit Committee reviewed the Groups revenue recognition procedures and challenged goodwill as at 31 March 2016 and the full impairment of that goodwill in the 30 September 2016 management on the recoverability of aged debt and accrued income, as well as the adequacy of Half-Year Report.
The Audit Committee, supported by KPMG and management, undertook a full the level of provisioning made in relation to contracts where there was evidence of issues in review of the circumstances surrounding the impairment testing of goodwill.
completion of the review the Audit Committee concluded that future impairment tests of goodwill The Audit Committee received a report on the drivers for the increase in the defined benefit should include more detailed assessment of the sensitivities to a CGUs recoverable amount, pension obligations during the year and challenged management in respect of concluding on a especially in areas where forecast growth appears high compared to recent trading performance plan to deal with the pension deficit.
The Audit Committee has concluded that certain aspects of the impairment testing of the Healthcare goodwill as at 31 March 2016 resulted in an incorrect Use of Alternative The Companys performance measures continue to include some measures which are statement of the relevant amount of goodwill at that date and that as a result it is appropriate to Performance Measures not defined or specified under IFRS.
In particular management have introduced measures record a prior year adjustment in respect of 65m of the value in use at that date of 157m.
APMs referred to as adjusted revenue, adjusted operating profit and profit before other items as Further detail on the impairment testing of Healthcare goodwill is provided on pages 137 to 139. key measures to review current performance against the prior year by removing the impact of Mitie remains in dialogue with the FRCs Corporate Reporting Review Committee in relation to prior year adjustments as well as asset write-downs of a non-recurring nature, which include the impairment testing of Healthcare goodwill and accrued income at 31 March 2016. those identified during the Accounting Review.
The Audit Committee recognises that there was a material disclosure deficiency in the 2016 The Committee noted the guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in relation to Annual Report and Accounts, in that there was a failure to disclose the significant judgements the use of APMs and, supported by the challenge of the external auditor, considered whether the made around the inclusion of new service line expansion plans in the Healthcare performance measures used by management provided a meaningful insight into the results of business adjacent to existing skills and assets already in the business.
This included the the Company for its shareholders.
provision of Telecare services, community healthcare and supply of temporary staff The Audit Committee then also reviewed the treatment of items considered as requiring on an agency basis.
At the full year, the Audit Committee formally considered the carrying value of goodwill in respect With the support of the external auditor, the Audit Committee reviewed the proposed disclosure of the Property Management CGU, given the limited impairment headroom of the CGU.
The of APMs in both the 2017 Half-Year Report and the Annual Report ahead of their approval by Audit Committee considered a detailed paper from management and a paper from the external the Board.
auditor on the key assumptions underpinning the carrying value of goodwill.
This included The Audit Committee agreed with management and the external auditor that adjusted profit is a consideration of the business plan for the Property Management CGU, the conditions in the reasonable basis for the comparison of the performance of the business.
social housing market, the calculation of the discount rate applied, the sensitivity of the The Audit Committee also continued to support the judgements made by management impairment testing to potential changes to both the key assumptions and the discount rate regarding the items considered as being exceptional and requiring separate disclosure.
applied therein, and the disclosures to be made in the accounts.
The Audit Committee ensured The Audit Committee concluded that, in relation to the Half-Year Report and the FY17 results that the underlying cash flow forecasts used for the assessment of goodwill impairment are also and the Annual Report and Accounts, clear and meaningful descriptions had been provided for consistent with those used for the Groups going concern and viability assessment.
In particular, the APMs used.
It was also concluded that the relationship between these measures and the the Audit Committee considered the degree to which the valuation was sensitive to the recovery statutory IFRS measures was clearly explained, supported the considered understanding of the in performance forecast for the current financial year and also whether, given the increased financial statements and that the Committee had considered that they had been accorded equal apparent risk in the market, the range of sensitivity in the discount rate was capable of fully prominence with measures that are defined by, or specified under, IFRS.
On the basis of this review, the Audit Committee agreed with management that an impairment to goodwill of 15m was necessary, but asked management to ensure that forecast performance was under close review and to alert the Audit Committee if management believed that there was a risk of further impairment of goodwill during the current financial year.
The Audit Committee concluded that the disclosures provided in the financial statements are transparent, appropriate and in compliance with financial reporting requirements.
54 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Issue How addressed The valuation of goodwill The Group has undertaken a number of acquisitions in the past and carries goodwill as an intangible asset on its balance sheet in respect of the businesses acquired see Note 14.
Reviewing the carrying value of goodwill, with The Group considers the carrying value of all goodwill on at least an annual basis, or when an particular emphasis indicator of impairment has occurred.
The valuation and impairment review of goodwill is on Healthcare assessed for each individual cash-generating unit, or groups of cash-generating units CGUs, and and Property considers the balance sheet value of the goodwill compared to the net present value of the postManagement, tax cash flows that are expected to be generated by that CGU.
This involves an estimation of the including the impairment future cash flows deriving from each CGU and also the selection of appropriate discount rates, of Healthcare goodwill which are then applied to the cash flows to calculate a net present value.
and acquisition related The assumptions underpinning the reviews were considered by the Audit Committee.
The cash intangibles flow forecasts used in the review were derived from the most recent CGU budgets which have been reviewed and approved by the Board and the long-term business plans of the Group.
The assumptions underpinning the review, and also the sensitivity of the decision on goodwill impairment to changes in key assumptions including the discount factor were considered by management and presented to the Audit Committee.
At the half year the Audit Committee formally considered a paper on the status of Healthcare goodwill.
The Audit Committee concurred with the papers conclusion that the Healthcare goodwill should be fully impaired as changes in the domiciliary healthcare market and the experience of our Healthcare business over the first six months of the financial year caused the Directors to decide in September 2016 that the Group would exit the social healthcare market.
Additionally the Audit Committee considered the disclosures to be made at the half year and also received the advice of Deloitte on such disclosures.
In February 2017 the Corporate Reporting Review Committee of the Financial Reporting Council FRC sent Mitie a number of questions relating to the impairment testing of the Healthcare goodwill as at 31 March 2016 and the full impairment of that goodwill in the 30 September 2016 Half-Year Report.
The Audit Committee, supported by KPMG and management, undertook a full review of the circumstances surrounding the impairment testing of goodwill.
Following completion of the review the Audit Committee concluded that future impairment tests of goodwill should include more detailed assessment of the sensitivities to a CGUs recoverable amount, especially in areas where forecast growth appears high compared to recent trading performance and wider market conditions.
The Audit Committee has concluded that certain aspects of the impairment testing of the Healthcare goodwill as at 31 March 2016 resulted in an incorrect statement of the relevant amount of goodwill at that date and that as a result it is appropriate to record a prior year adjustment in respect of 65m of the value in use at that date of 157m.
Further detail on the impairment testing of Healthcare goodwill is provided on pages 137 to 139.
Mitie remains in dialogue with the FRCs Corporate Reporting Review Committee in relation to the impairment testing of Healthcare goodwill and accrued income at 31 March 2016.
The Audit Committee recognises that there was a material disclosure deficiency in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, in that there was a failure to disclose the significant judgements made around the inclusion of new service line expansion plans in the Healthcare business adjacent to existing skills and assets already in the business.
This included the provision of Telecare services, community healthcare and supply of temporary staff on an agency basis.
At the full year, the Audit Committee formally considered the carrying value of goodwill in respect of the Property Management CGU, given the limited impairment headroom of the CGU.
The Audit Committee considered a detailed paper from management and a paper from the external auditor on the key assumptions underpinning the carrying value of goodwill.
This included consideration of the business plan for the Property Management CGU, the conditions in the social housing market, the calculation of the discount rate applied, the sensitivity of the impairment testing to potential changes to both the key assumptions and the discount rate applied therein, and the disclosures to be made in the accounts.
The Audit Committee ensured that the underlying cash flow forecasts used for the assessment of goodwill impairment are also consistent with those used for the Groups going concern and viability assessment.
In particular, the Audit Committee considered the degree to which the valuation was sensitive to the recovery in performance forecast for the current financial year and also whether, given the increased apparent risk in the market, the range of sensitivity in the discount rate was capable of fully valuing that risk.
com 55 Audit Committee continued Issue How addressed Review of the Groups The Audit Committee considered the evidence that supports the ability of the Directors to going concern and conclude that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue in operation for the viability statements foreseeable future and can prepare its accounts on a going concern basis.
The Audit Committee considered the future prospects and performance of the Group including: the future business plans of the Group: the potential impact of acquisition activity and possible changes to the composition of the Group: the projected future cash flows of the Group: the availability of core and ancillary financing facilities and compliance with related covenants, together with waivers of covenants that have been agreed with lenders following the year end: the projected drawn positions and headroom available on the core committed financing facilities: and those matters reviewed in connection with the Viability Statement.
It also reviewed and considered the disclosures on the matter of going concern and viability in the Annual Report and Accounts and considered them to be appropriate.
Details of the conclusions arrived at by the Directors in preparing the financial statements on a going concern basis can be found in the Directors report: other disclosures on pages 90 and 91, as can the details of the conclusions arrived at by the Directors in assessing the viability of the Group.
The more detailed assessment of the Groups long-term viability is set out in the Viability Statement on page 37.
Accounting for material The Audit Committee considered papers prepared by management, supported by KPMG in some contracts instances, on: revenue and profit recognition on contracts: the accounting treatment applied to all the Groups larger integrated facilities management contracts, where judgement is required in The Group operates respect of the percentage of completion of contracted work when recognising revenue and a broad portfolio of profit: contract performance: forecast levels of contract profit and the recognition and valuation contracts and discloses of contract related assets and liabilities: and on the recoverability of certain specific contract revenue recognition as receivables and the risk associated with their collection.
In November 2016 and April, May and a critical judgement in June 2017 the Audit Committee considered, in particular, the position of the largest and highest the Annual Report and risk Integrated Facilities Management contracts in conjunction with the Half-Year review and full Accounts.
year audit work conducted by Deloitte.
At the first of these meetings the Audit Committee The methodology used challenged management in relation to the reasonableness of forecasts made for project work for the recognition of and labour savings, as well as the net position of disputes both for and against the client, in contract revenue relation to work already completed and accounted for on three public sector contracts.
As a influences the amount result of these challenges, management undertook to increase the amount provided against of profit recognised on a these contracts and to maintain the close monitoring of their performance over the remainder of contract as well as the the year.
At the meeting in November 2016 the Audit Committee also considered the views of inclusion and valuation of Deloitte in relation to a number of overdue items of accounts receivable and accrued income.
contract related assets Following these discussions, management increased the amount provided against claims made and liabilities on the by a client of Mitie Property Management.
balance sheet In April and May 2017 the Audit Committee considered the results of the Accounting Review undertaken by KPMG and the resulting recommendations by management.
The Committee has, over the course of several meetings involving KPMG, considered the circumstances that contributed to the causes of the instances of incorrect accounting and changes in estimates.
It concurs that many of the issues may have been avoided had the accounting activities of the Finance function been directed in a more detailed fashion.
Whilst accounting was consistent with the requirements of the relevant accounting standards, the degree of inconsistency of application across the various Group activities resulted in a range of judgements being applied at the lowest level of accounting activity.
The Audit Committee fully supports the activities of the current Finance leadership to ensure that more detailed accounting procedures are embedded across the organisation and that judgements made are clearly documented and appropriately challenged by financial leadership, Internal Audit, external audit and ultimately the Audit Committee and Board.
The Audit Committee also considered papers by management on the basis for recognition of PFI lifecycle surpluses.
56 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Issue How addressed Internal audit scope The Audit Committee considered the effectiveness of Internal Audit scope during the year.
In May 2017 we appointed a new Head of Internal Audit, effective June 2017.
The Audit Reviewed and redirected the Committee has challenged the Head of Internal Audit to increase the proportion of its scope of internal audit work work that is focused on the review of balance sheet items, to ensure that higher risk areas of business receive a greater proportion of its activity and to report to the Audit Committee within a set period after the completion of the relevant internal audit work.
Review of fraud The Audit Committee considered internal audit reports and management presentations on management controls occurrences of incorrect accounting in a number of individual businesses.
The Audit Committee has noted and supports the significant number of changes made, including in Reviewing the cause of a the leadership and reporting lines for the Finance function as well as the additional number of instances of incorrect resources engaged to ensure that accurate accounting judgements can be made at every accounting and the robustness level of the Finance function In addition to the other changes noted earlier in this report, of the proposed revision to the Audit Committee supports managements response to these issues and has internal controls challenged management to ensure that sufficient resource is made available to embed the changes into Mities operations.
FRCs Corporate Reporting The Group received further requests for additional information and explanation from the Review Committee comment FRCs Corporate Reporting Review Committee in relation to the Groups 2016 Annual letter Reports and Accounts, making this the FRCs third year of enquiry.
After due consideration and approval by the Audit Committee, the Group has provided initial responses to the Reviewing letters from the FRC Corporate Reporting Review Committee and remains in discussion with them.
and management responses to the enquiries made As part of this process I, together with other Board members have met members of the Corporate Reporting Review Committee and staff of the Corporate Reporting Review team to seek to facilitate an effective and efficient plan for the resolution of the issues raised by them.
Other areas In my role as Chair of the Audit Committee I have attended separate meetings with members of the Finance function to receive updates on projects related to the efficiency and effectiveness of that function.
Impact of IFRS 15 IFRS 15, which introduces a new basis for revenue recognition, is due to be effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
Mitie will be required to adopt this no later than for FY19.
The Audit Committee has discussed the likely impact on the accounting for long-term complex contracts and mobilisation costs.
As part of this process the Audit Committee has agreed with management that it may be appropriate to adopt IFRS at some point during FY18 but such determination will be dependant on ensuring that effective management controls and processes are in place provide the required level of assurance.
com 57 Audit Committee continued Non-audit services provided by the external auditor External audit Assurance The Audit Committee has approved a non-audit Each year the Audit Committee reviews the performance In accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors services policy that ensures the external auditor remains of the external auditor in respect of audit related services and section C. 2.3 of the Code, the Board performs a formal independent and objective throughout the provision of their and non-audit related services and is committed to ensuring annual assessment of the operation and effectiveness of independent audit services and when formulating their the independence, effectiveness and objectivity of the the system of internal control, covering all material controls audit opinion.
In order to retain the flexibility of utilising the external auditor.
including financial, operational and compliance controls, external auditor to provide non-audit services, the following and updates this assessment prior to the signing of the Appointment and tendering of external audit services criteria must also be met.
These are such that the external Annual Report and Accounts.
As a result of the issues encountered during the financial auditor does not: These activities are monitored at executive level to ensure year, the Audit Committee has given detailed consideration audit their own work: to the timing of the next formal tender for the external audit that control changes are implemented appropriately and that they are effective.
The Head of Internal Audit oversees and has concluded that such a tender should commence make management decisions for the Group: shortly such that a new external auditor can be in place the application of control environment improvements and create a conflict of interest: or attends Audit Committee meetings to provide regular during the financial year to 31 March 2018.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice updates on the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls find themselves in the role of advocate for the Group.
and the results of the internal audit process.
The non-audit services policy identifies the various types Features of the internal control and risk management The Audit Committee confirms that the Group is in of non-audit services and determines the analysis to be compliance with the Statutory Audit Services for Large systems that ensure accuracy and reliability of financial undertaken along with the level of authority required before reporting include: a culture of good governance, integrity, Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of the external auditor can be considered to undertake such Competitive Tender Process and Audit Committee competence, fairness and responsibility: Group level policies services.
Further, the policy is consistent with the FRCs Responsibilities Order 2014. and procedures to support the business by providing an ethical standards policy.
operational internal control framework: clearly defined Deloitte LLP has been the Companys external auditor since When considering the appointment of the external responsibilities, delegated in accordance with the Groups its market listing in 1987.
Mitie tendered its full external audit auditor for non-audit services, the following factors are delegated authorities and authorisation registers: and the services in 2012 and concluded that Deloitte LLP should taken into account: Group Enterprise Risk function with a team of specialist be re-appointed as external auditor given its relevant resources.
the quality of work provided by the external auditor: experience in both the listed company environment and the support services sector.
Review of whistleblowing processes representations provided by the external auditor regarding Part of the Audit Committees role is to ensure that independence and objectivity, along with internal controls External auditor effectiveness appropriate procedures are in place in relation to implemented by them when providing non-audit services: The Audit Committee monitored the conduct and whistleblowing and to review on an annual basis the the level of the external auditors understanding of the effectiveness of the external auditor through its Groups whistleblowing policy.
Matters reported through Group: assessment of: the Mitie whistleblowing hotline were previously reviewed the nature of the work being performed: and and investigated by the managing director of the relevant the experience, expertise and perceptiveness of the business, with data presented to the Audit Committee via an the commercial and practical circumstances of particular auditor: enterprise and risk management report, together with types of work required.
the planning and execution of the agreed audit plan and details of the necessary action taken.
In March 2017 the quality of audit reports: and Audit Committee challenged management to ensure that Non-audit services provided to the Group during the year whistleblowing arrangements were seen as effective and included tax and corporate finance services.
Further details the conduct of the auditor including the Audit Committees independent of management across the organisation.
can be found in Note 7 to the financial statements.
The Audit experience of interaction with the auditor, which included Management has now contracted with a third party provider Committee considered reports from both management and meetings held in the absence of management.
of such services and will relaunch the Mitie whistleblowing the external auditor, none of which raised concerns about hotline as soon as possible in 2017.
Given the issues reported to the Audit Committee, which are auditor independence.
This included consideration of the outlined in this report, the Audit Committee has considered impact of the integrated facilities management contract with Mark Reckitt the effectiveness of the external auditor.
Deloitte LLP that was awarded to the Group during FY16, Chairman of the Audit Committee which was made following a competitive tender process and The Committee has satisfied itself with the improvements in compliance with Deloittes internal independence and made by Deloitte following the findings made by the Audit ethical standards.
Quality Review team at the FRC and also concluded that Deloitte were effective in their role as external auditor for A summary of the fees paid to the external auditor is given the financial year.
in Note 7 to the financial statements.
The Audit Committee confirms that the requirements of the non-audit services The Audit Committee has concluded that it is in the policy have been met throughout the year.
best interests of the Company that an audit tender is undertaken shortly so that a new external auditor can be appointed during the financial year ending on 31 March 2018.
58 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Assurance In accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors and section C. 2.3 of the Code, the Board performs a formal annual assessment of the operation and effectiveness of the system of internal control, covering all material controls including financial, operational and compliance controls, and updates this assessment prior to the signing of the Annual Report and Accounts.
These activities are monitored at executive level to ensure that control changes are implemented appropriately and that they are effective.
The Head of Internal Audit oversees the application of control environment improvements and attends Audit Committee meetings to provide regular updates on the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and the results of the internal audit process.
Features of the internal control and risk management systems that ensure accuracy and reliability of financial reporting include: a culture of good governance, integrity, competence, fairness and responsibility: Group level policies and procedures to support the business by providing an operational internal control framework: clearly defined responsibilities, delegated in accordance with the Groups delegated authorities and authorisation registers: and the Group Enterprise Risk function with a team of specialist resources.
Review of whistleblowing processes Part of the Audit Committees role is to ensure that appropriate procedures are in place in relation to whistleblowing and to review on an annual basis the Groups whistleblowing policy.
Matters reported through the Mitie whistleblowing hotline were previously reviewed and investigated by the managing director of the relevant business, with data presented to the Audit Committee via an enterprise and risk management report, together with details of the necessary action taken.
In March 2017 the Audit Committee challenged management to ensure that whistleblowing arrangements were seen as effective and independent of management across the organisation.
Management has now contracted with a third party provider of such services and will relaunch the Mitie whistleblowing hotline as soon as possible in 2017.
Mark Reckitt Chairman of the Audit Committee www.
