GOVERNANCE TR Property pp33-57 08 06 2017 15:49 Page 51 Report of the Audit Committee continued Internal controls and management of risk The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of Internal Controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Key risks identied by the Auditors are considered by the Audit Committee to ensure that robust internal controls and monitoring procedures in respect of these are in place on an ongoing basis.
Further details can be found on pages 28 to 30.
The Audit Committee received and considered reports on Internal Controls from the key service providers.
No areas of concern were highlighted.
The Companys Risk Map was considered to identify any new risks and whether any adjustments were required to existing risks, and the controls and mitigation measures in place in respect of these risks.
significant Issues in relation to the Financial Statements The Committee has considered this report and financial statements and the Viability Statement on page 31.
The Committee considered the Auditors assessment of risk of material misstatement and reviewed the internal controls in place in respect of the key areas identied and the process by which the Board monitors each of the procedures to give the Committee comfort on these risks on an ongoing basis.
These risks are also highlighted in the Companys Risk Map.
l Valuation of the Groups Quoted investments The Groups investments are priced for the daily NAV by BNP Paribas.
The quoted assets are priced by the Administrators Global Pricing Platform which uses independent external pricing sources.
The control process surrounding this is set out in the BNP Paribas AAF 01 06 Internal Controls Report and testing by the reporting accountant for the period reported to 31 December 2016 did not reveal any significant exceptions.
The quarterly control report to the Board from BNP Paribas covering the period up to 31 March 2017 had no issues to report.
In addition the Manager estimates the NAV using an alternative pricing source on a daily basis as an independent check.
l Valuation of the Groups Direct Property Investments The physical property portfolio is valued every six months by professional independent valuers.
Knight Frank LLP value the portfolio on the basis of Fair Value in accordance with the RICS Valuation Professional Standards VPS4 1.5 Fair Value and VPGA 1 Valuations for Inclusion in Financial Statements, which apply the denition of Fair Value adopted by the International Financial Reporting Standards.
IFRS 13 defines Fair Value as: The amount for which an asset could be exchanged, a liability settled, or an equity instrument granted could be exchanged, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length transaction.
In undertaking their valuation of each property, Knight Frank have made their assessment on the basis of a collation and analysis of appropriate comparable investments, rental and sale transactions, together with evidence of demand within the vicinity of each property.
This information has then been applied to the properties, taking into account size, location, terms, covenant and other material factors.
There has been nothing brought to the Committees attention in respect of the financial statements for the period ended 31 March 2017, which was material or significant or that the Committee felt should be brought to shareholders attention.
l Existence, ownership and completeness of investments portfolio The Custodian, BNP Paribas, is responsible for the custody of the Companys investments.
Lists of investments held are reconciled to the Companys records on a regular basis and a report on controls, which is audited by BNP Paribas independent reporting accountants, is produced annually for consideration by the Manager and the Audit Committee.
In addition, the quarterly control report from BNP Paribas to the Board covers any custody issues.
The Depositarys responsibilities TR Property Investment Trust 51 TR Property pp33-57 08 06 2017 15:49 Page 52 Report of the Audit Committee continued include the segregation and safekeeping of the Companys assets.
The Depositary reports quarterly to the AIFM and these reports are made available to the Board.
The Depositary presents to the board at least once a year.
The Depositary conducts safekeeping reviews as part of its monitoring and oversight responsibilities.
Auditor assessment and independence The Companys external auditor is KPMG LLP.
In March 2016, the Company conducted a full audit tender process as the previous auditors, Ernst and Young, being in ofce for in excess of 20 years would have been required to retire under the new legislation following the 2019 audit.
Four rms were invited to tender.
Each rm was chosen as they offered extensive Investment Trust experience alongside the necessary property, accounting, tax and financial reporting and governance expertise.
Each rms credentials were assessed against a standard set of criteria.
The result of the tender was that, on the recommendation of the Committee, the Board selected KPMG LLP and this appointment was approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
The Committee expects to repeat a tender process in 2026 in respect of the audit for the year ended 31 March 2027, in line with the latest Corporate Governance provisions and EU Requirements.
KPMG presented their Audit Plan for the year end at the interim Committee meeting and the Committee considered the audit process and fee proposal.
The Committee also reviewed KPMGs independence policies and procedures including quality assurance procedures, it was considered that these policies are t for purpose and the Board is satisfied that KPMG are independent.
Total fees payable to the Auditor for the year to 31 March 2017 were: 72,000, 2016: 97,000.
The Committee has approved and implemented a policy on the engagement of the Auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account the recommendations of the Accounting Practices Board with a view to ensuring that the external Auditor does not provide non-audit services that have the potential to impair or appear to impair the independence of their audit role.
The Committee does not believe there to be any impediment to the Auditors objectivity and independence.
The fees for non-audit services for the year to 31 March 2017 were nil 2016: 5,000.
Full details of the Auditors fees are provided in note 6 to the accounts on page 68.
Following each audit, the Committee reviews the audit process and considers its effectiveness and the quality of the services provided to the Company.
The review following the completion of the 2017 Audit concluded that the Committee was satisfied with the Auditors effectiveness and performance.
The Committee felt the initial audit under KPMG had run well with a smooth transition from EY and an effective and efficient audit process.
The Committee was extremely satisfied with the auditors performance and a resolution to re-appoint KPMG LLP as the Companys Auditor will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
David Watson Chairman of the Audit Committee 8 June 2017 TR Property Investment Trust 52 GOVERNANCE
