Nomination Committee Key responsibilities of the Nomination Committee The key responsibilities of the Nomination Committee include: making recommendations to the Board regarding succession planning for directors and other senior executives, and in particular for the key roles of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer: reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board including its skills, knowledge, experience and diversity, making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes: keeping under review the leadership needs of the Group in order to ensure it continues to compete effectively in the marketplace: Roger Matthews Chairmans introduction making recommendations to the Board concerning the The role of the Nomination Committee is to ensure following: the Board is appropriately balanced in terms of its potential candidates to fill Board vacancies when composition, considering matters of skills, experience they arise: and diversity.
The Nomination Committee is comprised the appointment of any Director to executive or of the Chairman of the Board and independent Nonother office: Executive Directors who are all considered to be appropriately experienced to fulfil their duties.
suitable candidates for the role of Senior Independent Director: re-appointment of any Non-Executive Director at the Nomination Committee members conclusion of their specified term of office particularly At the date of this report the Nomination in relation to those being re-elected for a term beyond Committee comprises: six years : the appointment of the Company Secretary: Chairman Roger Matthews membership of the Board Committees: and Committee members Jack Boyer Larry Hirst any matters relating to the continuation in office of Mark Reckitt any Director: keeping up to date and fully informed about strategic issues and commercial changes affecting the Group Key purpose of the Nomination Committee and the market in which it operates: and The Nomination Committee evaluates the composition, diversity, experience, knowledge, skills and independence of reviewing the results of the Board performance evaluation the Board and its Committees.
This allows the appropriate process that relate to the composition of the Board.
balance to be maintained and ensures the continued The Nomination Committees Terms of Reference are effectiveness of the Board.
com investors corporateThe Nomination Committee also ensures that appropriate governance.
succession plans for the Non-Executive Directors, Executive Directors and the Groups senior management are also kept under review, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Group, and the diversity, skills and expertise that are therefore required in the future.
60 Mitie Gr oup plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The search with The Zygos Partnership resulted in the Key activities during the year selection of Nivedita Krishnamurthy Bhagat, as announced The Nomination Committee reviewed the composition on 16 March 2017, and who was appointed to the Board on and chairmanship of the Board and each of its Committees.
Nivedita will also The Nomination Committee is satisfied that the Boards stand for election at the forthcoming Annual General composition has been appropriate throughout the year, Meeting, in accordance with the Code.
having regard in particular to the integrity, skills, knowledge and experience of its Directors and the size and nature of Frequency of Nomination Committee meetings the business.
During the financial year, the Nomination Committee met The Nomination Committee recognises the importance of five times.
planning for the future and the succession planning process.
Attendance During the year, the Nomination Committee continued to Roger Matthews 5 consider the succession plan which had commenced in 2015 for key members of the executive management team and, in Jack Boyer 5 particular, who should succeed Ruby McGregor-Smith as Larry Hirst 5 Chief Executive and Suzanne Baxter as Group Finance Mark Reckitt 5 Director.
A detailed, independent review of internal candidates was undertaken in 2015 and internal candidates were considered for both roles.
External Employee diversity and inclusion advisors, Ridgeway Partners Limited, were appointed to Mitie has a company-wide Equality, Diversity and Inclusion support the process of finding new candidates for both Policy that clearly states its commitment to the inclusion roles.
There is no other connection between Ridgeway and diversity of all employees at all levels, up to and including Partners Limited and the Company.
After considering appropriate individuals, the Nomination The Board retains a key focus on diversity of skills, gender Committee recommended to the Board the appointment of and experience in its membership.
The Board ensures the Phil Bentley as Chief Executive Officer.
The Board accepted Groups employment practices and policies are designed this recommendation and Phil was appointed a Director of the to recruit, motivate, retain, train and develop the very best Company on 1 November 2016.
Ruby stepped down as Chief people, recognising that this can be achieved only through Executive and Director of Mitie on 12 December 2016, on which offering equal opportunities regardless of gender, race, date Phil assumed the position of Chief Executive Officer.
religion, age, disability, sexual orientation or any other aspect of diversity.
After conducting further searches, the Nomination Committee recommended to the Board the appointment Further details of the Groups commitment to diversity and of Sandip Mahajan as Chief Financial Officer.
The Board the diversity of Mities people, together with a breakdown of accepted this recommendation and Sandip was appointed employee diversity as required by the Companies Act 2006 as Chief Financial Officer and Director of the Company on can be found in the sustainability section of our website at 10 February 2017, on which date Suzanne Baxter stepped www.
down as Director and Group Finance Director.
Roger Matthews As a further part of its ongoing succession planning and Chairman of the Nomination Committee refreshing of the Board, the Nomination Committee worked with executive search firms JCA Group, for a suitable successor to myself as Chairman of the Board, and The Investment Committee Zygos Partnership, to find an additional Non-Executive Overview and purpose Director, with skill sets to complement those of existing The Investment Committee facilitates the internal Board members.
Neither search firm has other connections approvals process by approving matters as delegated with the Company.
In accordance with the Code, I took no by the Board and referring recommendations for Board part in discussions in relation to the search and selection approval.
The Investment Committee, which comprises process for the role of Chairman, this being led instead by the Chief Executive Officer, as Chair, and Chief our Senior Independent Director, Larry Hirst.
Financial Officer, met once during the year and considered major bids and contracts, disposals, large Work with the JCA Group identified Derek Mapp as a suitable capital expenditure and Mitie Model investments.
successor as Chairman, and after careful consideration, the Nomination Committee recommended to the Board his Results Committee appointment.
As announced on 9 May 2017, Derek was Overview and purpose appointed as Chairman-elect and Non-Executive Director The Results Committee assists the Board in of the Board on 9 May 2017.
He will stand for election at the approving matters such as half-year and preliminary forthcoming Annual General Meeting to be held on 26 July results announcements, other routine, non-material 2017, in accordance with the Code, and will undertake the announcements and shareholder communications.
role of Chairman from the close of that meeting.
The Results Committee, which comprises the Chief Executive Officer, as Chair, and Chief Financial Officer, met three times during the year.
