GOVERNANCE TR Property pp33-57 08 06 2017 15:49 Page 43 Report of the Nomination Committee Role of the Committee As reported in the last Annual Report and Accounts, the Board made the decision in March 2015 to put a Nomination Committee in place to ensure there was an appropriate level of focus on succession planning.
The primary role of the Nomination Committee is to review and make recommendations with regard to Board structure, size and composition, the balance of knowledge, experience, skill ranges and diversity and consider succession planning and tenure policy.
The Nomination Committee is also responsible for reviewing the outcome of the board evaluation process.
The Nomination Committee meets at least on an annual basis, and more frequently as and when required and last met in March 2017.
Composition of the Committee The Nomination Committee comprises all Directors of the Company and is chaired by Mr Seaborn.
Activity during the year As reported last year, in May 2016 the Nomination Committee approved the appointment of Mr Watson as successor to the SID following Mr Seaborns appointment as Chairman at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
Mr Watson has also continued in his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Committee also discussed succession planning of the Board, in particular the roles of the Chairman, Audit Committee chairman and SID to ensure appropriate plans were in place.
The Committee will continue to review succession planning and recruitment further at the Nomination Committee meeting in future meetings.
When considering future appointments of Directors, the Nomination Committee, will look at the balance of skills, knowledge and experience, including gender diversity of the Board and will also take into account recommendations from the external board evaluations.
The Committee will also consider the use of external consultants, as appropriate, when shortlisting candidates.
Board Evaluation During the year the Board engaged Tim Stephenson of Stephenson & Co, an independent party who specialises in investment trust board evaluations, to facilitate an independent evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board, its committees and the performance of each director.
In addition to the Directors, the most senior members of the Investment Management teams were interviewed.
The report was presented and discussed by the Committee.
The evaluation was provided by Tim Stephenson to the Chairman to discuss with the Board.
The evaluation was considered by the Committee to be constructive in terms of identifying areas for improving the functioning and performance of the Board and the Committees, the contribution of individual directors, as well as building on and developing individual and collective strengths.
The Chairman confirms that, in light of the external performance evaluation, the performance of each director continues to be effective and demonstrates their commitment to their role.
This includes extensive time for ad hoc communications throughout the year in addition to formal board and committee meetings.
The Board believes it has a good balance of skills, experience and length of service to ensure it operates effectively.
With the exception of John Glen, all of the directors are offering themselves for re-election at the Companys forthcoming AGM.
It is considered that each of them merit re-election by shareholders.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, it is TR Property Investment Trust 43 TR Property pp33-57 08 06 2017 15:49 Page 44 Report of the Nomination Committee continued the intention of the Board to engage an external facilitator to assist with the performance evaluation every three years and the next external evaluation will be carried out for the year ended 31 March 2020.
Board Appointment Process Appointment of New Directors The Committee annually reviews its size and structure of the Board.
Where a new appointment is required, the Committee will appoint external recruitment consultants to assist in the process.
Following the resignation of Mr Glen, the Committee are currently considering future requirements of the Board and will commence a recruitment process in due course.
Directors Training When a new Director is appointed, he she is offered training to suit their needs.
Directors are also provided with key information on the Companys activities on a regular basis, including regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
Directors ensure that they are updated on regulatory, statutory and industry matters.
Letters of Appointment No Director has a contract of employment with the Company.
Directors terms and conditions for appointment are set out in letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the registered ofce of the Company and will be on display at the AGM.
Hugh Seaborn Chairman of the Nomination Committee 8 June 2017 TR Property Investment Trust 44 GOVERNANCE
