Audit Committee Report COMMITTEE MEMBERS The Board is satisfied that the Meetings are scheduled in accordance Chairman of the Committee and with the financial and reporting cycles I will be leaving the business at a time Paul Hollingworth Chairman Louisa Burdett have the current and of the Company and generally take Louisa Burdett from 1 February 2017 when I feel it is in a good position to relevant financial and accounting place prior to Board meetings to ensure Bertrand Bodson experience required by the effectiveness of the collaboration with the exploit both its strong commercial and Karen Guerra provisions of the Code and that the Board.
John Pattullo other members of the Committee financial base.
Members and their attendance at Simon Pryce from 26 September 2016 have a sufficiently wide range of meetings during the year are set out in business experience, expertise Rupert Soames up to 20 July 2016 the Corporate Governance Report on page and competence such that the 45.
PAUL HOLLINGWORTH CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE OTHER REGULAR ATTENDEES Committee can effectively fulfil its Company Chairman responsibilities.
Details of the skills The Committee has independent access and experience of the Committee to the Internal Audit team and to the Chief Executive Officer members are given in their Auditor.
The Head of Internal Audit and The Committee, through its reviews, ensures that the business is Dear fellow shareholder Group Finance Director biographies on pages 34 to 36.
Risk and the external Auditor have direct in compliance with the changes in relation to the EU Audit Reform As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I would like to present our Company Secretary access to the Chairman of the Committee and associated changes to the Companies Act 2006, which were Attendance of others is at the report detailing the role and responsibilities of the Committee and Group Financial Controller outside formal Committee meetings.
These changes relate to Auditor tenure invitation of the Committee Chairman its activities during the year.
and audit partner rotation, appointment of Committee members Head of Internal Audit and Risk only and does not restrict the The Chairman provides updates to The Committee aims to protect the interests of shareholders by: by the Board, relevant sector skills for the Committee members Committees independent decision Senior Statutory Auditor the Board on the proceedings of each and fees in relation to non-audit work undertaken by the making.
Assisting the Board in ensuring the integrity of the financial and external Auditor.
corporate reporting and auditing processes.
Ensuring effective internal control and risk management David Egan is an experienced finance professional who has worked across a number of different sectors, and during his first year as systems are in place.
our Group Finance Director his experience and rigour has greatly Measuring the Groups effectiveness in managing risk.
Activities during the year added to the effectiveness of the finance function.
Assisting the Board to present a fair, balanced and Further information on the activities of the Audit Committee understandable assessment of the Groups position and during the year is available in the corporate governance section of Specific focus for the coming year prospects in the full-year and half-year financial reports.
As the business continues to change we will maintain our focus Approving the remit of the Internal Audit function and reviewing on the effective design and workings of the business operating Financial reporting its effectiveness and findings.
This will specifically include the continuously evolving The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting Ensuring that an appropriate relationship is maintained area of cyber risk and the associated system and business controls.
is to review, with both management and the external Auditor, the between the Group and its external Auditor, including the full-year and half-year financial reports.
I will not be standing for re-election at the forthcoming Annual recommendation to approve their appointment and fees.
General Meeting AGM, and this is my last Report as Chairman of The Committee focuses on ensuring compliance with the Reviewing the scope and effectiveness of the external audit the Companys Audit Committee.
It is a pleasure to hand over to relevant financial and governance reporting requirements and process.
Louisa Burdett who has considerable experience in the role of Chief determines whether the Half-yearly Financial Report and the Reviewing whistleblowing and fraud procedures.
Financial Officer during her career.
I will be leaving the business at Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced a time when I feel it is in a good position to exploit both its strong and understandable.
It also takes into account the significant Specific focus during the year commercial and financial base.
accounting issues and judgements noted on page 50, and to We noted in last years report that cyber risk would be a priority, support its reviews, regular reports are also received from the with both internal and external reviews looking at our procedures in On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank everyone for Group Finance Director and the Group Financial Controller.
their hard work over the year including the external Auditor, this area, and this is still the case.
 PwC, and the Internal Audit and Further information about how we carry out the above processes is As we noted in last years report, in light of the changes across Finance teams.
available in the corporate governance section of our website.
the business, and the associated organisational challenges they Paul Hollingworth present, we are mindful of the necessity of a sound system of Fair, balanced and understandable internal control to provide us with a good system of checks and Chairman of the Audit Committee In its financial reporting to shareholders and other interested 23 May 2017 balances, and this was very much a focus of Internal Audit parties, the Board aims to present a fair, balanced and during the year.
External assessments were also carried out understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects, during the year, in relation to both our internal audit and risk providing necessary information for shareholders to assess the management processes.
Groups business model, strategy and performance.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2017 48  Proof 2. indd 48 24 05 2017 16:58:53 25314.02-AR2017- Proof Two MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS Governance COMMITTEE MEMBERS The Board is satisfied that the Meetings are scheduled in accordance Chairman of the Committee and with the financial and reporting cycles Paul Hollingworth Chairman Louisa Burdett have the current and of the Company and generally take Louisa Burdett from 1 February 2017 relevant financial and accounting place prior to Board meetings to ensure Bertrand Bodson experience required by the effectiveness of the collaboration with the Karen Guerra provisions of the Code and that the Board.
John Pattullo other members of the Committee Members and their attendance at Simon Pryce from 26 September 2016 have a sufficiently wide range of meetings during the year are set out in business experience, expertise Rupert Soames up to 20 July 2016 the Corporate Governance Report on page and competence such that the 45.
OTHER REGULAR ATTENDEES Committee can effectively fulfil its Company Chairman responsibilities.
The Head of Internal Audit and The Committee, through its reviews, ensures that the business is Group Finance Director biographies on pages 34 to 36.
Risk and the external Auditor have direct in compliance with the changes in relation to the EU Audit Reform Company Secretary access to the Chairman of the Committee and associated changes to the Companies Act 2006, which were Attendance of others is at the Group Financial Controller outside formal Committee meetings.
These changes relate to Auditor tenure invitation of the Committee Chairman and audit partner rotation, appointment of Committee members Head of Internal Audit and Risk only and does not restrict the The Chairman provides updates to by the Board, relevant sector skills for the Committee members Committees independent decision Senior Statutory Auditor the Board on the proceedings of each and fees in relation to non-audit work undertaken by the making.
David Egan is an experienced finance professional who has worked across a number of different sectors, and during his first year as For the year ended 31 March 2017 the Group carried out a our Group Finance Director his experience and rigour has greatly Activities during the year process for reviewing the Annual Report and Accounts to ensure added to the effectiveness of the finance function.
Further information on the activities of the Audit Committee that these requirements were met.
during the year is available in the corporate governance section of Specific focus for the coming year our website.
The process used includes: As the business continues to change we will maintain our focus on the effective design and workings of the business operating Financial reporting A thorough understanding of the regulatory requirements for the controls.
This will specifically include the continuously evolving The primary role of the Committee in relation to financial reporting Annual Report and Accounts.
area of cyber risk and the associated system and business controls.
is to review, with both management and the external Auditor, the A draft copy provided to the Committee Chairman early in full-year and half-year financial reports.
the drafting process to assess the broad direction and key I will not be standing for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM, and this is my last Report as Chairman of messages, with a further draft provided prior to sign-off of the The Committee focuses on ensuring compliance with the Annual Report and Accounts.
It is a pleasure to hand over to relevant financial and governance reporting requirements and Louisa Burdett who has considerable experience in the role of Chief determines whether the Half-yearly Financial Report and the A cascaded sign-off across the Group to determine the Financial Officer during her career.
I will be leaving the business at accuracy and consistency of the data and language.
Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced a time when I feel it is in a good position to exploit both its strong and understandable.
It also takes into account the significant A detailed review by all appropriate parties including the commercial and financial base.
accounting issues and judgements noted on page 50, and to external advisers.
support its reviews, regular reports are also received from the On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank everyone for A checklist of all the elements of the process was completed to Group Finance Director and the Group Financial Controller.
their hard work over the year including the external Auditor, document the process and presented to the Committee for review  PwC, and the Internal Audit and to provide assurance that the appropriate procedures had been Further information about how we carry out the above processes is Finance teams.
Paul Hollingworth Fair, balanced and understandable The Committee has reviewed the Groups Annual Report and Chairman of the Audit Committee Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2017 and has advised the In its financial reporting to shareholders and other interested 23 May 2017 Board that, in its opinion, the Annual Report and Accounts taken parties, the Board aims to present a fair, balanced and as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects, information necessary to assess the Groups performance, business providing necessary information for shareholders to assess the model and strategy.
com Stock Code: ECM 49  Proof 2. indd 49 24 05 2017 16:58:54 25314.02-AR2017- Proof Two MEMBERSHIP AND MEETINGS Audit Committee Report Details of accounting policies and areas of judgement can be found During the year, the Committee also reviewed the presentation Significant accounting issues and areas of judgement in the notes to the accounts on pages 86 to 127. of costs relating to the write-down of inventory to net realisable The Committee focuses in particular on key accounting policies value, and the allocation of the annual incentive charge across the and practices adopted by the Group and any significant areas Significant accounting issues and areas of judgement considered Groups operating segments.
Following this review, costs relating of judgement that may materially impact reported results as well by the Committee during the year, and how these were addressed, to inventory write-downs have been re-presented, resulting in as the clarity of disclosures, compliance with financial reporting are set out below.
Further details in each of these areas are detailed a movement of 10.4 million from distribution and marketing standards and the relevant requirements around financial and in the summary of key estimates and judgements in Note 1 on expenses to cost of sales for the year ended 31 March 2016.
page 86. addition, 0.9 million of the Groups annual incentive charge for the year ended 31 March 2016 previously reported within central costs has been allocated across the Groups operating hubs.
Further Significant accounting issues and areas details are set out in note 1 on page 88.
How the Committee addressed these matters of judgement The Group undertakes a number of information technology projects Inventory valuation: Inventory represents a material The Group estimates the net realisable value of inventory in order to in any given year to ensure that the Group is using up-to-date proportion of the Groups net assets.
At 31 March determine the value of any provision required and key judgements relate technology.
The Committee has reviewed the appropriateness 2017, the Group had 303.8 million 2016: to the duration of product life cycles, amount of anticipated revenue over of the Groups accounting treatment with respect to costs of this 269.4 million of inventory on the balance sheet.
this life cycle and the value recoverable from any excess stock.
The Committee is satisfied that identifiable intangible assets of these assumptions, based on recent experience, was presented to the are recognised when the Group controls the asset, it is probable Committee for review.
The Committee agreed the reasonableness of the that future economic benefits attributed to the asset will flow to the assumptions.
Group and the cost of the asset can be reliably measured and that costs that do not meet this criteria are expensed as incurred.
Pension valuation: The Group has material defined Small changes to the assumptions used to value the UK retirement benefit In addition to the above, the Committee reviewed the Groups benefit pension schemes in the UK, Ireland and obligation can have a significant impact on the financial position and results taxation provision, which was 3.6 million as at 31 March 2017.
At 31 March 2017, the total deficit in of the Group, and bond yields in particular do have a significant impact.
The relation to these defined benefit pension schemes assumptions put forward by the actuaries and Group Pension Manager were This requires judgement in relation to accounting estimates was 100.1 million 2016: 38.5 million.
compared by PwC with other similar schemes.
The Committee also agreed regarding the tax liabilities accruing across our multiple the reasonableness of the assumptions.
geographies and the recoverability of losses and uncertain tax provisions.
The Committee reviews the effective tax rate and the balance sheet provision at the half-year and the full-year, and Goodwill: There is 208.2 million of goodwill on the The value of goodwill is reviewed regularly for impairment using a value-indiscusses the position with senior management as well as the balance sheet at 31 March 2017 2016: use model using cash flow and discount rates as set out in Note 13 on page 182.0 million, which principally relates to the 105.
The Committee reviews these impairment tests every year, including the Auditor.
acquisition of Allied Inc. in July 1999. key assumptions, confirming that there remains adequate headroom in place In its review of the financial statements for the year ended and no impairment provision is required.
31 March 2017, the Committee also considered analysis to support the Companys going concern and viability statements.
Details of Reorganisation costs and asset write-downs: Included The Committee reviewed the inclusion of costs shown as reorganisation costs these statements are noted on page 25 of the Strategic Report.
in this years results is a charge of 0.9 million by virtue of their size, nature or occurence, and received regular updates on 2016: 41.9 million relating to reorganisation costs, Tax strategy and policies the level and nature of these costs.
The Committee believes the treatment and in 2016 relating to reorganisation costs and the of reorganisation costs, asset write-downs and related cash flows has been During the year the Board reviewed and endorsed the Groups decision to halt development of a new website.
The applied consistently, and that separate disclosure enables the reader more tax strategy.
The Group has a tax strategy which is aligned to our associated net cash outflow relating to reorganisation clearly to understand the headline financial and operating performance of business strategy, is low risk and is focussed on sustainability and costs was 5.1 million 2016: 16.0 million.
Further details of the tax strategy and policies will be published on the Groups website by 31 March 2018 in line with the requirement of The Finance Act 2016 which requires large businesses to publish their UK tax strategy.
In April 2016, the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC issued Following this additional guidance, the Committee reviewed the an agenda decision regarding the treatment of offsetting and Groups cash pooling arrangements and the Group has revised its Internal control and risk management cash pooling arrangements in accordance with IAS 32: Financial presentation of cash and short-term deposits and bank overdrafts The Boards responsibilities for the systems of internal control Instruments: Presentation.
This provided additional guidance on the Group balance sheet.
Comparatives as at 31 March 2016 and their effectiveness are detailed in the Corporate Governance on when bank overdrafts in cash pooling arrangements would and 31 March 2015 have been grossed up by 317.0 million and Report on page 47, together with the going concern and viability meet the requirements for offsetting in accordance with IAS 32.
The Committee receives quarterly reports from the Head of Internal Audit and Risk on the performance of the system of internal control, and on its effectiveness in managing principal risks and in identifying control failings or weaknesses.
In accordance with the requirements of the Code, the FRC Guidance on Audit Committees, Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2017 50  Proof 2. indd 50 24 05 2017 16:58:54 25314.02-AR2017- Proof Two Governance Details of accounting policies and areas of judgement can be found During the year, the Committee also reviewed the presentation and the recommendations of the Guidance on Risk Management, in the notes to the accounts on pages 86 to 127. of costs relating to the write-down of inventory to net realisable Internal Control and Related Financial Business Reporting, the value, and the allocation of the annual incentive charge across the Committee reviews the Groups risk management process annually.
Significant accounting issues and areas of judgement considered Groups operating segments.
Following this review, costs relating This years review included reconfirming Groups risk appetite.
The by the Committee during the year, and how these were addressed, to inventory write-downs have been re-presented, resulting in outcomes of these reviews are reported to the Board.
This, together are set out below.
Further details in each of these areas are detailed a movement of 10.4 million from distribution and marketing with regular updates to the Board on the principal risks, allows the in the summary of key estimates and judgements in Note 1 on expenses to cost of sales for the year ended 31 March 2016.
In Board to assess the systems of internal control and the residual risk page 86. addition, 0.9 million of the Groups annual incentive charge for the for the purposes of making its public statement.
year ended 31 March 2016 previously reported within central costs These reviews include material controls, these cover financial, has been allocated across the Groups operating hubs.
Further operational and compliance controls and risk management Significant accounting issues and areas details are set out in note 1 on page 88.
How the Committee addressed these matters systems.
Further information regarding principal risks and of judgement The Group undertakes a number of information technology projects uncertainties to the business is given on page 26 of the Strategic Inventory valuation: Inventory represents a material The Group estimates the net realisable value of inventory in order to in any given year to ensure that the Group is using up-to-date Report.
In addition, we undertook an external review of our internal proportion of the Groups net assets.
The Committee has reviewed the appropriateness audit and risk management processes.
2017, the Group had 303.8 million 2016: to the duration of product life cycles, amount of anticipated revenue over of the Groups accounting treatment with respect to costs of this Where weaknesses in the internal control system have been 269.4 million of inventory on the balance sheet.
The Committee is satisfied that identifiable intangible assets identified through the processes outlined above, plans for of these assumptions, based on recent experience, was presented to the are recognised when the Group controls the asset, it is probable strengthening them are put in place and action plans regularly Committee for review.
The Committee agreed the reasonableness of the that future economic benefits attributed to the asset will flow to the monitored.
There were no control failings or weaknesses that assumptions.
Group and the cost of the asset can be reliably measured and that resulted in unforeseen material losses.
costs that do not meet this criteria are expensed as incurred.
Pension valuation: The Group has material defined Small changes to the assumptions used to value the UK retirement benefit Internal financial controls In addition to the above, the Committee reviewed the Groups benefit pension schemes in the UK, Ireland and obligation can have a significant impact on the financial position and results Internal financial controls are the systems employed by the Group taxation provision, which was 3.6 million as at 31 March 2017.
The to support the Directors in discharging their responsibilities for relation to these defined benefit pension schemes assumptions put forward by the actuaries and Group Pension Manager were This requires judgement in relation to accounting estimates financial matters.
Those responsibilities are noted on page 72. was 100.1 million 2016: 38.5 million.
geographies and the recoverability of losses and uncertain tax The main elements include: provisions.
The Committee reviews the effective tax rate and the Assessments by Internal Audit on the effectiveness of balance sheet provision at the half-year and the full-year, and Goodwill: There is 208.2 million of goodwill on the The value of goodwill is reviewed regularly for impairment using a value-inoperational controls.
discusses the position with senior management as well as the balance sheet at 31 March 2017 2016: use model using cash flow and discount rates as set out in Note 13 on page 182.0 million, which principally relates to the 105.
Audit of Treasury controls by an external provider.
acquisition of Allied Inc. in July 1999. key assumptions, confirming that there remains adequate headroom in place Clear terms of reference setting out the duties of the Board and In its review of the financial statements for the year ended and no impairment provision is required.
its Committees, with delegation to management in all locations.
Details of Group Finance and Group Treasury manuals outlining the Reorganisation costs and asset write-downs: Included The Committee reviewed the inclusion of costs shown as reorganisation costs accounting policies and controls.
these statements are noted on page 25 of the Strategic Report.
in this years results is a charge of 0.9 million by virtue of their size, nature or occurence, and received regular updates on Weekly, monthly and annual reporting cycles, including an 2016: 41.9 million relating to reorganisation costs, Tax strategy and policies the level and nature of these costs.
The Committee believes the treatment annual budget approved by the Board and regular and in 2016 relating to reorganisation costs and the of reorganisation costs, asset write-downs and related cash flows has been During the year the Board reviewed and endorsed the Groups forecast updates.
decision to halt development of a new website.
The Group has a tax strategy which is aligned to our associated net cash outflow relating to reorganisation clearly to understand the headline financial and operating performance of Local leadership teams reviewing results against forecast business strategy, is low risk and is focussed on sustainability and costs was 5.1 million 2016: 16.0 million.
and agreed performance metrics and targets with overall the Group.
Further details of the tax strategy and policies will be performance reviewed at hub and Group levels.
published on the Groups website by 31 March 2018 in line with the requirement of The Finance Act 2016 which requires large Specific reporting systems covering treasury operations, major businesses to publish their UK tax strategy.
Following this additional guidance, the Committee reviewed the investment projects and legal and insurance activities, which Groups cash pooling arrangements and the Group has revised its are reviewed by the Board and its Committees on a Internal control and risk management presentation of cash and short-term deposits and bank overdrafts regular basis.
The Boards responsibilities for the systems of internal control on the Group balance sheet.
Comparatives as at 31 March 2016 Whistleblowing procedures allowing individuals to report fraud and their effectiveness are detailed in the Corporate Governance and 31 March 2015 have been grossed up by 317.0 million and or financial irregularities and other matters of concern.
Report on page 47, together with the going concern and viability 277.9 million respectively.
In accordance with the requirements of the Code, the FRC Guidance on Audit Committees, www.
com Stock Code: ECM 51  Proof 2. indd 51 24 05 2017 16:58:54 25314.02-AR2017- Proof Two Audit Committee Report Internal audit Further details of how we work with our external Auditor and how Fees in relation to audit services its independence is maintained can be found in the corporate The Committee reviews and approves the scope and resourcing of Statutory audit of the See Note 5 of the Group governance section of our website.
The Group will not engage the Internal Audit programme annually with the Groups internal Companys consolidated Accounts on page 92 the external Auditor to undertake any work that could threaten its auditors.
The scope is decided upon by reference to the perceived financial statements independence.
geographic, functional and operating risks around the business.
Audit related services by See Note 5 of the Group These risks are identified from previous audit experience, input Auditor and its network of firms Accounts on page 92 The Company confirms that it has complied with the provisions from the executive management team and other external sources.
The ratio of audit to non-audit fees for the year under review was 1%.
of the Competition and Market Authoritys CMA Order for the financial year under review in relation to the Competitive Tender The Committee reviews: Interaction with regulators process as defined in the CMA Order.
During the year the company was notified by the Financial The level and skills of resources allocated to the Internal Audit Tender and rotation Reporting Council FRC that it had carried out a review of the function to conduct this programme of work.
Companys Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended Following an external tender process carried out in 2014, we are The summary of the results of each audit and the resolution of 31 March 2016.
Whilst it should be noted that the review not required to re-tender until 2024.
This is in accordance with the any control issues identified.
conducted by the FRC provides no assurance that the Companys EU Audit Regulation and Directive, and the Companies Act 2006, The effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
Annual Report & Accounts are correct in all material respects, we that states that there should be a public tender every ten years are pleased to report that the FRC did not raise any questions or The Head of Internal Audit and Risk has regular contact with the and a change of external Auditor at least every 20 years.
There are Chairman of the Committee, through telephone calls and face-toqueries with the Company at this stage.
The FRC did recommend no contractual obligations that restrict the Committees choice of certain disclosure enhancements which, where appropriate, have face meetings.
These discussions are around audit planning and external Auditor.
matters noted during Internal Audit assignments.
The Company been incorporated into the Annual Report and Accounts for the Our Senior Statutory Audit Partner with PwC is Ian Chambers.
Chairman and other members of the Committee are also available Ian has held the role of our external Audit Partner since our last as required.
At least annually the Committee meets with the The FRCs Audit Quality Review team has also notified the external audit tender process in 2014, and is due for rotation in Head of Internal Audit and Risk without the presence of the Companys external Auditor and the Committee of its intention to 2019. executive management.
carry out a review of PwCs audit of the Groups Annual Report and There were no significant engagements during the financial year Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2017 as part of its 2017 18 The external assessment of the Internal Audit function conducted from the external Auditor.
during the year was to both benchmark the function and assess inspection cycle.
The review reported that the Internal Non-audit assignments undertaken by the Auditor Committee evaluation Audit function was operating effectively in line with the relevant The Group has a policy to ensure that the provision of such The activities of the Committee were reviewed as part of this years International Standards, and noted areas for improvement which services does not impair the external Auditors independence or external Board evaluation process performed during the year have been acted upon.
We have reviewed this policy during the year and as it is under review.
The responses to the questionnaires were positive.
in line with the new EU Audit Regulation and Directive, no changes Auditor Meetings were consistently described as focussed and efficient and were required.
In determining the policy, the Committee has there were very few suggestions for change.
The Committee works Effectiveness and independence also taken into account possible threats to the external Auditors continuously to improve the quality and effectiveness of The Committee and the Board put great emphasis on the objectivity independence and objectivity.
of our external Auditor, PwC, in their reporting to shareholders.
To ensure full and transparent communication, the Senior Statutory Policy on non-audit services includes: Further details of the evaluation process can be found in the Auditor from PwC was present at all of the Committee meetings.
Corporate Governance Report on page 46.
In providing a non-audit service, the external Auditor should The Committee is responsible for reviewing the performance and not: Fraud effectiveness of the external Auditor, and covers qualification, audit their own work The Committee reviews the procedures for prevention and expertise, resources and appointment as well as assurance that detection of fraud in the Group.
Suspected cases of fraud must make management decisions for the Group there are no issues which could adversely affect the external be reported to the Company Secretary within 48 hours and create a mutuality of interest Auditors independence and objectivity taking into account the investigated by operational management or Internal Audit, as relevant standards.
This review takes place annually.
As part of risk find themselves in the role of advocate for the Group appropriate.
The outcome of any investigation is reported to the evaluation planning, the Committee considers the risk of its current Company Secretary and the Group Finance Director.
A register The total non-audit fees for any financial year should not exceed external Auditor withdrawing from the market.
of all suspected fraudulent activity and the outcome of any 70% of the average of the external audit fee over the last three investigation is kept and circulated to the Board on a regular basis, Following a full review and having given full consideration to years.
In practice the non-audit fees are normally significantly with the Committee also receiving regular updates.
We take steps the performance and independence of the external Auditor, the below this level.
During the year under review the non-audit fees for in line with good business practice to detect and prevent fraudulent Committee has recommended to the Board that a resolution PwC was 13,000. activity.
During the year, there were no frauds of a material nature, to reappoint PwC be proposed at the AGM and the Board has Full details of our policy in relation to non-audit services can be although as a business we are subject to various attempts at accepted and endorsed this recommendation.
The Company also found in the corporate governance section of our website.
external and low level credit card and online fraud.
considers the annual appointment of the external Auditor by the shareholders at the AGM to be a fundamental safeguard.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2017 52  Proof 2. indd 52 24 05 2017 16:58:54 25314.02-AR2017- Proof Two Governance Further details of how we work with our external Auditor and how Fees in relation to audit services Whistleblowing its independence is maintained can be found in the corporate Statutory audit of the See Note 5 of the Group In accordance with the provisions of the Code of Conduct, the governance section of our website.
The Group will not engage Companys consolidated Accounts on page 92 Committee is responsible for reviewing the arrangements whereby the external Auditor to undertake any work that could threaten its financial statements staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about illegal, unethical independence.
Audit related services by See Note 5 of the Group or improper behaviour or other matters and for ensuring that Auditor and its network of firms Accounts on page 92 these concerns are investigated and escalated as appropriate.
An The Company confirms that it has complied with the provisions The ratio of audit to non-audit fees for the year under review was 1%.
of the Competition and Market Authoritys CMA Order for the external third party operates the reporting tools, except in Germany where local regulations prohibit this and an in-house alternative financial year under review in relation to the Competitive Tender Interaction with regulators process as defined in the CMA Order.
was set-up during the year.
Whistleblowing is referred to as Speak During the year the company was notified by the Financial Up internally and is available to all employees.
The Vice President Tender and rotation Reporting Council FRC that it had carried out a review of the of Group Compliance undertook a focussed activity to promote the Companys Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended Following an external tender process carried out in 2014, we are facility to our employees over the course of this financial year which 31 March 2016.
This is in accordance with the included management briefings and face-to-face presentations conducted by the FRC provides no assurance that the Companys EU Audit Regulation and Directive, and the Companies Act 2006, across the Asia region.
The Committee receives aggregated reports Annual Report & Accounts are correct in all material respects, we that states that there should be a public tender every ten years on matters raised through these services and monitors their are pleased to report that the FRC did not raise any questions or and a change of external Auditor at least every 20 years.
queries with the Company at this stage.
The FRC did recommend no contractual obligations that restrict the Committees choice of certain disclosure enhancements which, where appropriate, have external Auditor.
been incorporated into the Annual Report and Accounts for the Our Senior Statutory Audit Partner with PwC is Ian Chambers.
Ian has held the role of our external Audit Partner since our last The FRCs Audit Quality Review team has also notified the external audit tender process in 2014, and is due for rotation in Companys external Auditor and the Committee of its intention to 2019. carry out a review of PwCs audit of the Groups Annual Report and There were no significant engagements during the financial year Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2017 as part of its 2017 18 from the external Auditor.
Non-audit assignments undertaken by the Auditor Committee evaluation The Group has a policy to ensure that the provision of such The activities of the Committee were reviewed as part of this years services does not impair the external Auditors independence or external Board evaluation process performed during the year objectivity.
in line with the new EU Audit Regulation and Directive, no changes Meetings were consistently described as focussed and efficient and were required.
The Committee works also taken into account possible threats to the external Auditors continuously to improve the quality and effectiveness of independence and objectivity.
Policy on non-audit services includes: Further details of the evaluation process can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 46.
In providing a non-audit service, the external Auditor should not: Fraud audit their own work The Committee reviews the procedures for prevention and detection of fraud in the Group.
Suspected cases of fraud must make management decisions for the Group be reported to the Company Secretary within 48 hours and create a mutuality of interest investigated by operational management or Internal Audit, as find themselves in the role of advocate for the Group appropriate.
The outcome of any investigation is reported to the Company Secretary and the Group Finance Director.
A register The total non-audit fees for any financial year should not exceed of all suspected fraudulent activity and the outcome of any 70% of the average of the external audit fee over the last three investigation is kept and circulated to the Board on a regular basis, years.
We take steps below this level.
During the year under review the non-audit fees for in line with good business practice to detect and prevent fraudulent PwC was 13,000. activity.
During the year, there were no frauds of a material nature, Full details of our policy in relation to non-audit services can be although as a business we are subject to various attempts at found in the corporate governance section of our website.
