Nomination Committee Report Committee members The Committee continued to review Peter Johnson Chairman Bertrand Bodson succession planning for Executive and NonLouisa Burdett from 1 February 2017 Executive Directors as well as for the EMT and Karen Guerra Paul Hollingworth other senior managers within the business.
John Pattullo Simon Pryce from 26 September 2016 Rupert Soames up to 20 July 2016 PETER JOHNSON CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Details of the skills and experience and tenure of the Committee members are given in their biographies on pages 34 to 36.
Members and their attendance at meetings during the year are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 45.
The Chairman During the year, the Committee recommended the appointments Dear fellow shareholder provides updates to the Board on the proceedings of each meeting.
of Simon Pryce and Louisa Burdett as Non-Executive Directors.
As As Chairman of the Nomination Committee, I present our report well as extensive experience within a listed company environment, Activities during the year detailing the role and responsibilities of the Committee and its Simon brings expertise in mergers and acquisitions and of the activities during the year.
Succession Rupert Soames Senior Independent Director US market, and Louisa has the recent and relevant financial planning and Paul Hollingworth Chairman of the Audit experience required of an Audit Committee Chairman.
The Committee met on four occasions during the year.
It is Committee in accordance with the Board responsible for: Succession Planning Framework for the Board The Committee continued to review succession planning for and EMT Executive and Non-Executive Directors as well as for the EMT and Considering the structure, size and composition of the Board Non-Executive Meetings in relation to the appointment to ensure it has an appropriate balance and diversity of skills, other senior managers within the business to ensure we have the Director of additional Non-Executive Directors and capability to drive the long-term growth and development of experience and independence.
appointment identifying a new Senior Independent Director the business.
Developing short and long-term succession plans for the Board, Executive Management Team EMT and critical senior Specific focus for the coming year Appointment of Directors management roles.
Succession planning at Board, EMT and senior management levels Where a new director is to be appointed, a candidate profile is Reviewing the standard process for appointing Directors, will remain a focus of our work.
We will continue to focus on how developed based on a review of future business issues against the ensuring it is rigorous, transparent, inclusive and objective.
we can increase diversity at Board and executive levels.
The recent experience and skills of existing Board members.
This is used to Hampton-Alexander and Parker Reviews have highlighted the need brief external recruitment consultants appointed by the Committee Recommending suitable candidates for appointment for development of the talent pipeline at EMT level and below, and to undertake the selection process.
Initial meetings with prospective to the Board and ensuring new Directors undergo an this is something that I take very seriously and the Nomination candidates are held by a combination of the Company Chairman, appropriate induction.
Committee will track progress in this area.
the Company Secretary and sometimes another Board Director, Reviewing the Boards diversity policy.
and a shortlist is selected to meet all other Board members.
The Peter Johnson Reviewing the talent development programme and Committee then meets and decides which candidate, if any, will be Chairman of the Nomination Committee tracking progress.
recommended to join the Board.
23 May 2017 Specific focus during the year For our recruitment activities in relation to Simon Pryce, we appointed The Zygos Partnership to assist us.
For Louisa Burdett Paul Hollingworth will complete nine years as a Non-Executive we appointed Ridgeway Partners to help support us in finding a Director in May 2017 and therefore will not stand for re-election successor to Paul Hollingworth.
Both Zygos and Ridgeway are at this years Annual General Meeting AGM.
He has been an accredited under the Enhanced Code of Conduct for search firms.
outstanding Chair of our Audit Committee.
We began the search for Neither company has any other connection to the Company, and a replacement last year and we are delighted that Louisa Burdett are therefore fully independent.
will take over as Chairman of the Audit Committee after a short period of transition.
Any appointments to the Board receive an induction in respect of their directorship.
This will typically include meetings with senior management and our corporate advisers, sales visits to customers, presentations from key business areas, tours of our UK warehouses, and the option to visit our overseas businesses, as well as technical training on legal and governance issues and any other relevant documentation.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2017 54  Proof 2. indd 54 24 05 2017 16:58:54 25314.02-AR2017- Proof Two Governance Terms of appointment Committee members Executive Directors have one year rolling contracts.
Non-Executive Peter Johnson Chairman Directors do not have service contracts but instead have a letter of Bertrand Bodson appointment which sets out expected time commitments.
Such time Louisa Burdett from 1 February 2017 commitments can involve peaks of activity at particular times.
Karen Guerra Details of the Companys policy on Executive Directors service Paul Hollingworth contracts and terms of appointment for Non-Executive Directors John Pattullo are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 71.
Simon Pryce from 26 September 2016 Rupert Soames up to 20 July 2016 The Board takes into account the need for it to refresh its membership progressively over time.
Non-Executive Directors are Details of the skills and experience and tenure of the Committee normally expected to serve for six years.
They may be invited to members are given in their biographies on pages 34 to 36. serve longer, but additional service beyond six years is subject to Members and their attendance at meetings during the year are set rigorous review, and service beyond nine years is unlikely.
out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 45.
The Chairman During the year, the Committee recommended the appointments The terms of appointment for the Board members are available for provides updates to the Board on the proceedings of each meeting.
As inspection at the Companys registered office and at our AGM.
well as extensive experience within a listed company environment, Activities during the year Succession planning Simon brings expertise in mergers and acquisitions and of the Succession Rupert Soames Senior Independent Director Succession planning, both at executive and non-executive level, US market, and Louisa has the recent and relevant financial planning and Paul Hollingworth Chairman of the Audit in both the short and long-term, remains a key focus for the experience required of an Audit Committee Chairman.
Committee in accordance with the Board Board.
The Chief HR Officer gave presentations to the Board Succession Planning Framework for the Board The Committee continued to review succession planning for during the year on short and long-term organisational capability and EMT Executive and Non-Executive Directors as well as for the EMT and and succession planning for key senior management roles.
On Non-Executive Meetings in relation to the appointment other senior managers within the business to ensure we have the recommendation from the Committee, the Board agreed details of Director of additional Non-Executive Directors and capability to drive the long-term growth and development of the key competencies required to enhance the composition of the appointment identifying a new Senior Independent Director the business.
Board and those competencies have been used in the search for both Simon Pryce and Louisa Burdett.
Specific focus for the coming year Appointment of Directors Succession planning at Board, EMT and senior management levels Where a new director is to be appointed, a candidate profile is Diversity will remain a focus of our work.
We will continue to focus on how developed based on a review of future business issues against the The Committee has a Policy Statement which emphasises its we can increase diversity at Board and executive levels.
This is used to adherence to the Group Diversity Policy in considering succession Hampton-Alexander and Parker Reviews have highlighted the need brief external recruitment consultants appointed by the Committee planning and recruitment at Board level, and is mindful of the policy for development of the talent pipeline at EMT level and below, and to undertake the selection process.
Initial meetings with prospective when instructing any recruitment consultants or other advisers this is something that I take very seriously and the Nomination candidates are held by a combination of the Company Chairman, it appoints.
The policy states that it is in the best interests of the Committee will track progress in this area.
the Company Secretary and sometimes another Board Director, Company to ensure balance and diversity at Board level, and strongly and a shortlist is selected to meet all other Board members.
The encourages recruitment consultants to widen search parameters Peter Johnson Committee then meets and decides which candidate, if any, will be so that a diverse range of candidates may be considered, where Chairman of the Nomination Committee recommended to join the Board.
The Committee has actively sought to increase both 23 May 2017 gender and national diversity whilst also recognising the importance For our recruitment activities in relation to Simon Pryce, we of inherent diversity of experience and approach and ensuring we appointed The Zygos Partnership to assist us.
For Louisa Burdett recruit the best possible person for the job.
we appointed Ridgeway Partners to help support us in finding a successor to Paul Hollingworth.
Both Zygos and Ridgeway are The recent recruitment activities have brought additional diversity accredited under the Enhanced Code of Conduct for search firms.
of skills to the Board with the appointment of Simon Pryce and Neither company has any other connection to the Company, and Louisa Burdett who bring with them a breadth of extremely valuable are therefore fully independent.
Gender diversity has also increased during the year.
We continue to have strong international diversity Any appointments to the Board receive an induction in respect both at Board level and within the EMT, reflecting the global nature of their directorship.
This will typically include meetings with of our business.
More information on activities within the Group to senior management and our corporate advisers, sales visits to promote diversity is given in the Strategic Report on page 29. customers, presentations from key business areas, tours of our UK warehouses, and the option to visit our overseas businesses, as well as technical training on legal and governance issues and any other relevant documentation.
