Governance Report Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee consists of all independent Directors.
Financial Reporting The members of the Committee consider that they have the The Committee considers that the most significant area of risk requisite financial skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities likely to impact the Financial Statements is the existence and of the Committee.
The Chairman of the Committee, Mr LJ valuation of investments as they represent 98.4% of total assets.
The Committees authority The majority of the investments are in quoted securities and and duties are clearly defined within its written terms of reference market prices are readily available from independent external which are available on request from the Company Secretary and pricing sources.
The Committee reviewed Baillie Giffords Report at www.
The terms of reference are on Internal Controls which details the controls in place regarding reviewed annually.
recording and pricing of investments.
The Committees effectiveness is reviewed on an annual basis as The Committee reviewed the Managers valuation policy for part of the Boards performance evaluation process.
investments in unquoted companies and approved the valuations of At least once a year the Committee meets with the external the unlisted investments following a detailed review of the valuation Auditor without any representative of the Manager being present.
of each investment and relevant challenge where appropriate.
The value of all the listed investments at 31 March 2017 was Main Activities of the Committee agreed to external price sources and the holdings agreed to The Committee met twice during the year and KPMG LLP, the confirmations from the Companys custodian.
Confirmations of external Auditor, attended both meetings.
Baillie Gifford & Cos uncertificated unlisted investments were obtained from the Internal Audit and Compliance Departments and the AIFMs relevant investee companies.
permanent risk function provided reports on their monitoring programmes for these meetings.
The Managers and Auditor confirmed to the Committee that they were not aware of any material misstatements in the context of The matters considered, monitored and reviewed by the the Financial Statements as a whole and that the Financial Committee during the course of the year included the following: Statements are in accordance with applicable law and accounting the preliminary results announcement and the Annual and standards.
Interim Reports: Audit Tender the Companys accounting policies and practices and the Following the audit tender process held in the year to 31 March implementation of the Managers valuation policy for 2016, the Board unanimously decided to reappoint KPMG as investments in unquoted companies: Auditor.
the regulatory changes impacting the Company: In accordance with mandatory audit rotation requirements, the the fairness, balance and understandability of the Annual Committee intends to undertake a further tender process during Report and Financial Statements and whether it provided the the year to 31 March 2020. information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy: Internal Controls and Risk Management The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys risk the effectiveness of the Companys internal control management and internal controls systems as described on environment: pages 31 and 32.
No significant weaknesses were identified in the re-appointment, remuneration and engagement letter of the year under review.
external Auditor: External Auditor the policy on the engagement of the external Auditor to supply To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the non-audit services: external Auditor, the Committee reviewed: the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external A report from the Auditor describing the arrangements to Auditor: identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest and the need for the Company to have its own internal audit received confirmation of their independence: and function: The extent of non-audit services provided by the external internal controls reports received from the Managers and Auditor.
Non-audit fees for the year to 31 March 2017 were custodian: and 2,871 and related to the certification of financial information the arrangements in place within Baillie Gifford & Co whereby for the debenture trustee and the provision of Indian tax their staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible services.
The Committee does not believe that this has improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The effectiveness of the external Auditor was reviewed and the Internal Audit Committee considered: The Committee continues to believe that the compliance and The Auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan: internal controls systems and the internal audit function in place within the Investment Managers provide sufficient assurance that Feedback from the Secretaries on the performance of the a sound system of internal control which safeguards audit team: shareholders investment and the Companys assets is maintained.
An internal audit function, specific to the Company is therefore considered unnecessary.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 33 Governance Report The Audit Quality Inspection Report from the FRC: and Detailed discussion with audit personnel to challenge audit processes and deliverables.
To fulfil its responsibility for oversight of the external audit process the Committee considered and reviewed: The Auditors engagement letter: The Auditors proposed audit strategy: The audit fee: and A report from the Auditor on the conclusion of the audit.
Although KPMG LLP, or its predecessor firms, have been Auditor for over twenty seven years, the audit partners directors responsible for the audit are rotated at least every five years in accordance with professional and regulatory standards in order to protect independence and objectivity and to provide fresh challenge to the business.
Mr J Waterson was appointed audit director during the year and will continue as audit director until the conclusion of the 2020 audit.
KPMG have confirmed that they believe they are independent within the meaning of regulatory and professional requirements and that the objectivity of the audit director and staff is not impaired.
KPMG also acted as Auditor to the Manager until June 2016 and Ms C Burnet, the previous Scottish Mortgage audit partner, had taken the lead relationship partner role with Baillie Gifford during 2013.
A separate audit director had been responsible for the Baillie Gifford audit and KPMG had outlined the procedures that would be put in place in the unlikely event that a conflict of interest should arise.
Having carried out the review process described above, the Committee is satisfied that the Auditor remains independent and effective.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Committees choice of external Auditor.
Accountability and Audit The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditor in connection with the Financial Statements are set out on pages 37 to 41.
By order of the Board Justin Dowley Audit Committee Chairman 12 May 2017 34 Annual Report 2017
