Governance Report Corporate Governance Report The Board is committed to achieving and demonstrating high Under the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, a standards of Corporate Governance.
This statement outlines Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek how the principles of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
the Code, which can be found at www.
uk and the In accordance with the Code all the Directors will retire at each principles of the Association of Investment Companies AIC Code Annual General Meeting and, if appropriate, offer themselves for of Corporate Governance were applied throughout the financial re-election.
The AIC Code provides a framework of best practice for Independence of Directors investment companies and can be found at www.
All the Directors are considered by the Board to be independent Compliance of the Managers and free of any business or other relationship that The Board confirms that the Company has complied throughout could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
the year under review with the relevant provisions of the Code Mr JPHS Scott has served on the Board for more than nine except that the Chairman of the Board is a member of the Audit years.
The Directors recognise the value of progressive refreshing Committee.
The Board believes it is appropriate for Mr JPHS of, and succession planning for, company boards and the Scott to be a member of the Committee as he is considered to Boards composition is reviewed annually.
The Board is of the be independent and there are no conflicts of interest.
The Code view that length of service will not necessarily compromise the includes provisions relating to the role of the chief executive, independence or contribution of directors of an investment trust executive directors remuneration and the need for an internal company, where continuity and experience can be a benefit to audit function.
Given that the Company is an externally managed the board.
The Board concurs with the view expressed in the AIC investment trust, the Board considers these provisions are not Code that long-serving Directors should not be prevented from relevant to the Company the need for an internal audit function being considered as independent.
specific to the Company has been addressed on page 33.
Following formal performance evaluation, the Board has The Board is of the opinion that the Company has complied with concluded that, notwithstanding his length of service, Mr JPHS the recommendations of the AIC Code.
Scott continues to demonstrate independence of character and judgement and his skill and experience were a benefit to the Board.
The Board The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs.
The Meetings Board appoints the Managers and Secretaries and approves the There is an annual cycle of Board meetings which is designed terms of the investment management agreement.
It has a number to address, in a systematic way, overall strategy, review of of matters reserved for its approval including strategy, investment investment policy, investment performance, marketing, revenue policy, currency hedging, borrowings, gearing, share buy back budgets, dividend policy and communication with shareholders.
policy, treasury matters, dividend and corporate governance The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to policy.
A separate meeting devoted to strategy is held each year.
The table below shows the The Board also reviews the financial statements, investment attendance record for the core Board and Committee Meetings transactions, revenue budgets and performance.
Full and timely held during the year various additional meetings were also held.
information is provided to the Board to enable the Board to function The Annual General Meeting was attended by all Directors serving effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
Following the retirement of Mr WG McQueen at the Annual Directors Attendance at Meetings General Meeting last year, the Board comprises six Directors, all of whom are non-executive, although Mr JPHS Scott is retiring as Audit Nomination a Director at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Board Committee Committee The Chairman is responsible for organising the business of the Number of meetings 6 2 1 Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The John Scott 6 2 1 executive responsibility for investment management has been Justin Dowley 6 2 1 delegated to the Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager Professor John Kay 6 2 1 AIFM, Baillie Gifford & Co Limited and, in the context of a Board comprising only non-executive Directors, there is no chief executive Professor Patrick Maxwell officer.
Professor JA Kay is the Senior Independent Director.
appointed 1 April 2016 6 2 1 Fiona McBain 6 2 1 The Directors believe that the Board has a balance of skills and Gordon McQueen experience that enables it to provide effective strategic leadership retired 30 June 2016 2 1 and proper governance of the Company.
Information about the Dr Paola Subacchi 6 1 1 Directors, including their relevant experience, can be found on pages 25 and 26.
Nomination Committee There is an agreed procedure for Directors to seek independent The Nomination Committee consists of the independent nonprofessional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board is Chairman Appointments of the Committee.
The Committee meets on an annual basis The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out and at such other times as may be required.
The Committee has in formal letters of appointment which are available for inspection written terms of reference which include reviewing the Board, on request.
identifying and nominating new candidates for appointment to 30 Annual Report 2017 Governance Report the Board, Board appraisal, succession planning and training.
Audit Committee The Committee also considers whether Directors should be The report of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 33 and 34. recommended for re-election by shareholders.
The Committee is Internal Controls and Risk Management responsible for considering Directors potential conflicts of interest and for making recommendations to the Board on whether or The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Companys risk management and internal control systems and for reviewing not the potential conflicts should be authorised.
Appointments to the Board are made on merit with due regard for the benefits of their effectiveness.
The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives diversity including gender.
The priority in appointing new directors is to identify the candidate with the best range of skills and and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
experience to complement existing Directors.
The Board therefore does not consider it appropriate to set diversity targets or apply a The Board confirms that there is a continuing process for diversity policy.
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company in accordance with the FRC guidance Guidance Board Composition on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Following the announcement of the Chairmans intention not to Business Reporting issued in September 2014. stand for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 29 June, the Board has reviewed its composition, with The practical measures in relation to the design, implementation and maintenance of control policies and procedures to safeguard regard to the depth and breadth of experience.
The Board has determined that the remaining five Directors provide sufficient the Companys assets and to manage its affairs properly, including the maintenance of effective operational and compliance resource at present.
controls, have been delegated to the Managers and Secretaries.
The Committees terms of reference are available on request from The Board oversees the functions delegated to the Managers the Company and on the Companys pages of the Managers website: www.
and Secretaries and the controls managed by the AIFM in accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Performance Evaluation Directive as detailed below.
Baillie Gifford & Cos Internal Audit The Nomination Committee met to assess the performance and Compliance Departments and the AIFMs permanent risk of the Chairman, each Director, the Board as a whole and its function provide the Audit Committee with regular reports on Committees.
Prior to the meeting each Director completed their monitoring programmes.
The reporting procedures for these an evaluation form which they discussed individually with the departments are defined and formalised within a service level Chairman.
The appraisal of the Chairman was led by Professor agreement.
Baillie Gifford & Co conducts an annual review of its JA Kay.
The appraisals and evaluations considered, amongst system of internal controls which is documented within an internal other criteria, the balance of skills of the Board, the contribution controls report which complies with ISAE 3402 and Technical of individual Directors, the overall competency and effectiveness Release AAF 01 06 Assurance Reports on Internal Controls of of the Board and its Committees and the continuing professional Service Organisations made available to Third Parties.
This report development undertaken by Directors during the year.
is independently reviewed by Baillie Gifford & Cos Auditor and a copy is submitted to the Audit Committee.
Following this process it was concluded that the performance of each Director, the Chairman, the Board and its Committees A report identifying the material risks faced by the Company and continues to be effective and each Director and the Chairman the key controls employed to manage these risks is reviewed by remains committed to the Company.
A review of the Chairmans and other Directors commitments These procedures ensure that consideration is given regularly was carried out and the Nomination Committee is satisfied that to the nature and extent of risks facing the Company and that they are capable of devoting sufficient time to the Company.
they are being actively monitored.
Where changes in risk have There was no increase in the overall level of the Chairmans other been identified during the year they also provide a mechanism to commitments during the year.
assess whether further action is required to manage these risks.
Lintstock, a company which assists companies with the design The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of and execution of board evaluations, facilitated the performance the Companys risk management and internal controls systems, evaluation in 2016.
It is intended that the evaluation will again be which accord with the FRC Guidance on Risk Management, externally facilitated in 2019.
Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting and they have procedures in place to review their effectiveness on Induction and Training a regular basis.
No significant weaknesses were identified in the New Directors are provided with an induction programme which is year under review and up to the date of this Report.
tailored to the particular circumstances of the appointee.
Regular The Board confirms that these procedures have been in place briefings were provided during the year on industry and regulatory throughout the Companys financial year and continue to be in matters.
The Directors receive other training as necessary.
place up to the date of approval of this Report.
Remuneration To comply with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers As all the Directors are non-executive, there is no requirement Directive, BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary UK Limited acts as the for a separate Remuneration Committee.
Directors fees are Companys Depositary and Baillie Gifford & Co Limited as its AIFM.
considered by the Board as a whole within the limits approved by The Depositarys responsibilities include cash monitoring, shareholders.
The Companys policy on remuneration is set out in safe keeping of the Companys financial instruments, verifying the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 35 and 36.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 31 Governance Report ownership and maintaining a record of other assets and On the basis of the submissions received, all five firms presented monitoring the Companys compliance with investment limits and to the Company Secretaries to be evaluated against the leverage requirements.
The Depositary is liable for the loss of framework set out by the Board, as a result of which two firms financial instruments held in custody.
The Depositary will ensure one of which was the incumbent broker, Cenkos were selected that any delegate segregates the assets of the Company.
The to present to the Board.
The result of this was a decision to Depositary has delegated the custody function to The Bank of extend the engagement of Cenkos Securities plc and to broaden New York Mellon SA NV London Branch the Custodian.
The the mandate by appointing Jefferies Hoare Govett a division of Custodian prepares a report on its key controls and safeguards Jefferies International Limited as joint broker to the Company.
which is independently reviewed by KPMG LLP.
Scottish Mortgage is now of a scale where the appointment of joint The Depositary provides the Audit Committee with a report on its brokers is the norm and the Board hopes that the new arrangement monitoring activities.
will build on the excellent work which Cenkos have done over the years to broaden the market for our shares and bring them to the The AIFM has established a permanent risk management function attention of new buyers.
We believe that the additional resources to ensure that effective risk management policies and procedures available to us from Cenkos and Jefferies working in tandem will are in place and to monitor compliance with risk limits.
The AIFM bring significant benefit to the Company and is in the clear interests has a risk management policy which covers the risks associated of shareholders.
The new arrangement took effect from 1 April 2017. with the management of the portfolio, and the adequacy and effectiveness of this policy is reviewed and approved at least Relations with Shareholders annually.
This review includes the risk management processes The Board places great importance on communication with and systems and limits for each risk area.
The Companys Managers meet regularly with The risk limits, which are set by the AIFM and approved by the shareholders and their representatives and report shareholders Board, take into account the objectives, strategy and risk profile views to the Board.
The Chairman is available to meet of the portfolio.
These limits, including leverage see page 66, with shareholders as appropriate.
Shareholders wishing to are monitored and the sensitivity of the portfolio to key risks is communicate with any members of the Board may do so by undertaken periodically as appropriate to ascertain the impact of writing to them at the Companys registered office, or through the changes in key variables in the portfolio.
Exceptions from limits Companys brokers, Cenkos Securities and Jefferies see contact monitoring and stress testing are escalated to the AIFM and details on the back cover.
reported to the Board along with remedial measures being taken.
The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a forum for communication with all shareholders.
The level of proxies lodged Going Concern for each resolution is announced at the meeting and published at In accordance with The Financial Reporting Councils guidance www.
The notice period for the Annual on going concern and liquidity risk, the Directors have undertaken General Meeting is at least twenty working days.
Shareholders a rigorous review of the Companys ability to continue as a going and potential investors may obtain up-to-date information on the concern.
The Companys principal risks are market related and include Corporate Governance and Stewardship market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of these risks and how they are managed is contained in note 19 to the The Company has given discretionary voting powers to Baillie Financial Statements.
The Companys assets, the majority of which Gifford & Co.
The Managers vote against resolutions they are investments in quoted securities which are readily realisable, consider may damage shareholders rights or economic interests exceed its liabilities significantly.
All borrowings require the prior and report their actions to the Board.
Gearing levels and compliance with The Company believes that it is in the shareholders interests to borrowing covenants are reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
consider environmental, social and governance ESG factors Accordingly, the Financial Statements have been prepared on when selecting and retaining investments and has asked the the going concern basis as it is the Directors opinion, having Managers to take these issues into account.
The Managers do assessed the principal risks and other matters set out in the not exclude companies from their investment universe purely on Viability Statement on page 9, that the Company will continue in the grounds of ESG factors but adopt a positive engagement operational existence for a period of at least 12 months from the approach whereby matters are discussed with management date of approval of these Financial Statements.
with the aim of improving the relevant policies and management systems and enabling the Managers to consider how ESG factors Corporate Broker could impact long term investment returns.
The Managers The Company has conducted a review of the role of its corporate statement of compliance with the UK Stewardship Code can be broker: this formed part of the continuing process of revisiting our found on the Managers website at www.
The relationships with all third party providers.
The Board selected five Managers policy has been reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
firms to tender submissions and set out the criteria to be used in The Managers are signatories to the United Nations Principles for evaluating these: a range of factors was considered, including but Responsible Investment and the Carbon Disclosure Project and are not limited to the breadth and depth of experience within each also members of the International Corporate Governance Network.
firm in following areas: market knowledge and market making capacity, research provision, corporate advisory work, sales and By order of the Board marketing and regulatory engagement, as well as the proposed John Scott remuneration structures.
