Corporate Governance Report UK Corporate Governance Code During the year ended 31 March 2017, the Company has been Our ability to evolve securely is subject to the provisions of the Code published in September 2014.
We were also compliant with the updated version of the Code supported by our commitment to published in April 2016.
The Code is publicly available at continue to strengthen our robust www.
There are five main sections of the Code covering: Leadership corporate governance framework.
Effectiveness Accountability PETER JOHNSON CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD Remuneration Relations with shareholders Dear fellow shareholder Board development On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our corporate During the year, we said goodbye to Rupert Soames and welcomed governance reports for 2017. two new Non-Executive Directors, Simon Pryce and Louisa Burdett.
Rupert has been an excellent Senior Independent Director over the The Company and the Group are committed to high standards of years and I would like to thank him for his outstanding contribution The Board corporate governance.
The Board is accountable to the Companys to the Group and support to me as Chairman.
shareholders and actively engages in two-way communication with Role, effectiveness and composition them.
During the year management held numerous face-to-face We will also say goodbye to Paul Hollingworth after the Annual The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the long-term meetings and invited shareholders to presentations on both the General Meeting AGM on 20 July and I would like to thank him success of the Company.
The Board has carefully considered the Groups financial results and elements of its strategy.
I also had for his outstanding performance as Audit Committee Chairman over guidance criteria regarding the composition of the Board under a number of meetings with shareholders, whilst the Chairman of the last nine years.
In the opinion of the Board, the Chairman and all the the Remuneration Committee carried out extensive consultation Non-Executive Directors bring independence of judgement and Evaluation in respect of the changes proposed to our long-term incentive character, a wealth of experience and knowledge, the appropriate We continuously evaluate the balance of skills, experience, scheme.
balance of skills, and assign sufficient time to enable them to knowledge and independence of the Directors.
In line with Code effectively carry out their responsibilities and duties to the Board As a UK-listed company, we are required to explain how we requirements we have this year carried out an externally facilitated and to the Committees on which they sit.
They are sufficiently have applied the main principles set out in the UK Corporate Board evaluation.
The results and recommendations are discussed independent of management and are free from any other Governance Code Code and whether the Company has complied in detail later in this report, together with progress made on last circumstances or relationships that could interfere with the exercise with the relevant provisions throughout the financial year.
report explains how we have applied the Code during the year and Peter Johnson confirms our compliance.
Biographical details of the Directors standing for election or Chairman re-election at the forthcoming AGM are set out on pages 34 to Looking ahead 23 May 2017 36 and in the Notice of Meeting.
These set out their skills and This year has been a period of further development of the business experience, details of roles and tenure, together with details of their with strong growth and changes continuing to be made throughout membership of Board Committees.
The markets in which we operate continue to evolve rapidly and we will also need to continue to evolve if our The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its aspirations for the Group are to be met.
Our ability to evolve approval which includes responsibility for: securely is supported by our commitment to continue to strengthen The review and approval of the Groups long-term strategy and our robust corporate governance framework.
its budgetary and business plans.
Further details of the Companys strategy going forward can be The review and approval of major investment proposals and found in the Strategic Report on page 8 and in the Nomination capital expenditure.
Committee Report on pages 54 and 55.
Major changes to the Groups corporate structure including acquisitions or disposals.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2017 42  Proof 2. indd 42 24 05 2017 16:58:53 25314.02-AR2017- Proof Two Governance The sections within this Directors Report explain how the Main UK Corporate Governance Code Principles of the Code have been applied.
During the year ended 31 March 2017, the Company has been subject to the provisions of the Code published in September 2014.
The information required by the Code on Directors accountability, We were also compliant with the updated version of the Code our process for the appointment of Directors including our published in April 2016.
The Code is publicly available at approach to diversity and our report on Directors remuneration, www.
There are five main sections of the Code covering: can be found in the following sections: Leadership Audit Committee Report on page 48 Effectiveness Nomination Committee Report on page 54 Accountability Directors Remuneration Report on page 56 Remuneration The Directors consider that the Company complied with all the Relations with shareholders relevant provisions set out in the Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2017.
Board development During the year, we said goodbye to Rupert Soames and welcomed two new Non-Executive Directors, Simon Pryce and Louisa Burdett.
Rupert has been an excellent Senior Independent Director over the years and I would like to thank him for his outstanding contribution The approval of full-year and half-year results and trading The Board to the Group and support to me as Chairman.
The review and approval of the going concern basis of Role, effectiveness and composition accounting and the viability assessment.
We will also say goodbye to Paul Hollingworth after the Annual The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the long-term General Meeting AGM on 20 July and I would like to thank him The approval of the Groups dividend policy and the payment success of the Company.
The Board has carefully considered the and recommendation of interim and final dividends.
for his outstanding performance as Audit Committee Chairman over guidance criteria regarding the composition of the Board under the last nine years.
In the opinion of the Board, the Chairman and all the The review and approval of the Groups tax strategy.
Non-Executive Directors bring independence of judgement and Evaluation Ensuring and maintaining the Groups systems of risk character, a wealth of experience and knowledge, the appropriate management, internal control and corporate governance.
We continuously evaluate the balance of skills, experience, balance of skills, and assign sufficient time to enable them to knowledge and independence of the Directors.
In line with Code Reviewing health and safety policy and its effectiveness.
effectively carry out their responsibilities and duties to the Board requirements we have this year carried out an externally facilitated Setting the Groups values and standards.
and to the Committees on which they sit.
They are sufficiently Board evaluation.
The results and recommendations are discussed independent of management and are free from any other On the advice of the Nomination Committee, reviewing in detail later in this report, together with progress made on last circumstances or relationships that could interfere with the exercise succession plans for the Board and senior management.
Evaluating Group and subsidiary performance and reviewing Peter Johnson forecasts.
Biographical details of the Directors standing for election or Chairman re-election at the forthcoming AGM are set out on pages 34 to Further details of the outcome of Board discussions regarding the 23 May 2017 36 and in the Notice of Meeting.
These set out their skills and above can be found in the Strategic Report.
experience, details of roles and tenure, together with details of their The Board is fully committed to diversity of gender, ethnicity, race membership of Board Committees.
and nationality and ensures it considers candidates from all such The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its backgrounds when appointing new Board members.
Further details approval which includes responsibility for: of our approach to diversity in relation to appointments Group-wide and at Board level can be found in the Our People section on page The review and approval of the Groups long-term strategy and 29 and the Nomination Committee Report on page 55 respectively.
The review and approval of major investment proposals and capital expenditure.
com Stock Code: ECM 43  Proof 2. indd 43 24 05 2017 16:58:53 25314.02-AR2017- Proof Two Corporate Governance Report updates regarding corporate governance matters, the new Market Committees Scheduled Unscheduled Abuse Regulation, and the business approach to managing cyber The Board has a number of standing committees consisting of Audit Remuneration Nomination risk including associated system and business controls and a certain Directors and, in the case of the Treasury Committee, Board Committee Committee Committee report on the Groups corporate responsibility activity.
certain senior managers to whom specific responsibilities have 4 Number of meetings held during the year 6 4 3 4 been delegated, and for which written terms of reference have A tailored induction programme is provided for each new Director.
These terms of reference can be found in the Further details of our induction programme can be found in the 1 Louisa Burdett 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 corporate governance section of the Companys website.
A verbal Nomination Committee Report on page 55.
David Egan 6 6 update on the proceedings from each Committee meeting is Board meetings Karen Guerra 6 6 4 4 3 3 4 4 provided to the Board by the Chairman of the relevant Committee.
Board members can also request presentations or reports on areas Directors receive a pack of relevant and timely information on the Paul Hollingworth 6 6 4 4 3 3 4 4 matters to be discussed for each Board and committee meeting.
Peter Johnson 6 6 4 4 John Pattullo 6 6 4 4 3 3 4 4 The performance of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration At each Board meeting: 2 Simon Pryce 4 4 2 2 2 2 2 2 Committees are assessed annually as part of the evaluation The CEO presents a comprehensive update on the business Lindsley Ruth 6 6 process described later in this report.
Further details of the work, issues across the Group.
3 Rupert Soames 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 composition, role and responsibilities of the Audit, Remuneration The Group Finance Director GFD presents a detailed analysis and Nomination Committees are provided in separate reports on The maximum number of meetings held during the year that each Director could attend is shown in brackets of the financial performance, as well as reports on investor pages 48 to 71. relations and feedback from investors.
Louisa Burdett joined the Company as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 February 2017.
Effective division of responsibilities and Board 2.
Simon Pryce joined the Company as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 26 September 2016.
Updates on any relevant strategic matters are also presented.
Rupert Soames resigned from the Company as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 20 July 2016.
Members of the Executive Management Team EMT and other 4.
Unscheduled Board and Remuneration Committee meetings were held during the year in relation to the appointment of Simon Pryce and the September The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer CEO are held senior managers attend relevant parts of Board meetings in 2016 Trading Update.
The division of responsibilities between order to make presentations on their areas of responsibility, the Chairman and CEO has been clearly established: their Board evaluation provide updates on developments and changes to the business.
responsibilities are set out in writing and have been agreed by We noted in last years report that we would be undertaking an external evaluation and we appointed Constal Limited to carry out this The Company Secretary presents a report on key regulatory and the Board.
Further information on the division of responsibilities exercise for us.
Constal work with companies to help identify ways to improve the performance of their boards.
This is the second time legal issues that affect the Group.
between the Board members is available in the corporate Constal have facilitated our external Board evaluation, other than that they have no other connection to the Company: the Board therefore governance section of our website.
Updates from the Chairmen of the Committees of the Board are believes there are no issues around independence.
The Board recognises the benefit of an external evaluation which it believes provides given if applicable.
fresh insight and objectivity to its Committees and Directors, enabling it to improve its leadership, effectiveness and focus.
Information and development Training and induction Between Board meetings, Directors meet with members of the EMT Evaluation Process and are provided with information in a timely manner on matters Directors are encouraged to update and refresh their skills, affecting the business when relevant.
knowledge and familiarity with the Group by attending external 1 2 4 seminars and briefings, through participation at meetings and Further information relating to the activities of the Board during the through visits to operating units, both in the UK and overseas, The Chairman and Constal, with the support Constal analysed the responses The reports of the findings year is available in the corporate governance section of our website.
as well as by receiving presentations from senior management.
Company Secretary of the Company Secretary, and prepared separate reports of and recommendations were The table on the next page sets out the number of meetings of the Appropriate and relevant training course details are circulated by discussed and prepared an online the findings for the Chairman, the presented by the Company Board and the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees the Company Secretary who also shares with the Board a record of agreed the scope of questionnaire which was Senior Independent Director and Secretary to the Board, and during the year and individual attendance by the relevant members the evaluation with sent to Board members the Chairmen of each Committee each of its Committees, who training courses attended by individual Directors.
During the year, at these meetings, demonstrating commitment to their role as Constal.
Feedback identifying strengths, challenges then discussed them and agreed training on such subjects as leadership development and cyber risk Directors of the Company.
The Board normally meets seven times from Board members was and priorities.
A number of any relevant actions for the year were attended.
This is in addition to the access that every Director provided on a no-name recommendations were also included ahead.
The SID also discussed during the year and supplementary meetings of the Board are held has to the Company Secretary.
for discussion by the Board and each the feedback on the Chairman when necessary.
Board Committees and Directors are given access to independent of its Committees.
professional advice at the Groups expense if they deem it necessary in order for them to carry out their responsibilities.
Specific training provided to the Board during the year included The aim of the questionnaire sent to Board members was to obtain views on certain key corporate governance areas as well as to gauge how the Board considered it was operating through a significant period of change, and how it felt about the future scale of change in the business.
It also gave members an opportunity to say candidly what they thought: what was being done well and what needed to be improved.
Views were also sought on the Chairman and SID and the workings of the Committees of the Board.
Constal was also available to answer any questions from the Directors.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2017 44  Proof 2. indd 44 24 05 2017 16:58:53 25314.02-AR2017- Proof Two Governance updates regarding corporate governance matters, the new Market Scheduled Unscheduled Abuse Regulation, and the business approach to managing cyber Audit Remuneration Nomination risk including associated system and business controls and a Board Committee Committee Committee report on the Groups corporate responsibility activity.
4 Number of meetings held during the year 6 4 3 4 A tailored induction programme is provided for each new Director.
Bertrand Bodson 6 6 4 4 3 3 4 4 Further details of our induction programme can be found in the 1 Louisa Burdett 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 Nomination Committee Report on page 55.
David Egan 6 6 Board meetings Karen Guerra 6 6 4 4 3 3 4 4 Directors receive a pack of relevant and timely information on the Paul Hollingworth 6 6 4 4 3 3 4 4 matters to be discussed for each Board and committee meeting.
Peter Johnson 6 6 4 4 John Pattullo 6 6 4 4 3 3 4 4 At each Board meeting: 2 Simon Pryce 4 4 2 2 2 2 2 2 The CEO presents a comprehensive update on the business Lindsley Ruth 6 6 issues across the Group.
3 Rupert Soames 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 The Group Finance Director GFD presents a detailed analysis The maximum number of meetings held during the year that each Director could attend is shown in brackets of the financial performance, as well as reports on investor relations and feedback from investors.
Unscheduled Board and Remuneration Committee meetings were held during the year in relation to the appointment of Simon Pryce and the September senior managers attend relevant parts of Board meetings in 2016 Trading Update.
order to make presentations on their areas of responsibility, Board evaluation provide updates on developments and changes to the business.
We noted in last years report that we would be undertaking an external evaluation and we appointed Constal Limited to carry out this The Company Secretary presents a report on key regulatory and exercise for us.
Constal have facilitated our external Board evaluation, other than that they have no other connection to the Company: the Board therefore Updates from the Chairmen of the Committees of the Board are believes there are no issues around independence.
Between Board meetings, Directors meet with members of the EMT Evaluation Process and are provided with information in a timely manner on matters affecting the business when relevant.
1 2 3 4 Further information relating to the activities of the Board during the The Chairman and Constal, with the support Constal analysed the responses The reports of the findings year is available in the corporate governance section of our website.
Company Secretary of the Company Secretary, and prepared separate reports of and recommendations were The table on the next page sets out the number of meetings of the discussed and prepared an online the findings for the Chairman, the presented by the Company Board and the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees agreed the scope of questionnaire which was Senior Independent Director and Secretary to the Board, and during the year and individual attendance by the relevant members the evaluation with sent to Board members the Chairmen of each Committee each of its Committees, who at these meetings, demonstrating commitment to their role as Constal.
Feedback identifying strengths, challenges then discussed them and agreed from Board members was and priorities.
A number of any relevant actions for the year Directors of the Company.
The Board normally meets seven times provided on a no-name recommendations were also included ahead.
The SID also discussed during the year and supplementary meetings of the Board are held basis.
The aim of the questionnaire sent to Board members was to obtain views on certain key corporate governance areas as well as to gauge how the Board considered it was operating through a significant period of change, and how it felt about the future scale of change in the business.
com Stock Code: ECM 45  Proof 2. indd 45 24 05 2017 16:58:53 25314.02-AR2017- Proof Two Corporate Governance Report The questionnaire included issues such as: GFD, in addition to the questionnaire completed by all members of Director re-election the Board and provided feedback to the Chairman and the NonNotwithstanding the provisions of the Companys Articles, in Effectiveness of Board and Committee meetings, including Executive Directors respectively.
It was agreed that the Company compliance with good governance, all Directors are required to team dynamics Secretary will also continue to seek regular feedback from the retire, and if they wish to, stand for re-election at each AGM.
Contributions of the Board and its Committees individual Directors.
The Board has a broad range of skills and experience and works Relationships with senior management around the direction and The overall results of this years evaluation were positive and together effectively as evidenced throughout this Annual Report values of the organisation and the decision making process there was a consensus about the challenges ahead and the areas and Accounts.
The Board, following its external evaluation Delivery of strategy against performance measures of focus for the Board.
It was noted that the Board members process, also considers that the performance of all the Directors identified that early engagement between the Executive Directors Risk management who are nominated for re-election continues to be effective and and Non-Executive Directors was key to maintaining the existing demonstrates commitment to their role, and therefore recommends Training and development good progress.
that they are re-elected at the AGM.
Shareholder and stakeholder communications Evaluation Outputs Further details of each Director standing for election and reSuccession and talent management Last year we carried out an internal evaluation which was coelection are provided on pages 34 to 36, including details of skills, In addition, the Chairman held one-to-one meetings with each of ordinated by the Company Secretary.
Details of their attendance at Board and the Directors and the Company Secretary, covering the themes Committee meetings are given on page 45 of this Report.
The actions taken during the year as a result of last years outlined above, the dynamics of the Board, and the training and evaluation, together with areas of focus for the coming year arising Internal control and risk management development needs of the Directors, as well as any other areas of from this years evaluation, are outlined below: concern.
In relation to the performance of the Chairman, the Senior The Board is responsible for the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, which has been designed and Independent Director SID had discussions with the CEO and implemented to meet the particular requirements of the Group and the risks to which it is exposed.
The Group has an established Outputs from last years internal evaluation and Outputs from this years external evaluation and ongoing process of risk management and internal control, actions taken during the year The Board agreed that more time needed to be spent on the which was continuously monitored and developed during the The Board agreed that the main focus would be around the Groups strategy and the organisational structure to support it.
In year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual further development of the Groups strategy, mindful of the addition, there needs to be more understanding around growth Report and Accounts.
changes to the organisation and the need to have clear KPIs to opportunities, the industry, competition and market dynamics.
In addition, there would be a continued focus on Actions include: Further details of this process are given in the Audit Committee succession planning and risk management.
As a result of last Time management: ensure more time is given at Board Report on page 51 and the Strategic Report on page 25. years evaluation the following has been achieved: meetings, scheduling regular updates for key areas of focus, The Groups internal control system can provide reasonable but not Strategy: further progress has been made on the Groups such as strategy, talent, diversity and succession planning, absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
new strategic direction, ensuring that the Group has the right whilst also ensuring that other items, such as growth organisational capability and leadership to support the future opportunities, industry, competition and market dynamics are Going concern and viability step change in performance and that the two new divisions given sufficient time for discussion.
The Boards statements on going concern and long-term viability of Electronics and Industrial are establishing themselves and Digital capabilities: consider how the Group can best can be found in the Strategic Report on page 25, together with working effectively with the new regional hubs.
differentiate itself from its competitors.
an analysis of the Companys principal risks and uncertainties on Risk management: the Board focussed on cyber risk and page 26.
Succession plans talent development: assess depth of talent information security.
Additionally, it monitored the scale of within the business by effectively managing existing talent and Relations with shareholders change within the organisation to ensure that the Group was recruiting new talent, and develop succession plans to support The Company encourages two-way communication with both coping effectively with the changes, keeping sight of the this, and promote diversity.
The Annual Report and Accounts Groups key priorities and driving performance.
is sent to all shareholders who wish to receive a copy.
It is also Succession planning: strong foundations for longer term available on the Companys website, which additionally contains succession planning were considered throughout the year, up-to-date information on the Groups activities and published both at Board level and within the senior leadership team in financial results and presentations.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2017 46  Proof 2. indd 46 24 05 2017 16:58:53 25314.02-AR2017- Proof Two Governance GFD, in addition to the questionnaire completed by all members of The Board ensures that regular and useful dialogue is maintained Director re-election the Board and provided feedback to the Chairman and the Nonwith shareholders.
The AGM is used as an additional opportunity Notwithstanding the provisions of the Companys Articles, in Executive Directors respectively.
It was agreed that the Company for the Chairman and other Board members to meet with compliance with good governance, all Directors are required to Secretary will also continue to seek regular feedback from the shareholders and investors and gives them the opportunity to ask retire, and if they wish to, stand for re-election at each AGM.
Final voting results are published through a Regulatory The Board has a broad range of skills and experience and works Information Service and on the Companys website following The overall results of this years evaluation were positive and together effectively as evidenced throughout this Annual Report the AGM.
there was a consensus about the challenges ahead and the areas and Accounts.
The Board, following its external evaluation of focus for the Board.
It was noted that the Board members Executive Directors have frequent discussions with process, also considers that the performance of all the Directors identified that early engagement between the Executive Directors institutional shareholders on a range of issues affecting the who are nominated for re-election continues to be effective and and Non-Executive Directors was key to maintaining the existing Groups performance, which include meetings following the demonstrates commitment to their role, and therefore recommends good progress.
announcements of the full-year and half-year results.
At these that they are re-elected at the AGM.
meetings the Executive Directors meet with major shareholders to Evaluation Outputs Further details of each Director standing for election and rediscuss performance, strategy and governance.
Last year we carried out an internal evaluation which was coelection are provided on pages 34 to 36, including details of skills, The GFD and Head of Investor Relations regularly report to ordinated by the Company Secretary.
Details of their attendance at Board and the Board on investor relations, including reports compiled by Committee meetings are given on page 45 of this Report.
The actions taken during the year as a result of last years the Companys brokers containing feedback from institutional evaluation, together with areas of focus for the coming year arising Internal control and risk management shareholders.
This ensures that the views of shareholders are from this years evaluation, are outlined below: The Board is responsible for the effectiveness of the Groups communicated to the Board.
system of internal control, which has been designed and Investor relations activity during the year included: implemented to meet the particular requirements of the Group and the risks to which it is exposed.
The Group has an established Final consultations with shareholders by the Chairman of the Outputs from last years internal evaluation and Outputs from this years external evaluation and ongoing process of risk management and internal control, Remuneration Committee on the new incentive framework.
actions taken during the year The Board agreed that more time needed to be spent on the which was continuously monitored and developed during the The Board agreed that the main focus would be around the Groups strategy and the organisational structure to support it.
In Face-to-face meetings and telephone briefings for analysts, year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual further development of the Groups strategy, mindful of the addition, there needs to be more understanding around growth investors and potential investors in the UK, US and Europe, Report and Accounts.
covering the vast majority of shareholdings.
In addition, there would be a continued focus on Actions include: Further details of this process are given in the Audit Committee Face-to-face presentations of full-year and half-year results.
succession planning and risk management.
As a result of last Time management: ensure more time is given at Board Report on page 51 and the Strategic Report on page 25.
Recorded webcasts and presentations are available on the years evaluation the following has been achieved: meetings, scheduling regular updates for key areas of focus, The Groups internal control system can provide reasonable but not corporate website: video interviews with the CEO and the GFD Strategy: further progress has been made on the Groups such as strategy, talent, diversity and succession planning, are also available on the corporate website.
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
new strategic direction, ensuring that the Group has the right whilst also ensuring that other items, such as growth organisational capability and leadership to support the future AGM where each member of the Board is available to opportunities, industry, competition and market dynamics are Going concern and viability step change in performance and that the two new divisions answer questions.
given sufficient time for discussion.
The Boards statements on going concern and long-term viability of Electronics and Industrial are establishing themselves and Meetings took place between the Chairman and shareholders.
Digital capabilities: consider how the Group can best can be found in the Strategic Report on page 25, together with working effectively with the new regional hubs.
