Governance Governance 45 Corporate Governance report Leadership The role of the Board and its committees The Board Audit Committee Treasury Committee Responsible for the overall leadership Assists the Board on oversight of Primary responsibility is to monitor the of the business, its culture, values financial results, internal control and Groups treasury activities, including and standards.
management of risk and compliance cash management, foreign exchange Has a schedule of matters reserved and maintaining an appropriate management and financing.
The specifically for its decision or approval.
relationship with the external auditor Committee also ensures compliance Determines governance, strategy and and internal audit function.
with the Groups treasury policy.
Page 57, to read more Responsible for ensuring adequate Risk Committee organisational capabilities and capacity.
Responsible for monitoring risks Remuneration Committee throughout the organisation and Determines executive director assessing the risk control and remuneration and oversees that for mitigation measures implemented senior management.
Ensures the Remuneration policy Conducting work to support the supports the strategy by attracting, assessment of the Viability Statement developing, motivating and retaining by the Board.
people of the appropriate calibre.
Ensuring operations are undertaken within the risk appetite defined by Page 72, to read more the Board.
Assisting with the evaluation of external macro risks that may impact Nomination Committee the Group.
Considers the structure, size and Assisting with the integration of composition of the Board and its risk management and strategy committees to ensure inclusion of development.
appropriate experience, diversity and expertise.
Oversees talent management and Internal Audit succession planning for senior roles.
Testing of the effectiveness of the Page 51, to read more internal control systems.
Disclosure Committee Supporting the risk management Responsible for ensuring the and compliance functions with Companys compliance with appropriate audits.
applicable transparency and disclosure obligations under the Market Abuse Regulation MAR including those related to the management of Portfolio Review Board and R&D Leadership Team price sensitive information.
Ensures BTG is investing in its assets efficiently and in relation to opportunities with welltargeted business cases where the value to the customer and to BTG is clearly understood.
Oversees the definition of activities and priorities of the R&D Leadership Team.
The Leadership Team The R&D Leader ship Team provides strategic and operational leadership of R&D activities, Chaired by the CEO.
harnessing our combined knowledge and resources, to deliver a balanced pipeline of innovative Members include the CFO therapies aligned with BTG business priorities.
and senior management from different areas of the business and functions.
Operational Leadership Team Responsible for the Responsible for ensuring that the manufacturing and supply chain are tightly controlled and their day-to-day running of Group operations are optimised, as far as practicable, meeting all applicable regulatory requirements.
operations and making recommendations to the Global Quality Leadership Team Board on strategy and Reviews progress with overall Quality Strategy and objectives, this includes inspection subsequent implementation.
readiness, Quality Management System effectiveness and enhancements, product delivery Ensures the capabilities are on time and to required quality, safety and efficacy.
in place to deliver on strategy Ensures continued regulatory compliance.
Ensures the internal controls in place to assess and Performance Management Review manage risk are fully Monthly meeting of the Leadership Team and senior staff to review progress against business complied with.
This plans and targets, both financial and operational includes business unit risk assessments.
includes responsibility for maintaining a system to ensure that the Group Corporate Responsibility Committee is compliant with all Provides guidance and leadership in regards to social, environmental and governance issues applicable healthcare .
Business Unit Leadership Teams Each business segment has an established leadership team comprising commercial and functional capabilities.
They are responsible for managing the day-to-day operations of each specific business.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance 46 Corporate Governance report Leadership continued Matters reserved for the Board The Board of Directors and delegated authorities There are standing annual agenda schedules setting out core activities for the Board and its primary committees.
There is clear division of responsibilities between the A thorough review of these schedules has been running of the Board and the running of the Companys conducted that help structure the meeting agendas business and the Board has certain reserved matters for the coming year.
Additional meetings are held as for its approval.
Other matters and authorities have required to respond to important issues as they arise.
been delegated to its primary committees and other management committees detailed on page 45.
While, as a unitary Board, the executive and  executive directors are collectively responsible for those authorities delegated below primary committee the success of the Group and have fiduciary duties level was conducted during the year and amendments to shareholders, their roles are strictly delineated.
were made, as appropriate, to ensure they remain The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are relevant, are in line with best practice and scalable going separate and distinct and the division of their forward as the Group grows.
An example of this being responsibilities is clear.
The executive directors have that the Treasury Committee has introduced graded direct responsibility for the business operations of the credit limits for banking counterparties to better reflect Group, while the non-executive directors are responsible counterparty credit and the increasing of these limits.
for bringing independent and objective judgement to Board decisions.
The matters reserved for the Board and the terms of reference for each of the Boards primary committees, which are reviewed annually, can be found on the Groups website at www.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Governance 47 Effective division of Board responsibilities Driving the strategy formulation process to enable Chairman an effective and evidence-based approach and to Garry Watts ensure that the Board is well informed about all Chairman since joining the Board on aspects of the business and its operation which 1 January 2012 bear on its strategy.
Responsible for leading the Board, creating Delivering high-quality information to the Board to conditions for overall Board and individual director enable it to monitor the performance of the whole effectiveness,  business including the management of risk, and to for ensuring: make critical decisions.
A robust decision-making process is in place based on all appropriate information being provided to the The Senior Independent Director SID Board in a timely manner.
Ensure clear decisions Giles Kerr are made, communicated and effected.
In the role since July 2008 The Board gives adequate time to the right issues, Principally to support the Chairman in his role and such as its role in shaping strategy and ensuring to work with him and other directors to resolve adequate organisational capabilities and capacity.
Other The Board environment is productive and the responsibilities are: Board and its committees have appropriate Supporting the Chairmans delivery of objectives, composition and diversity, experience and and leading his evaluation.
expertise with regard to the Companys Leading the non-executive directors in the evolving needs.
oversight of the Chairman and ensuring there Board committees are properly structured.
is a clear division of responsibility between the The Board discharges its responsibilities Chairman and CEO.
with respect to risk management and Being available to shareholders to express governance generally.
concerns that the normal channels have failed Necessary relationships of mutual respect and to resolve or that would be inappropriate.
open communication are fostered between executive directors and non-executive directors.
Independent Non-executive directors Providing support and advice while respecting Bring an external perspective and wide-ranging the executive responsibility.
skills and experience for the Board to draw on.
Effective communication with shareholders and They provide independent judgement, support and other stakeholders.
constructively challenge matters such as Company performance, strategy and risk management.
Appropriate oversight of business performance.
General Counsel and Executive Directors Company Secretary Louise Makin CEO Paul Mussenden Rolf Soderstrom CFO Provides advice and assistance to the Board, Louise Makin is primarily responsible for the particularly in relation to corporate governance running of the Group and for executing strategy practices and development.
Ensures that Board  procedures are complied with, applicable rules are and Company values.
Louise maintains a close  working relationship with the Chairman.
He also facilitates the  induction and ongoing training of directors.
reporting,  Paul provides guidance to the Board to ensure the Group, providing support to Louise and the wider Group meets its legal and regulatory obligations activities of the Group as required.
and that risk management discussions are In addition they are both responsible for: underpinned by robust process.
Communicating to the Board their views on business issues to improve the standard of Board discussion and, prior to final decision on an issue, explaining in a balanced way, any divergence of views in the executive team.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance 48 Corporate Governance report Leadership continued Board Activity during the year: Strategy Business performance Annual strategy awayday including Oversight of the financial and operational presentations from each of the performance of the business.
Approved the 2017 18 budget and Ongoing assessment of M&A three-year plan.
opportunities including the acquisition Reviewed the half-year and annual of Galil Medical.
results, announcements and Ongoing assessment of R&D portfolio.
Consideration of geopolitical Approved the Annual Report developments, including Brexit and US and Accounts.
Approved resolution of material litigation including settlement of the investigation by the US Department of Justice with respect to LC Bead.
The Board Governance and shareholders Leadership and people Discussed the outcome of the Board Discussed the composition of the Board and committees evaluations and set and its committees, including succession objectives for the coming year.
Undertaking of internal Board Regularly reviewed feedback from and committee evaluations and an institutional investors.
external evaluation of Board skills Internal control and risk Updated the terms of reference for the and expertise.
Regular review of the risk management Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Approved the appointment of Graham system: deep dives into specific areas, Committees and Matters Reserved for Hetherington to the Board and as Chair including cyber risk and third-party Board approval.
Review of principal risks, Annual General Meeting.
Regular review of the capabilities potential impact and support for the Discussed the Market Abuse Regulation deemed necessary for the delivery Viability Statement.
Participation of MAR that came into force in 2016 and of the future strategy.
representative Board members in the approved amended Disclosure Committee Risk Committee meetings.
Terms of Reference and procedures in Review of reports from the Audit light of MAR.
Committee including summary of Internal Audit and Compliance reports.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Governance 49 Board strategy days Wales, UK site In September 2016, as part of the Boards rolling programme to visit its global offices and manufacturing sites, the Board visited the Specialty Pharmaceutical business in Wales for its annual two-day strategy meeting.
During their visit, the Board took the opportunity to meet employees and engaged with and received presentations from representatives of the various functions present at the facility.
During the strategy days, the Board received presentations from the business units on their strategies including potential M&A activity and the Groups digital strategy.
The Board also considered the overall strategic options of the Group.
The deliberations and challenges from the strategy day were integral to the articulation of the three-year plan approved in the year.
Attendance by individual directors at Board and Committee meetings during 2016 17 Board & committee Committee Board Nomination Audit Remuneration composition & attendance memberships Independent meetings Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings held 7 3 4 6 Number of meetings attended Executive Directors Louise Makin CEO None No 7 7 Rolf Soderstrom CFO None No 6 7 Non-Executive Directors 2 1 Garry Watts Nom N A 7 7 3 3 Susan Foden Rem Yes 7 7 5 6 3 2 Graham Hetherington Aud, Rem Yes 5 5 3 3 4 4 4 2 Giles Kerr Aud, Rem, Nom Yes 6 7 1 3 3 4 5 6 2 Ian Much Aud, Rem, Nom Yes 7 7 2 3 4 4 6 6 Jim OShea Nom Yes 7 7 3 3 Richard Wohanka Aud Yes 6 7 3 4 1.
Garry Watts is excluded from the determination of independence by virtue of his role as Chairman of the Group.
Graham Hetherington joined the Board on 1 August 2016 and became Audit Chairman from that date.
He became a member of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 29 September 2016.
Giles Kerr stood down as Chairman of the Audit Committee with effect from 1 August 2016.
Notes Rolf Soderstrom was unable to attend the December Board meeting due to illness.
Susan Foden was unable to attend the November Remuneration Committee meeting due to travel issues.
Giles Kerr was unable to attend the March meetings due to illness.
Richard Wohanka was unable to attend the Audit Committee meeting in May 2016 and the Board meeting in March 2017 due to unavoidable pre-arranged engagements.
Directors did not attend Nomination Committee meetings where consideration of their appointments were the sole agenda item.
The external auditor attends the Audit Committee meetings and the remuneration advisers usually attend the Remuneration Committee meetings.
Additional specific Board sub-committee telephone meetings were held as appropriate to approve specific business activities.
There was a Board update call when there was a larger break between scheduled meetings.
as the business evolves, the Board continues to have the Board composition, membership necessary skills and experience to support its strategy and election of directors now and in the future.
The Board currently comprises seven non-executive directors, including the Chairman, and two Details of gender diversity in the Group below Board executive directors.
level can be found in the Directors Report on page 101.
Following the formal internal evaluation process, the The names and brief biographical details of all the Chairman is satisfied that each of the directors continues current directors are set out on pages 42 and 43. to perform effectively and demonstrates commitment to The Group is committed to diversity, including their role, including time for Board and committee gender diversity at all levels, and recognises the meetings and their other duties, and can dedicate Boards primary goal to continue to provide strong sufficient time to deliver what is expected of them.
leadership by appointing the strongest candidates to the Board.
Following Graham Hetheringtons appointment in August 2016, the percentage of women on the Board reduced from 25% to 22% so gender diversity will be a matter of continuing focus for the Board.
The Nomination Committee reviews Board composition on a regular basis to ensure that, BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance 50 Corporate Governance report Leadership continued Compliance and the review of risk and risk management Independence are embedded throughout the Group.
The Audit The Board applies a rigorous process to satisfy itself Committee has reviewed the detailed reports on Risk, that its non-executive directors remain independent.
Internal Audit and Compliance and reported its findings The Board reviews this question every year, using its to the Board see the Audit Committee report on pages own judgement when applying the criteria in the Code.
The Board has reviewed the risk Having undertaken this review, the Board confirms management process and confirms that ongoing that all the non-executive directors are considered to processes and systems ensure that the Group continues be independent in character and judgement.
Giles Kerr to be compliant with the guidance on internal control has been a member of the Board for more than nine issued by the Code.
years and following his review, the Board is satisfied that he continues to demonstrate the attributes of an Delegated authority structures ensure that decisions independent non-executive director, with no evidence are taken at an appropriate level, with an appropriate that his length of tenure has impacted this.
In line level of input by internal and external expert advisers.
with the recommendations of the Code, at least half The delegated authority structure prescribes financial the Board, excluding the Chairman, are independent limits of approval at each level and requires decisions non-executive directors.
Garry Watts was considered to with significant financial, risk or reputational impact be independent at the time of his appointment although, for the Group to be approved by the Board.
in accordance with the Code, he is excluded from the determination of whether at least half the Board are Market abuse regulation independent non-executive directors thereafter.
During the year, the Group operated a Disclosure Non-executive Board appointments are for three-year Committee, as required by the Market Abuse Regulation terms, subject to re-election at each years AGM.
The Committee comprises the CEO, CFO, When a non-executive has served on the Board for more Vice President of Corporate and Investor Relations than six years, their term of reappointment reduces and the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
to one-year, in line with best practice.
Giles Kerr, The Committee reviews all significant items of business Jim OShea and Ian Much have each served on the within the Group regularly, and on an ad hoc basis if Board for more than six years.
required, and maintains lists recording both those employed within the Group and externally who may have access to price sensitive information on the Group.
Structure and reporting Whenever individuals are placed on or removed from The Group has a well-defined management structure those lists they are notified accordingly and advised with clear lines of responsibility and accountability.
Systems and procedures for The Board is responsible for setting the overall strategy maintaining compliance with MAR were updated last and reviewing the performance of the Group.
July to meet the requirements of the new regulation.
The Leadership Team generally meets weekly and more formally on a monthly basis to review business performance measured against annual budgets, longer-term plans, an agreed set of objectives and performance criteria for each business segment.
In addition, it will assess and respond to issues arising across the Group.
Forecasts are monitored monthly on the basis of detailed reviews of progress and prospects.
Reporting to the Board is based on the information provided to and reviewed by the Leadership Team as well as their assessment and recommendations regarding how to deliver the Groups objectives.
The reports include non-financial as well as financial information and a review of progress within the development portfolio.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Governance 51 Nomination Committee report Following Grahams appointment, we considered the composition of each of the Boards primary committees, which resulted in Graham also being appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 29 September 2016.
The ongoing need to ensure the composition of the Board and its capabilities match the longer-term strategic plans of the Group was highlighted in the Committees evaluation last year.
In response, the Committee has conducted a review of contingency and succession plans for key people and instigated an external assessment of those skills and competencies the Board will need in support of its strategic objectives.
Calibro were engaged to make that assessment, conducting interviews with current Garry Watts Board members and senior management and Nomination Committee Chairman developing a profile of future Board members and their requisite expertise.
The results of this assessment is being used as the basis to continue to evolve the Dear Shareholder composition of the Board.
I am pleased to present the report of the Nomination The Committee will continue its work into 2017 18 to Committee of the Board for the year ended 31 March ensure the Company retains and attracts the necessary 2017.
In my letter to shareholders on page 40, I noted talent at all levels to support the delivery of its strategy.
that succession planning for the current and future needs of the Group has been a key area of focus this year and this Committee has spent much of its time Garry Watts discussing the experience and skills required for Nomination Committee Chairman specific roles at Board level and below, taking into account changes in the Groups business, strategy and operating environment.
As reported last year, it was agreed that the Board would seek a replacement for Giles Kerr as Audit Chair.
To this end, the Committee engaged JCA Group Limited to assist in the search for a suitable candidate.
Criteria of the necessary skills and experience required for the role was developed which included, in particular, recent CFO and healthcare industry experience together with experience of operating in a rapidly growing and large group FTSE 100 or similar.
JCA, who have no other connection to the Group, proposed a long list of 14 candidates with a range of experience and which was diverse in other respects including gender.
Following meetings with a short list of the candidates, the Committees clear preference was Graham Hetherington, who brings with him substantial recent relevant industry experience as well as other relevant facets.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance 52 Corporate Governance report Leadership continued The Nomination Committee and its membership The Committees full terms of reference, reviewed and updated during the year, are available on the Groups website www.
com, or from the Company Secretary on request.
Committee members Date of appointment to the Committee Garry Watts Committee Chairman 1 January 2012 Giles Kerr 16 July 2008 Ian Much 1 January 2012 Jim OShea 13 May 2009 Time spent by the Composition of the Committee Committee during the year As at the year end the Committee comprised three non-executive directors and the Chairman.
a Composition and balance including diversity 30% b Governance effectiveness 16% c Succession planning and reappointment of directors 32% Directors biographies d Non-executive search 22% See pages 42 and 43.
Meeting attendees: Only members of the Nomination Committee have d the right to attend meetings, however, Louise Makin CEO and the other directors may attend meetings by a invitation as may employees or external advisers when appropriate and necessary.
Paul Mussenden General Counsel and Company Secretary serves as secretary to the Committee.
Scheduled meetings during the year Committee meetings are typically held before scheduled meetings of the Board and additional meetings c b convened when required.
There were four meetings of the Committee during the year.
Details of attendance can be found on page 49.
The key responsibilities of the Committee Board has delegated responsibility for the following to the Committee: Keep under review the structure, size and composition of the Board looking at its balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge as well as its diversity and make recommendations to the Board on any appropriate changes.
Identify, via a rigorous and transparent procedure, and nominate, for the Boards approval, suitable candidates to fill any vacancies for non-executive directors and, with the assistance of the CEO, executive directors.
Plan for the orderly succession of directors to the Board.
Recommend to the Board the membership and chairmanship of the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration committees.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Governance 53 Activities Diversity The principal activities during the year related to: The benefits of diversity in its broadest form, including gender diversity, are recognised and play an important The process to find and appoint a new non-executive part in the Boards decision-making regarding director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Board is supportive of best practice The reappointment of non-executive directors Giles recommendations to improve gender balance on Boards.
Kerr, Ian Much and Jim OShea, each for a further The Board currently comprises seven men 78% and 12 months, subject to being re-elected at the Annual two women 22%.
The Board recognises the value of a General Meeting.
Board with diverse skills, experience and background An externally facilitated review into the Board and those values are reflected in the recruitment policies capability, composition and balance for now and in effect throughout the Group.
in the future in the context of Group strategy.
Further details can be found in the Directors report on Discussing succession planning for the Groups pages 98 to 101.
Leadership Team, including the CEO and CFO and the Groups senior managers in key positions.
Committee evaluation Considering the expertise, capabilities and capacity The Committees performance was reviewed as part of the Groups management team with regard to the of the internal annual Board evaluation process.
Groups strategy and future requirements.
Progress The assessment found that it continued to function to address perceived capability gaps is regularly effectively and highlighted the need to actively ensure reviewed and this remains an area of focus and is the Board was the correct size with the correct skills considered in the context of both organic and necessary.
An internal Board skills matrix will be acquisition growth.
developed over the course of the year to ensure the size and experience mix remains optimal for the future.
Appointment process Board appointments are made on merit and in line with Garry Watts current and future needs, reflecting the UK listing and Nomination Committee Chairman international activities of the Group.
The Committee considers what areas of expertise the Board would most benefit from and draws up a full description of the role accordingly.
The Committee carry out the interview and selection process on behalf of the Board and shortlisted candidates are also interviewed by the other non-executive directors and the CEO.
Taking into account their views and the Boards requirements, the Committee will make a recommendation to the Board.
Appointments to the Board receive a thorough induction process, details of which can be found on page 54.
Development of Capabilities and Succession Planning The development of talent below Board level is extremely important and an area of focus for the Board.
BTG continues to build an internal leadership pipeline for senior roles, and the Head of HR updates the Board regularly on progress.
In addition to traditional Management Development Programmes, the Group has expanded the Learning and Development opportunities available to prospective leaders.
By focusing on creating a pool of talent we are increasing the probability of retaining them through meaningful development and career opportunity and building the internal capability needed to support the Companys growth.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
