Governance 42 Corporate Governance report Board of Directors Garry Watts FCA, MBE Dame Louise Makin Rolf Soderstrom BA, ACA Chairman MA, PhD Cantab, MBA, DBE   Joined the Board as Chairman in January 2012.
 He is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
 Other directorships: Garry is Chairman of October 2004.
Other directorships: Rolf currently holds no Spire Healthcare and of Foxtons Group plc external directorships.
Other directorships: Louise is a non-executive and is a non-executive director of Coca-Cola director of Intertek Group plc and the Woodford Expertise and experience: Rolf provides European Partners Plc.
She is a Trustee of the .
Expertise and experience: Garry provides Outward Bound Trust and an Honorary Fellow , Rolfwasfinance considerable commercial leadership experience of St. Johns College, Cambridge.
director for Protherics PLC, a role he held and expertise to the BTG Board.
From 2004 to 2007 he was Expertise and experience: Louise is a highly years up to December 2010, he was CEO Divisional Finance Director of Cobham plc, experienced international business leader, who of SSL International plc and before that its with responsibility for managing a portfolio brings considerable strategic and operational CFO.
He was previously an executive director of businesses across Europe and the USA, expertise to the Board.
Prior to joining BTG she of Celltech plc and of Medeva plc, and a prior to which, from 2000 he was a Director was from 2001, President, Biopharmaceuticals non-executive director of Protherics PLC and of Corporate Finance at Cable & Wireless Europe of Baxter Healthcare, with responsibility of Stagecoach Group plc.
He is a Chartered accountant and after for Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
Before included 17 years as a member of the UK qualifying worked in the Corporate Recovery Baxter, Louise was Director of Global Ceramics Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory  at English China Clay and prior to that she held Agency Supervisory Board.
a variety of roles during 13 years at ICI.
Ian Much Dr Susan Foden MA, DPhil Jim OShea Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed to the Board in August 2010.
He Appointed to the Board in March 2015.
She is a Appointed to the Board in April 2009.
He is a is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee member of the Remuneration Committee.
member of the Nomination Committee.
and a member of the Audit and Nomination Other directorships: Susan currently holds Other directorships: Jim serves as Chairman Committees.
non-executive roles with BerGenBio ASA, of Cardiome Pharma, is a director of Trevi Other directorships: Ian currently holds no Evgen Pharma plc and Vectura Group plc, and Therapeutics, Inc. and Ocular Therapeutix.
is an advisory board member for CD3 a joint Expertise and experience: Jim provides the initiative between Leuven University and the Expertise and experience: Ian provides .
substantial international business experience He is a former Chairman of the US National to the Board.
He was Chief Executive of fide Expertise and experience: Susan brings Pharmaceuticals Council.
From 2007 to 2008, La Rue plc between 1998 and 2004 and Chief extensive industry experience to the BTG Board he was Vice Chairman of Sepracor, Inc. where Executive of T&N plc between 1996 and 1998. with a strong track record of having assisted he was also President and Chief Operating Previously he was non-executive director of in the development of a number of businesses .
PreviouslyJimwas Manchester United plc, Camelot plc, Admiral in the sector.
She was Investor Director with Senior Vice President of Sales & Marketing and plc, and Chemring Group plc.
,  was formerly CEO of the technology transfer US, .
Whileat company, Cancer Research Campaign Zeneca,  Technology Ltd and was Head of Academic of increasing responsibility in international sales Liaison at Celltech Ltd. and marketing in the US and the UK.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 Governance Governance 43 Gender Diversity % b Giles Kerr FCA Graham Hetherington FCMA a Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed to the Board in October 2007.
He Appointed to the Board in August 2016.
He is the Companys Senior Independent Director is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a a Male 78% and a member of the Audit, Nomination and member of the Remuneration Committee.
Other directorships: Graham currently holds Other directorships: Giles is Director of no other directorships.
Finance with the University of Oxford, UK.
He is Expertise and experience: Graham brings also a director of Oxford University Innovation  Balance of directors Ltd, Senior plc, PayPoint plc, and Adaptimmune to the Board.
Prior to joining BTG he was Therapeutics plc.
, arole Expertise and experience: Giles provides he held from June 2008 to February 2014.  Previously he held the same positions at a experience to the BTG Board.
He was Bacardi in 2007 and at Allied Domecq PLC previously the Group Finance Director and from 1999 to 2005.
Graham has a broad ,  b acquired by GE Healthcare in 2004, and and planning, including M&A, audit and risk c previously served as director of Victrex plc.
management and is a Fellow of the Chartered Prior to his role at Amersham, he was a partner Institute of Management Accountants.
with Arthur Andersen in the UK.
He was Chairman of the Companys Audit Committee until the appointment of Graham Hetherington.
a Chairman 1 b Executive directors 2 c Non-executives 6 Tenure of nonexecutive directors and Chairman as at 31 March 2017 Richard Wohanka Company Secretary Non-executive director Dr Paul Mussenden d Appointed to the Board in January 2013.
He is a General Counsel, member of the Audit Committee.
 Other directorships: Richard is a board c a & Company Secretary member of Lloyds Banking Group Insurance Scottish Widows, Julius Baer International Appointed as Company Secretary in March Limited and Chairman of the Nuclear Liabilities 2010.
Fund and of Old Mutual Global Investors.
b Other directorships: Paul is a non-executive Expertise and experience: Richard provides director and trustee of Medical Research Council substantial expertise to the BTG Board in the Technologies Ltd. , withmorethan20 Expertise and experience: Paul supports years experience in building asset management a More than 6 years 3 the Board with more than 20 years of advisory businesses.
He was CEO of Union Bancaire b 4-6 years 2 experience in the healthcare industry.
As Prive Asset Management between October c 2-4 years 1 a member of BTGs Leadership Team he is 2009 and June 2012, and from 2001 to 2009 he d 0-2 years 1 accountable for management of the Legal, was CEO of Fortis Investment Management.
Regulatory, Intellectual Property, Global Market Access, Healthcare Compliance and Risk Management functions.
Paul is a solicitor and has a BSc Hons in Biotechnology and a PhD in molecular biology and microbial physiology.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 Governance 44 Corporate Governance Report Compliance with the UK Corporate Statement of Compliance with Governance Code the Code the provisions of the Code BTGs governance structure is based on the principles The Board considers that the Group has complied fully of the Code published by the Financial Reporting with the Code throughout the year ended 31 March Council FRC and available from www.
With regard to provision C. 3.7, the Group has begun a process for the tender of audit services and The Code contains broad principles and specific further details are provided on page 62 of the Audit provisions that set out standards of good practice.
After careful consideration of the Our Corporate Governance Report, which includes applicable regulations regarding audit firm rotation reports from the Nomination and Audit Committees and the performance and independence of the and the Directors Remuneration Report, is structured current auditor KPMG LLP, the Board recommends to report against these key areas and sets out how we their reappointment.
have applied the Codes main principles and complied with its provisions.
The Group has also sought to adopt the new provisions of the April 2016 edition of the Code applicable to the Companys 2017 18 financial year onwards where practicable.
We have also been mindful to consider how we comply with not only the principles of the Code but also the spirit.
KPMG is required to review certain elements of the corporate governance statement and to report if those disclosures do not reflect the Companys compliance and the Company has not instead explained why it has not complied with the provisions of the Code specified for the auditors review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
