National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 29 Reinforcing its commitment to sound corporate governance the Corporate Board has continued to strengthen and develop both its composition and governance framework, implementing, as Governance applicable, many of the best practice governance principles in operation at the National Grid plc level.
Corporate Governance Statement Board composition National Grid Gas aims to achieve high standards of leadership The Board consists of six executive directors and two and governance.
At the National Grid level, its Board considers Sufficiently Independent Directors SIDs who between them that it complied in full with the provisions of the UK Corporate provide a broad and diverse range of experience and technical Governance Code 2014 the Code during the year being skills from both within and external to the organisation, from the reported on.
National Grid Gas is not required to comply with energy sector, other regulated industries and external bodies.
the Code: however, the Board is mindful of the principles of the This depth and breadth of experience, and the independence Code and develops its governance and oversight of the brought by the SIDs, enables the Board to engage in Company considering not only its ultimate shareholder, National constructive and challenging discussions, considering the Grid, but the wider range of stakeholders in its business.
The perspectives and interests not only of the Companys Corporate Governance Statement sets out the principal areas shareholder but the wider range of stakeholders in the of Board governance together with an explanation of areas business.
Details of the director positions, demonstrating their where it considers that it has operated consistently with the area of responsibility within the business, can be found under main principles of the Code.
the section How our Board operates.
Governance framework Last year we reported on the change in Board composition resulting from internal changes in executive director roles.
The Board of the Company is collectively responsible for its During this year the Board has consolidated its composition governance, and oversees its effective oversight of the under the leadership of the new Executive Director, UK, Nicola Company and its businesses, and compliance with all relevant Shaw CBE, who became Chairman of the Board in July 2016. laws and regulations, including compliance with its obligations Nicola also sits as an Executive Director on the National Grid under its Gas Transporter Licences.
To facilitate this, a plc Board.
Through her participation at the Boards of both comprehensive governance framework has been established.
companies, the Board of National Grid Gas is well placed to This governance framework forms part of the wider National identify and facilitate understanding of the views of its ultimate Grid plc governance framework and is aligned, as required and shareholder.
is applicable, to the Company.
Risk management is fundamental to delivering the long term success of the Company and for that reason a separate section of this Annual Sufficiently Independent Directors Report and Accounts has been dedicated to describing our The appointment of two Sufficiently Independent Directors internal controls and risk management, see page 18.
The daySIDs in April 2014 has provided the Board with independent to-day operational and financial management of the Companys challenge and input to the decision making process.
The SIDs businesses is undertaken by committees.
The committees are bring to the Board a wealth of experience and knowledge operated in compliance with business separation obligations set derived from working in other businesses in the utility sector, out in its licenses.
government and regulatory organisations and other businesses and organisations outside of the energy sector.
Dr Clive Elphick 2016 17 A year of change and Dr Catherine Bell have remained in these roles providing continuity, and an independent voice in the boardroom, during a During this financial year the Board oversaw the separation of period of internal change.
Their input and involvement in the Gas Distribution business from its operations into a developing the governance framework is demonstrated through separate legal entity National Grid Gas Distribution Limited their leadership of two committees of the Board: the Audit NGGD in preparation for the sale of a majority stake in the Committee and Business Separation Compliance Committee.
Gas Distribution business by National Grid plc.
The separation Within the boardroom, the constructive independent challenge process required oversight and sound governance principles to and input brought by the SIDs, supports the Board in be applied throughout a complex transaction delivered under considering the wider range of stakeholders in the business.
Focus on the Companys ongoing business, Outside of the boardroom, the SIDs hold an annual meeting both before and post the separation of the Gas Distribution with the Chief Executive Officer of National Grid plc, enabling business, was maintained through the diligent governance them to strengthen their, and the Boards, engagement and principles of leadership, effectiveness and accountability that understanding of the views of the shareholder.
Additionally, in have been embedded in the way the Board operates.
Further their roles as members of the Companys Audit Committee, the details on how this was achieved can be found in the sections SIDs hold an annual meeting with the Chair of the National Grid that follow.
30 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 plc Audit Committee creating a formal information flow between These presentations also provide an opportunity for the the independent directors of the two committees.
individual executive directors to benefit from the input of other Board members on matters within their area of the business.
The SIDs attend a range of site and operational visits throughout the year, enabling them to strengthen their How our Board operates knowledge and understanding of the business and current The Board maintains a schedule of matters specifically reserved operational matters.
These visits also provide the opportunity to for its consideration and decision.
This is aligned, as create further links between the business and the Board room.
appropriate, to that of the National Grid plc board with additional responsibilities as required by licence obligations.
The matters Executive Directors reserved cover matters categorised as: Strategy, Management The executive director membership of the Board consists of the and Finance, Director and Employee Issues, Corporate senior managers of the gas transmission and system operator Governance, Financial and Regulatory Reporting and businesses, regulatory function and financial function.
Shareholders and includes oversight of the relationship with the regulatory bodies, including Ofgem, Department of Energy and During the year the Boards executive director composition Climate Change now part of the Department for Business, changed following the retirement of Mark Ripley, Director UK Energy and Industrial Strategy and the Health and Safety Regulation.
Chris Bennett was appointed to this role and Executive.
accordingly appointed to the Board in June 2016.
To support the Board, there is an established framework of The separation of the Gas Distribution business on the 1 Committees, to which the Board delegates defined duties under October 2016 saw the departure of executive directors Chris Terms of Reference and within a framework of Delegations of Train and Julian Allsopp, directors who specifically represented Authority.
Further detail on the work of the Committees can be the Gas Distribution business on the Board.
All Board appointments are made in consultation with its The Boards accountability for financial and business reporting shareholder and in accordance with National Grids Procedure and risk management and internal control is undertaken within for the Appointment of Directors to Subsidiary Companies.
the wider Group governance framework and processes.
As a regulated entity, the Board has responsibility for the annual regulatory accounts to which it applies the same rigorous Director induction and development governance processes as that of the statutory accounts, and it Director training on the statutory duties and responsibilities of involves the work of the Audit Committee.
Reporting on the directors has been made available to new and existing directors regulatory regime is overseen by the Board, and further detail and reference material has been placed in the online document can be found in the section What we do Regulation.
Board meetings are scheduled and communicated a minimum As part of the induction process, internal personnel are of one year in advance providing all directors with sufficient requested to attend the Board meeting immediately prior to their notice to attend meetings.
The matters to be considered appointment, to facilitate familiarisation with the Board members throughout the annual board meeting schedule fulfil the Boards and governance framework and procedures.
responsibilities in line with its statutory duties, licence obligations, its matters reserved for the Board and its authority Continuing director training and development is delivered both under the Group Delegations of Authority from National Grid within and outside of the boardroom.
The Boards supervision of the Companys operations is office and operational site visits, briefings and internal fulfilled through standing agenda items on health and safety conferences and events aims to strengthen and refresh the matters, business overviews from the transmission owner and Boards knowledge and understanding of the Companys system operator and financial performance.
The Boards operations, the external business and regulatory environment consideration of health and safety matters covers all parts of and specific technical briefings to support the directors in the operational business and takes into account the health and fulfilling their roles on both the Board and Board Committees.
safety of both employees and the public.
In addition to this the The visits and briefings provide an opportunity for the directors Board receives a suite of management reports, in line with to support and reinforce the Companys culture, values and Group reporting, providing updates on different aspects of the ethics and promote a culture of openness between Board business.
members and employees and add depth and knowledge to the discussions in the boardroom.
In its steering role, providing leadership to the business, the Board receive papers requesting their input and decision on Within the boardroom, the Board receive updates and matters, aligned to the matters reserved to it.
The Board presentations on current operational matters and specific regularly reviews the annual business schedule, and amends initiatives within the business and wider National Grid group.
this to take account of changes in the external and internal National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 31 environment, enabling it to provide effective, time appropriate Board membership and attendance leadership and oversight of matters affecting the business.
Six Board meetings were scheduled and held during the last financial year.
Board membership and attendance at the To enable the Board to be effective and efficient within the meetings is set out below.
Attendance is expressed as the boardroom a number of procedures have been established: number of meetings attended out of the number possible or papers supporting each agenda item are distributed in advance, applicable for the individual Director during the year to 31 typically a week before the meeting: training and briefings on March 2017. specific matters are scheduled prior to the board meeting: a Attendance Safety Moment is presented at each Board Meeting, which 1 considers ongoing initiatives and activities both within the Executive Director UK 4 of 4 Nicola Shaw CBE Chair 2 business and externally: and the Chairman holds a short Chair of the Board 2 of 2 Chris Murray Chair meeting with the SIDs, before each meeting to discuss the Group Tax & Treasury 5 of 6 Andy Agg Director focus of the upcoming meeting.
After each meeting the UK CFO 5 of 6 Alan Foster Chairman and SIDs meet to share feedback and discuss the Director Gas Transmission 6 of 6 Pauline Walsh dynamics of the meeting, enabling a process of continuous Owner improvement for the operation of future board meetings.
Director of UK System 4 of 6 Cordi OHara Operator 3 The separation of the Gas Distribution business was overseen Director UK Regulation 5 of 5 Chris Bennett 4 by the Board consistently applying the embedded governance Director UK Regulation 1 of 1 Mark Ripley 5 processes and procedures it has in place, providing leadership Director Gas Distribution 1 of 3 Chris Train 6 and direction throughout the separation process.
Additional time Financial Controller Gas 3 of 3 Julian Allsopp Distribution was allocated within the scheduled board meetings for separate Sufficiently Independent 6 of 6 Catherine Bell agenda items on the specific requirements and impacts of Directors separating the Gas Distribution business in preparation for sale.
Sufficiently Independent 6 of 6 Clive Elphick These were supported by the project director for the sale of the Directors 1.
Appointed 27 July 2016 Gas Distribution business.
Resigned 27 July 2016 the impact on the retained business and the separated 3.
Appointed 25 June 2016 business throughout the separation process.
Resigned 1 October 2016 In addition to the discussions during scheduled board meetings, 6.
Resigned 1 October 2016 a programme of additional Board and Audit Committee meetings, supplemented by technical briefings, were held to For those meetings where an executive Director was unable to enable the Board to provide appropriate focus on the specific attend, alternative arrangements were put in place to ensure the Board had representation from the relevant functional area.
requirements of them in relation to the separation process.
This was either through the attendance of a senior manager These additional meetings and briefings were attended by specialist National Grid employees who were members of the from within the applicable functional area or a written briefing National Grid project team managing the sale of the Gas provided by the Director to the Chairman.
To provide the Board with support on the An additional three Board meetings were held to consider technical, financial, legal and regulatory aspects of the separation process, briefings were delivered by internal specific matters for the separation of the Gas Distribution specialists and external advisers engaged on the sales process.
All directors were given sufficient notice to attend these meetings.
The rigour and preparation for these additional Board meetings followed the Boards embedded governance Board performance evaluation practices, and, as previously reported, were supported by a Following the externally facilitated board evaluation in June 2015, progress against the actions has continued, developing programme of technical, financial, legal and regulatory and enhancing the performance of the Board.
developments and enhancements are demonstrated throughout Board remuneration this corporate governance report, as we report on the various areas of increased rigour around the Companys corporate The Directors of the Company are not separately remunerated governance procedures and practices.
in that capacity with the exception of the SIDs.
The remuneration of any Director, who is also a member of the Board of National Grid, is determined by the Remuneration The value of the board evaluation process, and subsequent Committee of the Board of National Grid, as set out in its annual progress against the actions, has been demonstrated through the Boards successful focus throughout the year on ongoing report and accounts.
The remuneration of other Directors is leadership of the business whilst overseeing the requirements determined in accordance with National Grids remuneration policies for employees.
As required by Section 33f of the Gas of the separation of the Gas Distribution business.
Act 1986, the Company has provided to Ofgem details of the 32 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 linkages between Directors remuneration and service Gas Transmission Executive Committee standards.
The purpose of the Gas Transmission Executive Committee GTEC is to direct the affairs of the Gas Transmission Owner During the year, as part of the Company wide compensation business on behalf of its Board and to perform an assurance review, the Board reviewed and approved an increase in the role within the context of the overall RIIO networks governance non-executive fee paid to the SIDs.
The increase in fee framework and oversee the performance of any sub-committees reflected the increased ongoing requirements of the Board, their reporting to it.
The Committees remit extends to approving the individual appointments as Chairmen of the Audit Committee Gas Transmission strategies and business objectives for and Business Separation Compliance Committee and managing the RIIO contract and for approving opportunities to considered a benchmarking review of fees paid to external deliver value within that contract in accordance with published independent directors.
Due to the lack of comparator Delegation of Authority DoA limits.
information available for the specific role of a SID, the roles of senior independent directors were used in the benchmarking Additionally the Committee performs assurance responsibilities exercise.
for the Gas Transmission Owner business performance frameworks including the monitoring of performance against the RIIO contract, financial targets, high-level risks and audit Committees outcomes.
To this end the Committee receives summary The Board has established a number of committees and subreports from Process Performance Meetings, Regulatory committees which assist it in its activities and operate within Commercial Committees and Business Partner Functions.
agreed Terms of Reference and a framework of Delegations of Authority.
The Committees of the Board are listed below: GTEC acts within National Grids overall corporate governance framework and delegated authorities and is responsible for the operational and financial management of the Gas Transmission Gas Transmission Executive Committee Owner business.
Membership of this Committee comprises at System Operator Executive Committee least two Directors of the Company, senior managers of the Business Separation Compliance Committee Gas Transmission Owner business and certain other senior Finance Committee managers.
Attendance of the voting members is expressed as Pension Committee the number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to Audit Committee attend, and includes attendance by a nominated deputy during the year to 31 March 2017.
There were twelve Committee The Company does not have a Nominations or Remuneration meetings held during the year.
Committee as these functions are provided by National Grid plc.
See the Annual Report and Accounts of National Grid plc for Attendance further information about these committees.
Director, Gas Transmission 12 of 12 Pauline Walsh Owner Prior to the separation of the Gas Distribution business, the Head of Business Improvement 11 of 12 Isabelle Haigh Board had an established Distribution Executive Committee 1 Head of Network Engineering 1 of 1 which functioned specifically to assist the Board with the Darren Elsom activities of the Gas Distribution business.
2 Head of Network Engineering 10 of 11 David Salisbury Head of Gas Construction 12 of 12 Ian Radley The separation of the Gas Distribution business had a number Head of Network Capability & 12 of 12 Andy Malins of effects on the work of certain Boards committees.
Operations, Gas Prior to the separation of the Gas Distribution business, specific 3 Group Head of Process Safety & 1 of 1 Alan Rankin matters required consideration to prepare the Gas Distribution UK Safety business for separation and sale.
These matters were 4 Group Head of Process Safety & 4 of 9 Bob Watson considered by the appropriate committees in line with their UK Safety Terms of Reference and further details are provided below.
5 Director, UK Regulation 3 of 3 Mark Ripley 6 Director, UK Regulation 6 of 9 Chris Bennett Following separation of the Gas Distribution business, certain activities were transferred to the governance framework of Lead Finance Business Partner.
12 of 12 Vicki Flindall GTO NGGD.
The work of the Distribution Executive Committee and 1.
Resigned April 2016 the Distribution Business Separation Compliance Committee 2.
Appointed May 2016 was transferred in its entirety.
Resigned April 2016 activities in relation to the Gas Distribution business were 4.
Appointed July 2016 transferred to the governance framework of NGGD.
Appointed June 2016 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 33 During a period of changing senior management in the safety of the new UK Operating Model in 2013.
Membership of this function, safety was represented at a sub-committee of GTEC, Committee comprises Directors of the Company, senior being the Gas Transmission Safety Health and Environment managers of the Transmission business and certain other GTSHE committee, and any matters of concern from GTSHE senior managers.
Attendance of the voting members is set out were escalated as appropriate.
below and is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to attend, and includes attendance by The GTEC has a number of sub-committees dealing with a nominated deputy during the year to 31 March 2017.
There matters such as investment governance and coordination of were five Committee meetings held during the year.
Attendance Cordi OHara Director, UK System Operator 4 of 5 Distribution Executive Committee Phil Shepard Director, System Operations 3 of 5 Up until the legal separation of the Gas Distribution business on Simon Johnston Head of Business Change 5 of 5 the 1 October, the Distribution Executive Committee DEC Darren Pettifer SO Business Partner, Finance 5 of 5 acted within National Grids overall corporate governance 1 framework and delegated authorities and was responsible for Mark Ripley Director, UK Regulation 2 of 2 2 directing the affairs and taking all substantial decisions, Chris Bennett Director, UK Regulation 3 of 3 including the operational and financial management of the Gas 1.
Membership of DEC comprised two 2.
Appointed June 2016 Directors of the Company and senior managers of the Gas The SOEC has a number of sub-committees dealing with Distribution business.
Attendance of the voting members is set matters such as SO specific investments, SO Risk and out and below and is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to attend, and includes Compliance and SO Incentive Performance.
attendance by a nominated deputy from April 2016 to September 2016.
There were three Committee meetings held Business Separation Compliance Committees The Business Separation Compliance Committee of the Board during this period.
is responsible for overseeing the duties and tasks of the Attendance Business Separation Compliance Officer and for overseeing Director Gas Distribution 3 of 3 compliance with the business separation licence conditions.
Chris Train Chair Membership of the Committee is by appointment of the Board HR Business Partner 3 of 3 Carla James and comprises all directors of the licensee.
The Committee is Lead Finance Business Partner, 2 of 3 Julian Allsopp chaired by Dr Catherine Bell, SID, providing independent Gas Distribution leadership of the Committee.
The Business Separation Replace & Extend Process 3 of 3 Hilary Buxton Compliance Officer Compliance Officer are in attendance and Manager and Head of present reports on their duties, activities and compliance with Emergency Response & Repair the licence obligations.
Process ER&R Director of Operations 3 of 3 Ed Syson Two Committee meetings were held during the year, with Director of Network Strategy 3 of 3 David Parkin additional meetings taking place between the Chairman of the Head of Customer Operations 1 of 3 Ann Marie Committee and the Business Separation Compliance Ward Officer Compliance Officer.
Following the meetings, the Head of Gas Distribution 3 of 3 Jonathan Chairman provided updates to the Board on matters considered Strategic Partnerships Callighan at the meetings.
Seconded Head of Stakeholder 1 of 1 Leigh Page Delivery The separation of the Gas Distribution business required consideration and implementation of a number of matters.
The DEC had a number of sub-committees dealing with matters Prior to the separation, both the Distribution and Transmission such as investment, governance and coordination of Business Separation Compliance Committees discussed the operations.
licence changes which would be made in respect of business separation.
The Business Separation Compliance Officer System Operator Executive Committee prepared a report on business separation compliance to provide The System Operator Executive Committee SOEC acts within assurance to the Board that risks had been properly mitigated National Grids overall corporate governance framework and prior to the completion of the sale of NGGD on 31 March 2017. delegated authorities and is responsible for the strategic direction of Great Britain SO activities Gas and Electricity Following separation, a separate Business Separation combined and RIIO incentive and output performance Compliance Officer Compliance Officer was appointed to measures.
The SOEC was set up following the implementation NGGD and a new Distribution Business Separation Compliance 34 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 Committee of the NGGD Board was established.
Please refer to the activities required in relation to pensions, considering the the separate sections on Business separation and the wide range of stakeholders who would have an interest in this Companys Compliance statement for further information.
The National Grid UK Pension Scheme NGUK Pension Scheme is a defined benefit post-retirement scheme and has members from National Grids Gas Transmission, Gas Finance Committee Distribution, Metering businesses and other National Grid The Finance Committee of the Board is responsible for setting corporate entities in the UK.
policy and grants authority for financing decisions, credit exposure, hedging and foreign exchange transactions, To prepare for the disposal of a majority stake in the Gas guarantees and indemnities subject to the risk appetite of the Distribution business it was necessary to sectionalise the NGUK Board.
It also approves, other treasury, tax, pension funding Pension Scheme into three legally ring-fenced funds within the and insurance strategies, and if appropriate, recommends them same scheme Gas Distribution, Gas Transmission and Nonto the Board.
Regulated, a matter which required approval by the Board.
The Board sought and received assurance and information on the Membership of the Committee comprises the Finance Director governance processes for the sectionalisation process and of National Grid plc and the Group Tax and Treasury Director, a engagement processes with the Pensions Trustees, Pension director of the Board.
The Committee interfaces with the Regulator and OFGEM.
The Board were supported by Finance Committee of National Grid plc and the Board and members of the National Grid project team managing the sale receives reports from the Pensions Committee.
of the Gas Distribution business, Group pensions function and the Pensions Committee, through regular Board meeting Each Board meeting considers a separate agenda item on the updates and technical briefings.
The Board were apprised of work of the Finance Committee.
Financial reporting on the the financial impact of the sectionalisation of the NGUK Pension financing activities, taxation and financial costs and liabilities of Scheme through reports from the Finance function.
the pension schemes is provided through the regular financial management reports discussed at each board meeting.
Looking to the future management and operation of the gas distribution fund within the NGUK Pension Scheme, the Board As part of the separation of the Gas Distribution business, the considered and discussed the Boards, and wider National Grid Finance Committee considered matters in relation to the debt groups, responsibilities to the range of stakeholders.
The Board restructuring exercise and issue of new debt, and received considered the governance processes and legal agreements updates on tax, insurance and pensions matters required to that would be put in place to manage and mitigate risks both prepare the Gas Distribution business for sale.
following separation of the Gas Distribution business into a legally separate company and once National Grid became a Following separation of the Gas Distribution business, the minority shareholder following disposal of the majority stake in activities specifically related to the Gas Distribution business this company.
were transferred to the governance framework of NGGD.
See note 21 to the consolidated Audit Committee financial statement for further details.
The Audit Committees role is to keep under review the Companys financial reporting and internal controls and their Pension committee effectiveness, together with reviewing the Companys risk The Boards governance of the Companys pension schemes is management processes.
It also reviews the external audit plan provided through a Pensions Committee, which sits together and reviews the external auditors findings.
with the Group Retirement Plans Committee under similar Terms of Reference.
Since its conception in November 2014, the Audit Committees role has developed and enhanced, providing the assurance Membership of the Committee comprises the Finance Director required by the Board on matters within its authority.
The of National Grid plc and at least three global representatives Chairman provides a report on the meeting to the following including the Group Tax and Treasury Director, Global HR Board meeting, and where applicable makes recommendations Director and Global Head of Pensions of National Grid plc.
The Board considers these recommendations Committee reports at least annually to the Finance Committee and, where required, seeks further assurance and details to be and provides an update to the Board through the Group Tax brought to the Board.
To strengthen the governance links to National Grid, the SIDs hold an annual meeting with the Chairman of the National Grid Focus and oversight on pension matters is provided through the plc Audit Committee.
Board considering pensions as a separate agenda item at each The preparation and management of the Audit Committees of its board meetings.
In preparation for the separation and disposal of a majority annual meeting schedule follows the same governance stake in the Gas Distribution business, the Board considered processes as those for the Board.
Technical briefings and National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 35 meetings with the UK Chief Financial Officer and members of the carve out accounts.
The Committee also had specific deep the financial function are held before meetings, as required, to dive sessions with the finance and regulatory teams as well as provide further details on matters to be discussed during the discussion and challenge at each Committee meeting during meetings.
Five scheduled meetings took place during the last financial The Committee considered the impact of the separation of the year.
Committee membership and attendance at meetings is Gas Distribution business on the risk management and internal set out below.
Attendance is expressed as the number of controls frameworks.
This risk was reviewed throughout the meetings attended out of the number possible or applicable for process, reviewing the progress of separation logistics and the individual Director during the year to 31 March 2017. maintaining focus on the progress of critical processes, internal controls and resourcing.
The Committee sought input from Attendance management, internal audit and the external auditors on the Clive Elphick Chair Sufficiently Independent 5 of 5 risks and mitigating actions associated with the separation Directors process.
Catherine Bell Sufficiently Independent 5 of 5 The Committee also received regular updates on Directors management's response to the expected change in regulatory Andy Agg Group Tax and Treasury 4 of 5 accounting reporting required for the implementation of RIIO Director accounts.
Looking forwards, the Committee will continue to focus on the changes required in regulatory accounting An additional Audit Committee meeting was held to consider reporting.
specific matters for the separation of the Gas Distribution business.
The rigour and preparation for this additional Audit Looking forwards, the Committee will continue to focus on the Committee meeting followed the Boards embedded effectiveness of the risk management and internal control governance practices, and, as previously reported, was processes, providing input to the Group wide processes.
The supported by a programme of briefings.
Committee continues to focus on any specific risks related to non-compliance with licence obligations and requests senior Areas of focus managers and external advisers to attend meetings to provide The Audit Committee meetings considered a programme of more detailed presentations on matters of non-compliance.
The matters comprising those which were aligned to that of the Committee informs the Board of risks and mitigating actions in National Grid plc Audit Committee and specific matters as they relation to licence breaches that has been brought to the related to the Company, as a listed and regulated entity and as Committees attention, enabling the Board to discuss and defined in the Terms of Reference for the Committee.
Examples determine further action as required.
Further detail on the risk of key areas of focus included: management and internal control processes can be found in the internal control and risk management section, see page 18.
Sale of the Gas Distribution business Statutory and regulatory accounting statements External audit Interim financial statements The Committee is responsible for overseeing relations with the external auditors, as part of the Group wide external audit Going concern statements arrangements.
Each Committee meeting is preceded by a Fair, balanced and understandable statements meeting between the SIDs and the external auditors, without Financial reporting management present, to allow independent discussions on any Internal controls and processes matters the auditors would like to bring to the attention of the Regulatory to RIIO accounts transition Committee.
Risk management processes Compliance matters, including compliance with licence The Committee reviews the audit plan and audit findings in obligations respect of the audit of the statutory and regulatory accounts.
Internal corporate audit plan The Committee also engages on auditor recommendations for improvements around internal controls.
Through regular Significant issues management reporting on internal controls, the Committee is The most significant issue the Committee considered during the able to monitor progress of the actions being taken.
year was the impact of the separation and sale of the Gas Following the National Grid plc Audit Committee audit tender Distribution business on the Company's interim and year end process, Deloitte LLP will be recommended for appointment at financial statements.
This included consideration of the issues the National Grid plc 2017 AGM, with the appointment effective around separating the Gas Distribution operations from the for the year ending 31 March 2018.
In preparation for the retained business: the judgements made by management when change in external auditor, the Audit Committee has received considering what items should be included in the exceptional reports and updates on the transition process from gain on disposal: the financing of the new Gas Distribution management and the external auditors.
business and impact on NGG: and the basis of preparation of 36 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 Internal corporate audit greater visibility of audit findings, increased ownership of The Company does not have a separate internal audit function.
actions and greater engagement by senior management.
This function is provided by National Grid's Corporate Audit function.
The National Grid Corporate Audit function provides Auditors independence and objectivity independent, objective, assurance to the National Grid As highlighted in National Grid's Annual Report and Accounts Electricity Transmission Audit Committee, Safety, Environment for 2016 17 the independence of the external auditors is and Health Committee SEH and Executive Committees on essential to the provision of an objective opinion on the true and whether our existing control and governance frameworks are fair view presented in the financial statements.
operating effectively in order to meet National Grid's strategic objectives.
Assurance work is conducted and managed in Consistent with prior years, an annual review was conducted by accordance with the IIA international standards for the the Audit Committee of the level and make-up of the external Professional Practice of Internal Auditing and Code of Ethics.
audit and non-audit fees and the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of PwC.
Following this process, the Audit Audit work is delivered by a combination of suitably qualified Committee was satisfied with the effectiveness, independence employee, who typically have either a finance or operational and objectivity of PwC and recommended to the Board their business background and external co-source partners, where reappointment for the year ended 31 March 2017 at the 2016 specific specialist skills are required.
Inputs to the audit plan include principal risks, risk registers, Following the audit tender, the Audit Committee has corporate priorities, and external research of emerging risks recommended to the Board the appointment of Deloitte as and trends, and discussions with senior management to make auditors for the year ending 31 March 2018.
A resolution to sure the plan aligns with the Committee and Companys view of appoint Deloitte and giving authority to the Directors to risk.
The audit plan is considered and approved by the determine their remuneration will be submitted to shareholders Committee annually and progress against the plan is monitored at the 2017 AGM.
The Committee received regular controls updates from the Corporate Audit team.
Management actions on audit findings have continued to be a focus at Executive meetings resulting in
