Risk management and corporate governance 03 Corporate governance Sound corporate governance is implicit in our values, culture, processes, functions and organisational structure Chairmans introduction Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the annual corporate governance report for the year ended 31 March 2017, which describes our approach to corporate governance.
Before looking into the detail of our governance framework, I would like to make some comments on where the boards attention has been focused over the past year, how it has delivered against its priorities and where attention will be placed in the year ahead.
The past year in focus In an uncertain and volatile world, Investecs culture and values continue to support the organisation in achieving its strategic objectives.
Our client focus and entrepreneurial spirit have continued to be front of mind over the past year with Investec remaining committed to its UK businesses, despite the uncertain implications of the UKs exit from the European Union.
The board and management have sought to develop a strategy for the group which is balanced in terms of managing the risks presented in these uncertain times and positioning for future opportunities as they arise.
Strategic initiatives The board has continued to exercise leadership, integrity and judgement in pursuit of Investecs strategic goals and objectives.
In terms of positioning for future opportunities, two areas of particular focus have been the digitisation of our product offering and the continued growth of our private client business.
Both of these strategic initiatives were discussed and debated at the boards annual strategy session, which was held in February 2017, and are ongoing areas of discussion at boardmeetings.
Board effectiveness The board continues to be committed to regularly evaluating its own effectiveness and that of its committees.
The board therefore undertakes an evaluation of its performance and that of its committees and individual directors annually, with independent external inputintothe process every third year.
Given the 2016 effectiveness review was conducted by an independent external facilitator, ProfessorRob Goffee, this year the board effectiveness review was internally facilitated.
No material issues were identified in this process, however, the findings of Professor Goffees report continued to provide a useful benchmark for assessing the development of the board in terms of the areas that were identified for improvement.
One such area was the bedding down of the boards composition, following the refreshment programme which had been coordinated between 2013 and 2016.
Feedback from the 2017 board effectiveness review indicated improved board dynamics and, as such, the refreshment programme will recommence with Peter Thomas stepping down from theboard immediately following the annual general meeting on 10 August 2017.
Management succession The board, working closely with the nominations and directors affairs committee nomdac, continues to drive and monitor succession planning.
It is vital that there are robust succession plans in place for all key positions throughout the organisation.
Shareholder engagement During the past year, the board continued its shareholder consultations.
The primary focus of these consultations was executive remuneration and succession however, these consultations have also provided an opportunity to discuss governance and business strategy more broadly with shareholders.
From a governance perspective, the dialogue centred on the composition of the board, while onremuneration, the discussion related to the appropriate linkage between pay and performance.
Priorities for the year ahead We approach the year ahead with confidence in our leadership and strategy.
With that said, management succession will continue to be an area of focus for the board in the year ahead and more particularly, the ongoing transition of leadership roles within the organisation.
The board of Investec Bank plc established its own governance arrangements and a key focus area for the group will be to ensure that these governance arrangements are embedded into the groups broader governance structure.
Conclusion Over the following pages, you will find more detail of our governance framework, including who our board and management are, howtheymake decisions and what they have done over the past year in terms of their leadership, strategic direction and oversight of theorganisation.
We hope that this report, together with the strategic report and financial statements will provide you with an overview ofhow we are managing the group and looking after the interests of our stakeholders.
Fani Titi Chairman 14 June 2017 124 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance 03 continued Within this report you will find: Page Who we are Governance framework 126 Board roles 127 Director biographies 128 Board composition 133 What we did Board report 135 DLC nominations and directors affairs committee report 139 DLC social and ethics committee report 144 DLC audit committee report 148 DLC board risk and capital committee report 154 DLC remuneration committee report 157 Management committees 158 How we comply Regulatory context 159 Statement of compliance 159 Other statutory information 159 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 125 Risk management and corporate governance 03 Corporate governance continued Who we are From a legal perspective, the DLC is Stock Exchange and the Botswana Governance framework comprised of: Stock Exchange.
Investec operates under a dual listed The boards of Investec plc and Investec Investec plc a public company company DLC structure and considers Limited are identical in terms of their incorporated in the UK and listed on the corporate governance principles and composition and board meetings are held the London Stock Exchange with a regulations of both the UK and South Africa jointly.
The committee structure has been secondary listing on the Johannesburg before adopting the appropriate standard derived from the requirements of the UK Stock Exchange: and for the group which also complies with Corporate Governance Code and the Investec Limited a public company requirements in both jurisdictions.
KingIII Report on Corporate Governance, incorporated in South Africa and listed as well as the activities of the group.
on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, with secondary listings on the Namibia Investec plc and Investec Limited board of directors DLC DLC board risk nominations DLC social and DLC DLC audit and and directors ethics remuneration committees capital affairs committee committee committee committee Monitors the Determines groups activities Oversight of the Ensures that categories of risk, Sets the with regard group's financial the board and specific risk and the remuneration to social and reporting, risk the governance extent of such risks philosophy of the economic management, structure of the which the group group and ensures development, compliance, group enhances on a consolidated that remuneration is good corporate external good corporate basis, and its banks awarded in citizenship, talent and internal audit governance on a solo basis, accordance thereof retention and should undertake attraction Chief executive officer and managing director Mandated to manage the group, except over such matters reserved by the board in the Board Charter or delegated to the DLC Committees Management committees Including DLC Capital Committee, Review Executive Risk Review Forum and Policy Executive Risk Review Forum Internal Audit Compliance 126 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance 03 continued Board roles The key governance roles and responsibilities of the board are outlined below: Chairman Chief executive officer and managing Group risk and finance director director Fani Titi Stephen Koseff and Bernard Kantor Glynn Burger Responsible for setting the board Responsible for leading and managing Responsible for ensuring that the agenda, ensuring that there is sufficient the group within the authorities groups risk management processes time available for discussion of all items delegated by the board areeffective Encourages open and honest debate Ensures that the board receives Leads and manages the group between all board directors information that is accurate, timely and financefunction clear to enable the directors to perform Leads and manages the dynamics of Provides the board with updates on the their duties effectively the board, providing direction and focus groups financial performance Ensures that the board sets the strategy of the group and assists in monitoring progress towards achieving the strategy Performs director evaluations Serves as the primary interface with regulators and other stakeholders on behalf of the board Senior independent director Non-executive directors Company secretary Perry Crosthwaite Zarina Bassa, Laurel Bowden, David Miller CherylCarolus, David Friedland, CharlesJacobs, Ian Kantor, Lord Malloch-Brown KCMG, Khumo Shuenyane and Peter Thomas Responsible for the flow of information Available to address any concerns or Bring unique perspectives to the questions from shareholders and boardroom to facilitate constructive to the board and its committees debate on proposals andfor ensuring compliance with non-executive directors boardprocedures Provide a sounding board to Assist in developing the thechairman groupsstrategy Minute all board and committee meetings to record the deliberations and Leads the board in the assessment of Monitor the performance of decisions taken therein the effectiveness of the chairman management against their agreed strategic goals Ensures that the board complies with relevant legislation and regulation, Ensure the effectiveness of internal including Listings Requirements controls and the integrity of financialreporting Monitor executive performance Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 127 Risk management and corporate governance 03 Corporate governance continued Director biographies Biographies of our directors are outlined below, including their relevant skills and experience, other principal appointments and any appointments to Investecs DLC committees.
Fani Titi, chairman Age: 55 Qualifications BSc Hons, MA, MBA Relevant skills and experience Fani is chairman of Investec Bank Limited, Investec Bank plc, former chairman of Tiso Group Ltd and former deputy chairman of the Bidvest Group.
He is an experienced non-executive director and chairman, having served on the boards of some of South Africas largest corporates.
Other principal appointments Investec Asset Management Holdings Pty Ltd, Investec Asset Management Ltd, Kumba Iron Ore Ltd chairman, MRC Media Pty Ltd and other Investec subsidiaries.
Committees DLC remuneration, DLC board risk and capital, DLC nominations and directors affairs chairman and DLC social and ethics chairman.
Date of appointment Investec Limited and Investec plc 30 January 2004 Stephen Koseff, group chief executive officer Age: 65 Qualifications BCom, CA SA, H Dip BDP, MBA Relevant skills and experience Stephen joined Investec in 1980.
He has diverse experience within Investec as chief accounting officer and general manager of banking, treasury and merchant banking.
Other principal appointments Investec Bank Limited, Investec Bank plc and a number of Investec subsidiaries.
Committees DLC board risk and capital, DLC social and ethics and DLC capital chairman.
Date of appointment Investec Limited 6 October 1986 Investec plc 26 June 2002 Bernard Kantor, managing director Age: 67 Qualifications CTA Relevant skills and experience Bernard joined Investec in 1980.
He has had varied experience within Investec as a manager of the trading division, marketing manager and chief operating officer.
Other principal appointments Phumelela Gaming and Leisure Ltd, Investec Bank Limited, Investec Bank plc and a number of Investec subsidiaries.
Committees DLC board risk and capital, DLC social and ethics and DLC capital.
Date of appointment Investec Limited 9 June 1987 Investec plc 19 March 2002 128 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance 03 continued Glynn R Burger, group risk and finance director Age: 60 Qualifications BAcc, CA SA, H Dip BDP, MBL Relevant skills and experience Glynn joined Investec in 1980.
His positions within Investec have included chief accounting officer, group risk manager and joint managing director for South Africa.
Other principal appointments Investec Bank Limited and a number of Investec subsidiaries.
Committees DLC board risk and capital and DLC capital.
Date of appointment Investec Limited 03 July 2002 Investec plc 03 July 2002 Hendrik J du Toit, Investec Asset Management chief executive officer Age: 55 Qualifications BCom Law, BCom Hons cum laude, MCom cum laude, MPhil Cambridge Relevant skills and experience After lecturing economics at the University of Stellenbosch, Hendrik joined the Investment division of Old Mutual from where he moved to Investec in 1991 to establish Investec Asset Management.
Other principal appointments Investec Asset Management Holdings Pty Ltd and Investec Asset Management Ltd as well as their subsidiaries.
Non-executive Director of Naspers Ltd. Hendrik also serves on the Global Business Commission for Sustainable Development.
Committees None Date of appointment Investec Limited 15 December 2010 Investec plc 15 December 2010 Perry KO Crosthwaite, senior independent director Age: 68 Qualifications MA Hons in modern languages Relevant skills and experience Perry is a former chairman of Investec Investment Banking and Securities.
Other principal appointments Investec Bank plc, Investec Holdings Ireland Ltd chairman and Investec Capital and Investments Ireland Ltd.
Committees DLC remuneration chairman and DLC nominations and directors affairs.
Date of appointment Investec Limited 18 June 2010 Investec plc 18 June 2010 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 129 Risk management and corporate governance 03 Corporate governance continued Zarina BM Bassa, independent non-executive director Age: 53 Qualifications BAcc, DipAcc, CA SA Relevant skills and experience Zarina is a former partner of Ernst & Young Inc. she joined the Absa Group in 2002 and was an executive director and a member of the banks executive committee, with accountability for private banking.
She has previously chaired the South African Public Accountants and Accounting Standards Board and the South African Auditing Standards Board and has been a member of the JSE GAAP Monitoring Panel.
Other principal appointments The Financial Services Board, Oceana Group Ltd, Sun International Ltd, Vodacom Pty Ltd and Woolworths Holdings Ltd, and a number of Investec subsidiaries.
Committees DLC audit chairman, Investec plc and Investec Bank plc audit chairman, Investec Limited and Investec Bank Limited audit chairman, DLC remuneration, DLC nominations and directors affairs and DLC board risk and capital.
Appointed as chair on 1 April 2017 Date of appointment Investec Limited 1 November 2014 Investec plc 1 November 2014 Laurel C Bowden, independent non-executive director Age: 52 Qualifications BSc Elec Eng, HND Eng, MBA INSEAD Relevant skills and experience Laurel is a partner at 83North a private equity business, where her areas of focus include internet, enterprise software and fintech.
Laurel has over 15 years investment experience and has led investments in many leading European technology companies, including Just Eat, Qliktech and Hybris acquired by SAP.
She was previously a director at GE Capital in London.
Other principal appointments Bluevine Capital Inc, Ebury Partners Ltd, iZettle AB, Celonis GMBH, Mirakl SAS, Wonga Group Ltd, MotorK Ltd, Workable TechnologyLtd the majority of these are companies which Laurel serves on as a representative of 83North.
Committees DLC audit, Investec plc audit and Investec Bank plc audit and Investec Limited and Investec Bank Limited audit.
Date of appointment Investec Limited 1 January 2015 Investec plc 1 January 2015 Cheryl A Carolus, independent non-executive director Age: 59 Qualifications BA Law, Honorary doctorate in Law Relevant skills and experience Cheryl was the South African High Commissioner to London between 1998 and 2001 and was chief executive officer of South African Tourism.
Other principal appointments fide Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd, Gold Fields Ltd chair, Mercedes-Benz South Africa Pty Ltd, WWF South Africa and International, The IQ Business Group Pty Ltd, Ponahalo Capital Pty Ltd, Investec Asset Management Holdings Pty Ltd, Investec Asset Management Ltd, executive chairperson of Peotona Group Holdings Pty Ltd chair and director of a number of the Peotona group companies and the International Crisis Group.
Committees DLC social and ethics.
Date of appointment Investec Limited 18 March 2005 Investec plc 18 March 2005 130 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance 03 continued David Friedland, independent non-executive director Age: 64 Qualifications BCom, CA SA Relevant skills and experience David is a former partner of both Arthur Andersen and KPMG Inc. where he also served as head of audit and risk in KPMG, Cape Town office.
Other principal appointments Investec Bank Limited, Investec Bank plc, The Foschini Group Ltd, Pick n Pay Stores Ltd and Pres Les Pty Ltd.
Committees DLC audit, Investec plc and Investec Bank plc audit, Investec Limited and Investec Bank Limited audit, DLC board risk and capital chairman, DLC capital and DLC nominations and directors affairs.
David resigned from these committees with effect from 1 April 2017.
Date of appointment Investec Limited 1 March 2013 Investec plc 1 March 2013 Charles R Jacobs, independent non-executive director Age: 50 Qualifications LLB Relevant skills and experience Charles brings to the board a valuable combination of knowledge of the UK regulatory and corporate governance standards, global capital markets and M&A.
Charles was elected as chairman and senior partner at the global law firm Linklaters LLP in October 2016, having been appointed a partner in 1999, and has over 26 years of experience of advising companies around the world, including in relation to their legal and regulatory requirements.
Charles sits on the board of Fresnillo plc, a FTSE 100 company, and is chairman of their remuneration committee.
Charles chairs the Linklaters Partnership Board and holds an LLB from Leicester University.
Other principal appointments Linklaters LLP and Fresnillo plc senior independent non-executive director and chairman of the remuneration committee.
Date of appointment Investec Limited 8 August 2014 Investec plc 8 August 2014 Ian R Kantor, non-executive director Age: 70 Qualifications BSc Eng, MBA Relevant skills and experience Ian is co-founder of Investec, served as the chief executive of Investec Bank Limited until 1985 and was the former chairman of Investec Holdings Ltd. Ian is currently a non-executive director on the boards of Investec AssetManagement Holdings Pty Ltd and Investec Asset Management Limited.
Other principal appointments Chairman of Blue Marlin Holdings SA formerly Insinger fide Beaufort Holdings SA in which Investec Ltd indirectly holds an 8.6% interest and chairman of the Supervisory Board of Bank Insinger fide Beaufort NV.
Committees None Date of appointment Investec Limited 30 July 1980 Investec plc 26 June 2002 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 131 Risk management and corporate governance 03 Corporate governance continued Lord Malloch-Brown KCMG, independent non-executive director Age: 63 Qualifications BEcon, CA England & Wales Relevant skills and experience Lord Malloch-Brown is chairman of SGO Corporation Ltd and Senior Advisor to the Eurasia Group, he was UK government minister and member of the cabinet.
Lord Malloch-Brown was formerly the deputy secretary-general of the United Nations as well as a vicepresident at the World Bank and head of United Nations Development Programme and a journalist at the Economist with wide ranging experience of boards.
Other principal appointments Seplat Petroleum Development Company plc and Smartmatic Ltd.
Date of appointment Investec Limited 8 August 2014 Investec plc 8 August 2014 Khumo L Shuenyane, independent non-executive director Age: 46 Qualifications BEcon, CA England & Wales Relevant skills and experience Khumo is a partner at Delta Partners, an advisory firm headquartered in Dubai and focused on the telecoms, technology anddigitalsectors across emerging markets.
He also serves on the boards of Investec Bank Limited andInvestecProperty Fund Ltd.
Between 2007 and 2013 Khumo served as Group Chief Mergers & Acquisitions Officer for MTNGroupLtd and was a member of its Group Executive Committee.
Khumo was previously head of Principal Investments at Investec Bank Limited.
Prior to taking responsibility for the Principal Investments division in 2005, Khumo was a member of Investecs Corporate Finance division for 7 years.
Prior to joining Investec in 1998 Khumo worked for Arthur Andersen for six years from 1992.
He completed his articles during his first three years with the firm in Birmingham, England, qualifying as a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales in 1995.
He subsequently transferred to the firms Johannesburg office where he worked for a further three years before joining Investec.
Other principal appointments Investec Life Limited, Investec Specialist Investments RF Limited and Investec Property Fund Ltd, Investec Employee Benefits Ltd.
Committees DLC audit, Investec plc and Investec Bank plc audit, Investec Limited and Investec Bank Limited audit and DLC board risk and capital.
Date of appointment Investec Limited 8 August 2014 Investec plc 8 August 2014 Peter RS Thomas, independent non-executive director Age: 72 Qualifications CA SA Relevant skills and experience Peter served as the Managing Director of The Unisec Group Ltd. Peter has broad experience in finance and various industrial companies.
He also has an extensive background in commercial accounting.
Other principal appointments Other directorships include: Investec Bank Limited, various Investec subsidiaries, JCI Ltd and various unlisted companies Committees DLC audit, Investec plc and Investec Bank plc audit, Investec Limited and Investec Bank Limited audit, DLC nominations and directors affairs and DLC social and ethics.
He is also a member of the audit and risk committees in Mauritius, Australia and the USA.
Date of appointment Investec Limited 29 June 1981 Investec plc 26 June 2002 132 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance 03 continued advisors.
The board concluded that, for nine years or more, retain both financial Board composition notwithstanding his association with independence and independence of Linklaters, Charles retains independence character and judgement.
Peter Thomas Independence will not be standing for re-election at the ofjudgement.
Selection of legal As at 31 March 2017, the board is advisors is not a board matter and is annual general meeting on 10 August 2017. compliant with Principle B.
1.2 of the decided at the management level.
If any UK Corporate Governance Code in that Notwithstanding the guidelines set out in decision were tobe made at the board at least half the board, excluding the the UK Corporate Governance Code and level regarding Linklaters, which has chairman, comprises independent nonKing III, the board is of the view that these executive directors.
nothappened to date, Charles would non-executive directors are independent of recuse himself in accordance with the A summary of the factors the board uses management and promote the interest of provisions of the relevant Companies to determine the independence of nonstakeholders.
The balance of the executive executive directors are detailed below: Act relating to directors interests.
and non-executive directors is such that Where advice is provided by Linklaters there is a clear division of responsibility to Relationships and associations to Investec, it is provided by separate ensure a balance of power, such that no Ian Kantor is the brother of Bernard Linklaters partners and not Charles.
one individual or group can dominate board Kantor, Investecs managing director.
The legal fees paid to Linklaters have processes or have unfettered powers of Ianis also the founder and was not been material either to Linklaters decision-making.
The board believes that previously chief executive officer of orInvestec.
it functions effectively and evaluates its Investec.
Accordingly, the board performance annually.
Tenure concluded that Ian could not be The board is also mindful of its responsibility Attendance at credit considered independent under the to ensure that there remains an appropriate UKCorporate Governance Code.
David Friedland and Peter Thomas balance of skills and experience on the regularly attend, by invitation, certain Prior to joining the board on board, and it is therefore of the view that credit committees of the group dealing 1March2013, David Friedland wasa the retention of certain members beyond with large exposures requiring sign off by partner of KPMG Inc. KPMG Inc nine years may in certain circumstances be non-executive directors in terms of the along with Ernst & YoungInc, are beneficial in ensuring this balance and that delegation of authority.
The board considers joint auditors of Investec Limited.
The orderly succession can take place.
their attendance at these committees to board concluded that, notwithstanding be desirable in terms of developing an The board follows a thorough process of his previous association with KPMG assessing independence on an annual understanding of the day-to-day issues Inc, David retains independence facing the business.
basis for each director whose tenure of judgement given he was never exceeds six years.
The board does not Investec Limiteds designated auditor believe that the tenure of any of the current or relationship partner and was not non-executive directors interferes with their involved with the Investec account.
independence of judgement and their ability Charles Jacobs is the chairman and to act in Investecs best interest.
senior partner of the global law firm Linklaters LLP, having been appointed Accordingly, the board has concluded on 1October2016.
Linklaters is that Cheryl Carolus and Peter Thomas, currently one of the Investecs UKlegal despite having been directors of Investec Independence Chairman 1 Balance of non-executive and executive directors: Non-independent Pre-2017 AGM Post-2017 AGM non-executives 1 Independent non-executive 9 Executives 4 of board 67% independent Executive 27% Executive 29% Non-executive 73% Non-executive 71% Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 133 Risk management and corporate governance 03 Corporate governance continued are entitled to seek professional independent the relevant qualifications and experience and Terms of appointment advice on matters related to the exercise of maintains an arms-length relationship with the On appointment, non-executive directors their duties and responsibilities at the expense board.
In evaluating these qualities, the board are provided with a letter of appointment.
No such advice was sought has considered the prescribed role and duties The letter sets out, among other things, during the 2017 financial year.
pursuant to the requirements codified in the duties, responsibilities and expected time UK Companies Acts and the listings and commitments, details of our policy on Company secretary governance requirements as applicable.
obtaining independent advice and, where David Miller is the company secretary of appropriate, details of the board committees In addition, the board confirms that for the Investec plc.
The company secretary is of which the non-executive director will be period 1 April 2016 to 31March 2017 the professionally qualified and has gained a member.
We have an insurance policy company secretary did not serve as a director experience over a number of years.
His that insures directors against liabilities they on the board nor did he take part in board services are evaluated by board members may incur in carrying out their duties.
On deliberations and only advised on matters of during the annual board evaluation process.
the recommendation of the nomdac, nongovernance, form orprocedure.
He is responsible for the flow of information executive directors will be appointed for an to the board and its committees and for expected term of nine years threetimes ensuring compliance with board procedures.
three-year terms from the date of their first Alldirectors have access to the advice and appointment to the board.
services of the company secretary, whose appointment and removal is a boardmatter.
Independent advice Through the senior independent director or The board has considered and is satisfied the company secretaries, individual directors that the company secretary is competent, has Diversity Age Aspirational target: Per the Hampton-Alexander Review: Good progress has been 40 50 13% made towards the target of 33% female representation by 2020 which continues to be a 51 60 40% priority.
61 and above 47% Geographical mix: Board gender balance: Pre-2017 AGM Post-2017 AGM South Africa 53% Male 80% Male 79% UK 40% Female 20% Female 21% Other 7% Tenure Average length of service Average length of Pre-2017 AGM: Average tenure Post-2017 AGM: Average tenure service pre-2017 AGM: 11 Length of service by band for non-executive directors Average length of 8 service post-2017 AGM: Length of service by band for non-executive directors 0 3 years 5 0 3 years 5 UK Corporate Governance 3 6 years 1 3 6 years 1 recommendation: 6 9 years 1 6 9 years 1 9 years plus 4 9 years plus 3 Recommendation that non-executives should not serve longer than nine years from the time of their appointment.
134 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance 03 continued What we did Board report Role The board seeks to exercise leadership, integrity and judgement in pursuit of Investecs strategic goals and objectives to achieve long-term sustainability, growth and prosperity.
In fulfilling this objective the board is responsible for: Approving the groups strategy Acting as a focal point for, and custodian of corporate governance Providing effective leadership on an ethical foundation Ensuring the group is a responsible corporate citizen Being responsible for the governance of risk, including risks associated with information technology Ensuring the group complies with the applicable laws and considers adherence to non-binding rules and standards Monitoring performance.
The board Meeting schedule and attendance The boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited meet jointly at least six times annually, excluding the annual two-day board strategy session.
Three board meetings were held in the UK and three in South Africa, in line with the requirements of our DLC structure.
Furthermore, during the year ended 31March 2017, the boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited held one additional meeting each in the UK and South Africa, respectively.
Unscheduled meetings are called as the need arises.
Comprehensive information packs on matters to be considered by the board are provided to directors in advance of themeetings.
How the board spent its time Strategy formulation and Finance and operations including monitoring performance, Governance, monitoring of implementation capital and liquidity compliance and risk Other 25% 50% 20% 5% Composition Investec plc and Investec Limited 7 meetings in the year Members throughout Eligible to the year Independent Board member since attend Attended F Titi Chairman On appointment 30 Jan 2004 7 7 ZBM Bassa Yes 1 Nov 2014 7 7 LC Bowden Yes 1 Jan 2015 7 5 GR Burger Executive 3 Jul 2002 7 7 CA Carolus Yes 18 Mar 2005 7 7 PKO Crosthwaite Yes 18 Jun 2010 7 7 HJ du Toit Executive 15 Dec 2010 7 7 D Friedland Yes 1 Mar 2013 7 7 CR Jacobs Yes 8 Aug 2014 7 6 B Kantor Executive 19 Mar 2002 7 7 IR Kantor No 26 Jun 2002 7 7 S Koseff Executive 26 Jun 2002 7 7 Lord Malloch-Brown KCMG Yes 8 Aug 2014 7 7 KL Shuenyane Yes 8 Aug 2014 7 7 PRS Thomas Yes 26 Jun 2002 7 7 Other regular attendees Head of company secretarial and share schemes Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 135 Risk management and corporate governance 03 Corporate governance continued Board activities Areas of focus Matter addressed Role of the board Conclusions actions taken Group strategy Group strategy involves Formulation of strategy and Set strategy and deliver value to setting business monitoring its implementation shareholders and stakeholders objectives, long-range Monitor management activity and plans and annual budgets performance against targets Provide constructive challenge to management Set parameters for promoting and deepening the interest of shareholders Group Receive and review compliance Confirmation that the group meets all compliance reports internal and regulatory requirements Risk Receive quarterly reports from Adoption of group Anti-Money BRCC for review and consideration Laundering AML and Counter Terrorism Financing CFT Policy Approval of the recovery and resolution plan Consideration and approval of capital plans Approval of risk appetite Corporate Consideration of the Considered the independence of Confirmation of the independence of governance independence of Investec the non-executive directors giving directors review of Investec Bank plcs plc and Investec Limiteds regard to the factors that might revised corporate governance structure non-executive directors, impact their independence with particular regard to Considered the directors those directors who had contribution at board meetings and served on the boards whether they in fact demonstrated for a period longer than independent challenge sixyears Leadership The board is responsible for Consideration of regular updates by the ensuring that the policies and various committees behaviours set at board level are effectively communicated and implemented across the group Effectiveness Reviewed the process Considered the process for the The 2017 board effectiveness review for the 2016 board 2017 board effectiveness took the form of a self-assessment effectiveness evaluation followed by one on one meetings and made suggestions between the chairman and directors for changes to enhance Amended added questions regarding theprocess risk and audit, presentation of projects to the boards, IT and succession planning The 2017 effectiveness review showed good progress on those issues identified in the independently facilitated 2016 effectiveness review Topics for directors development sessions finalised 136 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance 03 continued Board activities Areas of focus Matter addressed Role of the board Conclusions actions taken Remuneration Received a report from the Remuneration committee chair at eachmeeting Reports covered a variety of topics including regulatory developments pertaining to remuneration Relations with Shareholder views on Ensure satisfactory dialogue with Noted and discussed the key areas of stakeholders governance and strategy shareholders feedback from shareholders, including feedback relating to: Relationship with Fostering strong and open regulators relationships with regulators Board refreshment and succession Succession planning for the CEO, MD and senior management Remuneration of executive directors Regular meeting and open dialogue with regulators The board discusses and monitors The board is satisfied that the Investec Corporate Promotion of equality, Citizenship prevention of unfair the various elements of good groups standing and commitment to corporate citizenship the various elements of good corporate discrimination and reduction of corruption citizenship remain in place and was actively enforced Consider sponsorships, donations and charitable Frequency of social and ethics giving committee SEC meetings amended to quarterly Environmental, health and public safety, including Approval of revised SEC terms the impact of the groups ofreference activities and of its Approval of the groups disclosures products and services required under the Modern Slavery Act Consumer relationships requirements including the companys Reviewing the annual report with advertising, public relations respect to the role Investec plays and compliance with insociety consumer protection laws Labour and employment thegroups standing in terms of the International labour organisation protocol on decent work and working conditions, employment relationships and its contribution towards the educational development of its employees Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 137 Risk management and corporate governance 03 Corporate governance continued Board activities Areas of focus Matter addressed Role of the board Conclusions actions taken Subsidiary Discussion of succession Receive reports from the nomdac at Approved the appointment of board and each meeting covering the matters Zarina Bassa as chair of the planning including committee within its delegated authority for auditcommittees an update on senior composition review and consideration management succession Noted changes made to subsidiary and governance boards on the recommendation The board received reports ofnomdac on the composition of the key subsidiaries of Investec plc and Investec Limited The board received reports on suggested changes to Investec Bank plcs governance arrangements Financial results Consideration of Review of financial results Approval of financial results ended 31March 2017 for Investec plc financialresults Appointment of sub-committee Approval of financial results for the half year ended 30 September 2016 The board assesses the The board confirmed the groups Liquidity, The board satisfies itself of solvency viability i. e. its ability to continue in the groups viability groupsviability operation and meet its liabilities taking and viability A company satisfies the Approval of dividend policy statement into account the current position of the solvency and liquidity test at a group, the boards assessment of the particular time if, considering groups prospects and the principal all reasonably foreseeable risks it faces financial circumstances at that Confirmation that adequate resources time: exist to support the group on a going The assets of the concern basis company, as fairly valued, Adoption of the going concern concept equal or exceed the liabilities of the company, Confirmation that regulatory capital as fairly valued: and information, including a foreseeable dividend amount, will be declared in It appears that the accordance with the formally approved company will be able dividend policy to pay its debts as they become due in the ordinary course of business for a period of: 12 months after date on which the test is considered: or In the case of a dividend, 12months following the distribution 138 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance 03 continued DLC nominations and directors affairs committee report Dear Shareholder We embrace As the chairman of the nomination and directors affairs committee nomdac, Iam pleased differences as a to present you with our report.
strength within our The key processes of the nomdac are designed to ensure that the board and senior management are comprised of a talented and diverse range of people with the collective company skills and experience that are necessary for the group to meet its objectives and strategic goals.
Thisis essential for the effective governance of the group and the successful running of ourbusiness.
DLC nomdac At Investec, our culture and values are at the core of how we make decisions and how we Fani Titi are governed and the nomdac is always guided by these values.
Our detailed recruitment process ensures that those joining the organisation understand our culture, the needs of our Chairman of the DLC nomdac clients and our focus on the long-term success of the group.
The tone must be set from the top our most senior people must be able to live and demonstrate our values: distinctive Key achievements in 2016 17 performance, dedicated partnerships, client focus, and cast-iron integrity.
Succession planning and bedding Over the following pages we will share with you some key information about the role and down of senior executive management functioning of the nomdac.
We will explain in more detail the key topics and themes that the appointments in subsidiaries nomdac has looked at during the year, and what we hope to focus on in the forthcoming Driving governance changes year.
Topics will be considered under the following headings: Design and approval of Investec Skills, knowledge and experience Bankplcs governance framework within the context of the Senior Independence Managers Regime Diversity Induction of the new senior Succession independent director and Subsidiary board composition.
non-executive directors for Investec Bank plc Areas of focus in 2017 18 Fani Titi Continue to focus on senior Chairman, DLC nomdac management succession planning Implementation of new governance 14 June 2017 arrangements for Investec Bank plc and including oversight of committee membership and establishment of Investec Bank plc nomination committee and Investec Bank plc audit committee, and ensuring alignment to the group process Continue to implement structured board refreshment programme Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 139 Risk management and corporate governance 03 Corporate governance continued How the nomdac works Role The nomdac is an essential part of the groups governance framework to which the board has delegated the following key functions: Identification and nomination of candidates for board vacancies, as and when they arise Evaluation of the adequacy of the groups corporate governance structure Maintenance of the board directorship refreshment programme, which addresses succession planning Consideration of other key matters relating to the election of directors, including the definition of key board roles, terms of appointment and regular review of the appropriateness of the boards composition Composition and meeting frequency The board has formed the opinion that the nomdac has the appropriate balance of knowledge and skills in order to discharge its duties.
In particular, the majority of members are independent non-executive directors and all members have the relevant experience for them to be able to consider the issues that are presented to the committee.
DLC nomdac Meeting schedule and attendance In terms of the approved terms of reference for the nomdac, meetings of the committee shall be held at least three times per annum and as and when required on an ad hoc basis.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2017, the committee met on four occasions.
How the committee spent its time Corporate governance Composition of boards and and review of Board Training and committees Succession planning disclosures effectiveness development Other 25% 25% 15% 15% 10% 10% Composition DLC 4 meetings in the year Committee member Eligible to Members throughout the year since attend Attended F Titi Chairman 9 Sept 2010 4 3 PKO Crosthwaite 16 Sept 2014 4 4 D Friedland 16 Sept 2014 4 4 PRS Thomas 9 Sept 2010 4 4 SE Abrahams 9 Sept 2010 4 3 In principle, it has been agreed that the chairs of the groups key governance committees audit, board risk and capital and remuneration committees be appointed to the nomdac.
Accordingly, and further to Zarina Bassas appointment as the Chair of the audit committees, Zarina Bassa was appointed to the nomdac with effect from 1 April 2017.
SE Abrahams represents Investec Bank Limited on nomdac.
140 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance 03 continued the need to let these changes settle down executive officer to hand over operational Skills, knowledge and before further changes to the composition responsibilities and leadership of the group experience of the board were made.
The nomdac, to the next generation ofleaders.
The nomdac continually monitors the and the board, are now satisfied that the composition of the current board and The nomdac considers succession new members of the board have settled considers what attributes, skills and planning both in terms of ensuring there in.
Accordingly, the structured board experience are necessary in order for are named individuals able to step in and refreshment programme will proceed and the board to effectively discharge its provide cover in the event of an immediate Peter Thomas will step down from the responsibilities.
The nomdac has overseen vacancy, and in terms of ensuring that board immediately following the annual the group is increasing the internal pool the programme of directors development general meeting on 10 August 2017. to ensure that it includes training to of talented and skilled individuals by The nomdac continues to challenge and providing opportunities for individuals to keep directors up to speed with the latest relevant developments, including assess the independence and performance develop and grow within the organisation.
of directors, regardless of tenure, however, Investecs approach to succession has technology and cybersecurity.
Additionally, the appointment of Laurel Bowden in after six years service, non-executive been a successful one, the organisation directors are subjected to a rigorous test has an excellent track record of developing 2015 was to ensure that there was strong independent non-executive representation to establish whether they continue to talent and managing transition, and has demonstrate independence of character never had a situation where it was unable in the technology area.
Laurel has significant experience of fintech and and judgement.
Furthermore, all new to fill a key management position through appointments of non-executive directors internalresources.
involvement with businesses at the leading edge of technology and digital solutions.
are made for an initial period of three years, and with an expectation, made clear at the Subsidiary board composition Independence outset, that they will be unlikely to serve for In addition to considering the composition a period exceeding nine years.
Open and honest debate is part of of the board, the nomdac keeps under Investecs culture, and challenge is review changes to the composition of the Diversity expected from all employees.
Robust boards of its key subsidiaries.
Duringthe independent challenge is a critical The nomdac, in considering the period under review, the nomdac component of how the board operates.
composition of the board, is mindful of all acted as the nomination committee of Investec has always been an organisation aspects of diversity.
This includes gender, Investec Bank plc.
Thenomdac has that places value on substance over form, race, skills, experience and knowledge.
reviewed the composition of the board and the nomdac therefore considers all At Investec we embrace differences as of Investec Bank plc, and recommended relevant circumstances regarding directors a strength within our company.
Having two appointments which it believed would independence.
Ultimately, however, its a diverse board is a clear benefit, further enhance the effectiveness of the concern is whether directors, in fact, bringing with it distinct and different Investec Bank plc board and the degree of demonstrate independence of character outlooks, alternative viewpoints, and independent challenge and independence and judgement, and exhibit this in the challengingmindsets.
The board of Investec Bank boardroom by providing challenge to the plc agreed with the recommendation and as With regard to gender diversity, Investec executive board members.
a result MoniMannings was appointed as is cognisant of the recommendations of a non-executive director of Investec Bank Tenure is one matter that the nomdac the Hampton-Alexander Review, with plc on 27 July 2016.
Moni brings extensive considers when determining independence, regards to the setting of targets for the legal experience, having been a former and when considering the composition representation of women on the board, and partner at Olswang as well as valuable of the board as a whole.
The nomdac is has an aspirational target of 33% female commercial and public sector board and mindful that there needs to be a balance representation by 2020.
BrianStevenson is a meritocracy, and believes that targets resulting from the benefits brought on was also appointed on 14September 2016 board by new independent directors, should be achieved without the setting as senior independent non-executive of formal quotas.
Wetherefore recognise versus retaining individuals with valuable director for Investec Bank plc.
Brian has skills, knowledge, experience, and an the need to create opportunities for extensive banking experience, including talented individuals to move up through the understanding of Investecs unique experience of chairing audit, risk and culture that has been developed over organisation.
To assist with this, Investec remuneration committees.
The nomdac undertakes a number of diversity initiatives time.
For this reason, Investec has, over considered that it was important that these a number of years, operated a structured across the organisation and has signed up appointments were made to the board to the 30% Club, which promotes female board refreshment programme whereby of Investec Bank plc only, and not to the longer-serving members of the board board representation.
boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
step down and are replaced with new As part of this process, Investec Bank plc .
Succession set up its own governance committees A further key area of focus for the nomdac which work seamlessly with group Over the last three years, six directors have has been with regard to succession governance committees.
retired, and five new directors have been planning.
The nomdac has conducted appointed and, as a result, the average formal succession appraisals for all key tenure for serving directors has reduced positions, and has continued to ensure considerably.
There has been a significant that succession plans are in place that will amount of change and previous board allow the managing director and the chief effectiveness reviews clearly articulated Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 141 Risk management and corporate governance 03 Corporate governance continued Further information about the specific actions of the nomdac during the financial year ended 31 March 2017, is contained within the following table.
Committee activities Areas of focus Matter addressed Role of the committee Conclusions actions taken Succession Discussion of succession Received a detailed report from the The committee continually monitor planning planning including chief executive and the managing and review succession and assess the an update on senior director on the implementation success of management changes that management succession of management succession have been implemented.
changes that had taken place since November 2015 Received a forward looking report on future succession Subsidiary The board received reports Reviewed the composition of each The following matters were agreed: board on the composition of the key of the key subsidiaries of Investec Investec Bank plc composition subsidiaries: plc Investec Bank plc Appointment of two non-executive Considered any vacancies, new directors, Moni Mannings and Brian Investec Wealth & appointments or changes that Stevenson senior independent nonInvestment Limited would enhance the effectiveness of executive director the boards, with particular regard Investec Asset to group oversight and governance Appointment of Ruth Leas and Ciaran Management Limited of subsidiary companies with due Whelan as executive directors Investec Bank regard to local regulatory or legal Investec India Limited and Investec Bank Switzerland A. G. requirements and best practice, Switzerland A. G. Investec India Limited and ensuring an appropriate Appointment of Investec Bank plcs level ofindependent scrutiny at Investec Bank Channel Head of Conduct and Governance as subsidiary level Islands Limited new chairman Investec Bank Channel Islands Limited Appointment of Investec Bank plcs Head of Conduct and Governance as new director andchairman Corporate Consideration of the Considered the independence The committee concluded that it was governance independence of Investec of the non-executive directors satisfied that both Cheryl Carolus and directors, with particular giving regard to the factors that Peter Thomas remained independent, regard to those directors might impact their independence, and confirmed that they should who had served on the and in particular considered the be regarded as independent nonboards for a period longer independence of Peter Thomas and executive directors than nine years Chery Carolus, each of whom had served on the boards for periods exceeding nine years Considered the directors contribution at board meetings and whether they in fact demonstrated independent challenge 142 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance 03 continued Committee activities Areas of focus Matter addressed Role of the committee Conclusions actions taken Board diversity Received information on Noted governance requirements Adoption of changes to the terms governance requirements that required certain regulated ofreference set out in the UKs entities to adopt a Board Diversity Senior Management Policy and a target for female Arrangements, Systems representation on the board and Controls Handbook Approved amendments to its terms SYSC applying to of reference in order to include Investec Bank plc these duties to ensure that Investec regarding board diversity, Bank plc remained compliant with and adoption of changes the rules to terms of reference to reflect these requirements Considered the target for the representation of women on the board and confirmed its support of the 33% target recommended by the Hampton-Alexander Review Board Reviewed the process Considered the process for the The 2017 board effectiveness effectiveness for the 2016 board 2017 board effectiveness review would take the form of a effectiveness evaluation self-assessment followed by one on and made suggestions for one meetings between the chairman changes to enhance the and directors process Amended added questions regarding risk and audit, presentation of projectsto the boards, IT and succession planning The 2017 board effectiveness review showed good progress on the issues identified in the independently facilitated review Looking ahead The nomdac will continue to focus on how to further develop senior management in order to support our succession plans.
Furthermore, the nomdac will continue to implement its refreshment programme, with careful consideration and challenge around the independence of those directors who have served for longer than nine years.
Asnoted, the nomdac continuously looks forward to the challenges and opportunities that the group will face, and will continue to review the composition of the board to ensure that it is optimally structured to drive forward the strategy that will enable the group to succeed.
The nomdac will continue to focus on the composition of the board with respect to diversity.
In respect of subsidiary governance, the board and the Investec Bank plc board have agreed to the establishment of a Investec Bank plc nominations committee.
That committee will comprise a majority of independent non-executive directors and the chair of the nomdac.
The Investec Bank plc nominations committee will report into both the Investec Bank plc board and the nomdac.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 143 Risk management and corporate governance 03 Corporate governance continued DLC social and ethics committee report Dear Shareholder Investec lives in As the chairman of this committee, I am pleased to present the report of the social and society and not off it ethics committee SEC and the work done by this committee during the last financial year.
Although the formation of the SEC is a South African legal requirement, given the relevance of its mandate across all jurisdictions, the board has resolved to constitute the SEC to DLC Social and ethics committee monitor the activities for the Investec group and not just for Investec Limited.
Fani Titi Core to the objectives of the SEC are the values and principles of Investec and the desire Chairman of the DLC SEC to make a meaningful contribution to the world we live in.
While our shareholders remain at the forefront of the boards attention, our purpose is not only about driving profits.
We strive Key achievements in 2016 17 to be a distinctive and relevant specialist bank and asset manager, demonstrating castiron integrity, moral strength and behaviour which promotes trust.
Our core values include Corporate and Social Investment CSI unselfishly contributing to society, valuing diversity and respecting others.
Outstanding, spend of 1.9 million during 2017 empowered talent, entrepreneurial spirit and regard for the planet are other qualities that Skills development spend of just under align our culture and our approach to responsible business.
8.2 million during 2017 Investecs approach is greater than simply complying with the functions of the SEC as set 115 individuals have graduated on the out in the South African Companies Act, 2008, as amended.
We care about the world we bursary programme since 2012 live in and believe in living in society and not off it.
We recognise that economic growth and Areas of focus in 2017 18 societal transformation are vital to creating a sustainable future for all the communities in which we operate and that we play a critical role in enabling this.
Oversight and coordination of groupsocial, environmental and Over the following pages we will share with you some key information about the role and ethicsmatters functioning of the SEC.
We will explain in more detail the key themes that the SEC has looked at during the year, such as: Improved communication of the various group environmental, social Social and economic development and ethics efforts Good corporate citizenship Environment, health and public safety Consumer relations Talent management and labour relations.
Fani Titi Chairman, DLC SEC Committee 14 June 2017 144 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance 03 continued How the SEC works Role Our commitment to sustainability means integrating social, ethical and environmental considerations.
For Investec, being a good corporate citizen is about building our businesses to ensure we have a positive impact on the economy and social progress of communities and on the environment, while growing and preserving clients and stakeholders wealth based on strong relationships and trust.
Our corporate citizenship activities are outlined below.
The SEC is an essential part of the groups governance framework to which the board has delegated the monitoring of the groups activities in relation to: Social and economic development Good corporate citizenship.
Composition and meeting frequency The nomdac and the board have formed the opinion that the SEC has the appropriate balance of knowledge and skills in order to discharge its duties.
In particular, the majority of members are independent non-executive directors and all members have the relevant knowledge and experience for them to be able to consider the issues that are presented to the committee.
DLC Social and ethics committee Meeting schedule and attendance In terms of the approved terms of reference for the social and ethics committee, meetings of the committee shall be held quarterly.
At a meeting of the committee held on 26 July 2016, the frequency of meetings was discussed and it was agreed that there shouldbe 4scheduled meetings per annum, although the committee could determine that one of the scheduled meetings could becancelled.
How the committee spent its time Employment matters DLC corporate responsibility Reputational risk Policy matters 20% 50% 5% 25% Composition Eligible to attend Attended Committee Members throughout the year member since 3 meetings in the year F Titi Chairman 17 May 2012 3 2 CA Carolus 17 May 2012 3 3 B Kantor 17 May 2012 3 3 S Koseff 17 May 2012 3 3 Lord Malloch-Brown KCMG 8 Aug 2014 3 3 PRS Thomas 17 May 2012 3 3 The composition of the committee is in accordance with the requirements of Section 72 8 of the South African Companies Act, 2008, asamended, and its associated regulations.
Other regular attendees Sustainability and strategy Head of organisational development Head of investor relations Head of company secretarial and staff share schemes Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 145 Risk management and corporate governance 03 Corporate governance continued Committee activities Areas of focus Matter addressed Role of the committee Conclusions actions taken Monitoring the groups The committee: The committee supports the Social and economic standing in terms of the goals international agenda to abolish remains committed to the and purposes of: humantrafficking, slavery, forced and development 10principles of the UNGCP with including child labour.
The 10 principles set out respect to human rights, labour, human rights The group has started the process to under the United Nations environment and anti-corruption integrate the provisions of the Modern Global Compact Principles ensures that the Investec group Slavery Act into its business, supply UNGCP and its subsidiaries adhere to the chain policies and practices The Organisation of relevant laws in all its jurisdictions The committee ensures that the Economic Co-Operation and strive to advance the UN and Development OECD principles within its sphere group was not complicit in any human recommendations ofinfluence rightsabuses regarding corruption Good corporate Refer to page 137 for The committee discusses and The committee is satisfied that the citizenship further details monitors the various elements of groups standing and commitment to good corporate citizenship the various elements of good corporate citizenship remain in place and was actively enforced Contribution Monitoring Investec plc The committee receives regular The committee ensures that the to the and its subsidiaries reports on the groups corporate Investec group contributes to the development of activities in contributing and social investment initiatives as development of communities communities to the development well as the strategy and spend in of the communities in respect thereof which its activities are predominantly conducted or within which its products andservices are  146 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance 03 continued Committee activities Areas of focus Matter addressed Role of the committee Conclusions actions taken Talent retention Investing in learning and The committee receives regular The committee notes that the and attraction development opportunities reports on the learning opportunities Investec group is heavily involved in of employees for employees as well and development of employees and secondary and tertiary education of the as individuals outside of others outside of the workplace community as well as the development theworkplace of employees Culture and Investecs core values The committee receives regular The committee is satisfied that the ethics include unselfishly reports on the groups activities in Investec groups core values have contributing to society, respect of programmes offered to a positive impact on the success valuing diversity and enhance its core values and well-being of local communities, respecting others theenvironment and on overall macroeconomic stability Reporting to Reporting to shareholders The committee reports to the The committee ensures that it complies shareholders on matters within its shareholders on its activities on with this function mandate an annual basis by means of the annual reports and at the annual general meeting of both companies Advising the By advising the board of A report is made tabled at the The committee ensures that the board board on directors of any relevant board meeting is aware of relevant matters within matters within matter within its mandate its mandate which could impact the its mandate as the occasion requires Investec groups reputation Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 147 Risk management and corporate governance 03 Corporate governance continued Audit committee report Dear Shareholder Investecs robust We are pleased to present you with the report of the DLC audit committee, the Investec plc governance framework and Investec Bank plc audit committee the PLC audit committee and the Investec Limited and Investec Bank Limited audit committee the INL audit committee for the financial is supported by its year ended 31 March 2017.
For the purposes of this report, the term audit committees will be used to refer to the DLC audit committee, PLC audit committee and INL audit open and honest committeecombined.
culture which helps Over the following pages we will share with you some key information about the role and functioning of Investecs audit committees within the DLC structure.
In addition to outlining to ensure any issues the audit committees structure, we have included some insight into how decisions are are escalated in a made and where judgement needs to be applied to the significant issues addressed by the audit committees during the year.
Information has been provided under the following timely manner headings, which align to the key functions of the audit committees: Financial reporting DLC audit committee External audit Internal controls.
David Friedland Chairman of the DLC audit committee Committee performance until 31 March 2017 The audit committees performance was considered as part of the board effectiveness Zarina Bassa process that was conducted during 2016.
This process did not identify any areas of Chairman of the DLC audit committee concern about the functioning of the audit committees.
from 1 April 2017 Role of the chair Key achievements in 2016 17 The role of the chairman of the audit committees requires regular meetings with the Heads Implementation of whistle-blowing of internal audit, as well as the lead external audit partner and senior management outside hotline of formal committee meetings in order to maintain and develop an understanding of the groups operations and risks facing the business.
These interactions are an essential Areas of focus in 2017 18 part of the role of the chairman of the audit committees, as it provides an additional layer of assurance to gain comfort that these control functions are aligned in terms of their IT risk and cybersecurity understanding of the risks facing the business and mitigation thereof.
Business continuity Establishment of Investec Bank plc With effect from 1 April 2017, the role of chairman of the audit committees transitioned between us: from David Friedland to Zarina Bassa.
This change will result in the audit audit committee committees and the board risk and capital committee BRCC being chaired by different Implementation of IFRS 9 independent non-executive directors.
Whilst these committees have met all legal and Conduct regulatory requirements from a composition and independence perspective to date, this change is viewed as providing an additional layer of independence between these committees.
It is essential that there are some should be synergies in membership, as such, the audit committees and BRCC will continue to have some common membership given the nature of the matters discussed by these committees.
For that reason, the BRCC will continue to be chaired by David and Zarina will continue to be a member.
As part of the handover, we met on several occasions to discuss the role of chairman of the audit committees.
Given that Zarina has been a member of the audit committees since 2014, she is already aware of the issues known to the audit committees, as well as how the meetings are currently conducted.
We also met with the external audit partner and key members of Investecs internal control functions, including internal audit, finance and compliance as part of the handover.
Zarina is also an experienced audit committee chairman and the board has every confidence that Zarina is well equipped to lead the audit committees in an effective manner going forward.
148 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance 03 continued Looking ahead In the year ahead, IT risk and cybersecurity will continue to be key focus areas of the audit committees.
We are acutely aware of the threats posed by these areas and, as such, have sought more reporting on these topics, which have become a significant portion of the audit committees agendas over recent years.
The audit committees will spend time on the implementation of IFRS 9 and issues relating to conduct.
During the period under review, the PLC audit committee acted as the audit committee of Investec Bank plc.
The nomdac, the board and the board of Investec Bank plc have agreed to the establishment of the Investec Bank plc audit committee.
Collectively, we believe that the change will strengthen our existing processes and make for more effective and robust decision-making given the UK regulatory environment.
The Investec Bank plc audit committee will comprise of independent non-executive directors, the majority of whom will be directors of Investec Bank plc but not the board.
The Investec Bank plc audit committee will be chaired by the banks senior independent director subject to regulatory approval, Zarina will be a member of that committee and all members of the audit committees will have the right to attend meetings.
Implementing and bedding down this new structure will be a key focus for the audit committees.
David Friedland Zarina Bassa Former chairman, audit committees Chairman, audit committees 14 June 2017 14 June 2017 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 149 Risk management and corporate governance 03 Corporate governance continued How the audit committees work Role The audit committees are an essential part of the groups governance framework to which the board has delegated the following keyfunctions: oversight of the groups financial reporting process and risks managing the relationship with the groups external auditor reviewing the groups internal controls and assurance processes, including that of internal audit.
Structure of the audit committees In terms of Investecs DLC structure, the Investec plc board has mandated authority to the PLC audit committee and the Investec Limited board has mandated authority to the INL audit committee to be the audit committees for those respective companies and their subsidiaries.
A DLC audit committee, which has responsibility for audit-related matters that are common to both Investec plc and Investec Limited, has also been formed.
In particular, the combined group annual financial statements and year-end and interim results are considered and recommended for approval to the board by the DLC audit committee.
Composition and meeting frequency To ensure continuity across the matters considered by the audit committees, the membership of the audit committees are identical.
All of the members are independent non-executive directors, whose continuing independence is assessed annually by the nomdac, who in turn make a recommendation on the members independence to the board.
The nomdac and board have formed the opinion that the audit committees have the appropriate balance of knowledge and skills in order for them to discharge their duties.
In particular, a majority of the members are chartered accountants and all members have relevant commercial experience in order for them to effectively consider the issues that are presented to the committees.
Audit committee reporting lines Investec plc and Investec Limited board of directors Investec plc and Investec Limited and Investec Bank plc DLC audit committee Investec Bank Limited audit committee audit committee Responsible for all legal and Responsible for matters that are Responsible for all legal and regulatory requirements as necessary common to the PLC and INL audit regulatory requirements as under UK legislation and listing rules committee, including the combined necessary under South African including the UK Disclosures and group financial statements and legislation and listing rules Transparency Rules 7.1.
3R and the results announcements, review of the including King III UK Corporate GovernanceCode independence and effectiveness of the external audit function, review of the going concern concept, group viability statement, review of the finance function and finance director Subsidiaries and audit sub-committees Assurance functions, including group compliance, group legal, group finance, tax, internal audit, external audit and group risk 150 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance 03 continued Audit committees Meeting schedule and attendance During the financial year ended 31 March 2017, the DLC, PLC and INL audit committees each met four times, resulting in 12meetings inaggregate.
How the committees spent their time DLC Financial reporting External audit Risk Other matters management including and internal governance controls matters 60% 25% 10% 5% PLC Financial reporting External audit matters Internal audit Risk management and internal controls Other matters including BCP, IT risk and cybersecurity including macro issues and reports from subsidiary committees 25% 25% 25% 15% 10% The agenda and meeting schedule for the audit committees meetings was such that the PLC audit committee spent more of its time throughout the annual cycle obtaining the assurance of internal control and compliance functions, which in turn allows the DLC audit committee to focus on the items which are within its mandate, including consideration of the annual financial statements and assessment of the external auditor.
Composition Members throughout the year Committee member DLC PLC since 4 meetings in the year 4 meetings in the year Eligible Eligible to attend Attended to attend Attended D Friedland 1 Mar 2013 4 4 4 4 ZBM Bassa 1 Nov 2014 4 4 4 4 LC Bowden 1 Jan 2015 4 3 4 3 K Shuenyane 8 Aug 2014 4 4 4 4 PRS Thomas 17 May 2006 4 4 4 4 Other regular attendees DLC board chairman Head of IT Head of company secretarial and Chief executive officer of the group Head of operational risk share schemes Managing director of the group Head of internal audit Group risk and finance director of the group Head of finance Head of compliance External auditors Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 151 Risk management and corporate governance 03 Corporate governance continued significant issues that have been Areas of judgement and Financial reporting discussed with the external auditor significant issues Process the clarity of disclosures and compliance The audit committees have assessed with financial reporting standards and whether suitable accounting policies have The audit committees primary responsibility in relation to the groups financial reporting been adopted and whether management other relevant financial and governance has made appropriate judgements and is to review with both management and reporting requirements.
The main areas of judgement the external auditor the appropriateness The audit committees receive reports from that have been considered by the audit and accuracy of the half-year and annual group finance and external audit at each committees to ensure that appropriate financial statements.
The committee rigour has been applied are outlined below.
In this process, amongst other matters, meetings afford the non-executive All accounting policies can be found on theaudit committees consider: directors the opportunity to discuss with pages 184 to 192. management the key areas of judgement the appropriateness of accounting applied and significant issues disclosed in policies and practices and any areas ofjudgement the financial statements.
Significant judgements and Committee review and conclusion issues Impairments The committee challenged the level of provisions made and the assumptions used to calculate the impairment provisions held by the group including assessing impairment Determining the appropriateness of experience against forecasts.
Particular focus was given to the legacy portfolio and impairment losses requires the group exposures which are affected by the current macro-economic environment.
to make assumptions based on Certain members of the audit committee attend the BRCC where impairment provisions management judgement.
are also challenged at a more granular level.
The BRCC has oversight of the governance process pertaining to impairments.
The committee was satisfied that the impairment provisions were appropriate.
Valuations Material individual positions, in particular the unlisted private equity investments, are challenged and debated by the committees with the most material noted as standing The group exercises judgement in the agenda items for each of the audit committees throughout the year.
valuation of complex illiquid financial We debated the portfolio valuation adjustment which was recorded to take into account instruments, unlisted investments and macro-economic risks on the South African private equity portfolio.
embedded derivatives, particularly the level 3 instruments within the portfolio.
At the year end, prior to the audit committee meetings the audit committee chair met with management and received a presentation on the material investments across the group including an analysis of the key judgements and assumptions used.
The audit committee approved the valuation adjustments proposed by management for the year to 31 March 2017.
Uncertain tax positions The audit committee receives regular updates on this topic from tax, group finance and legal to enable it to evaluate the appropriateness of the tax risk provision to cover existing There are certain legacy structured tax risk.
Specialist advice has also been obtained during the period.
transactions within Investec plc The audit committee analyses the judgements and estimates made and discusses the only where there is uncertainty over potential range of outcomes that might arise.
the outcome of the tax positions and judgement is required over the The committee confirmed the tax risk provisions and disclosures for the year end.
going concern of the Investec group as part the group, key processes in operation and Going concern of the annual financial statement process.
enquiries, it is reasonable for the financial One of the key roles of the DLC audit Thefollowing areas are considered in order statements to be prepared on a going committee is to review the going concern to make this statement: concern basis.
concept as presented by management and, if appropriate, make the necessary Budgets and forecasts Fair, balanced and recommendation to the boards in Profitability understandable thisregard.
Capital At the request of the board, the DLC Whilst the liquidity and solvency of the Liquidity audit committee has considered whether, Investec group is closely monitored on a Solvency.
in its opinion, the annual report and daily basis by relevant individuals in the financial statements for the year ended groups risk management division, theDLC For the year ended 31 March 2017, 31 March 2017 is fair, balanced and audit committee and board expressly theDLC audit committee recommended to consider the assumptions underlying the the board that, based on its knowledge of understandable, and whether it provides 152 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance 03 continued the information necessary for shareholders planning and execution, during their risk management, compliance and internal presentations at audit committee meetings audit including a written opinion from to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
and ad hoc meetings held with the auditors internal audit on the risk management framework, internal controls and internal throughout the year.
Senior finance function In forming its opinion, the DLC audit executives also provided feedback to the financial controls.
Outlined below are some committee has: of the key areas of focus of the PLC audit audit committees.
committee over the past year in terms of its Met with senior management to gain Independence and objectivity ongoing assessment of the adequacy of the assurance that the processes underlying groups internal controls.
the compilation of the annual financial The DLC audit committee considers the statements were appropriate reappointment of the external auditors each Internal audit year before making a recommendation to Conducted an in-depth, critical review In 2015, Grant Thornton were engaged the board and shareholders.
It assesses of the annual financial statements to complete an external review on the the independence of the external auditors and, where necessary, requested effectiveness of the internal audit function.
The external auditors amendments to disclosure.
A recommendation of this review was to are required to rotate the lead audit partner As such, the DLC audit committee has streamline the internal audit process and, every five years and other senior audit staff formed the view that the annual report and in particular, reduce the number of lower every seven years.
Partners and senior staff financial statements for the year ended level reviews.
Since then, this has been a associated with the Investec audit may only 31 March 2017 is fair, balanced and focus area for internal audit and an area be employed by the group after a cooling understandable.
of discussion at PLC audit committee off period.
The lead partners commenced meetings.
During the course of this year, their five-year rotation in 2015 and 2017. challenge at committee meetings has External audit Although Ernst & Young has been the centred on getting this balance right in The DLC audit committee has responsibility groups auditors since 2002, we continue terms of the number of audits, given the for reviewing the groups relationship with to believe that partner rotation, limitations on risk profile of business activities.
Delivery of its external auditors, including, considering non-audit services including pre-approval of the internal audit plan has been another key audit fees, non-audit services and the non-audit work and the confirmation of the area of focus by the PLC audit committee.
independence and objectivity of the independence of both Ernst & Young and Monitoring the completion of overdue audit external auditors.
the audit team are adequate safeguards findings and the resourcing of the internal to ensure that the audit process is both audit function has also been addressed.
Auditor appointment objective and effective.
Risk management Investecs external auditors at the DLC Non-audit services level are Ernst & Young LLP and Ernst & The PLC audit committee receives regular YoungInc.
Ernst & Young The audit committees have adopted a reports from operational risk, information Inc. and KPMG Inc. are joint auditors of the policy on the engagement of the external technology and compliance.
During the auditors to provide non-audit services.
Investec Limited silo and Ernst & Young course of the year, key topics that have been LLP are the auditors of the Investec plc This policy, designed to safeguard auditor discussed and debated by the PLC audit silo.
Ernst & Young have been the groups objectivity and independence, includes committee have been: guidelines on permitted and non-permitted auditors since Investecs listing on the London Stock Exchange in2002.
services and on services requiring specific Business continuity approval by the audit committees.
The DLC audit committee considers the Consideration of the impact of the London reappointment of the external auditors each The audit committees review whether office move in 2018 on the continuity of the level of non-audit fees could impact year before making a recommendation to business operations the board and shareholders.
It assesses the the independence of the auditors.
This is monitored by reference to the level of fees independence of the external auditors on Whistle-blowing paid for services, excluding services which an ongoing basis.
are required to be provided by the external Oversight of the selection of an Working with the external auditors due to their office, against the appropriate provider for Investecs whistlefees paid for the audit of the group.
Total blowing reporting line auditor audit fees paid to all auditors for the year The audit committees meet with the external Information cybersecurity ended 31 March 2017 were 10.5 million auditors to review the scope of the external 2016:8.4 million, of which 1.6 million audit plan, budgets, the extent of non-audit Received and discussed the findings of 2016: 1.8 million related to the provision services rendered and all other audit matters.
a follow-up targeted attack simulation of non-audit services.
The external auditors are invited to attend that was performed on Investec by an audit committee meetings and have access externalprovider to the audit committees chairman.
Internal controls Regulatory compliance The audit committees evaluated the The PLC audit committees has effectiveness of the auditors through responsibility for assessing the adequacy Review and monitoring of results of completion of a questionnaire which, of the groups internal controls.
To regulatory compliance reviews amongst other things, assessed the audit fulfil this responsibility the PLC audit partners, audit team and audit approach committee receives regular reports from Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 153 Risk management and corporate governance 03 Corporate governance continued Board risk and capital committee report Dear Shareholder We believe that robust As the Chairman of the board risk and capital committee the BRCC, during the financial year ended 31 March 2017, I am pleased to present you with our report.
risk management The role of the committee is to review, on behalf of the board, management systems and processes recommendations on a range of risks facing the business.
We perform this function by considering the risk reports presented and question that either no management action is are in place to support required or that existing actions taken by management following discussion are appropriate.
the group strategy The year under review presented a number of emerging economic and political risks, such as the UKs vote to leave the EU and the impact thereof on our business.
As a committee, we gained comfort in the fact that a detailed review of the risk appetite DLC board risk and capital committee limits was conducted by the executive in policy executive risk review committee Policy ERRF, who recommended the risk appetite limits to the committee for approval.
We David Friedland reviewed the risk appetite limits and challenged the assumptions contained therein.
Chairman of the BRCC Reporting to the committee focuses on the key risk disciplines of credit, operational, legal, conduct, reputational, capital, liquidity, market risk and cybersecurity.
However, due to the Key achievements in 2016 17 dynamic nature of the business environment in which Investec operates, the committee is flexible to consider other matters of relevance as they arise.
For example, the committee Review of successful targeted attack requested a number of ad hoc reports in order to adequately assess risks that are due to simulations to mitigate cybercrimerisk once off events.
Areas of focus in 2017 18 At each board meeting, Ireport on the key matters discussed at the committee.
Monitoring and continued mitigation Committee performance of risks related to cybercrime and The committees performance was considered as part of the DLC board effectiveness information security process that was conducted during 2016.
This process did not identify any areas of concern about the functioning of the committee.
Role of the Chair During the year, I met regularly with the heads of risk, as well as heads of the risk disciplines outside of formal committee meetings in order to maintain and develop my understanding of the groups operations and risks facing the business.
As with my role as audit committee chairman, I believe that these interactions are an essential part of the role of the chairman, as it provides an additional layer of assurance to help me gain comfort that these risks that are reported to the committee accurately reflect the risks facing the business.
With effect from 1 April 2017, Zarina Bassa took over the role of audit committee chairman from me.
This change will result in the DLC audit committee and BRCC being chaired by different independent non-executive directors.
Whilst these committees have met all legal and regulatory requirements from a composition and independence perspective to date, this change is viewed as providing an additional layer of independence between these committees.
It is essential that there are some synergies in membership, as such, the DLC audit committee and BRCC will continue to have some common members.
For that reason, I will continue to chair the BRCC, of which Zarina will continue to be a member.
Looking forward In the year ahead, the committee will continue to focus on matters related to information security, cybercrime and risks associated with the fast pace of regulatory change faced by the business and assessing the impact of external factors on the groups risk profile.
David Friedland Chairman, DLC BRCC 14 June 2017 154 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance 03 continued How the BRCC works Role The BRCC is an essential part of the groups governance framework to which the board have delegated the monitoring of the groups activities in relation to a number of risks and capital management.
Composition and meeting frequency The nomdac and the board have formed the opinion that the BRCC has the appropriate balance of knowledge and skills in order to discharge its duties.
BRCC Meeting schedule and attendance BRCC meets at least six times every year.
During the year ended 31 March 2017, the BRCC met nine times.
How the committee spent its time Balance sheet risk Credit risk Market risk Capital Other Including legal, operational, group insurance, conduct risk business continuity, cybercrime and IT 20% 20% 10% 25% 25% Composition Eligible to attend Attended Committee Members throughout the year member since 9 meetings in the year D Friedland Chairman Sept 2013 9 9 SE Abrahams Mar 2011 9 8 ZBM Bassa Nov 2014 9 8 GR Burger Sept 2013 9 9 H Fukuda Sept 2013 9 8 B Kantor Mar 2011 9 4 S Koseff Mar 2011 9 9 KL Shuenyane Jan 2015 9 9 B Stevenson Sept 2016 3 1 F Titi Mar 2011 9 8 PRS Thomas Mar 2011 9 7 Other regular attendees Group compliance head Investec Limited Chief risk officer Investec Limited Chief risk officer Investec plc Investec Asset Management COO Investor relations Global head of governance and compliance Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 155 Risk management and corporate governance 03 Corporate governance continued Committee activities Areas of focus Matter addressed Role of the committee Conclusions actions taken Recovery and Annual review of the recovery Questioned the contents of the The committee gained comfort resolution plan and resolution plans for recovery and resolution plans that adequate plans had been Investec plc which address how the board and put in place for a scenario management will recover from where Investec plc was extreme financial stress to avoid required to recover from extreme liquidity and capital difficulties in financialstress Investec plc Operational risk Exposure to any instance Monitored the 12-month rolling The committee gained comfort where there is potential or losses due to operational risk that operational risks were actual impact to the group events against the internal risk appropriately identified and resulting from failed internal appetite limit managed within acceptable levels processes, people, systems, or Monitored losses from single events from external events to the internal risk appetite limit for the largest loss from a single event Reviewed the overall operational risk rating for Investec plc in accordance with the operational risk tolerance policy Discussed risk appetite breaches, inparticular the remedial action taken to mitigate the risk events Reviewed significant risk exposures and interrogated the way in which management was addressing these Capital The progress plan to achieving Measured key capital ratios against The committee satisfied itself required regulatory and the internal and regulatory limits and that Investec plc was adequately internal targets and capital and what actions management planned capitalised and that progress leverage ratios to meet these ratios limits was being made towards Reviewed impending regulations on achieving impending regulatory the management of capital amendments to capital ratios Market risk Market risk capital Monitored risk appetite breaches The committee gained comfort requirements and challenged management action that it addressed breaches to which addressed these breaches limits appropriately Credit and Risk of an obligor failing Monitored the risk appetite limit and The committee challenged the counterparty risk to meet the terms of queried management action taken effectiveness of the management anyagreement in respective of breaches of such risks within the business Reputational risk Risk of damage to our Monitored events which could The committee gained comfort reputation, name or brand potentially create reputational risk that reputational risk was and addressed and ensured that mitigated as much as possible appropriate corporate governance through detailed processes practices, which require that activities, and governance escalation processes and decisions are based procedures from business units on a carefully considered principle to the board, and from regular, clear communication with allstakeholders Conduct risk Risk that detriment caused to The committee reviewed and The committee challenged the the bank, its customers, its questioned the conduct risk report effectiveness of the management counterparties or the market which is discussed at each meeting of such risks within the business as a result of inappropriate execution of business activities 156 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance 03 continued Committee activities Areas of focus Matter addressed Role of the committee Conclusions actions taken Balance sheet risk Financial risks relating to our The committee reviewed a report The committee challenged the asset and liability portfolios, which highlights bank activity, effectiveness of the management comprising market liquidity, exposures and key measures of such risks within the business funding, concentration, nonagainst thresholds and limits trading interest rate and foreign exchange, encumbrance and leverage risks Business Strategy to be able to function The committee reviewed, The committee challenged the continuity risk in the event of a disaster challenged and debated reports effectiveness of the management which highlight processes in place of such risk within the business to manage this risk Cybercrime risk Cybercrime risk is the risk the Regular reports were received The committee gained comfort group is exposed to by criminal regarding the cybercrime that the management of landscape, including lessons learnt cybercrime was given the activities carried out by means of computers or the internet from external cyberattacks necessary priority Received the targeted attack simulation results and ensured that any remediation required wascompleted Board remuneration committee report For information on the decisions taken by the board remuneration committee, refer to the remuneration report contained in Investecs 2017 integrated annual report.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 157 Risk management and corporate governance 03 Corporate governance continued Management committees A number of management committees have been established to support management in their governance of the group.
In particular, four key committees have been established to assist with the management and monitoring of the risks facing the group.
These are the: Group risk and capital committee GRCC Review executive risk review forum Review ERRF Policy executive risk review forum Policy ERRF DLC capital committee.
Each of these committees have been established by the BRCC and the reporting line back into the board is outlined below, as well as the division of responsibilities.
Investec plc Board and Limited Board BRCC GRCC Mandated by the BRCC to manage, monitor and mitigate enterprise-wide risk Review ERRF Policy ERRF DLC Capital Committee Mandated by the BRCC and reporting Mandated by the BRCC and Mandated by the BRCC and reporting into the GRCC to assist in determining reporting into the GRCC to assist into the GRCC to assist with the categories of risk, the specific risks with the review of risk management management of capital allocation and the extent of such risks the group policies and practices to ensure the and structuring, capital planning and should undertake organisation remains in line with the models, performance measurement group risk appetite and capital-based incentivisation Global forums committees Including global credit committee and group investment committee 158 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance 03 continued How we comply potential impact on the performance, Scenario modelling and rigorous daily Regulatory context liquidity and solvency of the group.
The liquidity stress tests are performed Investec operates under a dual listed activities of these board sub-committees to measure and manage the groups company DLC structure which requires and the issues considered by them are respective banking entities liquidity compliance with the principles contained in described in this governance section of positions such that payment obligations the South African King III Code of Corporate thisreport.
can be met under a wide range of company Governance Principle available at specific and market-driven stress scenarios.
Taking these risks into account, together www.
co. za and the September 2014 The objective is to have sufficient liquidity, with the groups strategic objectives and edition of the UK Corporate Governance in an acute stress scenario, to continue to the prevailing market environment, the Code available at www.
operate for a minimum period as detailed board approved the overall risk appetite in the board-approved risk appetite and We believe that sound corporate for the Investec group.
The groups risk as required by the regulators.
The groups governance depends on much more than appetite statement sets broad parameters risk appetite also requires each banking mere compliance with regulations.
Good relating to the boards expectations entity to maintain a minimum cash to conduct and ethical practice is embedded aroundperformance, business stability and customer deposit ratio of 25%, and ensure in everything that we do at Investec.
that the respective banking entities are Byacting in accordance with our values not reliant on wholesale funding to fund The board considers that prudential risk and principles, we believe that good core asset growth.
Each banking entity is management is paramount in all it does.
required to be fully self-funded.
Our banking Protection of depositors, customers businesses in both the UK and South Africa interests, capital adequacy and shareholder exceed the regulatory requirements for Statement of returns are key drivers.
To manage the the net stable funding ratio and liquidity groups risk appetite there are a number of compliance coverage ratio.
The group currently has detailed policy statements and governance 12 billion in cash and near cash assets, structures in place.
The board ensures that UK Corporate Governance Code representing 41.4% of customer deposits.
there are appropriate resources in place Throughout the year ended 31 March 2017, to manage the risks arising from running The group develops annual capital plans Investec has complied with all the provisions our business by having independent Risk that look forward over a three-year period.
of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Management, Compliance, and Financial These plans are designed to assess the Control functions.
These are supplemented capital adequacy of the groups respective by an Internal Audit function that reports Other statutory banking entities under a range of economic independently to a non-executive audit and internal conditions, with the impact on information committee chairman.
earnings, asset growth, risk appetite and liquidity considered.
The output of capital The board believes that the risk Viability statement planning allows senior management and the management systems and processes we In addition to providing a going concern board to make decisions to ensure that the have in place are adequate to support the statement, the board is required, in terms group continues to hold sufficient capital to groups strategy and allow the group to of the UK Corporate Governance Code, meet internal and regulatory capital targets operate within its risk appetite framework.
to make a statement with respect to the over the medium term i. e. three years.
The A review of the groups performance groups viability i. e. its ability to continue group targets a minimum capital adequacy measurement against its risk appetite in operation and meet its liabilities taking ratio of 14% to 17%, a common equity tier 1 framework is provided at each BRCC into account the current position of the ratio in excess of 10% and a leverage ratio in meeting and at the main board meetings.
group, the boards assessment of the excess of 6% for each of its banking entities.
In terms of the South African Reserve groups prospects and the principal risks it The parameters used in the capital and Bank SARB, the UK Financial Conduct faces.
Following confirmation by the BRCC liquidity stresses are reviewed regularly, Authority FCA and Prudential Regulation comprising a majority of non-executive taking into account changes in the business Authority PRA requirements, the group is directors, which includes members of the environments and inputs from business also required to meet regulatory standards audit committees the audit committees units.
A detailed bottom-up analysis with respect to capital and liquidity.
In terms recommended the viability statement for is performed in designing Investecs of these requirements, the group is required board approval.
The group to stress its capital and liquidity positions The board has identified the principal and also incorporates the SARB and Bank under a number of severe stress conditions.
emerging risks facing the group and these of England BoE annual cyclical stress Investecs stress testing framework is well are highlighted on pages 22 to 30. scenarios into its capital and liquidity embedded in its operations and is designed processes.
As the groups banking entities to identify and regularly test the groups key Through its various sub-committees, are regulated separately and ring-fenced vulnerabilities under stress.
notably the audit committees, the GRCC, from one another, different stress scenarios the BRCC and the capital committees, apply across the respective banking entities the board regularly carries out a robust and jurisdictions.
assessment of these risks, and their Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 159 Risk management and corporate governance 03 Corporate governance continued Investec plc runs a number of stress In assessing the groups viability, the board of risks and uncertainties arising from scenarios, some of which are briefly has taken all of the abovementioned but not limited to domestic and global highlighted below: factors, documents and processes into economic and business conditions beyond consideration.
The directors can confirm the groups control that could cause the The BoEs annual cyclical stress that they have a reasonable expectation groups actual results, performance or scenario: this scenario incorporates a that Investec will continue to operate and achievements in the markets in which it UK slowdown in GDP growth, a slump meet its liabilities as they fall due over the operates to differ from those anticipated.
in Pounds Sterling, inflation turning next three years.
The board has used a negative and interest rates in the UK three-year assessment period as this is Conflict of interest going to 0%, in addition to a significant aligned to the groups medium term capital house price fall Certain statutory duties with respect to plans which incorporate profitability, liquidity, directors conflict of interest are in force A scenario where there is an leverage and capital adequacy projections unfavourable Brexit outcome, i. e. a UK under the UK Companies Act 2006.
In and include impact assessments from a recession driving Pounds Sterling further accordance with the Act and the Articles number of stress scenarios.
The board has down, increasing inflation, house prices of Association Articles of Investec plc, assessed the groups viability in its base fall by more than a third and economic the board may authorise any matter case and down case scenarios.
Detailed growth flat lines after an initial slump.
management information therefore exists that otherwise may involve the directors In this scenario we assume that the to provide senior management and the breaching their duty to avoid conflicts international backdrop is benign with a board sufficient and realistic visibility of the of interest.
The board has adopted a mild slowdown taking place in Ireland groups viability over the next three years procedure, as set out in the Articles that and the Eurozone countries to 31March 2020 under these various includes a requirement for directors to scenarios.
In assessing the groups viability, A scenario where there is a global trade submit, in writing, disclosures detailing any a number of assumptions are built into its war and UK recession, with higher Libor actual or potential conflict for consideration, capital and liquidity plans.
In the down rates and UK house prices falling.
and if considered appropriate, approval.
case scenario these include, for example, We also carry out reverse stress tests, dividend payments being reduced and i. e. those scenarios that would cause the External directorships asset growth being curtailed.
group to breach its capital and liquidity Outside business interests of directors are requirements.
These scenarios are The viability statement should be read in closely monitored and we are satisfied that considered highly unlikely, given the groups conjunction with the following sections all of the directors are compliant with the strong liquidity position and sound capital in the annual report, all of which have UKs PRA requirements, which came into and leverage parameters.
informed the boards assessment of the effect on 1 July 2014, limiting the number of groups viability: Furthermore, the group is required to have directorships both executive and a recovery and resolution plan.
The purpose non-executive directors are permitted Pages 5 to 13 which show a strategic of the recovery plan is to document how and financial overview of the business tohold.
the board and senior management will Pages 22 to 30 which provide detail ensure that the group recovers from Dealings in securities on the principal and emerging risks the extreme financial stress to avoid liquidity group faces Dealings in securities are subject to the and capital difficulties in its separately personal account dealing policy.
Thepolicy Page 51 which highlights information on regulated companies.
is based on regulatory guidance and the groups risk appetite framework The capital and liquidity plans, stress industry practice and is updated to ensure Pages 47 to 49 which provide an scenarios, recovery and resolution plans compliance with applicable regulations and overview of the groups approach to and the risk appetite statement are industry best practice.
risk management, and the processes in reviewed at least annually.
In addition, place to assist the group in mitigating its The policy is designed to discourage senior management hosts an annual principal risks speculative trading and highlight potential three-day risk appetite process at which Pages 55, 81, 87, 90, 106 and 107 conflicts of interest between the interest the groups risk appetite framework which highlight information on the is reviewed and modified to take into of employees and the Investec group or groups various stress testing processes account risk experience and changes in any of its clients, shareholders or potential the environment.
Furthermore, strategic Pages 89 to 95 which specifically focus shareholders.
The UKLAS Disclosure and budget processes which focus on, amongst on the groups philosophy and approach Transparency Rules require us to disclose other things, the business and competitive to liquidity management transactions in shares and related securities landscape: opportunities and challenges: by all persons discharging management Pages 104 to 108 which explain the financial projections take place within groups capital management framework.
responsibilities and their connected each business division at least annually.
These include directors and This forward-looking viability statement A summary of these divisional budgets, senior executives of the group.
made by the board is based on together with a consolidated group budget, information and knowledge of the group at is presented to the board during its 14June2017.
There could be a number strategic review process early in the year.
160 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 Risk management and corporate governance Corporate governance 03 continued The Companies Act require directors to disclose any direct or indirect material interest they have in contracts, including proposed contracts, which are of significance to the companys business.
Directors are required to make these disclosures at board meetings, and all disclosures made are recorded in the minutes of that meeting.
Staff are required to undertake not to use any personal hedging strategies to lessen the impact of a reduction in value of any share award or any vested shares which are subject to a retention period following any vesting date.
Any breach of this condition will result in the lapse of any unvested proportion of such reward, unless the DLCremuneration committee determinesotherwise.
Directors dealings Directors dealings in the securities of Investec plc and Investec Limited are subject to a policy based on the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UKLA and the JSE Listing Requirements.
All directors and a company secretary dealings require the prior approval of the Compliance division and the chairman, thesenior independent director or the chairman of the audit committee.
All dealings of persons discharging management responsibilities require approval by line management, thecompliance division and the chairman.
Report to shareholders This report to shareholders has been approved and authorised for issue to the shareholders of Investec plc and Investec Limited on 14 June 2017 and signed on its behalf by: David Miller Company secretary Investec plc Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 161
