120 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT Remgro Internal Audits Quality Assurance and INDEPENDENCE AND EFFECTIVENESS Improvement Process was reviewed during the current The Committee is committed to ensuring that the year by a Big Four Independent Audit Firm and Group receives a high-quality and effective statutory found to be Generally Compliant with the audit.
It is responsible for monitoring the performance, International Standards for the Professional Practice objectivity and independence of the external auditors of Internal Auditing.
and undertakes a formal evaluation process annually.
This process involves an examination of four main The approved internal audit plan, which comprises performance criteria, namely: robustness of the audit a three-year review cycle following a risk-based process, quality of delivery, quality of reporting, and approach and, where appropriate, integration with quality of people and service.
other combined assurance providers, focussed on the revenue and receivables cycle during the On completion of the audit, all members of the reporting period.
Committee, as well as key members of the senior management team and those who regularly provide input to the Committee or have regular contact with EXTERNAL AUDIT the external auditors, were required to complete a questionnaire seeking their views.
The feedback from Key topics relating to the external audit considered by the questionnaire was collated and discussed by the Committee during the year: the Committee at the meeting held on 22 May 2017, together with opportunities for improvement.
Overall, April 2016: responses to the questionnaire were very positive, External audit plan reviewed and agreed indicating an effective external audit process.
External auditors fees reviewed and agreed Non-audit services expenditure for the 2016 17 The external auditors receive copies of all relevant financial year Committee papers and minutes of all Committee A separate meeting was held between the external meetings.
As part of the Committees assessment of auditors and independent Non-executive Directors the external auditors, separate meetings were held without the management team between the Non-executive Directors and the external May 2016: auditors, without management present.
External audit Year-end audit report and opinion Evaluation of the external auditors effectiveness of The independence of the external auditors is further external audit process enhanced by the FRCs Ethical Standard for Auditors, Review of auditors independence requiring PwC to inform the Company about any Non-audit services expenditure for the 2015 16 and significant facts and matters that may reasonably 2016 17 financial years be thought to bear on its independence or on the Non-audit services thresholds for the 2016 17 objectivity of the lead partner and the audit team.
The financial year lead partner must change every five years and the A separate meeting was held with the external quality review partner, who reviews the judgements of auditors and independent Non-executive Directors without the management team the audit team, rotates every seven years.
The auditors independence is further safeguarded by the non-audit November 2016: services policy discussed below.
External audit Half-year review report External audit plan for the 2016 2017 financial year Review of FRC Audit Quality Review EXTERNAL AUDIT PLAN A separate meeting was held with the external During the year, the Committee reviewed and approved auditors and independent Non-executive Directors the 2016 17 external audit plan, including the proposed without the management team materiality threshold, the scope of the audit, the March 2017: significant audit risks and fees.
Review of policy on independence and non-audit services by external auditors Non-audit services expenditure for the 2016 17 NON-AUDIT SERVICES financial year The Committee believes that it may be appropriate Non-audit services thresholds for the 2017 18 in certain circumstances for the Company to engage financial year its external auditors to provide non-audit services.
Pre year-end update report from external auditors A policy governing the provision of such services is in place to ensure the independence and objectivity of  LLP PwC, the external the external auditors is not compromised.
During the auditors of Mediclinic International Limited prior to the year, the Committee considered the implementation Al Noor Combination, was appointed as the external of the European Union Audit Directive and Regulation auditors of the Company in December 2015.
The lead in conjunction with the FRCs Ethical Standard for audit engagement partner from PwC is Giles Hannam Auditors, effective for the Company from 1 April 2017, who was also appointed in 2016. in respect of prohibitions, as well as the new provisions set out in the 2016 version of the Code in relation to non-audit services, and updated the Groups non-audit services policy accordingly.
AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 121 As a consequence, from 1 April 2017, the Company is COMPETITION AND MARKETS no longer making use of PwCs tax services.
Deloitte AUTHORITY STATUTORY AUDIT LLP has been appointed to provide tax advice for the SERVICES ORDER 2014 CMA ORDER Company and its Southern African operations, and As disclosed on page 121, the Company complied with AR KPMG has been appointed to provide tax advice for the mandatory audit processes and the Committee the Companys Swiss and Middle Eastern operations.
complied with the responsibility provisions set out The Committee determines the pre-approved in terms of the CMA Order relating to a putting monetary thresholds for each category of non-audit the audit services engagement on tender every services at the beginning of each financial year.
10 years: and b strengthening the accountability of the The nature of the non-audit services, the individual external auditors to the Committee, including requiring fee levels of each category and the aggregate fee that only the Committee is permitted to agree to the amount relative to the external audit fee are taken external auditors fees and scope of services: influence into account in determining these thresholds.
From the appointment of the audit engagement partner: 1 April 2017, any individual assignment with a fee make recommendations regarding the appointment exceeding 50 000 requires the Committees prior of auditors: and authorise the auditors to carry out approval.
To help maintain independence and objectivity, the policy requires that an independent partner is FRC AUDIT QUALITY REVIEW appointed to lead any non-audit services.
The Committee considered the findings from the review, undertaken by the FRCs Audit Quality Review FEES AQR team, of PwCs audit of the Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2016, which Refer to note 22 to the consolidated financial had been selected by the AQR team as part of their AR statements on page 198 for detail on the remuneration 2016 annual inspection of audit firms.
The focus of of the auditor for both audit and non-audit services the review was to identify areas where improvements undertaken during the year.
were required, rather than highlighting areas where work was performed at or above the expected level.
RE-APPOINTMENT The Committee considered the findings and discussed these with PwC.
The Committee noted that no The Committee concluded that the services provided significant areas for improvement were identified by by the external auditors were high quality and that the FRC and that it is satisfied that there is nothing in the external audit process in respect of the 2017 the FRC findings which might have a bearing on PwCs Financial Statements was effective and that the auditor re-appointment.
Accordingly, it recommended to the Board that the re-appointment of PwC as the Companys external auditors is proposed to shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
AUDIT TENDER As a result of the UKs implementation of the European Unions mandatory firm rotation requirements, and in accordance with the Committees terms of reference, the Company is required to ensure that the external auditors contract is put out to tender at least every 10 years, with the proviso that no single firm may serve as the Companys external auditors for a period exceeding 20 years.
PwC was appointed as the Companys auditors in December 2015.
It is intended that the external audit will be put out to tender no later than for the financial year commencing 1 April 2023, which is 10 years after the Companys initial listing.
122 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT governs the receipt of any invitations, gifts or donations ETHICAL CONDUCT, GOVERNANCE from suppliers or any other party.
Directors and employees AND COMPLIANCE throughout the Group are compelled to declare these to management for approval.
Staff members involved in the contracting, negotiating and purchasing of equipment or Key topics relating to governance and compliance consumables are also bound to strict ethical principles, considered by the Committee during the year: ensuring that an impeccable standard of integrity is April 2016: maintained in the Groups business relationships.
During Regulatory developments and updates as relevant the year, the Committee also adopted a Fraud Risk for each platform Management Policy, which facilitates the development of European Union Audit Directive and Regulation and controls which will assist in the prevention of fraud and review of the non-audit services policy corruption.
Annual review of policies and procedures: terms of reference of the Committee, legal and compliance The Committee reviewed reports of all material policy and internal audit mandate cases reported to the Groups whistle-blowing line resulting investigations.
May 2016: Regulatory developments and updates as relevant The Committee is responsible for ensuring Groupfor each platform wide standards are set for achieving compliance European Union Audit Directive and Regulation and with relevant laws and regulations.
During the year, review of the non-audit services policy a compliance consultant was appointed to assist the November 2016: Group with implementing a standardised risk-based Regulatory developments and updates as relevant compliance monitoring process across all business for each platform units in the Group.
Review of FRCs Ethical Standard for Auditors and non-audit services policy Review of Committees terms of reference COMMITTEE EVALUATION March 2017: The Committees performance was internally evaluated Annual review of policies and procedures: terms of reference of the Committee: legal and compliance by the Board, following discussion of the results of policy: and internal audit mandate: provision of a self-evaluation questionnaire completed by the Non-audit Services by the external auditors: Fraud Committee members.
The questionnaire focussed Risk Management Policy on the Committees role, composition and expertise and the effectiveness of Committee meetings.
The outcomes of the survey were subsequently considered The Group remains focussed on conducting its business and reviewed by the Committee and certain actions in an honest, fair and ethical manner, a principle which were agreed for implementation, aimed at enhancing is actively endorsed by the Board and management.
the overall effectiveness of the Committee.
The results The Committee oversees the Groups processes for of the Committees performance evaluation were handling the Groups Code of Business Conduct and reported to the Board at the March 2017 meeting.
Ethics and Anti-bribery Policy, which are available in Progress on the agreed actions and their outcomes will the governance section of the Companys website at be monitored by the Committee and incorporated into www.
This includes receiving regular the following performance evaluation.
feedback from the Group General Manager: Risk Management regarding incidents reported on the PRIORITIES FOR THE COMMITTEE ethics lines and the effectiveness of the lines.
The Board established a Clinical Performance and Sustainability IN 2017 18 Committee, details of which can be found on page 75 AR of the Corporate Governance Statement.
Review various ICT and other significant projects across the Group.
The Groups Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Review of ongoing integration of Al Noors provides a framework for directors and employees within operations and systems.
the Group of the standards of business conduct and ethics that is required of them, and which applies to all Implementation of new IFRS standards.
business divisions within the Group.
It serves to ensure Monitoring of Group tax compliance matters.
that the highest ethical standards are maintained in all Review internal audit work plan for 2017 18, which dealings with the Groups stakeholders.
It is available to will focus on the procurement and payment cycle all staff and communicated to new employees during plus platform projects and the platform internal their induction.
This code contains the Groups whistlefinancial control process.
blowing arrangements, which sets out the details of Monitor progress against the 2018 ERM plan.
Any employee or external Appointment of Chief Internal Audit Executive.
stakeholder can report any wrongdoing in the Group confidentially and anonymously via the ethics lines.
All Signed on behalf of the Audit and Risk Committee.
complaints are investigated in accordance with the code.
The Group adopts a zero-tolerance policy regarding unethical business conduct, in particular fraud and corruption, which is addressed in the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
The Anti-bribery Policy supports its Desmond Smith commitment to ensure compliance with all anti-bribery Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and anti-corruption laws and regulations, and strictly 23 May 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 123 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present this report, together with the continue their appointments are subject to re-election audited financial statements of the Group and the by the shareholders at the Companys annual general Company for the year ended 31 March 2017.
Accordingly, all the Directors, as together with the following disclosures incorporated provided on pages 70 to 71, excluding Jurgens Myburgh, AR by way of reference, constitute the Directors Report, will retire and seek re-election at the Companys AGM as contemplated in the UK Companies Act, and was to be held on 25 July 2017. approved by the Disclosure Committee on 23 May 2017, In terms of the Companys Articles of Association, any duly authorised by the Board: Director appointed as such by the Board of Directors Corporate Governance Statement refer to shall retire at the following AGM and shall be eligible pages 73 to 84: for election.
Accordingly, Jurgens Myburgh, who was AR appointed by the Board 1 August 2016, will also retire strategy and relevant future developments refer and seek election by the shareholders at the Companys to Our Strategy, Progress and Aims included in the AGM to be held on 25 July 2017.
AR Strategic Report on pages 24 to 29: financial risk management objectives and policies Remgro Limited, through wholly-owned subsidiaries, refer to the report on Risk Management, Principal Remgro or the Remgro Group, as the context Risks and Uncertainties included in the Strategic may indicate holds 44.56% of the issued ordinary Report on pages 30 to 36 and note 3 to the shares of the Company and is therefore regarded AR financial statements on pages 161 to 164: as a controlling shareholder of the Company, for research and development activities refer to the purposes of the Listing Rules.
The Listing Rules various activities reported on in the Strategic require that Independent Non-executive Directors of Report, such as the standardised patient a company with a controlling shareholder must be AR experience index on pages 24 to 25, the elected by a majority of votes cast by independent standardised employee engagement initiatives on shareholders, in addition to a majority of votes cast pages 28 to 29, and research by health policy units, by all shareholders in such company.
The resolutions referred to on page 31: proposed at the Companys AGM to be held on greenhouse gas emissions refer to the 25 July 2017 for the election of the Independent AR Sustainable Development Highlights included in Non-executive Directors of the Company will therefore the Strategic Report on pages 64 to 65: and the be taken on a poll and the votes cast by independent SDR Sustainable Development Report, available on the shareholders and all shareholders will be calculated Companys website at www.
Such resolutions will be passed only if a majority of votes cast by independent shareholders are corporate social responsibility and corporate social in favour thereof, in addition to a majority of votes cast investment refer to the Sustainable Development AR by all shareholders being in favour thereof.
Highlights included in the Strategic Report on pages 66 to 68: and the Sustainable Development SDR Report, available on the Companys website at POWERS OF DIRECTORS www.
The general powers of the Directors are contained DIRECTORS within relevant UK legislation and the Companys Articles of Association.
The Directors are entitled to NAMES AND BIOGRAPHIES exercise all powers of the Company, subject to any limitations imposed by the Articles of Association or The names of all the Directors who served during applicable legislation.
the reporting period are included in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 76.
Biographies of all AR the current Directors of the Company are provided on DIRECTORS INTERESTS pages 70 to 71.
The Directors shareholding and share interests in the issued shares of the Company are provided in the APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF Directors Remuneration Report on page 103.
AR DIRECTORS The rules relating to the appointment and removal of INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS the Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Company has entered into a deed of indemnity with each Director who served during the year under identical terms.
The deeds indemnify the Directors ELECTION OF DIRECTORS in accordance with the applicable laws of England against liability incurred as a Director or employee of In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate the Company or of associated entities in the Group.
Governance Code, all members of the Board wishing to In addition, the Company has put into place directors and officers indemnity insurance.
124 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT COMPENSATION FOR LOSS OF ACQUISITION OF OWN SHARES OFFICE At the Companys AGM on 20 July 2016, it was resolved that the Company was authorised to purchase the There are no agreements in place with any Director or 10 subscriber shares of 10 pence per share in the employee that provide for compensation for loss of capital of the Company from Astro II SPV at a price of office or employment resulting from a takeover, except 10 pence per share, which repurchase was concluded in that provisions of the Companys share plans may cause April 2017. options and awards granted under such plans to vest on a takeover.
Further information on Directors service The Company has no intention to complete a market contracts and their notice periods can be found in the purchase of its ordinary shares and will not seek this AR Directors Remuneration Report on page 94. authority at the Companys next AGM on 25 July 2017.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION RESTRICTIONS ON THE TRANSFER OF COMPANY SHARES The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by way of a special resolution of the In 2005, Mediclinic International RF Proprietary members.
At the AGM held on 20 July 2016, Limited previously Mediclinic International Limited shareholders approved certain amendments to the Mediclinic SA implemented a black ownership Companys Articles of Association by way of a special initiative with MP1 Investment Holdings Proprietary resolution, available in the Governance section of the Limited previously Circle Capital Ventures Proprietary Companys website at www.
Limited MP1 and Phodiso Holdings Limited The Board proposes further amendments to the Phodiso collectively, the Strategic Black Partners.
Companys Articles of Association, details of which are In September 2016, the Company entered into included in the notice of the annual general meeting to arrangements with the Strategic Black Partners to be held on 25 July 2017, in order to update the dividend formalise the basis on which the Strategic Black payment provisions to reflect guidance published Partners hold their shares in the Company.
These by the ICSA Registrars Group in March 2014.
These are in the same form in all material aspects as the amendments give the Company greater flexibility to arrangements in existence prior to the Combination of use the most relevant payment mechanisms for the Mediclinic SA with Al Noor Hospitals Group plc.
The distribution of dividends, including electronic methods.
Company now receives the direct benefit of the lock-in arrangements described below.
RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS The arrangements that originally applied to the holdings of the Strategic Black Partners in relation to Details on all related-party transactions are contained their shares in Mediclinic SA before completion of the in note 34 of the consolidated financial statements on Combination continue to apply to their holdings of page 209.
AR shares in the Company such that: in the case of the 24 582 960 shares held by SHARE CAPITAL AND Phodiso through its subsidiary Mpilo Investment SHAREHOLDERS Holdings 2 RF Proprietary Limited Mpilo 2, representing approximately 3.33% of the Companys issued share capital, disposals of such shares are STRUCTURE restricted until 31 December 2018: and The Companys ordinary issued share capital as at in the case of the 10 958 206 shares held by 31 March 2017 was 737 243 810 ordinary shares of MP1 through its subsidiary Mpilo 1 Newco RF 0.10 each which have a primary listing on the LSE and Proprietary Limited Mpilo 1, representing secondary listings on the JSE in South Africa and the approximately 1.49% of the Companys issued share NSX in Namibia.
The ordinary share class represents capital, disposals of such shares are restricted until 100% of the Companys total issued share capital.
Further information on the Companys issued share The arrangements also contain pre-emptive rights in capital can be found in note 13 to the consolidated favour of the Company which provide that, if any of the AR financial statements on pages 180 to 181. shares in the Company held by Mpilo 1 or Mpilo 2 are There are no known arrangements under which to be offered for sale, the Company will be offered the financial rights are held by a person other than the opportunity to purchase such shares or to nominate holder of the shares.
another person to purchase such shares, in each case, at a discounted price of, in relation to the Mpilo Shares acquired through the Companys share 1 shares, approximately 5% to the then market value schemes and plans rank equally with the other shares and, in relation to the Mpilo 2 shares, approximately in issue and have no special rights.
Any exercise of a right to purchase such shares the Companys employee share scheme are included AR in the Directors Remuneration Report from page 85. by the Company itself would require the approval of its shareholders.
DIRECTORS REPORT MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 125 RESTRICTIONS ON VOTING RIGHTS The Companys Articles of Association provide that, unless the Directors determine otherwise, a shareholder shall not be entitled to vote, either personally or by proxy, at any general meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by membership if: any call or other sum payable to the Company in respect of that share remains unpaid: or such shareholder, having been duly served with a notice to provide the Company with information under section 793 of the UK Companies Act, has failed to do so within 14 days of such notice, for so long as the default continues.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS As at year end and as at 23 May 2017, being the Last Practicable Date, the shareholders included in Figure 1 notified the Company, in accordance with Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, of their interest of 3% or more in the Companys issued share capital.
FIGURE 1: SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS ORDINARY % VOTING DATE SHARES RATES NOTIFIED Remgro Limited through wholly-owned subsidiaries 328 497 888 44.56% 17 02 2016 Public Investment Corporation SOC Limited as at year end 58 705 799 7.96% 02 12 2016 as at 23 May 2017 59 447 726 8.06% 12 05 2017 Coronation Asset Management Proprietary Limited as at year end 29 778 806 4.03% 02 03 2017 as at 23 May 2017 37 677 189 5.11% 11 04 2017 Mpilo Investment Holdings 2 RF Proprietary Limited 24 582 960 3.33% 13 05 2016 The Company has complied with the above PRINCIPAL SHAREHOLDER AND independence provisions and, in so far as it is aware, RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT Remgro complied with the independence provisions and the procurement obligation set out in the Relationship In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4 14, the Agreement from the effective date of the agreement.
Company has set out below a statement describing In accordance with the terms of the Relationship the relationship agreement entered into between the Agreement, for every 10% of the issued ordinary share Company and its principal shareholder, Remgro, on capital of the Company or an interest which carries 10% 14 October 2015 the Relationship Agreement, or more of the aggregate voting rights in the Company which came into effect on 15 February 2016.
As at from time to time held, Remgro is entitled to appoint 23 May 2017, the Remgro Group held 44.56% of the one Director to the Board, up to a maximum of three issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
Directors, provided that the right to appoint a third Under the Relationship Agreement, Remgro undertakes Director is subject to the requirement that the Board to comply with the following independence provisions, will, following such appointment, comprise a majority of as required under the Listing Rules: Independent Non-executive Directors.
transactions and arrangements between the If Remgros shareholding reduces to below 10% of the Company and Remgro and or its associates Companys share capital or 10% of the aggregate voting are, and will be, at arms length and on normal rights in the Company, the rights and obligations of commercial terms: Remgro in terms of the Relationship Agreement shall terminate.
The ordinary shares owned by Remgro rank neither Remgro nor any of its associates will take pari passu with the other ordinary shares in all respects.
any action that would have the effect of preventing the Company from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules: and neither Remgro nor any of its associates will propose, or procure the proposal of, a shareholder resolution that is intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
126 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT During the year, the Company, including its subsidiaries, SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS made no political payments as contemplated in the UK Companies Act.
Hirslanden has, however, made The following agreements are considered significant in payments to a number of political parties, institutions terms of their potential impact on the business of the and associations in Switzerland which totalled Group as a whole, and that could alter or terminate on CHF8 000 2016: CHF36 000.
Contributing to political the change of control of the Company: campaigns through third-party contributions is an The Relationship Agreement entered into between official and standard practice in Switzerland.
the Company and its principal shareholder, Remgro, as referred to earlier.
This agreement does not include a change of control provision, but does EMPLOYEES terminate if i the Companys ordinary shares cease to be listed and admitted to trading on the The Groups employees are a valuable asset.
The LSEs main market for listed securities: or ii the employees trust and respect are vital to Mediclinics Remgro Group, taken together, ceases to hold the success.
Listening and responding to employee needs minimum interest of 10% in the Company.
through effective communication and sound relations are important components in being regarded as an The various facilities and finance agreements of employer of choice among existing and prospective the Group are regarded as significant and contain employees, and vital to maintain an engaged, loyal change of control provisions.
Employee engagement is conducted the Company announced the completion of the through various methods, including leadership video refinancing.
The new facilities are: conferences, intranet, periodic employee surveys, South African senior bank loan totalling performance reviews, staff magazines, and staff ZAR1.2bn at an interest rate of JIBAR 1.69% with wellness and recognition programmes.
Further details a three-year term expiring in June 2019: on the Groups employee engagement is included in South African unsecured preference share SDR the Sustainable Development Report, available on the funding totalling ZAR1.5bn at a rate of 73% of Companys website at www.
the prime overdraft interest rate, with a four-year term expiring in June 2020: and Continuous training and development of the Groups United Arab Emirates bank loans of employees across all three operating platforms US$54.5m and US$100.0m at an interest rate ensures retention of staff, particularly in areas of LIBOR 2.75% with respective four-year where the skills shortage is most critical, and proper and five-year amortising terms, expiring in succession planning.
Further details on the Groups AR June 2020 and May 2021, respectively.
training initiatives can be found in the Sustainable Development Highlights on page 61 and the SDR Sustainable Development Report, available on the POLITICAL PAYMENTS Companys website at www.
The distribution of the Groups employees per Political donations are prohibited in terms of the operating platform is included on page 6, with only AR Companys Code of Business Conduct and Ethics one employee Head of Investor Relations based in and Anti-bribery Policy, unless pre-approved by the the UK.
A breakdown by gender, age and, in respect Executive Committee of the operating platform and of Southern Africa only, race in Board and senior reported to the Companys Executive Committee.
management roles as at year end is illustrated in It is therefore not the policy of the Company to make Figure 2.
The proportion of female employees in the donations to the European Union or any other political Group at year end is illustrated in Figure 3. organisations, or to incur other political expenditure and the Directors have no intention of changing this The Group values diversity and provides equal policy.
However, as a result of broad definitions used opportunities for its workplace and does not tolerate in the UK Companies Act, normal business activities any form of unfair discrimination, such as access to of the Company, which might not be considered employment, career development, training or working political donations or expenditure in the normal sense, conditions, based on gender, religion, nationality, race, may possibly be construed as political expenditure language, HIV AIDS status, sexual orientation or other or as a donation to a political party or other political form of differentiation.
Adequate procedures are in organisation and fall within the restrictions of the UK place to enable disabled applicants to receive training Companies Act.
Sponsorship, subscriptions, payment to perform safely and effectively and to provide of expenses, paid leave for employees fulfilling public development opportunities to ensure they reach their duties, and support for bodies representing the full potential.
Where an individual becomes disabled business community in policy review or reform, may during the course of employment, Mediclinic will seek fall within the scope of these matters.
The Board to provide, wherever possible, continued employment has therefore decided to propose a resolution, as in on normal terms and conditions.
Adjustments will the previous year and in line with best practice, to be made to the environment and duties or suitable authorise the Company to make political payments up new roles within the Company will be secured with to an aggregate amount of 100 000 for shareholder additional training where necessary.
consideration at the Companys AGM to be held on 25 July 2017.
DIRECTORS REPORT MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 127 FIGURE 2: RACE, GENDER AND AGE REPRESENTATION ON GOVERNANCE BODIES RACE ONLY IN RESPECT OF SOUTH AFRICA GENDER AGE YEARS Total Black White Male Female 30 50 50 number of members Number % Number % Number % Number % Number % Number % Mediclinic International Board 10 n a n a n a n a 90 90% 1 10% 2 20% 8 80% Mediclinic International Executive Committee 8 n a n a n a n a 8 100% 2 25% 6 75% Mediclinic Southern Africa Executive Committee 9 2 22% 7 78% 8 89% 1 11% 4 44% 5 56% Hirslanden Executive Committee 4 n a n a n a n a 4 100% 2 50% 2 50% Mediclinic Middle East Executive Committee 9 n a n a n a n a 7 78% 2 22% 5 56% 4 44% FIGURE 3: WORKFORCE COMPOSITION BY GENDER 2017 2016 Number % Number % Southern Africa Mediclinic Southern Africa and Mediclinic International Female 13 555 80.45% 13 654 81.12% Male 3 293 19.55% 3 178 18.88% Switzerland Hirslanden Female 7 179 76.37% 7 011 76.88% Male 2 223 26.63% 2 109 23.12% 1 UAE MCME Female 3 593 56.36% 1 504 59.99% Male 2 782 43.64% 1 003 40.01% Note 1 T he prior year gender split of Mediclinic Middle East excludes Al Noor employees.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS Each of the Directors confirms that: to the best of their knowledge and belief, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and they have taken all reasonable steps to ascertain any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
128 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT Board statement in respect of relationship EVENTS AFTER THE agreement with the controlling shareholder REPORTING PERIOD refer to the Directors Report on page 125: AR any contract of significance between the Company Since year end, no material events have taken place.
or any of its subsidiaries and a controlling shareholder none, other than the Relationship Agreement referred to on page 125: and AR GOING-CONCERN STATUS any contract for the provision of services to the Company or any of its subsidiaries by a Having considered the principal risks and the viability controlling shareholder the Remgro Group assessment, the Directors consider it appropriate provides the following services to the Company, as to adopt the going-concern basis of accounting in disclosed in note 34 of the consolidated financial preparing the financial statements, further details of AR statements on page 209: which are included in the Audit and Risk Committee AR managerial servic es, which include services Report on pages 116 to 117, and the Viability Assessment by Remgro executive management on, inter on pages 35 to 36. alia, Mediclinics strategic issues: access to facilities operated by Remgro: treasury services, DIVIDENDS including foreign exchange advice: and trademark administration services: The Board proposes a final dividend of 4.70 pence per financial, c onsulting and related administration ordinary share for the year ended 31 March 2017 for services to certain offshore subsidiaries of the approval by the Companys shareholders at the AGM to Company: and be held on Tuesday, 25 July 2017.
The salient dates for int ernal audit services are outsourced to the dividend and the tax treatment of the dividend for Remgro Internal Audit.
As previously reported shareholders on the South African register are available and referred to in the Audit and Risk Committee on the Companys website.
Report, the establishment of an in-house internal audit function to transition away The dividend policy is dealt with in the Financial from the outsourced services provided by AR Review on page 18.
Remgro Internal Audit commenced, with the Figure 4 provides a summary of the dividends declared appointment of a Chief Internal Audit Executive, by the Company to its holders of ordinary shares which is foreseen to be completed by the end of during the reporting period.
The following information required to be disclosed in 1 FIGURE 4: DIVIDEND HISTORY PENCE terms of Listing Rule 9.8.
4R is not applicable: 2017 2016 the amount of interest capitalised during the period Interim dividend 3.20 4.10 under review and details of any related tax relief: Special dividend 328.00 information in relation to the publication of Final dividend 4.70 5.24 unaudited financial information: Total dividend 7.90 337.34 any arrangements under which a Director has waived emoluments, or agreed to waive any future 1 emoluments, from the Company: Refer to the relevant dividend announcement, available on the Companys website, for the ZAR cash equivalent payable any non-pre-emptive issues of equity for cash to shareholders on the Companys South African register.
by the Company or by any unlisted major subsidiary undertaking: parent participation in a placing by a listed OVERSEAS BRANCHES subsidiary: any contract of significance in which a Director is The Company, having secondary listings on the JSE in or was materially interested: and South Africa and the NSX in Namibia, has established any waiver of dividends by a shareholder.
an overseas branch in South Africa.
For and on behalf of the Board.
REQUIREMENTS OF THE LISTING RULES Information required to be disclosed in terms of Listing Rule 9.8.
4R, as applicable, is referenced below: Dr Edwin Hertzog Non-executive Chairman details of any long-term incentive schemes 23 May 2017 refer to the Directors Remuneration Report on AR pages 85 to 107:
