78 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT FIGURE 5: PRINCIPAL BOARD ACTIVITIES continued FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE, REPORTING, TAX STRATEGY AND DIVIDEND POLICY At each Board meeting, the CFO provides a report on the Groups financial performance.
The Board reviewed and approved the interim results announcement, Annual Report and results announcement, results presentations, and trading updates, with support of the Disclosure Committee.
The Board approved the interim and final dividend declarations in terms of the Companys dividend policy and the implementation of a dividend access scheme to create a mechanism for payment to South African-resident shareholders on the South African register, as approved by the Companys shareholders in July 2016.
The Board considered and approved managements assessment of the Company as a going concern and its viability over the longer-term.
Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report on pages 116 to 117.
AR The Board considered the Groups capital structure following the Combination of Mediclinic International Limited and Al Noor Hospitals Group plc and approved the refinancing of the bridge facility associated with the Combination of the two companies, as announced in June 2016.
The Board adopted a Group tax strategy, also requiring country-by-country reporting.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS The Group Risk Manager provides feedback to the Board twice annually, providing an overview of the Groups risk appetite, risk management and internal control systems and compliance oversight.
Refer to the AR report on Risk Management, Principal Risks and Uncertainties from page 30.
The Board conducted a robust assessment and agreed the principal risks for the Group, including the management and mitigation of these risks, including the effect of regulatory developments governing tariffs.
INTERNAL AUDIT The Board monitored progress on the development of the Companys in-house Internal Audit function, to facilitate the transition away from the current outsourcing of the function to Remgro, the Companys AR principal shareholder.
Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report on pages 119 to 120.
ICT The Board considered reports from the Chief Information Officer on a regular basis.
The Chief Information Officer is also invited to once annually present a detailed ICT strategic overview to the Board.
Conducted a review of the Groups cybersecurity.
Received assurances regarding the risk factors, potential impact, existing controls and mitigants and proposed enhancements.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board considered developments in corporate governance and disclosure requirements, including the updated UK Corporate Governance Code, the updated statement by the Company in terms of the Modern Slavery Act, feedback from the Audit and Risk Committee in respect of tax and non-audit services disclosures, feedback from the Remuneration Committee in relation to executive remuneration and feedback from the Nomination Committee in relation to diversity.
The Board reviewed and approved all Group policies and procedures, including in relation to: Board Charter and committees terms of reference: authority levels and matters reserved for the Board: business conduct and ethics: anti-bribery: sustainable development and environment: Board diversity: EU Market Abuse Regulation: and tax strategy.
SUSTAINABILITY The Board approved the expansion of the role and responsibilities of the Quality Committee to also include sustainability functions from May 2016, and renamed the committee to the Clinical Performance and Sustainability Committee.
The Board considers the feedback by the committee after each committee meeting.
Refer to the Clinical Performance and Sustainability Committee Report from page 111.
