114 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT Dear Shareholder, As Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee the Committee, I am pleased to present the Committees report for the year ended 31 March 2017.
This report seeks to provide insight into the functioning of the Committee and its activities during the reporting period.
It includes an overview of the key areas of activity and principal topics covered at each meeting, together with a review of the eff ectiveness of the Companys external auditors, the Companys internal controls, risk management and combined assurance systems, a review of the eff ectiveness of the Committee, and its priorities for 2017 18.
The Committees terms of reference are available in the governance section of the Companys website at AR www.
com and are summarised on page 75 in the Corporate Governance Statement.
COMMITTEE COMPOSITION AND MEETING ATTENDANCE The composition of the Committee complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, which provides that all members should be Independent Non-executive Directors.
The Board regards each member of the Committee as having recent and relevant fi financial experience for the purposes of the Code and the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Audit Committees.
The Board is further satisfi ed that the Committee, as a whole, has the required sector-specifi c competence and that the combined knowledge and experience of its members is such that the Committee exercises its duties in an eff ective, Desmond Smith informed and responsible manner.
The composition of Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee the Committee and meeting attendance during the period under review are set out in Figure 1.
FIGURE 1: COMMITTEE COMPOSITION AND MEETING ATTENDANCE NUMBER OF DATE APPOINTED COMMITTEE AS COMMITTEE MEETINGS 1 2 NAME QUALIFICATIONS MEMBER ATTENDED Desmond Smith Committee Chairman B. Sc.
A. Hons, CA 15 02 2016 4 of 4 Seamus Keating FCMA 05 06 2013 4 of 4 Trevor Petersen B. Comm.
05 06 2013 3 of 3 Notes 1 AR Committee members biographies can be found on pages 70 to 71.
All members are Independent Non-executive Directors.
The Committee Chairman, Desmond Smith, is also the Senior Independent Director.
2 One Committee meeting was held between the Companys financial year end and the Last Practicable Date, which meeting was attended by all members.
3 Ian Tyler resigned as a Director and Committee member with effect from 21 February 2017 and therefore was only eligible to attend three Committee meetings during the year.
AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 115 The Committee continues to focus on the standardisation of the internal controls and risk management framework across the Group and the integration of Al Noor into the Groups structures, registers, reporting and processes.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the into the Groups Middle Eastern platforms financial Committee and attends all meetings.
Other attendees reporting: governance, risk and compliance processes: at Committee meetings may differ from time to aligning business practices and embedding policies time, and upon invitation from the Committee and procedures across the platform.
In addition, the include Danie Meintjes Chief Executive Officer, Committee considered and reviewed the purchase Jurgens Myburgh Chief Financial Officer, price allocation related to the reverse acquisition, Dr Edwin Hertzog Company Chairman, Pieter Uys reviewed the financial performance of the platform alternate to Jannie Durand, Gert Hattingh Chief relative to budget, and monitored the realisation of Corporate Services Officer and relevant management efficiencies and synergies from the combination of the members.
The Committee may also invite representatives two businesses.
from the internal auditors Remgro Internal Audit and At the time of the combination ANHG held a 75% external auditors  LLP and interest in Al Madar Medical Centre Group MMC  Inc.. with the remaining 25% held by the founding CEO.
Prior to the combination, the MMC network was being run as a stand-alone business.
With effect from KEY AREAS OF ACTIVITY 30 September 2016, MCME exercised the option to acquire the remaining 25% of the MMC Group and the INTEGRATION OF AL NOOR MMC network came under the management and full BUSINESS control of MCME, which included aligning the RCM function of MMC with the rest of the business and, inter The combination of the Al Noor business with alia, centralising activities relating to insurance, coding, the Groups Middle East platform, effective from billing, submission and resubmission and engaging February 2016, continued to be a key area of focus with Daman to identify corresponding billing details for the Committee during the year.
This included to facilitate the payment of claims and allocation reviewing the progress on the integration of Al Noor of receipts.
116 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORTING Key topics relating to financial reporting considered by the Committee during the year: November 2016: April 2016: Financial review of each platform, including a review Financial review of each platform, including a review of debt covenants of any tax matters and debt covenants Interim accounts and results announcement Review of accounting policies Significant accounting policies and judgements Integration of the Al Noor business into the Middle Going concern and viability assessment East platform Interim dividend Finance function review Fair and balanced review Viability statement and stress testing Key tax considerations across the Group and new Annual results planning disclosure requirements May 2016: March 2017: Financial review of each platform, including a review of debt covenants Review of pre year-end report by external auditors Review of the significant accounting policies and on accounting and auditing issues judgements Review of accounting policies Annual report and preliminary results announcement Review of tax risks and adoption of tax strategy Dividend policy, and final dividend and dividend access Integration of Al Noor business into the Middle scheme East platform Going concern and viability assessment and stress Financial function review testing Appointment of tax advisors Fair balanced and understandable review Review of viability assessment and stress testing Integration of the Al Noor business into the Middle East Group tax strategy platform Review of FRC Conduct Committee correspondence Tax matters for the Group The Committee maintained a strong focus on the integrity of the Companys financial reporting and its financial performance.
The financial results for the Group and individual operating platforms were reviewed regularly, taking into consideration tax matters and the Companys debt covenants.
The Committee considered the Companys tax disclosure obligations, including the country-by-country tax reporting, and recommended the adoption of a Group tax strategy for approval by the Board.
Following the Al Noor Combination, the Committee reviewed and recommended an amendment to the dividend policy to target a pay-out ratio of between 25% and 30% of underlying earnings.
The amendment was included in the annual financial results published in May 2016.
The Company also implemented a dividend access scheme for its South African shareholders as approved by the shareholders.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND POLICIES As part of the process for monitoring the integrity of the financial information contained in the annual and interim reports, the Committee reviewed the significant judgements and significant accounting policies adopted by management and confirmed these were appropriate.
The significant judgements identified by the management team, Committee and the external auditors are set out in the table below.
The Committee considered the following significant issues in relation to the Annual Report: SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED STEPS TAKEN BY THE COMMITTEE Finalisation of Al The Committee reviewed and considered the finalisation of the purchase price Noor purchase allocation.
price allocation The initial fair values of the opening balances were reviewed with specific consideration and aligning of the fair value and subsequent adjustment of the trade receivables balance, as of financial described in the impairment assessment below.
reporting and operational The Committee was satisfied with the disclosure of the purchase price allocation in the systems financial statements.
The Committee was satisfied with the progress management has made with the integration of the Al Noor business and noted plans for system integration and further alignment of commercial practices.
