CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 79 FIGURE 5: PRINCIPAL BOARD ACTIVITIES continued LEADERSHIP The Board approved the appointment of Pieter Uys as an alternate to Jannie Durand in April 2016, and of Jurgens Myburgh as CFO in August 2016, upon the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
The Board reviewed outcomes and agreed actions after internal self-evaluation of the Board, Board committees, the Chairman, individual Directors and the Company Secretary.
AR After the resignation of Ian Tyler, the composition of the Board committees was considered with certain amendments made, as announced in March 2017.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT In support of improved investor relations, the Board endorsed managements appointment of a Head of Investor Relations, which process was done in consultation with the Senior Independent Director at the time, Ian Tyler.
The Board considered feedback on engagement with investors, together with an analysis of the Companys share register.
The Board approved the arrangements with the Companys strategic black partners in terms of a black ownership initiative to formalise their shareholding in the Company, as announced in September 2016.
The Board seeks to construct an effective, robust, well BOARD COMPOSITION AND balanced and complementary Board, whose capability DIVERSITY is appropriate for the nature, complexity and strategic demands of the business.
The Nomination Committee The delivery of the Companys long-term strategy leads the process for Board appointments as further depends on attracting and retaining the right skills detailed in the Nomination Committee Report.
across the Group, starting with the Board of Mediclinic.
The Board and the Nomination Committee actively A list of the Companys current Directors, including consider the structure, size and composition of the their biographies, who were in office during the year Board and its committees when contemplating new and up to the date of signing the financial statements, appointments and succession planning for the year can be found on pages 70 to 71 and page 76.
A range of diversity factors will be taken into account in determining the optimum composition As at 31 March 2017 and as at the date of this of the Board and its committees, together with the report, the Board comprised the non-executive need to balance their composition and refresh this Chairman, a Non-executive Director, six Independent progressively over time.
Non-executive Directors, and two Executive Directors from wide-ranging backgrounds and with varying The Companys Non-executive Directors come industry and professional experience.
The Company from a wide range of industries, backgrounds complies with the Codes recommendation that at least and geographic locations and have appropriate half the Board should be independent.
experience of organisations with international reach.
While the Board recognises that the existing skills The Companys Chairman, Dr Edwin Hertzog, is not and expertise of the current Directors are extensive, considered to be an independent Director given the Nomination Committee continues to consider his involvement as Chief Executive of Mediclinic the appointment of additional Independent NonInternational Limited until his appointment as executive Directors to further strengthen the Board Chairman in 1992 and his position as non-executive and its committees with diverse expertise and to Deputy Chairman of Remgro Limited, the principal increase the female representation on the Board.
Nonetheless, given his No quota regarding gender balance has been imposed: in-depth industry knowledge and experience, the however, the Nomination Committee and Board remain Board considers it in the best interests of the Company committed to ensuring that the business benefits that he serves as Chairman.
Accordingly, when considering Mediclinic recognises the importance and benefits Board appointments and internal promotions at senior of having a diverse Board and believes that diversity level, the Company will continue to take account of at Board level is an essential element in maintaining relevant voluntary guidelines and the performance of a competitive advantage.
The Board considers that peer companies in fulfilling their role with regards to diversity is not limited to gender and that a diverse diversity, whilst seeking to ensure that each post is Board will include and make good use of differences offered strictly on merit to the best available candidate.
in the skills, geographic and industry experience, background, race, gender and other characteristics of Directors.
80 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT During the year, the Nomination Committee reviewed and updated its Board Diversity Policy.
The Boards diversity policy statement is set out on page 79.
For details on the diversity of the Group, including a breakdown AR by gender, age and race only for South Africa on the Board and senior management roles see the Directors AR Report on page 127.
Figure 6 provides an overview of the Boards composition and diversity in terms of gender and experience.
FIGURE 6: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK 6% 10% 6% 20% 41% 60% 6% 6% 12% 20% 90% 23% Independent Male Financial services Academia Non-executive accounting, Female Infrastructure banking, Non-executive insurance Industrials Executive Healthcare Consumer goods Technology INDEPENDENT PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORS INDUCTION AND ADVICE TRAINING All Directors may seek independent professional The Chairman, with the support of the Company advice in connection with their roles as Directors.
All Secretary, is responsible for the induction of new Directors have access to the advice and services of the Directors and ongoing development of all Directors.
Company Secretary at the expense of the Company.
Upon appointment, all Directors were provided The Company has provided for both indemnities and with training in respect of their legal, regulatory directors and officers insurance to the Directors in and governance responsibilities and obligations connection with their duties and responsibilities.
in accordance with the UK regulatory regime.
Jurgens Myburgh, as CFO, and Pieter Uys, as alternate to Jannie Durand, were appointed during the year APPOINTMENT AND TENURE and have each undertaken a comprehensive Board induction programme tailored to their individual needs All Non-executive Directors serve on the basis of letters and requirements.
The induction includes face-to-face of appointment which are available for inspection meetings with executive management and operational at the Companys registered office.
The letters of site visits to orientate and familiarise them with our appointment set out the time commitment expected industry, organisation, business, strategy, commercial of Non-executive Directors who, on appointment, objectives and key risks.
undertake that they will have sufficient time to meet their requirements.
The training needs of the Directors are periodically discussed at Board meetings and briefings are The Non-executive Directors are appointed for a term arranged on issues relating to corporate governance of three years, subject to earlier termination, including and other areas of importance.
provision for early termination by either the Company or the Non-executive Director on three months notice.
The Board is kept up to date on legal, regulatory and governance matters at Board meetings.
Additional training is available on request, where appropriate, so that Directors can update their skills and knowledge as applicable.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 81 DIRECTOR ELECTION BOARD RE-ELECTION The Board self-evaluation questionnaire was based around the five main principles of the Code, namely: In accordance with the Companys Articles of leadership, effectiveness, accountability, remuneration Association, a Director appointed during the year, and relations with shareholders.
The Board identified should stand for election at the first annual general no material areas for improvement, but confirmed meeting subsequent to such appoint, and other the need to address the composition of the Board Directors must retire by rotation and seek re-election through the appointment of two further Non-executive by shareholders every three years.
However, the Code Directors, which is currently receiving attention as requires that all directors of FTSE350 companies indicated in the Nomination Committee Report on should stand for re-election annually.
Jurgens Myburgh, who was appointed as a Director from 1 August 2016, will stand for election at the Companys annual general meeting to be held on BOARD COMMITTEES 25 July 2017: and all other Directors will stand for annual re-election at the meeting.
Taking into account the The results of the self-evaluation of the Board result of an internal Board evaluation which was carried committees, together with the Committees proposed out during the year and following recommendations recommendations, were discussed by the Board.
Details from the Nomination Committee, the Board considers of the results of the performance evaluation of the that all Directors continue to be effective, committed to Boards committees and actions planned for the next their roles and have sufficient time available to perform year are set out in the individual committee reports.
their duties and therefore recommends the election and re-election of these Directors to the Board.
CHAIRMAN Mr Desmond Smith, as the SID, met privately with the DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF Non-executive Directors to appraise the performance INTEREST of the Chairman, taking account of the views of the Executive Directors and subsequently discussed the In accordance with the UK Companies Act and the results with the Chairman.
A high-level summary of the Companys Articles of Association, the Board may evaluation of the Chairman was presented at the Board authorise any matter that otherwise may involve any meeting held in March 2017. of the Directors breaching his or her duty to avoid conflicts of interest.
The Board adopted a procedure to address these requirements, which includes the INDIVIDUAL DIRECTORS Directors completing detailed conflict of interest The Chairman met with each Non-executive Director questionnaires on appointment.
The matters disclosed to discuss their contributions and performance, in the questionnaires are reviewed by the Board together with their training and development needs following the Directors appointment and annually and presented his feedback to the Board.
The Board thereafter and, if considered appropriate, authorised concluded that the individual Directors have fulfilled in accordance with the Act and the Articles.
Any new their duties and provide a valuable contribution to the conflicts of interest are disclosed to the Board as soon effective functioning of the Board.
as they arise, for consideration.
INDEPENDENCE OF DIRECTORS EVALUATION OF THE BOARD, COMMITTEES, CHAIRMAN, The Board considered the independence of the Independent Non-executive Directors, upon INDIVIDUAL DIRECTORS AND THE recommendation of the SID, taking into consideration all relevant relationships and circumstances.
As COMPANY SECRETARY disclosed earlier in this report, Dr Edwin Hertzog and Jannie Durand are not regarded as independent, During the year under review, the Board conducted an owing, respectively, to their previous relationship evaluation to review performance and effectiveness with the Company and its principal shareholder.
The of the Board, as a whole, the Board Committees, Board considers all the other Non-executive Directors the Chairman, individual Directors and the to be independent in character and judgement independence of the Independent Non-executive and free from any business or other relationship Directors.
The evaluation process was conducted or circumstances that could potentially materially internally by way of interviews and self-evaluation interfere with the exercise of their respective and collective independent judgement.
The results of the evaluation of the Board committees were considered by the relevant committee prior to their presentation, together with all COMPANY SECRETARY other evaluations, for discussion at the Board meeting held in March 2017.
As part of the annual evaluation of the Board, the Company Secretary was also evaluated.
The Board is of An externally facilitated performance evaluation will be the opinion that the Company Secretary is competent conducted next year and every three years thereafter.
and has the requisite qualifications and experience to effectively execute its duties.
82 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT ACCOUNTABILITY ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE Conducting business in an honest, fair and legal manner INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK is a fundamental guiding principle in Mediclinic, which MANAGEMENT is actively endorsed by the Board and management, ensuring that the highest ethical standards are The Group has a comprehensive system of internal maintained in all our dealings with stakeholders.
controls in place, designed to ensure that risks are The Groups commitment to ethical standards is set mitigated and that the Groups objectives are attained.
out in the Groups values, and is supported by the The Board recognises its responsibilities to present Companys Code of Business Conduct and Ethics a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Ethics Code which is available on the website at the Groups position and prospects.
The Ethics Code provides a for reviewing and approving the effectiveness of framework of the standards of business conduct internal controls operated by the Group, including and ethics that are required of all business divisions, financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk directors and employees within the Group in order to management.
The Board recognises its responsibility in promote and enforce ethical business practices and respect of the Groups risk management process and standards throughout the Group.
The Ethics Code system of internal control, and, oversees the activities is available to all staff and communicated to new of the Groups external auditors and the Groups risk employees as part of the on-boarding process.
management function which have been delegated to the Audit and Risk Committee.
A review of the Groups Compliance with relevant laws, regulations, accepted risk management approach is further discussed in the standards or codes is integral to the Groups Strategic Report on pages 2 to 68.
For detail on the risk management process and is monitored in management and mitigation of each principal risk accordance with the terms of the Groups Regulatory see pages 31 to 33.
The Groups viability statement is Compliance Policy.
Please refer to pages 114 to AR 122 for further detail in relation to the Audit and Risk SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING Committees role.
The Groups governance structure of risk management The Board has considered the Companys slavery and is illustrated in Figure 7. human trafficking statement for the year under review, as required in terms of the Modern Slavery Act 2015, reporting on the steps the Group has taken to ensure that slavery and human trafficking does not take place.
FIGURE 7: GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE OF RISK A link to the Companys slavery and human trafficking statement can be found on the home page of the Companys website at www.
Board of Responsible for the Directors Groups system of corporate governance, FRAUD AND CORRUPTION strategy, risk management and financial performance The Group adopts a zero-tolerance policy to unethical business conduct, in particular fraud and corruption, Audit Responsible for reviewing which is addressed in the Groups Ethics Code and and Risk and approving the adequacy the Anti-bribery Policy.
Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee and effectiveness of the Committee Report on page 122 for an overview of the AR Groups risk management Groups approach to fraud and corruption.
and internal controls COMPETITION LAWS Corporate Supports the CEO in executive managing the Groups The Group supports and adheres to the relevant team business and activities competition and anti-trust laws applicable in the various countries in which the Group operates.
These Operating Responsible for identifying, laws are complex and the Group has issued guidelines platforms assessing, implementing and to its employees on competition law compliance within managing risks within their their relevant jurisdiction, which are reviewed and businesses updated at least annually.
The South African Competition Commission is undertaking a market inquiry into the private healthcare sector in South Africa.
Mediclinic is participating in the inquiry, with the assistance of expert competition attorneys and advocates who guide Mediclinic through the process, as referred to in the Divisional Review of Mediclinic Southern Africa on page 49.
AR No legal action for anti-competitive, anti-trust or similar conduct was instituted against the Group during the year under review.
Accountability for monitoring Responsibility for implementing CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 83 Information security policies and controls are in INFORMATION AND place throughout the Group regulating, inter alia, COMMUNICATIONS TECHNOLOGY the processing, use and protection of own and GOVERNANCE third-party information.
This is further entrenched through ongoing user training, security awareness Mediclinic has an extensive information and programmes and certification courses in information communications technology ICT environment security.
Flows of personal data across country borders that acts as an enabler of its business strategies and are dealt through formal arrangements in line with operations.
The core business information systems country-specific legislation.
There were no material cover clinical processes, revenue cycle management information security or data privacy incidents during and patient administration.
The SAP ERP back-office the year under review.
systems support, inter alia, the finance, accounting, human resources management and procurement functions.
An enterprise data warehouse enables REMUNERATION advanced analytics activities as well as providing data for decision support.
Lastly an extensive office The Board has established a Remuneration Committee automation environment exists which enables both to assist with discharging its responsibility in relation on-premise and mobile working, as well as collaboration to Board and executive remuneration.
A report on the and communication within and across the Mediclinic activities of the Committee, including its composition business platforms.
A global network enables data and key responsibilities, is included from page 85.
AR flows and communication between the Groups operating platforms.
Major ICT-related projects in RELATIONS WITH STAKEHOLDERS the pipeline, which include various SAP projects, an electronic health record system and the introduction of a global HR system.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT ICT governance is done in context of the Groups overall Mediclinic recognises its accountability to its corporate governance and specifically the Groups risk stakeholders.
Effective communication with management structures and processes.
Central to ICT stakeholders is fundamental in maintaining Mediclinics governance is the Groups ICT Steering Committee, corporate reputation as a trusted and respected various ICT architecture management committees at provider of healthcare services and positioning itself the operating platforms.
The ICT Steering Committee is as a leading international private healthcare group.
The a sub-committee of Companys Executive Committee Groups key stakeholders, methods of engagement, and membership consists of the Groups CIOs, various topics discussed or concerns raised are outlined in the Group ICT architects and key functions such as Risk SDR Sustainable Development Report, available on the Management, Finance and the Enterprise Project Companys website at www.
This committee focuses on collaboration, standardisation and synergies across the various ICT entities in the Group by way of: SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT setting information security related policies and Responsibility for shareholder relations rests with standards: the Chairman, CEO, CFO, SID and Head of Investor developing and reviewing ICT risk profiles: and Relations.
Collectively, but mainly through the CEO, providing assurance regarding information and CFO and Head of Investor Relations, as referred to on cybersecurity, data protection and privacy, as page 73, they ensure that there is effective, regular AR well as access control, change management and and clear communication with shareholders on disaster recovery.
matters such as operational performance, regulatory changes, governance and strategy.
In addition, The ICT Steering Committee is supported by the they are responsible for ensuring that the Board Groups Information Security Architecture Committee, understands the views of shareholders on matters such consisting of the Information Security Officers of the as governance and strategy.
The Board is supported Group and the operating platforms.
The proceedings by the Companys corporate brokers with whom it is of this committee are informed by information security in constant dialogue.
The Disclosure Committee also best practices sourced from Gartner, ISACA, CoBIT 5, assists the Board to ensure the timely and accurate ITIL, ISO27001 and the South African King IV Report disclosure of all information that is required to be so on Corporate Governance.
disclosed to meet the legal and regulatory obligations The Groups risk management system is used to and requirements arising from its listing on the LSE.
capture and track all ICT risks, audit findings, actions and responsibilities.
Mediclinic employs a wide range of technology capabilities to safeguard its ICT installation, its ICT users and connections to other external ICT systems to ensure business continuity.
84 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT During the year, following the appointment of the The Group continually looks for ways to improve Groups Head of Investor Relations in London, a formal its use of online channels to communicate with our programme was established for engaging with the stakeholders through the corporate website and capital markets.
This programme included regular webcasting.
investor meetings, attendance at investor conferences, roadshows, presentations and ad hoc events with 2017 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING investors, sell-side analysts and sales teams.
Over the year under review, senior management and The Companys annual general meeting will take place the Head of Investor Relations have met some 200 at 15:00 British Summer Time on Tuesday, 25 July 2017 institutions and participated in 18 roadshows, investor at the Rosewood London Hotel, 252 High Holborn, conferences and ad hoc capital market events across London, WC1V 7EN, United Kingdom.
All ordinary the UK, South Africa, North America, UAE and Asia.
shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote, A breakdown of the fund manager style and geographic in person or by proxy.
The Notice of Annual General holdings as at year end are provided in Figure 8 and Meeting can be found on the investor relations section AGM Figure 9 respectively.
The CEO, CFO and Head of the Companys website at www.
com, and of Investor Relations provide regular feedback to is being posted in a separate booklet at the same time the Board on investor relations matters, including, as this Annual Report.
The Notice of Annual General inter alia, an overview of meetings held with investors.
Meeting sets out the business of the meeting and Shareholders can access details of the Groups provides explanatory notes on all resolutions.
Separate results and other news releases through the London resolutions are proposed in respect of each substantive Stock Exchanges Regulatory News Service and the issue.
The annual general meeting is the Companys Johannesburg Stock Exchange News Service.
In principal forum for communication with private addition, the Group publishes the announcements shareholders.
The Chairman of the Board and the in the Investor Relations section of the Groups Chairmen of the Board committees, together with senior website at www.
Shareholders and management, will be available to answer shareholders other interested parties can subscribe to email questions at the meeting and the Directors encourage news updates by registering online on the website.
shareholders to participate at the event.
FIGURE 8: STYLE OF FUND MANAGER FIGURE 9: GEOGRAPHIC HOLDING BREAKDOWN 4% 1% 3% 4% 45% 8% 45% Corporate Remgro 7% South Africa GARP 10% Rest of Africa 8% Value and growth United Kingdom Hybrid North America 9% Growth Western Europe Retail and Nordic 11% Value 33% Other Other 3% 12% DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 85 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT LETTER FROM THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN Dear Shareholder, Mediclinic became a FTSE-listed company as a result of the Combination with Al Noor Hospitals in February 2016.
Leading up to the Combination, a new Directors Remuneration Policy was put to shareholders and approved in December 2015.
The policy, based largely on the previous Al Noor policy, was designed to provide flexibility to meet the needs of the new entity.
Having completed a full year working with this policy, we are now in a better position to draft a policy that is more specifically shaped to our needs.
No substantial changes are required, since there is no proposed change to either the structures with which we remunerate our executives or their levels of pay.
However, there are a number of more detailed provisions which we wish to amend, where the existing drafting does not reflect how we wish to implement the policy.
The revised Remuneration Policy, contained within this report, will be subject to a binding vote by shareholders at the Companys AGM on 25 July 2017.
Following approval, it would become formally effective from the date of the AGM.
I am also pleased to present the annual Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2017, which will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM.
This sets out the remuneration decisions taken in the year and, in the remainder of this letter, I aim to set these decisions in the context of the Companys performance this year.
PERFORMANCE AND REWARD OVER THE REPORTING PERIOD Performance for the Executive Directors short-term incentive STI was calculated on a weighted average of the Companys three operating platforms in Southern Africa, Switzerland and the Middle East.
For each platform, underlying EBITDA is the primary measure, underpinned by clinical and patient quality conditions which can reduce the bonus earned.
Hirslanden, our largest platform, performed strongly, exceeding the maximum target for financial performance combined with strong outcomes on patient satisfaction.
Our business in Southern Africa also performed well, delivering EBITDA in line with expectations and fair performance on other measures.
In the Middle East, performance was impacted significantly by a major regulatory change affecting the Abu Dhabi business as well as operational challenges in this business.
The Company has been focused on resolving these issues and stabilising performance in the Middle East, and our confidence in the long-term growth opportunities of the region remains strong.
Taking performance across all three platforms into account, the STI outcome for the reporting period for the Executive Directors was 55.93% of maximum, as described in more detail on AR pages 99 to 100.
During 2016, long-term incentive awards LTIP were granted to the Executive Directors, subject to total shareholder return and earnings per share performance conditions over three years.
No long-term incentive awards vested during the year, since outstanding awards vested at the time of the Combination.
PROPOSED REMUNERATION POLICY 2017 As mentioned above, following a review of the existing Directors Remuneration Policy, the Remuneration Committee have proposed a revised policy to better reflect the way in which the Company operates postCombination.
Changes have been made to the operation of the annual STI and the LTIP awards to specify how the share-based elements of these awards will operate where we cannot use shares.
In order to continue to build long-term alignment of the Directors interests with shareholders, when we cash settle awards, there is a requirement to purchase shares with the net proceeds of the award and hold those shares until the individual has reached the share ownership guideline.
In this way, we ensure the continued alignment even where we cash settle awards for technical reasons.
Other changes include more specifically on clawback, malus and post-vesting holding periods.
We believe that the proposed approach for 2017 underpins our strategy and values as a Company, and will enable us to continue to operate effectively throughout our markets.
We trust that you will support both resolutions at the AGM on 25 July 2017.
Trevor Petersen Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 23 May 2017 86 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY INTRODUCTION This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the remuneration policy for the Company and has been prepared in accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
The policy has been developed taking into account the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code and takes account of the views of our major shareholders and proxy agencies, as expressed during previous engagement on remuneration matters.
The Remuneration Policy will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the AGM on 25 July 2017 and, subject to approval, the new policy will take formal effect from that date replacing the previous policy approved by shareholders on 15 December 2015, which can be found on the Companys website at www.
com contained in the 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements on pages 75 to 81.
It is intended that the policy will be in force for a period of three years from the date of approval.
PROPOSED CHANGES TO POLICY ELEMENT OF PAY SUBSTANTIAL PROPOSED CHANGES Annual short-term incentive To reflect more clearly the current operation of the bonus deferral, its STI treatment has been formalised as follows: Half of the bonus paid will be deferred in shares for two years, with vesting subject to continued employment.
Deferred shares may be settled in cash.
To strengthen alignment with shareholder interests where an award is settled in cash and a Director has not yet met the share ownership guidelines, this cash must be used to purchase shares in the Company.
We have also included reference to the malus condition we have in operation.
Long-term Incentive Plan We have not made any fundamental changes to the LTIP, but we have LTIP updated the policy to reflect more clearly the current operation.
Similar to the deferred portion of the annual STI, awards will be made in shares, but may be cash settled.
Executive Directors awards will be subject to a post-vesting holding period of two years.
Increased flexibility is included in the selection of performance measures for the LTIP.
Share ownership guidelines We have made no changes to the practice around share ownership guidelines, but these were previously not included in the policy table.
The rationale for change is to align the policy more specifically to the current operation of the STI and the LTIP.
Further, the requirement to hold shares facilitates Executive Directors building a shareholding in the business and therefore aligns management with shareholders interests and the Groups performance, without encouraging excessive risk taking.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 87 POLICY OVERVIEW CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Committee is responsible, on behalf of the Board, for establishing appropriate remuneration The Company is committed to maintaining open arrangements for the Executive Directors and other and transparent dialogue with its shareholders.
senior management in the Group.
The Committee engages regularly in a process of investor consultation.
In setting the Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors, the Committee will ensure that the structures The Committee considered shareholder feedback in are in the best interest of both the Group and its relation to the Directors Remuneration Report for shareholders, by taking into account the following the prior year at its first meeting following the annual general principles: general meeting.
This feedback, as well as any additional To lead our chosen markets in medical quality by feedback received during any other meetings with attracting, retaining and motivating the best person shareholders, was considered as part of the Companys for each position, without paying more than is annual review of remuneration arrangements for the necessary.
Where appropriate, the Committee will actively engage with shareholders and shareholder To ensure total remuneration packages are representative bodies, seeking views which may be simple and fair in design so that they are valued considered when making any decisions about changes by participants.
to the Directors Remuneration Policy.
To ensure that the fixed element of remuneration is determined with reference to the location in which The Committee considers the annual general meeting the executive operates and the broader international to be an opportunity to meet and communicate with market, taking account of individual performance, shareholders, giving investors the opportunity to raise responsibilities and experience: and that a significant any issues or concerns they may have.
In addition, the proportion of the total remuneration package is Committee will seek to engage directly with major linked to financial performance.
shareholders and their representative bodies should To balance performance pay between the any material changes be made to the Directors achievement of financial performance objectives Remuneration Policy.
and delivering sustainable stock market out-performance: creating a clear line of sight between performance and reward and providing a focus on sustained improvements in profitability and returns.
To provide performance-related pay linked to share price and with a requirement to hold shares to facilitate senior management to build a shareholding in the business and therefore, aligning management with shareholders interests and the Groups performance, without encouraging excessive risk taking.
88 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT SUMMARY OF THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY The following table sets out the key aspects of the Directors Remuneration Policy.
PURPOSE ELEMENT AND LINK TO MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE OF PAY STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY CRITERIA Base To attract, retain Normally reviewed annually by There is no Not applicable compensation and motivate the Remuneration Committee prescribed maximum talented the Committee or in annual increase individuals who the event of a change in The Committee are critical to the an individuals position or takes into account Groups success responsibilities and typically remuneration levels effective from 1 April in comparable Base compensation levels are organisations in set to reflect the experience geographies in and capabilities of the which the Company individual and the scope and operates and in scale of the role which it competes for talent Increases to base compensation reflect individual Ordinarily, annual performance and the pay and salary increases conditions in the workforce would be no more than the average annual increase of the Company in the same geographical location in which the Director is domiciled.
However, in exceptional circumstances a higher level of increase may be awarded for example: assumed additional responsibility, an increase in the scale or scope of the role or in the case of a new executive, a move towards the desired rate over a period of time where salary was initially set below the intended positioning Annual shortTo encourage Performance targets are Maximum At least 75% of the term incentive and reward reviewed annually by the opportunity of STI will be based 1 STI delivery of the Committee, are linked to 150% of base on Group financial Groups annual strategic objectives, and are compensation performance and financial and appropriately demanding, or the financial operational taking into account economic performance of objectives conditions and risk factors the component platforms of the To align with Half of the bonus paid will Group.
May also shareholder risk be deferred in shares for two include non-financial and reward years, subject to continued measures e. g. employment clinical excellence Deferred shares may be settled Performance below in cash.
Where awards are cashthreshold results settled and a Director has in zero payment.
not yet met the share Payments increase ownership guidelines, this from 0% to 100% cash must be used to purchase of the maximum shares in the Company opportunity for levels Dividends that accrue on the of performance shares under the deferred between threshold bonus will be paid in cash at and maximum the time of vesting performance targets 3 Clawback and malus provisions will apply for overpayments due to misstatement, misconduct or error DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 89 PURPOSE ELEMENT AND LINK TO MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE OF PAY STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY CRITERIA Long-term To balance Annual awards denominated in Maximum Performance Incentive Plan performance shares with vesting dependent opportunity of measures will include 2 LTIP pay between on the achievement of 200% of base earnings per share achieving performance conditions over compensation EPS and relative financial a three-year period total shareholder performance return TSR which, Executive Directors will be objectives in combination, will required to hold vested awards and delivering account for no less for two years sustainable stock than 75% of the Awards may be settled in cash, market outtotal award with the cash payment taking performance The Committee may account of the share price To encourage introduce a new movement during both the share ownership measure or measures vesting and holding periods and align with which is aligned Where awards are cash settled shareholders with the Companys and a Director has not yet met strategic objectives: the share ownership guidelines, any such measures this cash must be used to will account for no purchase shares in the Company more than 25% of Performance targets are the total award reviewed annually by the No more than 25% of Committee and are set an award will vest for according to economic outlook achieving threshold and risk factors prevailing at performance, the time, ensuring that such increasing pro rata targets remain challenging in to full vesting for the circumstances, and realistic achieving maximum enough to motivate and performance targets incentivise management Dividends that accrue during the vesting and holding periods will be paid in cash, to the extent that awards have vested 3 Clawback and malus provisions apply for overpayments due to misstatement, misconduct or error Pension To help recruit Participation in a defined Directors can Not applicable retirement and retain contribution pension scheme receive a Company benefits high-performing contribution of Executive up to 10% of Directors base salary To provide employees with longterm savings via pension provisions Benefits To provide Benefits may include but are Actual value of Not applicable a marketnot limited to: benefits provided competitive level private medical insurance of benefits to death and disability ensure Executive insurance Directors wellleave and long-service being awards Other ancillary benefits, including relocation and an allowance towards reasonable fees for professional services such as legal, tax and financial advice Reasonable business expenses e. g. travel, accommodation and subsistence will be reimbursed and in some instances the associated tax will be borne by the Company 90 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT PURPOSE ELEMENT AND LINK TO MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE OF PAY STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY CRITERIA Non-executive Set to attract, In consultation with Executive As for the Executive Not applicable Directors fee retain and Directors, the Chairman of the Directors, there motivate Board will review periodically, is no prescribed talented or, in the event of a change maximum annual individuals in an individuals position or increase.
The through the responsibilities if appropriate Chairman of the provision Board and the Fee levels are set at market of market Executive Directors rates, responsibility and time competitive fees are guided by the commitments, and the pay and general increase conditions in the workplace for the broader Reasonable business expenses workforce.
In certain e. g. travel, accommodation circumstances and subsistence will be the Chairman of reimbursed and in some the Board may instances the associated tax recognise an will be borne by the Company increase, such as additional responsibility, or an increase in the scale or scope of the role Share Alignment Executive Directors are Not applicable Not applicable ownership of Executive expected to build and maintain guidelines Directors a shareholding in the Company interests Where awards are cash settled with those of and a Director has not yet shareholders met the share ownership guidelines, this cash must be used to purchase shares in the Company Until this threshold is achieved Executive Directors are normally required to retain no less than 50% of the net of tax value from vested LTIP, Deferred Bonus DB or other awards The level of shareholding guidelines will be detailed in the annual report each year The Committee will review Executive Directors shareholding annually in the context of this policy.
Notes 1 The annual STI is focused predominantly on key financial performance indicators, to reflect how successful the Group is in managing its operations.
The balance is determined based on Executive Directors performance against annual Group operational targets, including measures of clinical excellence.
The Executive Directors STI is calculated on Group EBITDA performance and or the combined financial EBITDA performance and other financial and strategic business targets of the three platforms, weighted relative to their respective EBITDA contribution.
The structure of the Executive Directors Pay Policy on annual STIs is generally in line with the policy for remuneration of management within the Group, although the levels of award will be different.
The performance measures that apply to management are based on the respective platform EBITDA performance and platform-specific operational targets, including measures of clinical excellence.
The annual STI awards for management are paid in cash with no deferral.
2 The LTIP rewards significant long-term returns to shareholders and long-term financial growth.
Targets are set on sliding scales that take account of internal strategic planning and external market expectations for the Company.
Modest rewards are available for achieving threshold performance with maximum rewards requiring substantial out-performance of challenging strategic plans approved at the start of each year or on the date of award, as the case may be.
The Committee operates long-term incentive LTI arrangements for the Executive Directors and key senior management in accordance with their respective rules, the Listing Rules and the rules of relevant tax authorities where relevant.
The Committee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of the plans.
These include but are not limited to the following: number of participants: timing of the grant and or payment of award: the size of an award up to plan limits and or payment:
