Governance The role of the Board Leadership and its committees Board Collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Group.
With due regard to the views of shareholders and other stakeholders including its customers, communities, employees and partners, it provides leadership and direction to the business as a whole.
This includes establishing the culture, values and ethics of the organisation: setting strategy and overseeing its implementation ensuring only acceptable risks are taken: and responsibility for corporate governance and the overall financial performance of the Group.
Audit Committee Reviews and is responsible for oversight Nomination Committee of the Groups financial and narrative Reviews the structure, size and composition reporting processes and the integrity of Remuneration Committee of the Board and its Committees and the financial statements.
It scrutinises the Reviews and recommends to the Board makes recommendations to the Board work of the external auditor and valuer the executive remuneration policy and accordingly.
It has oversight responsibility and any significant judgements made by determines the remuneration packages of for succession planning of the Board and management.
It regularly reviews the risk the Executive Directors and other members Senior Management and leads the process management framework, including the of the Executive Committee.
It also has for new Board appointments.
It monitors systems of risk management and internal oversight of the Groups remuneration developments in corporate governance and control, and the work of internal audit.
Executive Committee An advisory committee that operates under the direction and authority of the Chief Executive and which comprises senior management from across the business see page opposite.
It sets the Vision for the Group and determines the strategy and culture of the Group in support of the Vision.
It assists the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer in preparing and agreeing strategy, operating plans, budgets, policies and procedures, and managing the operational and financial performance of the Group.
It also addresses other key business and corporate related matters, including competitive forces, risk and reputation management, branding, resource allocation, succession planning, organisational development and employee remuneration.
Chief Executive Responsible for leadership of the Group and articulation of the Groups Vision, together with developing and implementing strategy, managing the overall performance of the business and ensuring an effective and motivated leadership team is in place.
He can approve transactions with a value between 10m and 20m.
Asset and Liability Health, Safety and Committee Security Committee Responsible for Sustainability Responsible for Investment Committee considering the impact of London and Retail Committee overseeing the Groups Responsible for considering proposed sales, purchases, Executive Committees Responsible for developing health and safety policy and approving significant developments and debt Responsible for the and implementing the and operations, security investment transactions, funding arrangements financial, operational and Groups sustainability governance, policy and including the acquisition, on the Groups balance strategy, linked to procedures at all Group disposal and development governance performance sheet and internal control and integrated with properties, performance of assets with a value of the London and Retail metrics over the short the Groups overall against targets and of between 20m and business portfolios.
It also reviews Committee can also considers the likely impact doing so, it also considers and recommends higher approve transactions up of macro-economic environmental, social, value transactions to the to a value of 10m.
developments on the economic and energy Board.
It is responsible for business.
From 1 April issues affecting the implementing the annual 2017, this Committee will business.
funding strategy approved be subsumed into the by the Board.
Matters reserved to the Board and delegated authorities The matters reserved to the Board and the terms of reference The Board and each Committee receive sufficient, reliable and In order to retain control of key decisions and ensure there for each of its Committees, which are reviewed on an timely information in advance of meetings and are provided is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the annual basis, can be found on the Companys website at with or given access to all necessary resources and expertise to Company between the running of the Board and the running www.
Any matters outside of these fall within enable them to fulfil their responsibilities and undertake their of the Companys business, the Board has identified certain the Chief Executives responsibility and authority.
He reports duties in an effective manner.
reserved matters that only it can approve.
Other matters, on the activities of all Management Committees through responsibilities and authorities have been delegated to its his and the Chief Financial Officers regular reports to Committees and certain Management Committees, as above.
Landsec Annual Report 2017 61 Management committees Board committees Board Board composition and roles Table 28 The Board currently comprises a Non-executive Chairman who was independent on appointment, two Executive Directors and seven Independent Non-executive Directors.
They are advised and supported by the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Their key responsibilities are as set out in the table below: Chairman Dame Alison Carnwath Responsible for leading the Board, its effectiveness and governance and for monitoring and measuring progress against strategy and the performance of the Chief Executive.
Ensures Board members are aware of and understand the views and objectives of major shareholders and other key stakeholders.
Maintains a culture of openness and debate and helps set the tone from the top in terms of the purpose, vision and values for the whole organisation.
Chief Executive Robert Noel Responsible for developing the Groups strategic direction for consideration and approval by the Board, implementing the agreed strategy, running the business day-to-day and leading the executive team.
Maintains a close working relationship with the Chairman.
Chief Financial Officer Martin Greenslade Supports the Chief Executive in developing and implementing strategy, and in relation to the financial and operational performance of the Group.
Independent Edward Bonham Carter, Kevin OByrne, Responsible for bringing an external perspective, sound judgement and objectivity to Non-executive Chris Bartram, Simon Palley, the Boards deliberations and decision-making.
Support and constructively challenge Directors StaceyRauch, Cressida Hogg CBE the Executive Directors using their broad range of experience and expertise.
delivery of the agreed strategy within the risk management framework set by the Board.
Senior Independent Edward Bonham Carter Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and a trusted intermediary for other Directors.
Director Available to discuss with shareholders any concerns that cannot be resolved through the normal channels of communication with the Chairman or the Executive Directors.
Leads the other independent Non-executive Directors in the performance evaluation of the Chairman.
Group General Counsel Tim Ashby Provides advice and assistance to the Board, the Chairman and other Directors, particularly and Company Secretary in relation to corporate governance practices, induction training and development.
Ensures that Board procedures are complied with, applicable rules are followed and good information flow exists to the Board and its Committees.
The appointment and removal ofthe Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Board meetings and attendance Table 29 AGM 1 Apr 16 May 16 Jun 16 Jul 16 Aug 16 Sept 16 Oct 16 Nov 16 Dec 16 Jan 17 Feb 17 31 Mar 17 Audit Nomination Remuneration Director Board Committee Committee Committee Dame Alison Carnwath 8 8 3 3 3 3 Robert Noel 8 8 Martin Greenslade 6 8 Kevin OByrne 7 8 4 4 3 3 Chris Bartram 8 8 4 4 3 3 Simon Palley 8 8 3 3 3 3 Stacey Rauch 8 8 4 4 Cressida Hogg CBE 8 8 3 3 Edward Bonham Carter 8 8 1 1 3 3 Nicholas Cadbury 2 2 1 1 Tim Ashby 8 8 Martin Greenslade attended an executive management course in Stanford, California in June and July 2016.
Nicholas Cadbury joined the Board and the Audit Committee on 1 January 2017.
62 Landsec Annual Report 2017 t n e m e g a n a m k s i r d n a l o r t n o c l a n r e Governance t n F I i n a n c i a l p e r f o r s r m e a d n l o c h e e r a h s d n a s r e d l o h e k a t s, e c n a n r e v L e o G a d e r s h i p a Board activity Table 30 The diagram below shows the key areas of Board activity during the year.
Internal control and risk management 5.
Financial performance Reviewed the Groups strategy, in particular Reviewed the Groups risk register and the Considered the financial performance of the an in-depth review of both the London and effectiveness of the systems of internal business and approved the annual budget, Retail businesses control and risk management keyperformance targets and five year plan Debated the changing status of the property Reviewed the risk framework and Reviewed the half-yearly and annual results cycle, including the Companys position, risk reporting structure andpresentations to analysts and approved profile and preparations for any business impact the Annual Report Debated significant and emerging risks, Considered Brexit and other political risks including cyber security, terrorism, the loss Considered the half-yearly and full year of key people, uncertainty arising from the valuation ofthe Groups portfolio by the Reviewed the Groups performance versus Brexit process and other political risks.
externalvaluer budget and targets, external benchmarks and by reference to its peers Reviewed the Groups tax structure and 4.
Leadership and people insurance programme.
Reviewed performance versus Board approval Discussed the composition of the Board and forkey schemes and assets acquired, completed its Committees, including succession planning ordeveloped Agreed appointment of Edward Bonham Considered portfolio liquidity analysis and Carter as new Senior Independent Director development exposure Considered and approved appointment of Considered and approved acquisitions and new Non-executive Director and Audit disposals of properties with a value in excess Committee Chairman of150m Reviewed the development of people and Considered and approved the Groups Going potential talent in the Group, including Concern and Viability Statements, dividend succession planning for Senior Leaders.
policy, debt funding arrangement and gearing levels Considered and approved the bond funding strategy, including the bond tender and new issuance.
Governance, stakeholders and shareholders Discussed the outcome of the Board evaluation and effectiveness review, and agreed improvement opportunities Considered the Groups 2020 sustainability strategy, including progress versus annual targets and improvements planned Reviewed regular health, safety and securityupdates Reviewed developments in corporate governance and received key legal and regulatory updates Five key areas of Reviewed the investor relations strategy and Board activity considered in depth the independent report carried out which followed a consultation with during the year our institutional investors: regularly reviewed feedback from institutional shareholders, roadshows and other engagement activities Reviewed the new Landsec brand proposition Received regular meeting reports from the Chairman of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees Reviewed and approved no change to the annual fees for Non-executive Directors Considered the Market Abuse Regulations and approved an updated Securities Dealing Code Approved the Groups Slavery and Human Trafficking statement for publication on itswebsite Considered and agreed to continue with DefinedBenefit Pension scheme Agreed the closure of the American DepositaryReceipt programme.
