Governance report Clear and consistent governance framework Tony DeNunzio We recognise that corporate governance touches all aspects Non-Executive Chairman ofour business, it underpins the management of our risk profile and it also affects our colleagues in many different ways.
Her plc experience and understanding of the retail market will Chairmans introduction contribute greatly to the growth of the business.
As Chairman, my role is to manage the Board, ensuring it operates effectively and contains the right balance of skills, On appointment Stan will also become a member of the Audit diversity and experience to successfully execute the Groups Committee, Nominations & Governance Committee, CSR long-term strategy.
We recognise that corporate governance Committee and Pets Before Profit Committee and Sharon touches all aspects of our business, it underpins the will also become a member of the Remuneration Committee management of our risk profile and it also affects our colleagues and the Nominations & Governance Committee as well as in many different ways.
This has been reflected in the activities Chairman of the Audit Committee.
that wehave undertaken throughout the year.
During the year, we progressed the actions that were highlighted Key governance activities from the 2016 external evaluation report which emphasised the In October, we completed our search for a new Group Chief need to increase the Boards focus on talent and succession Financial Officer and we welcomed Mike Iddon to the business.
planning, supporting Ian Kellett as he continues to strengthen Mike has brought with him a wealth of financial expertise gained the leadership team.
This has led to a number of appointments within established retail and consumer businesses including New at Executive and Senior Operating Board level, further details Look, where he held the role of Chief Financial Officer from 2014 can be found on page 87 of the Nominations & Corporate until 2016 and Tesco plc, where he held a number of finance Governance Committee report.
The Non-Executive Directors roles over a period of 13 years.
also continued to spend time with the leadership teams In December, I accepted Brian Carrolls resignation from the outside of formal meetings to gain a deeper insight into Board.
Brian was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Pets key rising talent throughout the organisation.
at Home in 2011 and his contribution and perspectives were As part of our continued commitment to ensuring that our highly valued by his colleagues.
Brian was replaced by Nicolas governance arrangements reflect the challenges and demands Gheysens, Director, Private Equity at Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & ofour business, we reviewed our Committee meeting structure Co. L. P KKR.
Nicolas is highly experienced and has also been against our risk profile which resulted in an increase of the a key member of the Board since KKR acquired Pets at Home number of Pets Before Profit Committee meetings to four times in 2010.
Nicolas has also been a Board Observer since 2014. ayear to ensure that we maintain the focus on the Groups Amy Stirling and Paul Coby have also confirmed that they will number one value, Pets Before Profits.
We now require all Board alsostep down from the Board with effect from the close of members to attend these meetings along with Board Observers.
the annual general meeting on 11th July 2017 in order to We re-launched our Code of Business Conduct during the year so fulfil commitments in their full time roles.
that we continue to promote responsible and ethical behaviours at all levels of our business and ensure that our colleagues feel Paul has been a Director of Pets at Home since 2014 and will empowered to and have the confidential means to speak up be replaced by Stanislas Laurent who was appointed on 25 May andvoice concerns.
Stan was formerly President and CEO of Photobox and COO of AOL Europe.
He is currently entrepreneur in residence Throughout the year, we also consulted with major shareholders with Highland Capital Partners Europe.
Amy has been a Director on both the proposed changes to our remuneration policy as of Pets at Home and Chairman of the Audit Committee since well as the performance of the business.
Amy will be succeeded by Sharon Flood, Chairman of ST consultations on remuneration and the new policy are in the Du Pont S. A, the Paris based luxury goods company and Audit Directors remuneration report on pages 90 to 112.
Chairman at Crest Nicholson plc.
Sharon was appointed on The following pages set out our governance processes within the 25May 2017 and will take on the Chairmanship ofthe Audit and Group and demonstrate how we are committed to maintaining Risk Committee after the close of the annual general meeting high standards of corporate governance to ensure that the on11 July 2017.
Group is managed with integrity and transparency.
Stan and Sharon bring a wealth of experience to the Board.
Stans entrepreneurial background and understanding of the digital online space in consumer facing businesses will add significant value as we expand our omnichannel capabilities at Pets at Home.
Sharon has impeccable retail credentials having Tony DeNunzio worked with Kingfisher, John Lewis and more recently as Chairman, Pets at Home Group Plc Chairman of French luxury goods company ST Du Pont, 24 May 2017 andAuditChair at Crest Nicholson Plc and Network Rail.
Pets at Home Group Plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Pets at Home Group Plc Board The Company is led and controlled by the Board.
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to Board Committees and the day to day management to the Executive Management Team.
Further details can be found on pages 66 to 69.
Board Committees Audit & Risk Committee Nomination & Corporate Remuneration Pets Before Corporate Social Due consideration of Governance Committee Committee Profit Committee Responsibility Committee laws and regulations, Oversight of Board Assists the Board Oversight on pet welfare Oversight on strategy for the provisions of the Code composition and indetermining and achieving strategy on responsible retailing and the requirements of succession planning.
responsibilities on responsible pet retailing.
Members Members Members Members Members Amy Stirling Chairman Tony DeNunzio Chairman Paul Moody Chairman Tessa Green Chairman Tessa Green Chairman Dennis Millard Dennis Millard Amy Stirling Dennis Millard Dennis Millard Paul Coby Tessa Green Dennis Millard Paul Coby Paul Coby Paul Moody Amy Stirling Tessa Green Tony DeNunzio Tony DeNunzio Paul Coby Paul Moody Nicolas Gheysens Executive Management Team Investment Health & Safety Executive Team and Committee Committee Operating Boards Ensures the Groups new store and Oversees Group health and safety matters.
Executive Team as detailed on pages 72 to 73 veterinary surgery investment process leads onstrategy and its execution: is managed effectively.
Operating Board with clearly defined roles covering: current trading, customers, new developments, operational issues, marketing, pets and our colleagues.
Board composition Board tenure Membership of the Board 6 years or more 2 Non-Executive Chairman 1 35 years 6 Executive Directors 2 12 years 0 Non-Executive Directors 1 Less than one year 1 Independent Non-Executive Directors 5 Statement of Compliance with Our corporate governance is split into four UK Corporate Governance Code sections showing the past years activity: The following Corporate Governance Report outlines how the Board has applied the main principles of good governance Leadership page 62 as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code Code, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs and the Effectiveness page 64 Listing Rules LRs.
The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and, except as set Board Committees page 66 out below, the Board has complied with and intends to continue to comply with the requirements of the Code.
Shareholder relations page 69 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 61 Governance report continued Leadership The role of the Board oflisting and continue to believe that The Board currently consists of five Division of responsibilities TonyDeNunzio does not meet the Independent Non-Executive Directors, The Company is led and controlled by the independence criteria set out in the oneNon-Executive Chairman, one Board which is collectively responsible for Code, the Board believes that Tony Non-Independent Non-Executive Director the long-term and sustainable performance should remain as Non-Executive Chairman appointed by the Principal Shareholder of the Group.
The roles of Chairman of the Group since he brings vast retail and two Executive Directors.
The Directors andGroup Chief Executive Officer are experience and knowledge to the Pets biographies are contained on pages 70 separate and clearly defined, with the at Home team.
The Board considers that all of its division of responsibilities set out in that he exercises his role as Chairman Non-Executive Directors are independent writing and agreed by the Board.
The independently of management and in character and judgement and that both definitions of the roles are published exercises his judgement in the interests individually and collectively, the Directors onthe Groups website https: investors.
have the range of skills, knowledge, petsathome.
com investors shareholderdiversity of experience and dedication information governance our-committees.
Board composition necessary to lead the Group and also Board balance and independence contribute significantly to the work of The Code recommends that, on The Code recommends that at least theBoard together with the requisite appointment, the chairman of a company halfthe board of directors of a UKstrategic and commercial experience.
with a premium listing on the Official List listedcompany, excluding the chairman, More than half of the directors excluding should meet the independence criteria should comprise non-executive directors the Chairman and the Non-Independent setout in the Code.
Tony DeNunzio joined determined by the Board to be independent Non Executive Director are considered to be Pets at Home in 2010 and has been in character and judgement and free from independent in accordance with the Code.
Non-Executive Chairman of the Group relationships or circumstances which since March 2010.
Notwithstanding that mayaffect, or could appear to affect, the Board did not consider at the time thedirectors judgement.
Role of the Board and delegating duties Matters reserved for Board approval A formal schedule of matters is reserved to the Board for its approval, which includes the matters listed below.
The separation of responsibilities between the Chairman Board collectively and the Group Chief Executive Officer, coupled with the reserved matters described responsible below, ensures that no individual has unfettered powers of decision-making.
for sustainable performance Group strategy and risk management Board membership, committees, notices Agreement of the Groups strategy: Delegation of authority to the Group Delegation Chief Executive Officer: of duties to Approval of extension of activities into committees new businesses or geographical areas: Board and Senior Management approved by the Board appointments, arrangements Approval of any decisions to cease andsuccession planning: tooperate all or any material part Group success ofthe Groups business: Setting of Board Committees and sustainability termsofreference: Financial and internal controls Changes to the structure and capital Approval of shareholder ofthe Group: communications, circulars andNoticesof Meetings: Reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls: Corporate governance Review of the Groups overall Approval of financial statements corporategovernance matters.
andresults announcements: Approving significant expenditure, material transactions and contracts: Reviewing and agreeing Group tax andtreasury policy: Pets at Home Group Plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance More than 55% of the Directors excluding the Chairman and the non-Independent Non Executive Director are considered to be independent in accordance with the Code.
Board responsibilities Role Main responsibilities Manages and provides leadership to the Board of Directors: Chairman Acts as a direct liaison between the Board and the management of the Company, through the Group Chief of the Board Executive Officer: Ensures that the Directors are properly informed and that sufficient information is provided to enable the Directors to form appropriate judgements: In concert with the Group Chief Executive Officer, and Group Company Secretary, develops and sets the agendas for meetings of the Board: Recommends an annual schedule of the date, time and location of Board and Committee meetings: and Ensures effective communications with shareholders and other stakeholders.
Responsible for the day-to-day management of the Company: Group Chief Together with the Executive Management Team, is responsible for executing the strategy, once it has been Executive Officer agreed by the Board: Creates a framework that optimises resource allocation to deliver the Groups agreed strategic objectives over varying timeframes: Ensures the successful delivery against the financial business plan and other key business objectives, allocating decision making and responsibilities accordingly: Together with the Executive Management Team, identifies and executes new business opportunities and potential acquisitions or disposals: and Manages the Group with reference to its risk profile in the context of the Boards risk appetite.
An Independent Non-Executive Director: Senior Independent Provides a sounding board for the Chairman: Director Serves as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary: and Is available to shareholders if they have concerns, which contact through the normal channels of the Group Chief Executive Officer has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Appointed pursuant to the Relationship Agreement with the Principal Shareholder KKR My Best Friend Limited: Appointment Two Non-Executive Directors can be appointed to the Board for so long as the Principal Shareholder and or of Directors anyof its associates, when taken together holds 20% or more of the voting rights over the Companys shares: One Non-Executive Director can be appointed to the Board for so long as it and or any of its associates, when by the Principal taken together holds 10% or more but less than 20% over the voting rights in respect of the Companys shares: Shareholder The Principal Shareholder has appointed Nicolas Gheysens as a Non-Executive Director of the Board: Although Tony DeNunzio has not been appointed as a Director by the Principal Shareholder, the Principal Shareholder has agreed that for so long as it has the right to appoint two directors to the Board and Tony is a Director, the Principal Shareholder will not exercise its right to appoint a second director to the Board: and For further details of the Relationship Agreement and confirmation of compliance with the provisions set out in the Relationship Agreement, see page 78 of the Directors Report.
Provide constructive challenge to the Executive Team: Non-Executive Help develop proposals on strategy: Directors Scrutinise managements performance in meeting agreed goals and objectives: Monitor performance reports: Satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and that controls and risk management systems arerobust and defensible: and Determine appropriate levels of remuneration for Executive Directors, appointing and removing Executive Directors, and succession planning.
Management of the financial risks of the Group: Group Chief Responsible for financial planning and record-keeping, as well as financial reporting to the Board of Directors Financial Officer and shareholders: and Ensures effective compliance and control and responding to ever increasing regulatory developments, including financial reporting, capital requirements, and corporate responsibility.
The Chief Executive Officer of the Retail Division and the Chief Executive Officer of the Vet Group Division are Board Observers Board observers: The Principal Shareholder also has the right to appoint one Board Observer for so long as it holds voting rights over more than 10% of the Companys shares: Rights to receive notice of, attend and speak at, Board meetings: and No entitlement to vote on any matter requiring a resolution of the Board.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 63 Governance report continued Effectiveness Directors induction and ongoing training Brian Carrolls resignation was accepted as Committee after the close of the annual It is important to the Board that NonNon-Executive Director inDecember 2016 general meeting on 11 July 2017.
Executive Directors have the ability to andNicolas Gheysens was appointed Appointment terms and influence and challenge appropriately.
elections of Directors New Directors receive a full, formal and Amy Stirling and Paul Coby will also step All Directors have service agreements or tailored induction on joining the Board, down from the Board with effect from letters of appointment and the details of including meeting with the Executive theclose of the annual general meeting their terms are set out in the Remuneration Teamand other members of the Groups on11th July 2017 in order to fulfil Report on pages 100 to 102.
The service Operating Board and advisors.
The commitments in their full time roles.
agreements and letters of appointment induction includes visits to the Groups areavailable for inspection at the stores, veterinary surgeries and other Paul has been a Director of Pets at Home Companys registered office during operational locations together with since 2014 and will be succeeded by normalbusiness hours.
training on the Groups core values Stanislas Laurent who was appointed including environmental, social and on25 May 2017.
Stanwas formerly At each AGM of the Company all Directors governance issues.
Individual training President and CEO ofPhotobox and will stand for re-election in accordance needs are reviewed regularly and training COOof AOL Europe.
is provided where a need is identified or entrepreneur in residence withHighland Considering diversity requested.
All Directors receive frequent Capital Partners Europe.
The Board understands the importance updates on a variety of issues relevant Amy will be succeeded by Sharon Flood, of having a diverse membership and tothe Groups business, including Chairman of ST Du Pont S. A, the Paris recognises that diversity encompasses regulatory and governance issues.
based luxury goods company and Audit not only gender but also background and Appointments Chairman at Crest Nicholson plc and experience.
Whilst the Board believes that 2017 saw changes to the Board in relation Network Rail.
Sharon was appointed appointments should be made solely on to the appointment of Mike Iddon as Group on25 May 2017 and will take on the merit, we seek to ensure that the Board ChiefFinancial Officer.
Chairmanship of the Audit and Risk maintains an appropriate balance through Gender diversity 2017 Board considerations During the year the Board spent its time considering a wide range of matters.
Theseincluded: Strategy: Approving significant items of capital Succession planning: expenditure and contracts, investments, Performance overall of individual treasury and dividend policy: businesses and functions in the Group: Approving new acquisitions and other M&A: Budgets and long term plans for the Group: Shareholder feedback and reports from Board Financial statements, announcements and brokers and analysts: financial reporting matters: Regulatory updates: Reviewing reports from the Committees, Risk management and controls in the Male 67% notably on audit strategy, remuneration, Group including reputational risks and Female 33% succession planning, the Groups corporate corporate governance: and social responsibility strategy and measures Delegated authorities.
in place to ensure that Pets Before Profit Group Executive Management ismaintained as the Companys number one value: Male 60% How the Board is spending its time through the year Female 40% 25% Financial performance reporting 22% Governance, inc. shareholder engagement 15% Risk management and internal controls 5% Leadership and people development, inc. succession 26% Strategic matters 7% Project approvals Pets at Home Group Plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance a diverse mix of experience, backgrounds, Board meetings and attendance and strategic.
Performance against skills, knowledge and insight, to further In this financial year, the Board met budget is reported to the Board monthly strengthen the diversity of gender and formally nine times, plus the annual and any substantial variances are experience already on the Board.
Ad hoc meetings of both explained.
Forecasts for each half two of the five Independent Non-Executive the Board and Committees were arranged year are revised and reviewed monthly.
Directors, Tessa Green and Amy Stirling, to deal with matters between scheduled The Groups Operating Board are also are female together with the Group Board meetings as appropriate.
Board invited to present at Board meetings Company Secretary, Louise Stonier, and meetings were preceded by Committee sothat Non-Executive Directors keep the CEO of the Vet Group, Sally Hopson.
meetings with the meetings lasting the abreast of developments in the Group.
These appointments were made on merit, majority of the day in most cases.
and not on the basis of gender, the The Chairman meets regularly with the Topics for the Board meetings are appointees being by far the strongest Non-Executive Directors, without the determined at the beginning of the year candidates for the positions with their Executive Directors present and this and new items are added to this as and skillsets and overall experience fitting the practice will continue in the future.
objective role description approved by the The Senior Independent Director also Board at the outset of the recruitment All Directors receive papers in advance attended these sessions.
Amy Stirling will be succeeded ofBoard meetings via an electronic board It is important to the Group that all bySharon Flood as Chairman of the Audit paper system which enables the fast Directors understand external views of and Risk Committee on 11 July 2017. dissemination of quality information in a the Group.
Throughout the year, regular safe and secure manner.
These include This policy applies equally to all reporting is provided to the Board by the a monthly Board report with updates appointments in the Company and the Companys Head of Investor Relations, from each of the Executive Team and board of the Pets at Home Vet Group, covering broker reports and the output the Operating Board, which monitors where Fiona Briault, another female ofmeetings with significant shareholders.
the achievements of the Groups key boardmember, is appointed.
performance indicators, both financial Board meetings and attendance Number of meetings attended Attendance for all scheduled Board and Board Committee meetings is given in the table below.
Nomination & Corporate Corporate Social Pets Remuneration Audit & Risk Governance Responsibility Before Profit Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 Number of meetings 9 4 4 2 2 4 2 Director Tony DeNunzio Chairman 9 2 2 4 Dennis Millard Deputy Chairman 9 4 4 2 2 4 Ian Kellett 9 3 Nick Wood 0 Amy Stirling 9 4 4 2 Tessa Green 9 4 2 2 4 Paul Coby 6 2 1 2 4 Paul Moody 9 4 4 2 4 Brian Carroll 6 1 5 Nicolas Gheysens 2 1 6 Mike Iddon 4 1 Excludes the strategy day which all Directors attended.
2 Only attendance of formal members of the meetings is included.
Attendance as an observer is not included.
3 Nick Wood resigned as an Executive Director with effect from 4 April 2016 and no meetings were held prior to this date.
4 Brian Carroll either attended in person or attended by Nicolas Gheysens as Brian Carrolls alternate prior to Brian Carrolls resignation.
5 Nicolas Gheysens was appointed as a Director on 2 December 2016 and has attended the maximum number of meetings.
6 Mike Iddon was appointed as a Director on 17 October 2016 and has attended the maximum number of meetings.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 65 Governance report continued Board Committees The Board has established three Executive Directors, Executive Directors Each Committee has written terms of BoardCommittees: an Audit and Risk and colleagues.
The Board has also reference which are approved by the Committee, a Nomination and Corporate established two management Board and subject to review each year.
Governance Committee, and a committees, the Investment Committee These are available on request from Remuneration Committee.
In addition, and Health and Safety Committee, the Group Company Secretary and are the Board has also established the Pets which comprise Executive Directors published on the Groups website Before Profit Committee and the and colleagues.
If the need should https: investors.
Corporate Social Responsibility CSR arise, the Board may set up additional Committee which comprise both Noncommittees as appropriate.
Key objectives and responsibilities of the Board Committees Key objectives: Main responsibilities duties To assist the Board monitor the integrity of Group financial statements: to fulfil its corporate review and challenge accounting policies, unusual transactions: governance and assumptions qualifications on viability: overseeing compliance with accounting standards: responsibilities in review clarity and completeness of financial statements: Audit & Risk relation to an entitys oversee material information presented with financial statements: Committee financial reporting, review content of Annual Report and Accounts to advise if fair, balanced and internal control system, appropriate for shareholders: risk management assessment and advice on risk management system: system and internal and review and advice on adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys internal external audit functions: financial and regulatory controls: monitoring and review of internal and external audit: review of whistleblowing, fraud and compliance.
To assist the Board responsibility for setting, monitoring and reviewing the Remuneration Policy: indetermining its consultation on major changes to employee benefit structure: responsibilities in approval and determination of performance related pay schemes Remuneration relation to Directors with regard to the Code and LRs : remuneration.
responsible for selection and appointment of remuneration consultants: Committee review, design and assessment of share incentive plans: review of Director pension arrangements: approval of Director service contracts and severance.
To assist the Board reviewing structure, size and composition of the Board: in considering the Board succession planning: Nomination structure, size and evaluation of Board appointments with consideration to matters such as skill, and Corporate composition of the experience, knowledge, diversity: Board whilst advising on review of Non-Executive Directors time required: Governance succession planning.
review matters relating to continuation of Directors office: Committee conduct Board performance evaluation process: review all conflicts of interest.
To oversee Group monitoring, reviewing and considering pet welfare standards across the Group: strategy on pet welfare.
monitoring and reviewing compliance with legislation relating to the sale of pets, welfare standards and veterinary medicine and engaging in the development Pets Before Profit ofsuch legislation where appropriate: monitoring and reviewing colleague feedback on pet welfare standards: Committee overseeing welfare in relation to pet supply, transportation and audit: monitoring impact of PR and social media: monitoring pet processes, including audits and vet clinical standards.
To oversee Group reviewing Group CSR policy and strategy: Corporate Social corporate social monitoring implementation of CSR activity.
Committee Pets at Home Group Plc 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Management committees Senior Executive and Operating Board Directors conflicts of interest Details of our management committees In addition to the Board, the Group has The Articles of Association of the are set out below: both the Executive Management Team Company give the Directors the power Executive Team as detailed in the toconsider and, if appropriate, authorise Investment Committee Governance Report on pages 72 and 73 conflict situations where a Directors The Investment Committee assists and the Operating Board the Operating declared interest may conflict or does the Board with the Groups store and Board for which respective roles are conflict with the interests of the Company.
veterinary surgery rollout process to clearly defined.
The Operating Board ensure the Groups investment process meets frequently to discuss the following: Procedures are in place at every meeting is managed effectively and rigorously for individual Directors to report and throughout the Group.
The Investment Current trading: record any potential or actual conflicts Committee is chaired by Ian Kellett and New developments: which arise.
The register of reported its other members are Mike Iddon, Sally Operational issues: conflicts is reviewed by the Board at least Hopson and Peter Pritchard.
The Board has complied with of the Groups colleagues are entitled People: and these procedures during the year.
to attend meetings of the Investment Execution of strategic programs.
One potential conflict of interest was Committee as observers including reported in the year ended 30 March the Director of Property, the Group Health and Safety 2017 in circumstances where the Development Director and the Vet Health and safety is a key priority for Non-Executive concerned was neither Group Partner Recruitment, Property the Board and senior management directly or indirectly involved in any and People Director.
and is an item for review and discussion potential dealings between the Group and at each Board meeting.
The Board the company concerned.
The conflict was The Investment Committee meets formally has established a Health & Safety authorised by the Board with appropriate at least ten times a year and otherwise Committee that meets at least on a safeguards being put in place.
Duties of the quarterly basis and is chaired by the Investment Committee include reviewing Group Chief Finance Officer with the Whistleblowing Policy and considering all proposals presented agenda led by the Group Head of Health The Company has a duty to conduct its for new store and standalone surgery and Safety.
The committee is attended affairs in an open and responsible way.
acquisitions by a Group company: by key individuals in the business that are We are committed to high standards of approving all material variations to responsible for certain areas of health corporate governance and compliance proposed new stores and standalone and safety including the veterinary with legislation and appropriate codes surgery acquisitions: periodically reviewing business, retail and grooming and the of practice.
By knowing about any wrong proposed changes to the reporting and committee is tasked with reviewing doing or malpractice at an early stage, presentation of new store investment theGroups overall health and safety we stand a good chance of taking the criteria: reviewing all proposals presented performance.
A health and safety necessary steps to stop it.
We relaunched for lease renewals and reviewing policy is in place for the Group which our whistleblowing policy in FY18.
The alternative strategies for new store is reviewed on a regular basis.
policy is designed to encourage colleagues investment, formats and geographical to identify such situations and report markets and reporting on such strategies The distribution centres have their own themwithout fear of repercussions or to the Board for final approval on the dedicated health and safety manager recriminations provided that they are terms of any such matter: and reviewing and a separate health and safety acting in good faith.
The policy sets out all proposals for the dispositions of all sub-committee which also meets how any concerns may be raised and or part of any of the lease on stores on a regular basis.
The veterinary whenresponse can be expected from including any sub-letting, assignments, business also has a designated health theCompany and in what timescales.
surrenders or relocations and approving and safety manager and two health Acopy of the Groups Code of Ethics orrejecting any such proposals as and safety assessors.
andBusiness Conduct is published on appropriate.
Each of the matters approved theGroups website https: investors.
by the Investment Committee is subject Further details of the work of the Health petsathome.
com investors shareholdertothe further approval of the Board where &Safety Committee are contained on information governance code-of-ethicsit falls within the level of expenditure page 49 of our CSR report.
This policy and the requiring full Board approval.
The procedures in place to deal with concerns Investment Committee formally updates raised under the policy were reviewed by the Board at least once a year in addition the Audit & Risk Committee during to regular updates on matters approved the year.
within the monthly Board packs.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 67 Governance report continued Share dealing code Beyond the annual evaluation, the Management accounts have been The Company has adopted a share performance of the Group Chief Executive reviewed at meetings of the Board.
dealing code in relation to its shares.
Officer is continuously monitored These reviews covered the comparison The share dealing code applies to the throughout the year by the Chairman of actual performance against budget in Companys Directors, its other PDMRs andthe Senior Independent Director.
the period end management accounts and certain colleague insiders of Group and consideration of outturn for the companies and they are responsible Internal control and risk management year.
The period end accounts are forprocuring the compliance of their The Board is responsible for the Groups prepared by the management accounts respective connected persons with system of internal control and for team and reviewed by the Group Chief the Companys share dealing code.
reviewing its effectiveness and has Financial Officer.
carried out a robust assessment of the Board evaluation and effectiveness principal risks facing the Group including All capital investments during the year Process those that would threaten its business have been approved by the Group Chief In 2016, the Company engaged Lintstock model, future performance, solvency or Financial Officer: an authority framework Limited Lintstock to undertake an liquidity as detailed on pages 40 to 43 of is in place which details the approvals independent evaluation of the Board and the Strategic Report.
The Board delegates required for specific levels of capital Board Committee performance and to to the Executive Team the responsibility spend including those capital projects identify areas where the performance for designing, operating and monitoring requiring full Board approval.
In line with and procedures of the Board might be these systems.
The systems are based delegation by the Board, the Investment further improved.
This year, the Company on a process of identifying, evaluating Committee, chaired by the Group Chief carried out an internal evaluation that and managing key risks and include the Executive Officer, has reviewed and included the completion of a short form risk management processes set out on approved investments in respect of the online questionnaire that considered pages 38 to 39 of the Strategic Report acquisition and fit-out of new stores and topics covered in the 2016 evaluation and page 84 of the Audit & Risk new standalone veterinary practices.
under the headings: Committee Report.
The business plans for each new Board composition expertise The systems of internal control were in company acquisition undertaken during and dynamics: place throughout the period and up to the the year, namely the acquisition of Dick Time management and Board support: date of approval of the Annual Report.
The White Referrals Limited, have been Competitors and the market: systems of internal control are designed reviewed and approved by the Board The people strategy: to manage rather than eliminate the risk prior to acquisition following internal Values and culture: of failure to achieve business objectives.
The IT strategy: They can only provide reasonable and Succession planning: and not absolute assurance against material There is an internal audit department Board Committees.
errors, losses, fraud or breaches of law in place that has its scope agreed and regulations.
A number of internal withthe Audit & Risk Committee and Outputs of the evaluation controls operate across the business.
has reported at each Audit & Risk At a dedicated Board session, a report The key controls the business relied Committee throughout the year.
All of the findings of the evaluation and uponduring the year are set out below: internal audit reports are presented itsrecommendations were discussed tothe Audit and Risk Committee for andspecific actions agreed.
Overall, The annual Group wide strategic review review and consideration of any material themajority of areas have seen an of the business took place in October findings.
Where audit findings have improvement in the scoring, however, and November 2016 culminating in the been raised, management have agreed the following have been identified as preparation of a detailed three year appropriate actions and details of the requiring additional focus: strategic plan which was reviewed and areas covered in the internal audit approved by the Board.
Following this reports can be found in the Audit & succession and talent management: approval, the business carried out its RiskCommittee report on page 84. visibility and depth of the people strategy: annual budget cycle, again culminating presentation and understanding in formal review and approval by A clearly articulated delegated authority of the business systems: theBoard on 24 May 2017. framework in respect of all purchasing streamlining of agenda items: and activity is in place across the Group.
refinement of the Board packs.
This is complemented by systemic controls including a contract approval policy that reflect the agreed authority framework and clear segregation of duties between relevant functions anddepartments.
Pets at Home Group Plc 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance A schedule of matters reserved for The Board communicates with its The Chairman of the Remuneration the Board is in place for approving shareholders in respect of the Committee and the Group Company significant transactions and strategic Groupsbusiness activities through Secretary consulted extensively with and organisational change.
itsAnnual Report, yearly and half yearly major shareholders on the proposed new announcements, interim management remuneration policy.
Further details of the Board discussion of the key risks and statements and other regular trading consultation are contained on pages 90 uncertainties facing the Group and the statements.
This information is also to91 of the Remuneration Report.
risk management system together with madepublicly available via the deep dives on a number of key risk areas.
All the Non-Executive Directors are Further details are contained in the Audit available to meet with major shareholders, & Risk Committee report on page 82.
During the year, the Company met if they wish to raise issues separately regularly with analysts and institutional from the arrangements as described investors and such meetings will above, and during the year, the Chairman Shareholder Relations continue.
The Group Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director held Officer and the Group Chief Financial such meetings and reported back to The Boards primary role is to promote the Officer have lead responsibility for investor the Board.
success of the Company and the interests relations.
They are supported by a of shareholders.
The Board is accountable dedicated Director of Investor Relations Pets at Homes investor website is to shareholders for the performance and who, amongst other matters, organises also regularly updated with news and activities of the Group.
presentations for analysts and information including this Annual Report institutional investors and ensures and Accounts which sets out our strategy The Board believes it is important to that procedures are in place to keep and performance together with ourplans explain business developments and the Board regularly informed of such for future growth https: investors.
financial results to the Companys investors views.
shareholders and to understand any shareholder concerns.
We communicate with shareholders on a regular basis.
The right skills and experience amongst our Board members Customer service Retail Strategy experience experience experience 5 6 9 Board members Board members Board members Brand Digital Pet owners Finance development experience experience experience experience 1 6 5 1 Board members Board members Board members Board members Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 69
