Governance Annual General Meeting AGM Investor tours and presentations The 2016 AGM provided all shareholders with In addition to our annual investor conference, Investor anopportunity to question the Board and we hosted various presentations and tours theChairmen of each Board Committee on of some of our major assets in the Retail relations mattersput to the meeting, including the and London portfolios.
These tours were Annual Report.
Shareholders who attended conducted at Bluewater, Kent, Trinity Leeds, theAGM received a strategic progress update White Rose, Leeds, Westgate Oxford, key from the Chairman and a presentation from properties in Victoria, SW1, and 20Fenchurch Approach to investor relations theChief Executive onthe business activities Street, EC3 The Board is committed to maintaining and performance ofthe Group over the We conducted 12 sales team meetings an open dialogue with shareholders and preceding year.
The resultsof voting at general during the year which provided the Executive recognises the importance of that relationship meetings are published on the Companys Directors with the opportunity to present in the governance process.
our strategy and performance directly to the supported by the Executive Directors, has sales teams of the major investment banks.
overall responsibility for ensuring effective Independent feedback on investor relations communication with shareholders.
Industry conferences During the year, the Board commissioned Rivel, The Company has a comprehensive Industry conferences provide Executive an independent adviser, to conduct an investor investor relations programme designed for Directors with a chance to meet a large audit of investor perceptions of the Company, institutional investors, private shareholders number of investors on a formal and its management, strategy, governance and and debt investors which aims to help existing informal basis.
Conferences attended this theinvestor relations programme.
An investor and potential investors understand the year included the UBS Global Property, relations audit usually takes place every Groups business, strategy and performance.
JPMorgan and Bank of America Merrill Lynch twoyears.
Shareholder feedback is provided to the Board conferences in London, the Bank of America Rivel interviewed over 50 investors based to ensure that they understand the objectives Merrill Lynch conference in New York, the in the UK, Europe and North America to obtain and views of major investors.
Kempen conferences in Amsterdam and their views on management and business The Company approaches its debt investor NewYork and the Citi Conference in Miami.
The results were presented to relations on a partnership basis, ensuring that the Board with suggestions and improvements any feedback is considered and the Company Other initiatives being taken forward by management.
takes into account best practice guidance from The Chairman and Chief Executive held a The perception study found that investors the Investment Association.
dinner for the senior heads of equities from have avery high degree of confidence in During the year, the programme of investor UK institutions.
management and there was broad support events included: forthe Companys strategy.
Private shareholders programme The investor relations department also Institutional shareholders programme Private shareholders are encouraged to give received feedback from analysts and investors Meetings with principal shareholders feedback to and communicate with the during the year through the Groups corporate The Executive Directors had meetings with Directors through the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary also received shareholders representing more than half During the year they were also able to meet feedback on governance matters directly theregister by value during the year Directors at the United Kingdom Shareholders from investors and shareholder bodies.
The Association meeting and at the Annual The Chairman maintained contact with information was shared with the Board to GeneralMeeting.
principal shareholders and undertook her help members develop their understanding usual biennial investor roadshows in the UK ofshareholders needs and expectations.
Debt investors programme and the Netherlands Other disclosures Credit side institutional investors The geographic spread of the programme Other disclosures required by paragraph 7.2.
6 andanalysts covered Europe, North America, South Africa of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and Our treasury team held non-deal specific and the Far East the Companies Act 2006 are set out in the meetings with credit side institutional The Senior Independent Director, and other Directors Report on pages 92-94. investors and analysts after the half year Non-executive Directors, were available to The Governance report was approved by and full year results meet with shareholders theBoard on 17 May 2017.
In addition, the team met with around 40 Institutional shareholders were invited to accounts as part of the deal roadshow for attend the Companys full year and halfOn behalf of the Board the bond tender and new issue exercise in yearly results presentations.
January February of this year.
Tim Ashby Investor conference Group General Counsel and Banks The investor conference is held annually and Company Secretary Regular dialogue is maintained with our key focuses on the Retail and London portfolios relationship banks, including at least biin alternate years.
This year, the conference annual meetings with our treasury team and was held in Victoria, SW1, and focused on the in-house dinners hosted by the Executive and London Portfolio with senior management Non-executive Directors presenting updates on all aspects of its Our treasury team also actively engaged with business.
The day included tours of five of our potential lenders.
buildings in Victoria including a visit to Nova.
The conference also provided an opportunity Credit rating agencies for attendees to meet the management During the year, business and financial teams in the business updates were provided by our treasury team The presentations and an audio recording of and senior management to Standard & the conference were made available on the Poors, Fitch Ratings and Moodys corporate website to enable non-attendees Further information on our debt investors can to access the information provided.
