Audit & Risk Committee Report Amy Stirling Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee Introduction Who is on the Audit & Risk Committee?
I am pleased to present the Audit & Risk Committees report for the year.
Our primary function is to assist the Board in fulfilling Member No.
of meetings itsresponsibilities to protect the interest of the shareholders with Amy Stirling Chairman 4 4 regard to the integrity of the financial reporting, the adequacy Dennis Millard 4 4 andeffectiveness of the risk management systems and internal Paul Coby 2 4 controls, the effectiveness of the internal audit function and the Paul Moody 4 4 relationship with the external auditors.
During the year the Committee met four times with our agenda What we did in 2017 covering financial reporting considerations, progress against theinternal audit plan and the external audit process.
We Reviewed key financial reporting matters and haveconsidered risk regularly throughout the year, reviewing considered how these are presented in the Financial updates to the Group risk register, including a review of the risks Statements.
associated with the Groups recent acquisitions in the specialist Reviewed and challenged the Longer Term Viability referral centre market.
Statement LTVS and going concern basis of preparation in advance of its approval by the Board.
In addition to our regular agenda, this year we have considered Aspart of this work, the carrying value of the goodwill accounting for business combinations and the segmental balance has been reviewed.
disclosures made by the Group.
We have reviewed and updated our policy on non-audit fees to respond to emerging legislation We have reviewed and updated the Groups policy refining the list of permissible services our external auditor can on non-audit fees with our external auditor which has complete and considered the Groups approach to managing adopted the provisions of new EU legislation.
data protection and discussed specific risks identified within theVet Group.
What we will do in 2018 Committee membership Continue to carry out our responsibilities as set out in the The Audit & Risk Committee the Committee members have terms of reference, including monitoring the integrity of the been selected to provide a wide range of financial and commercial Groups Financial Statements, challenging the judgemental experience necessary to fulfil the duties and responsibilities of the areas contained within the Financial Statements and advising Committee.
Each member of the Committee is an independent the Board on whether external reporting is fair, balanced Non-Executive Director and has, through their other business andreasonable.
activities, significant experience in financial matters.
Further details of the Committee members and their experience can Our focus on the control environment across the Group will befound on pages 70 and 71. consider the Vet Group in particular as the business continues to grow and mature, to ensure controls continue to meet the The Chairman of the Companys Board, Executive Management and needs of the growing business.
This review will also include senior managers within the business are invited to attend meetings risk and control within the Specialist Division.
as appropriate to ensure that the Committee maintains a current We will continue to monitor the effectiveness of the Groups and well-informed view of events within the business, and to Internal Audit function.
We will agree an Internal Audit strategy reinforce a strong risk management culture.
The Group Company for FY18 and beyond, defining ways of working as well as Secretary and Legal Director acts as secretary to the Committee.
We expect to review each of the top risks in a deep dive during the year.
The Committee meets according to the requirements of the Companys financial calendar.
The meetings of the Committee also provide the opportunity for the Independent Non-Executive Directors to meet without the Executive Directors present and to raise any issues of concern with the internal and external auditors.
Committee activities The Committees role primarily covers the following areas: Financial reporting: Ongoing viability: Risk management systems: Internal controls: Internal audit: and External audit Pets at Home Group Plc 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance The Committee met on four occasions since the end of the last financial year with each meeting having a distinct agenda to reflect theannual reporting cycle of the Group.
The planner is regularly reviewed and developed to meet the changing needs of the Group.
A summary of the key matters considered at each meeting is as follows: September November May Accounting for business combinations Interim Financial Statements Annual Report & Financial Statements, Internal Audit update KPMG report on Interim financial statements including our response to the FRC review Risk update deep dive on data protection Business combinations anddisposals of the Groups financial statements Policy on non-audit fees Goodwill impairment review Review of Preliminary announcement External audit effectiveness Internal Audit update KPMG report on the financial statements Information security and data Risk update Review of Alternative performance measures protection updates Policy on non-audit fees Goodwill impairment review Treasury including interest Viability Statement and Going concern review rate hedging update Share plan performance February Dividend capacity Code of Ethics and whistleblowing update KPMG year end audit approach and strategy Risk update including review of Internal Audit update Joint Venture risk register Risk update deep dive on Vets Group Review internal audit reports on: Response to letter received from - Overrider income Financial Reporting Council - Joint Venture Partner support Review of Committee terms of reference - Data security Financial statement reporting issues The Committee considered a number of significant issues in the year, taking into account in all instances the views of the Companys external auditor.
The Committee consider the key risks within the Financial Statements to be the carrying value of goodwill and the carrying value of inventory.
The Committee considered the following in making their assessment of the reporting in the financial statements.
Issue Nature of the risk How the risk was addressed by the Committee The Group holds a significant goodwill balance.
There are a The Committee reviewed and challenged managements Carrying number of factors that could impact on the future profitability process for testing goodwill for potential impairment and value of of the business e. g. threat of competition, changes in market ensuring appropriate sensitivity disclosure.
This included behaviour, changes in the broader macro-economic challenging the key assumptions: principally cash flow goodwill environment and there is a risk that the business will not forecasts, growth rates and discount rates.
meet the required financial performance to support the The Committee also reviewed KPMGs work and conclusions carrying value of the intangible asset.
on this risk and the key assumptions they tested in reaching their conclusions.
The Committee is satisfied that there is no impairment to thegoodwill balance and that there is appropriate disclosure in the financial statements.
See note 12 of the financial statements for details on the impairment testing.
The business carries a wide range of Stock Keeping Units The Committee reviewed managements judgement in Inventory SKUs and with a variety of expiry dates on most food lines.
assessing the required level of inventory provisioning and valuation Changes in customer demand may mean that some lines concluded that the method of estimating the carrying value cannot be sold, or will be sold below carrying value.
Whilst of inventory remains appropriate, and that the level of provisions are made to reflect this, there is a risk that the provisioning is appropriate.
Management have established adetailed range review process to identify action to be takenagainst inventory lines and assessing the required inventory provision.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 83 Audit & Risk Committee Report continued Ongoing viability Specific work performed during the year in our key risk areas In considering viability overall, the Committee reviewed included: theGroups strategic plan with particular focus on the key Risk area Work undertaken assumptions in relation to revenue and our store and service Brand and reputation Pet welfare in our stores expansion plans.
Sensitivities to these key assumptions were also reviewed based on the impact of the Groups key risks, Overrider Payments individually and conflated, as set out on pages 38 to 43.
Regulatory and compliance Review of driver and vehicle regulation compliance in our transport office Following a review of the detailed considerations set out VAT compliance processes aboveby the Committee and the Executive Management, the Liquidity and credit risk Cash settlement and accounts payable Committee is satisfied that it is appropriate for the Group to processes for our Joint Venture partners continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Business Systems and Review data migration to the new Group Annual Report and Accounts of the Group and, further, that information security wide payroll system theLonger Term Viability Statement on page 79 is appropriate.
Customer data security Treasury and financial risk Review of the effectiveness of SAP Risk management and internal controls finance system Risk management and the system of internal control are the Joint Venture Partner support responsibility of the Board.
It ensures that there is a process in place to identify, assess and manage significant risks that may All reports, related findings and recommended actions have been affect achievement of the Groups objectives and that the level discussed by the Committee and are tracked to completion.
and profile of such risks is acceptable.
The Committee provides oversight and challenge to the assessment of principal risks External audit asset out on page 38.
The Groups key risks and uncertainties KPMG presents their audit plan, risk assessment and audit are set out on pages 40 to 43. findings to the Committee, identifying their consideration of the key audit risks for the year and the scope of their work.
These The Committee explores specific key risks of the Group in reports are discussed throughout the audit cycle.
As in the prior detail, inviting the management team to discuss the issues and year, these risks were considered to be the carrying value of mitigations and further proposed actions.
During the year, the goodwill and the carrying value of inventory.
In their reports Committee reviewed the Groups approach to the protection of presented to the Committee at both the half year and full confidential data and considered risks specific to the Vet Group.
year, the auditors considered these risks to be appropriately addressed and raised no significant areas of concern in these Internal Audit orany other areas of their review.
The Internal Audit function has a direct line of report into the Committee and is an important part of the assurance processes KPMG also attend the Committee meetings and meet separately, within the business.
The Committee reviews and approves the without management present, to discuss any issues in detail.
Internal Audit plan for the year which is developed to address key risks across the business as well as reviewing core governance, We are in compliance with The Order and performed a tender financial and commercial processes.
process which concluded in January 2015.
KPMG, who have audited the Group since 2000, were reappointed at the AGM The Head of Internal Audit and Risk has attended each inSeptember 2016.
Nicola Quayle has been the audit partner Committee meeting, updating on progress against the audit plan since 2016. throughout the year, reporting on any key control weaknesses identified and progress against mitigating actions.
External auditors effectiveness The Committee considered the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external auditors through the review of all reports provided, regular contact and dialogue both during Committee meetings and separately without management.
We conducted an audit effectiveness review through a questionnaire to Committee members, management and member of the Finance team.
This questionnaire expanded on the process in the previous year, providing more focused insight into KPMGs effectiveness.
The results were discussed with KPMG and specific actions were agreed.
Pets at Home Group Plc 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Auditor independence Investment in veterinary practices, including clearer analysis Maintaining the objectivity and independence of the external of the investment and loan balances held with our joint venture auditors is essential.
The Committee has taken appropriate partners and the rental contribution made by our partners steps to ensure that the Companys external auditors are forspace in our stores, specifically in note 15 and 27 to the independent of the Company and obtained written confirmation financial statements from them that they comply with guidelines on independence issued by the relevant accountancy and auditing bodies.
Accounting for estimates and judgements, including inventory provisions, goodwill impairment and onerous lease sensitivity Additional non-audit services provided bythe auditors may impair analysis and our assessment of judgement in recognising their independence or give rise to aperception that their income from suppliers, specifically in notes 1.18, 12, 13 independence may by impaired.
During the year, the policy on and20 tothe financial statements non-audit fees has been reviewed and updated to align with EU Regulation and Statutory Audit Directive to provide further clarity The description of the factors that make up the goodwill over the type of work that is acceptable for the external auditors recognised as part of a business combination.
The enhanced to carry out.
The policy sets out the process required for approval disclosure has been applied to the acquisition of Dick White and a cap to the total non-audit fees for permitted services at Referrals Limited and Eye-Vet Limited during the year ended 70% of the audit fee the non-audit fee cap policy has been 30March 2017, specifically in note 10 tothe financial adopted a year earlier than the regulations require see below.
statements Following the audit tender process in 2015, we appointed Ernst Related party disclosures, particularly those related to &Young LLP as tax advisors to the Group, while KPMG continue key management personnel, specifically in note 4 to the to provide tax support services to the Joint Venture partners.
financial statements Inapplying the new EU Regulation and Statutory Directive, consideration has been given to the fee payable to KPMG for The FRCs Audit Quality Review team carried out a review of the taxcompliance fees for joint venture companies.
The work is audit conducted by KPMG LLP for the year ended 31 March 2016 apermitted service as the joint venture tax charges do not form specifically in the areas of impairment of goodwill and other part of the consolidated financial statements, however, the fees intangible assets, business combinations, revenue recognition chargeable for those services do count towards the fee cap.
In selecting which aspects of an Accordingly, whilst the EU Regulation and Statutory Directive audit to review, the FRC take account of those areas considered hasbeen adopted early, the tax fees for joint venture companies to be higher risk by the auditors and Audit and Risk Committee, chargeable in the year to March 2017 have been excluded in the their knowledge and experience of audits of similar entities application of our policy in the current financial year as the work andthe significance of an area in the context of the financial was substantially underway prior to publication of the EU Directive.
The results of this review were shared with the Audit Committee in April 2017 and have been discussed with KPMG, Audit and non-audit fees paid to KPMG in the year were the FRC and at the Audit Committee.
246,000 and an analysis is presented in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements on page 134.
Non-audit Both supplier income and accounting for business combinations feesrepresent 12% of the audit fee.
have been specific areas of focus for the Audit Committee and KPMG during 2017, and where for the 2017 audit, additional Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG as auditors and to authorise the audit procedures have been performed.
Directors to agree their remuneration will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting that will take place on 11 July 2017.
Financial Reporting Council During the year, the Financial Reporting Council FRC Corporate Review team reviewed our Annual Report and Amy Stirling Accounts for the year to March 2016.
Following their review, the Chairman Corporate Review team entered into correspondence with the Audit & Risk Committee Group.
All correspondence received and our responses were 24 May 2017 discussed with the Committee and the Groups external auditors.
Following the conclusion of the FRCs review we have taken the opportunity to improve the clarity of disclosure in relation to: Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 85
