Board, Committee and Directors performance evaluation cycle Effectiveness Year 3 Board evaluation 2016 17 Year 2 Year 1 Progress reviewed Review focused on Following the external evaluation of the Board Independent, generally coupled with Year 1 issues raised externally focused questionnaire and its Committees last year, this years review and any new issues facilitated review and or interviews with arising of the Boards effectiveness was conducted the Chairman internally and was led by the Chairman with the support of the Company Secretary.
In accordance with the Board evaluation cycle, theevaluation this year focused on any issues raised in last years externally facilitated reviewand any new issues arising from this years process.
Board evaluation The first part of the evaluation required 2016 17 each Director to complete anonymously an online survey and questionnaire that focused on matters such as the Boards performance, Effectiveness Conclusions from review of the Board Progress review the performance of each of its Committees, this years review Areas of focus and Committee against targets set and areas identified for2017 18 the nature and content of Board meetings and workings conducted for2016 17 for improvement externally the relationship between the Non-executive and Executive Directors.
The survey included open questions that encouraged Directors to provide comments or enabled them to raise any to supplement its existing programme Areas of focus for 2017 18 concerns.
The output of this survey was collated andtoidentify the enablers that will facilitate Strategy Board meetings to allocate and provided to each Director.
the execution of the strategy.
The Board sufficient time to both medium and longerThe Chairman then met separately with willensure that its meeting agendas are term strategic discussion each Director and used the output of the survey forward looking in terms of the cycle and the Innovation appreciate the impact of and questionnaire, together with a tailored set business opportunities, and retain oversight rapid technological development on us of questions, to conduct a detailed interview.
over execution of the five year plan.
Also, the and our customers These meetings were helpful in that they allowed Board will ensure that, at a time when the risk Risk further develop the approach to the Chairman to explore in more detail some of profile faced by businesses is changing rapidly, risk, especially in the context of the wider the themes arising from the questionnaire its assessment of risk remains dynamic being economic and political framework in which and to obtain supplementary comments revisited and adjusted as facts or scenarios we will be operating and observations.
Finally, regarding succession planning, Mr Bonham Carter, as the Senior Culture and people provide oversight the overall level of skills and expertise will remain Independent Director, separately evaluated and support to management as Landsec a matter of priority, with particular importance the performance of the Chairman having first introduces its new brand framework.
attached to maintaining real estate expertise collated points of view and questions from at Board level.
the other Directors and then discussing the The Chairman will continue to lead the outcome with her.
process of building on current strengths of the A final report and recommendations was Board and innovating further to build on the prepared based on the collective comments points outlined above, with support from the from all the Directors and this was discussed Chief Executive and Company Secretary.
Separate reports were prepared for each of the Audit, Remuneration and Progress against targets set for 2016 17 Nomination Committees based on the feedback In addition to considering the results of this received, and in each case the conclusions years externally facilitated evaluation, the were discussed by those Committees at their Directors reviewed progress against the targets meetings in March 2017. identified last year as set out in the table below: Conclusions from this years review Objective Performance The conclusion from this years evaluation was Board meetings to increase the amount of This is being achieved, helped by the time allocated in that the Board and its Committees continue time allocated to risks and challenges that meetings to assess some of the unexpected events during to operate to a high standard, and work well could impact the business, particularly at the year, and will continue this year.
The results overall ranged from atime of increasing market uncertainty external advisers addressing the Board in June and July positive to very positive, and there were no 2016 shortly before, and immediately following, the specific concerns raised by any of the Directors EUreferendum : further analysis of political and economic risk at the December Board meeting: and a Strategy Day to the Chairman or anonymously through the agenda that was largely devoted to risks and challenges online survey.
Areas that were assessed as being affecting or which may affect the business.
particularly strong included the culture and relationships in the Boardroom, the Boards Time to be allocated to site visits, supported Site visits were arranged for Directors and Directors have collective judgement and overall performance, by ongoing professional development, attended results presentations and investor days.
inorder to increase their level of business Board information and the involvement of awareness and engagement Directors in succession planning.
As with every high performing board, Review the way the Board tracks progress We held an in-depth review of each of the London and the Directors continue to look for areas of on previously approved major projects and Retail operating businesses, assessing past decisions, improvement.
The Board will devote more time initiatives, using experience gained from current performance and future strategy.
pastinvestment decisions to engage in blue sky strategy discussion 66 Landsec Annual Report 2017 Governance Board environment and access to Diversity policy Our mentoring programme, introduced last appropriate information The Board embraces diversity in its broadest year specifically to assist women at all levels to The Board environment and its culture of sense, believing that a wide range of experience, reach their full potential within the Company, transparency and openness was again rated background, perspective, skills and knowledge continues to operate well.
favourably in this years effectiveness review.
In combine to contribute towards a high Diversity is more than just gender based, addition to the Board meetings, and the private performing, effective Board, which is better and the Board will continue to focus in the sessions scheduled at each Board meeting able to support and direct the Company.
coming year on this important issue in its wider held by the Chairman and the Non-executive Landsec continues to make good progress context.
Landsec has set specific objectives to Directors, there are other opportunities arranged in terms of greater diversity.
The addition of be achieved by 2020, including improvements in during the year when Directors meet and at Mr Cadbury to the Board has meant that the the engagement scores of its Black, Asian and which relevant items can be discussed in detail.
percentage of women on the Board has reduced Minority Ethnic and LGBT employees, and these The Board and its Committees receive to 30% from 33% last year.
However, this will objectives are supported by the Board.
papers in a timely fashion and Directors have reverse later in 2017 when Kevin OByrne retires Conflicts of interest access to information, support and advice from and we will again be meeting the voluntary The Board operates a policy to identify and, the Company Secretary and members of his targets set by the Hampton-Alexander review where appropriate, manage any potential team throughout the year.
for women on the Board of FTSE 350 companies.
conflicts of interest that Directors may have.
Further, we are pleased to report that 36% of Induction TheNomination Committee monitors the Senior Management in Landsec comprising the A comprehensive induction programme exists situation and determines the actions necessary Executive Committee and Senior Leaders are for any newly appointed Directors and was to address potential conflicts of interest as women, again in line with this voluntary target used when Mr Cadbury joined the Board detailed in the table below.
identified in the Hampton-Alexander review.
The priorities of the induction were to provide Nicholas Cadbury with an Potential conflicts of interest Table 31 understanding of the Groups history, culture, business, strategy and financial position.
This Potential conflict Nomination Committee decision included early meetings with the Chairman Director situation and mitigating actions taken and the Executive Directors, together with Dame Alison A non-executive director of Since the Groups insurance programme and policy other Non-executive Directors and Senior Carnwath Zurich Insurance Company matters are handled by the Executive Directors Management.
There were also meetings with Limited with whom the outside of the Board and in consultation with its external advisers to the Audit Committee, Group places certain of own independent insurance brokers, the Committee ofwhich Mr Cadbury will become Chairman its insurance policies and concluded that in practice conflicts of interest involving pension investments.
Dame Alison Carnwath and Zurich Insurance were unlikely to occur.
Professional development, support Chris Bartram An adviser to Orchard Street The Committee did not see any potential conflict of and training for Directors Investment Management interest situations arising from Mr. Bartrams advisory The Board held several specific knowledge OSIM until 31 March 2017 role at OSIM.
development sessions during the year, on which is, in some areas of such matters as Brexit and other political and operation, a competitor of the Group.
economic risk factors that may affect the business or the wider property market in the UK.
Kevin OByrne Chief Executive of Poundland As operational matters, such as retail leasing, are Directors continued to receive regular Group PLC and Chief unlikely to be considered at Board level, the Committee reports facilitating greater awareness and Financial Officer of concluded that in practice conflicts of interest involving understanding of the Groups business and JSainsbury PLC, both of Mr OByrne and his employers were unlikely to occur.
which lease a number of retail Mr OByrne resigned his position at Poundland the legal, regulatory and industry-specific properties from the Company on 30December 2016 and took up his position at environment in which it operates.
This is around the country.
JSainsbury on 9 January 2017. complemented by visits to properties owned, managed or being developed by the Group Cressida Hogg Managing Director, Head of In her role, Ms Hogg will not have any involvement which enable a deeper insight into the CBE Infrastructure, of the Canada withthe development in question as this is managed Pension Plan Investment bya different business unit within CPPIB.
As an operations of the business and provide Directors Board CPPIB which is the additional precaution, the Group will not share any with the opportunity to meet with senior and Groups joint venture partner sensitive information on that development with her local management teams.
and she has agreed not to participate in any Board discussion that relates to it.
Board strategy The Board considers strategy throughout the Edward Bonham Vice Chairman of Jupiter Mr Bonham Carters position is such that he is year, encompassing topics such as funding and Carter Fund Management plc, unlikely to be involved in the selection of particular a fund manager which investments and has agreed not to participate in any capital allocation, competition and emerging evaluates investments that investment decisions which may involve the Groups sectors.
Additionally, the Board held its regular may or may not include securities.
Since operational matters, such as office two-day strategy meeting in February that those of the Group.
Jupiter leasing, areunlikely to be considered at Board level, enabled it to explore and debate in detail a is also a customer of the Committee concluded that in practice conflicts of widerange of items such as: the Group.
interest involving Mr Bonham Carter and his employer were unlikely to occur.
the rapidly developing technology that may affect the business and its customers Nicholas Group Finance Director Since operational matters, such as retail leasing, are Cadbury of Whitbread PLC which, unlikely to be considered at Board level, the Committee possible longer-term threats and challenges through its Costa Coffee concluded that in practice conflicts of interest involving to the commercial property market operations, leases a number Mr Cadbury and his employer were unlikely to occur.
of retail properties from Nicholas Cadbury was appointed a Non-executive the Company around Director of the Board on 1 January 2017. the country.
