Audit Committee activity Accountability The key areas of Committee activity during quarterly reports on investigated internal the year included the planning, monitoring, control issues significant to the Group reviewing and approving of the following: Structure and operations quarterly reports on the Groups risk The Audit Committees structure and register, including significant and operations, including its delegated Financial reporting emerging risks responsibilities and authority, are governed compliance by management concerning the quality, appropriateness and by terms of reference which are reviewed the operation of the business for which integrity of the half-yearly and full annually and approved by the Board.
they are responsible year financial statements To maintain effective communication the adequacy and effectiveness of the information, underlying assumptions between all relevant parties, and in support the Groups internal control and risk and stress test analysis presented in of its activities, the Chief Executive, Chief management systems.
support of Going Concern and the Financial Officer, Director of Risk Management Viability Statement and Internal Audit, the partner and the consistency and appropriateness Internal audit representatives of the Companys external of the financial control and auditor, Ernst & Young LLP EY, and other the scope of the internal audit plan and reporting environment members of the senior finance team resourcing requirements regularly attend Committee meetings.
the dividend policy and the payment the independence, appropriateness and The Company Chairman and all Nonof dividends, with due regard to the effectiveness of internal audit.
executive Directors are invited to attend Companys REIT status meetings when the Groups external valuer, the fair, balanced and understandable External property valuation CBRE, makes property valuation presentations.
assessment of the Annual Report and the quality and appropriateness of The Committee has private sessions any other financial statements such the half-yearly and full year external with the internal and external audit teams.
valuation of the Groups property In addition, the Committee Chairman has portfolio, together with an assessment private and informal sessions with the audit External audit ofthe methodology applied teams and the valuer to ensure that open lines of communication exist in case they wish to the scope of the external audit plan the independence and effectiveness of raise any concerns outside of formal meetings.
the independence and objectivity of EY the external valuer.
Nicholas Cadbury has participated in these the quality and effectiveness of EYs meeting following his appointment as a Director audit services Other in January 2017. the level of fees paid to EY in accordance the Committees terms of reference The Committee members collectively have with the policy for the provision of and performance effectiveness a broad range of financial, commercial and non-audit services property sector expertise that enables them compliance with the Code and the to provide oversight of both financial and risk EYs reappointment to office as Groups regulatory and legislative matters, and to advise the Board accordingly.
Kevin OByrne and Nicholas Cadbury are the members determined by the Board as having Risk management and Significant financial matters recent and relevant financial experience for internal control During the year, the Committee considered the purposes of satisfying the UK Corporate the appropriateness of significant financial the scope of the internal control and risk Governance Code.
matters made in connection with the management programme The Committee works to a structured financial statements as set out on pages programme of activities and meetings to the results of internal audit reviews 72and 74. coincide with key events around the Companys and the progress made against agreed financial calendar.
Following each meeting, management actions the Committee Chairman reports on the main discussion points and findings to the Board.
External auditor EY, as the external auditor, is engaged to conduct a statutory audit and express an opinion on the Companys and the Groups financial statements.
Their audit includes a review and test of the systems of internal control which produce the information contained in the financial statements, and a review by EY of the asset valuation process and methodology using its own chartered surveyors more details below, in each case to the extent necessary to express an audit opinion.
70 Landsec Annual Report 2017 Governance Objectivity and independence Audit fee Effectiveness of the external audit The Committee is responsible for monitoring The Committee reviewed the level of fees Following the issue of the Companys Annual and reviewing the objectivity and independence payable to EY for audit services as the terms Report, the Director of Risk Management of the external auditor.
In undertaking its annual agreed for the original engagement had expired.
and Internal Audit conducts a performance assessment, the Committee has reviewed: It was agreed that the audit fees payable to EY evaluation and effectiveness review of the for the audit and half year review for 2016 17 external audit.
This is conducted against the confirmation from EY that they maintain would be 800,000 up from 793,000 in structured guidelines in consultation with appropriate internal safeguards in line with 2015 16, with an increase of 25,000 in each the Executive Directors and members of the applicable professional standards of the two following financial years subject to senior finance team and with due regard to the mitigation actions taken by the Company business and audit requirements remaining the latest Audit Quality Inspection Report on in seeking to safeguard EYs independent consistent year on year.
EY issued by the Financial Reporting Council status, including the operation of policies FRC.
This years review will again include an designed to regulate the amount of nonNon-audit services audit quality assessment based on the new audit services provided by EY and the To help safeguard EYs objectivity and Practice Aid guidelines also issued by the FRC.
employment of former EY employees independence, the Company operates a The Committee Chairman meets privately the tenure of the audit engagement partner non-audit services policy which sets out the with the audit engagement partner before the not being greater than five years circumstances and financial limits within which Committee considers the results of the review.
they may be permitted to provide certain the internal performance and effectiveness During the year, an Audit Quality Review non-audit services such as assurance work review of EY referred to above Team AQRT from the FRC undertook an on which they will not be required to provide inspection of EYs audit of the Groups financial the outcome of the independent AQRT anaudit opinion.
statements for the year ended 31 March review referred to above.
The Committee monitors compliance with 2016.
The report did not give the Committee the policy including the prior approvals required Taking the above review into account, the any concerns over the quality, objectivity or for non-audit services which are as follows: Committee concluded that EY remained independence of the audit.
objective and independent in their role as EY successfully completed their audit for external auditor.
The Committees preliminary Table 32 view is that, in line with the conclusions from Aggregate Audit tendering last years performance review, EY had again Per during the EY were first appointed to the office of auditor, assignment year performed their audit services effectively, following a competitive tender process, in efficiently and to a high standard.
Having identified for development will be shared with undertaken such a process, the Company has Audit Committee 25,000 100,000 them for inclusion in their audit and service Chairman 100,000 290,000 complied with The Statutory Audit Services delivery plans going forward.
for Large Companies Market Investigation Committee 100,000 290,000 Audit plan Mandatory Use of Competitive Processes In respect of the audit for the financial year and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order Details of the fees charged by EY during the under review, EY presented their proposed 2014 Article 7.1, published by the CMA on yearcan be found in note 8 to the financial auditplan prepared in consultation with 26September 2014. statements.
Total fees for non-audit services, seniormanagement and the Director of Risk Under current regulations, the Company including the half year review and other Management and Internal Audit to the will be required to retender the audit by no later assurance related services, amounted to Committee for consideration and approval.
This sum represented 42% of the Theobjective was to ensure that their work Committee proposes to review the situation at totalGroup audit fees, and 34% of the total remained aligned to the Groups structure and the same time as the current audit engagement audit fees payable by the Group to EY during strategy.
The audit plan was again risk and partner, Eamonn McGrath, is due to rotate.
theyear including the audit of its joint materiality focused, challenge based and MrMcGrath has held the role of the Companys ventures.
No non-audit fees were approved designed to provide valuable insights beyond audit engagement partner for four years and orpaid on acontingent basis.
will relinquish this position during the 2018 19 financial year and following completion of the 2017 18 financial statements.
There are no contractual restrictions in relation to the Companys choice of external auditor.
On the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Board is proposing a resolution at this years Annual General Meeting that EY bereappointed to office for a further year.
Landsec Annual Report 2017 71 During the year, the Committee commissioned External valuations and valuers Significant financial matters an external report to be carried out on the The valuation of the Groups property The Committee reviewed two significant Companys risk management framework and portfolio, including properties held within the financial matters in connection with the the approach to risk.
No major weaknesses were development programme and in joint ventures, financial statements, namely the valuation identified but a number of recommendations is undertaken by independent external valuers.
of the Groups property portfolio and revenue were suggested and considered by the The Group provides input, such as source data, recognition.
Further details are set out in table Committee.
These will be implemented in the and support to the valuation process.
have been the Companys principal valuer These items were considered to be since September 2015.
The valuation helps to significant taking into account the level of Internal control determine a significant part of the Groups net materiality and the degree of judgement The key elements of the Groups internal control asset value, reported performance and Senior exercised by management and, in respect of the are as follows: Management remuneration.
Accordingly, the valuation, the external valuer.
The Committee scrutiny of each valuation, and the valuers discussed these with both parties, as well as EY.
an established organisation structure with independence, objectivity and effectiveness, In addition, the Committee considered, took clear lines of responsibility, approval levels represents such an important part of the action and made onward recommendations to and delegated authorities Committees work.
the Board, as appropriate, in respect of other a disciplined management and committee Valuations for the full and half year were key matters including the Viability Statement, structure which facilitates regular presented to the Committee by CBRE.
These the Going Concern basis on which the financial performance review and decision-making were reviewed and challenged by management statements are prepared, accounting for a comprehensive strategic review and annual and the Committee, with reference to CBREs property acquisitions and disposals, bond buyplanning process approach, methodology, valuation basis and back and new issue, maintenance of the Groups a robust budgeting, forecasting and financial underlying property and market assumptions.
REIT status and other specific areas of individual reporting process Other Non-executive Directors attended the property and audit focus.
The Committee Chairman The Committee was satisfied that all issues various policies, procedures and guidelines and Nicholas Cadbury also met separately had been fully and adequately addressed, underpinning the development, asset withCBRE.
that the judgements made were reasonable management, financing and main operations Additionally, CBRE met with EY and and appropriate and had been reviewed of the business, together with professional exchanged information independently of and debated with the external auditor services support including legal, human management.
EY has experienced chartered who concurred with the approach taken resources, information services, tax, company surveyors on its team who consider the valuers bymanagement.
secretarial and health, safety and security qualifications and assess and challenge a compliance certification process from Risk management framework the valuation approach, assumptions and management conducted in relation to the The Board is responsible for determining both judgements made by them.
Their audit half-yearly and full year results, and business the nature and extent of the Groups risk procedures are targeted at addressing the risks activities generally management framework and the risk appetite in respect of the valuations and the potential a quarterly self-certification by management that is acceptable in seeking to achieve its for any undue management influence in arriving confirming that key internal controls within strategic objectives.
The framework and at them.
This year, EY identified 36 properties their area of responsibility have been the ongoing process in place for identifying, comprising 69% of the portfolio by valuation operating effectively evaluating and managing the principal risks for substantive review by its valuation experts faced by the Group are described on pages a risk management and internal audit primarily on the basis of their value, type, risk 42-45.
These are regularly reviewed by function whose work spans the whole Group profile and location.
EY performed site visits for theBoard.
a sample of assets and completed analytical a focused post-acquisition review and Primary responsibility for operation of reviews over the input data for the valuations, integration programme to ensure the the Companys internal control and risk comparing this to market data.
The Committee Groups governance, procedures, standards management systems, which extend to include reviewed their findings.
and control environment are implemented financial, operational and compliance controls An internal evaluation of CBREs effectively and on time and accord with the FRCs 2014 Guidance on performance and effectiveness will be a financial and property information Risk Management, Internal Control and Related conducted after the year-end results are management system.
Financial and Business Reporting, has been finalised and annually thereafter with the delegated to management.
These systems results reported on the following year.
have been designed to manage, rather than A fixed-fee arrangement subject to eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the adjustment for acquisitions and disposals is in Groups business goals and can provide only place with CBRE for the valuation of the Groups reasonable, not absolute, assurance against properties and, given the importance of their material misstatement or loss.
work, we have disclosed the fees paid to them in note 9 to the financial statements.
The total valuation fees paid by the Company to CBRE during the year represented less than 5% of theirtotal fee income for the year.
72 Landsec Annual Report 2017 Governance Risk management Fair, balanced and understandable Under the overall supervision of the Committee, The Committee applied this year the same there are several sub-committees and work due diligence approach adopted in previous groups that oversee and manage day-toyears in order to assess one of the key Code day risk within the business.
The Group has requirements in respect of the Annual Report.
a Director of Risk Management and Internal This included the establishment of an editorial Audit with a direct reporting line to the team who were responsible for preparing, Audit Committee Chairman who provides compiling and verifying the content and, regular oversight of risk matters, evaluates through regular review meetings with the emerging risks that may affect the business Executive Directors, ensuring that consistent and monitors compliance to ensure that any reporting and appropriate links existed between mitigating actions are properly managed and key messages and sections of the Annual completed.
The Committee, in consultation Report.
A specific paper was presented to the with management, agrees the annual work Committee and the Board to assist in its plan including any assistance that may be challenge and testing of a fair, balanced and required from external specialists of the risk understandable assessment.
management and internal audit function to Taking the above into account, together ensure alignment with the needs of the business with the views expressed by EY, the Committee and compliance with its governance charter.
recommended, and in turn the Board confirmed, Additionally, the Committee receives and that the 2017 Annual Report, taken as a discusses on a quarterly basis: whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the necessary information for the Groups risk register, including significant shareholders to assess the Companys position, and emerging risks, and how exposures have performance, business model and strategy.
changed during the period summary reports and progress against Whistleblowing policy agreed actions from internal audit on The Committee reviews the Groups their review of the effectiveness of various arrangements, incorporated within a specific elements of the internal control system policy, which allow employees to report concerns maintained by the Group.
about suspected impropriety or wrongdoing whether financial or otherwise within the Effectiveness Group on a confidential basis, and anonymously The Board has undertaken a robust assessment if preferred.
These include an independent thirdof the principal risks faced by the Group, party reporting facility comprising a telephone including those that could threaten the business hotline and an online process.
Any matters model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
reported are investigated by the Company Assisted by the Committee, the Board also Secretary and escalated to the Committee, reviewed the effectiveness of the systems as appropriate.
During the year, there were no of internal control and risk management whistleblowing incidents reported.
in place throughout the year and up to the The Company runs a whistleblowing date of this report.
This took into account the awareness campaign every year and the valuable assurance work undertaken by the arrangements also form part of the induction risk management and internal audit function programme for new employees.
The policy which is supplemented by external specialist and facilities have been extended to cover resource as necessary and the relevant process, key suppliers and the requirements of the controls and testing work undertaken by EY new legislation covering slavery and human as part of their half-yearly review and full trafficking reporting.
No weaknesses or control failures significant to the Group were identified.
Bribery and corruption policy Where areas for improvement were identified, The Board has a zero tolerance policy for bribery new procedures have been introduced to and corruption of any sort.
The Company, in strengthen the controls and will themselves operating the policy, gives regular training to be subject to regular review as part of the staff on the procedures, highlighting areas of ongoing assurance process.
New employees are required to complete an online training module when they join.
Our principal suppliers are required to have similar policies and practices in place within their own businesses.
Landsec Annual Report 2017 73 Significant financial matters considered How the Committee addressed the matters Table 33 The Audit Committee adopts a formal approach The valuer proposed changes to the values Valuation of the Groups property portfolio by which the valuation process, methodology, of our properties and developments during including properties held within the assumptions and outcomes are reviewed and the year, which were discussed by the Committee development programme and in joint robustly challenged.
This includes separate review in detail and accepted.
arrangements and scrutiny by management, the Committee The valuation of the Groups property portfolio is Based on the degree of oversight and challenge Chairman and the Committee itself.
The Group a major determinant of the Groups performance applied to the valuation process, the Committee uses CBRE, a leading firm in the UK property and drives an element of the variable remuneration concluded that the valuations had each been market, as its principal valuer.
It also includes EY for senior management.
Although the portfolio conducted appropriately, independently and in as the external auditor which is assisted by its own valuation is conducted externally by an accordance with the valuers professional standards.
specialist team of chartered surveyors who are independent valuer, the nature of the valuation familiar with the valuation approach and the UK estimates is inherently subjective and requires the property market.
making of significant judgements and assumptions by management and the valuer.
EY met with CBRE separately from management and their remit extends to investigating and Significant assumptions and judgements made by confirming that no undue influence has been the valuer in determining valuations may include exerted by management in relation to the external the appropriate yield based on recent market valuer arriving at its valuations.
evidence, changes to market rents ERVs, what will occur at the end of each lease, the level CBRE submits its valuation report to the of non-recoverable costs and alternative uses.
Committee as part of the half-yearly and full Development valuations also include assumptions year results process.
They were asked to attend around costs to complete the development, the and present their report to the Board and to level of letting at completion, incentives, lease highlight any significant judgements made or terms and the length of time space remains void.
disagreements which existed between themselves and management.
Revenue recognition The Committee and EY considered the main In its assessment, the Committee, in consultation Certain transactions require management to make areas of judgement exercised by management with EY, considered all relevant facts, challenged judgements as to whether and to what extent they in accounting for matters related to revenue the recoverability of occupier incentives, the should be recognised as revenue in the year.
Market recognition, including timing and treatment of options that management had in terms of expectations and revenue profit based targets may rents, incentives, surrender premia and other accounting treatment and the appropriateness place pressure on management to distort revenue property related revenue.
of the judgements made by management.
This may result in overstatement or matters had themselves been the subject of prior EY reviewed and tested individual transactions on deferral of revenues to assist in meeting current or discussion between EY and management.
a sample basis to ensure there was a contractual future targets or expectations.
relationship and consistency of accounting The Committee, having consulted with EY, treatment between last year and this year.
concurred with the judgements made by It performed data analytics over the whole management and were satisfied that the population of leases in the Groups portfolio, revenuereported for the year had been analysing data held in the Groups document appropriately recognised.
The above description of the significant financial matters should be read in conjunction with the Independent Auditors Report on pages 97-102 and the significant accounting policies disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
Further details on significant accounting judgements and key estimations of uncertainty can be found in note 2 to the financial statements on page 108.
