Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Throughout the year ended 24 March 2017 and to the date of this document, the Company complied with the provisions and applied the Main Principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code, being the version of the code applicable to the year under review.
This Corporate Governance Report, together with the Audit Committee Report, the Nomination Committee Report and the Remuneration Report, describes how the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code.
The Role of the Board and its Committees The Company is led and controlled by the Board of Directors the Board chaired by Stewart Gilliland.
The Board currently consists of three Executive Directors and five Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Following the resignation of Lord Bilimoria at the AGM held on 6 July 2016, Stewart Gilliland was appointed Chairman of the Nomination Committee and Karen Jones was appointed Senior Independent Director.
Gary Hughes succeeded Andrew Cripps as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 December 2016.
All of the Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement in accordance with the Code.
The independence of Non-Executive Directors is considered at least annually and is based on the criteria suggested in the Code.
The Non-Executive Directors provide constructive challenge and bring independence to the Board and its decision making process.
Further disclosure on the independence of Non-Executive Directors is covered in the Nomination Committee Report, which can found on pages 30 to 33.
The Board believes that it is appropriate to have a Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Karen Jones has fulfilled this role since 6 July 2016.
Karen Jones is available to shareholders where concerns have not been resolved through the normal channels and for when such contact would be inappropriate.
The Board believes that it has sufficient members to contain a balance of skills and experience, but it is not so large as to be unwieldy.
The Board contains a balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors such that no individual, or group of individuals can dominate the Boards decision making.
No one individual has unfettered powers to make decisions.
Details of the skills and experience of the Directors are contained in the Directors biographies on pages 20 and 21.
The Board meets regularly on at least twelve scheduled occasions during each year and more frequently, if necessary.
There were twelve scheduled Board meetings held in the year under review.
Board attendance for scheduled meetings during the year are shown below: Number of Maximum Meetings Possible % of Meetings Director Attended Meetings Attended Executives Charles Wilson 12 12 100 1 Jonathan Prentis 10 12 83 Guy Farrant 12 12 100 Non-Executives Stewart Gilliland 12 12 100 2 Helena Andreas 11 12 91 3 Lord Bilimoria Retired 6 July 2016 5 5 100 Andrew Cripps 12 12 100 Gary Hughes 12 12 100 Karen Jones 12 12 100 Notes: 1.
Jonathan Prentis was unable to attend two meetings due to illness.
Helena Andreas was unable to attend a meeting due to a pre-existing business commitment.
Meetings attended by Lord Bilimoria until date of his resignation.
Bryn Satherley retired from the Board on 1 April 2016 and therefore did not attend any Board meetings during the year.
22 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance The Board is responsible to shareholders for ensuring that the Group is appropriately managed and that it achieves its objectives.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by it, thus ensuring that it exercises control over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and regulatory issues.
At its meetings, the Board reviews trading performance, ensures adequate financing, monitors strategy, examines investment and acquisition opportunities and discusses reports to shareholders.
Matters not specifically reserved for the Board and its Committees under its schedule of matters and the Committees terms of reference, or for shareholders in general meeting, are delegated to members of the Executive Committee.
It is the Companys policy that the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, with their roles and responsibilities clearly divided and set out in writing.
The Chairmans main responsibility is the leadership and management of the Board and its governance.
The Chairmans commitment to the Company is usually two days per month.
His other significant commitments are disclosed in his biography on page 20.
The Board considers that these commitments do not hinder his ability to discharge his responsibilities to the Company effectively.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the leadership and day-to-day management of the Group.
This includes formulating and recommending the Groups strategy for Board approval in addition to executing the approved strategy.
Recommendations for appointments to the Board are made by the Nomination Committee.
The Committee follows Board approved procedures available on the Groups website which provide a framework for the different types of Board appointments on which the Committee may be expected to make recommendations.
Appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria with due regard to diversity including skills, experience and gender.
Non-Executive appointees are also required to demonstrate that they have sufficient time to devote to the role.
Information and Professional Development Directors are continually updated on the Groups businesses, the markets in which they operate and changes to the competitive and regulatory environment through briefings to the Board and meetings with senior executives.
Board visits to Group business locations enable the Directors to meet with local management and employees and to update and maintain their knowledge and familiarity with the Groups operations.
Non-Executive Directors are also encouraged to visit Group operations throughout their tenure to increase their exposure to the business.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The provision of information to the Board was reviewed during the year as part of the performance evaluation exercise referred to below.
To ensure that adequate time is available for Board discussion and to enable informed decision making, briefing papers are prepared and circulated to Directors in the week prior to scheduled Board meetings.
All Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to make further enquiries as they feel appropriate of the Executive Directors and executives.
In addition, Board Committees are provided with sufficient resources and the power to co-opt such additional support as they may require from time to time, to undertake their duties.
All Directors are entitled to receive independent professional advice at the Companys expense and have access to the services of a professionally qualified and experienced Company Secretary, who is responsible for the flow of information to the Board and advising the Board on corporate governance matters.
This ensures compliance with Board procedures and applicable laws and regulation.
The Board has responsibility for the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.
On appointment, individual Directors undergo an induction programme covering, amongst other matters: the business of the Group: their legal and regulatory responsibilities as Directors of the Company: briefings and presentations from Executive Directors and senior executives: and opportunities to visit business operations.
Performance Evaluation During the year, the Board conducted an evaluation of its own performance and that of its three principal committees.
The individual performance of the Non-Executive Directors was also evaluated through one to one interviews with the Chairman.
In April 2017, each Director completed a questionnaire prepared by the Chairman and Company Secretary to rate the collective performance of the Board and its committees.
The Company Secretary collated the evaluation results and the Chairman then reviewed an unattributed executive summary, highlighting key outcomes.
A report of the findings was then presented to and discussed by the Board.
No actions were considered necessary as a result of these evaluations and the Chairman confirms that each Director continues to make a valuable contribution to the Board and, where relevant, its Committees and devotes sufficient time to the role.
The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees will be kept under review in accordance with corporate governance best practice.
As reported in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, an external evaluation process facilitated by Prism Communications & Management Ltd was undertaken in April 2016.
On 27 January 2017, it was announced that we were intending to merge with Tesco.
Should the merger not complete the next externally facilitated board evaluation will be conducted in April 2019.
23 Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Performance Evaluation continued During the year, the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met without the Executive Directors being present.
There was also one meeting of the Non-Executive Directors chaired by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director at which the Chairman was not present in order to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The Senior Independent Director provided feedback to the Chairman of this review.
Board Committees The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Nomination Committee and a Remuneration Committee to oversee and debate issues of policy outside main Board meetings.
Throughout the year, the Chairman of each Committee provided the Board with a summary of key issues considered at the committee meetings.
Board committees are authorised to engage the services of external advisers as they deem necessary in the furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense.
The Audit Committee Report is on pages 25 to 29, the Nomination Committee Report is on pages 30 to 33 and the Remuneration Report is on pages 34 to 52.
Re-election of Directors All Directors are required by the Companys Articles of Association to submit themselves to shareholders for re-election at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment and thereafter by rotation at least once every three years.
In accordance with the Code all Directors will, however, stand for re-election annually.
Relations with Shareholders In fulfilling their responsibilities, the Directors believe that they govern the Group in the best interests of shareholders, whilst having due regard to the interests of other stakeholders in the Group including customers, employees and suppliers.
The Code encourages a dialogue with institutional shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The Executive Directors have regular and ongoing communication with major shareholders throughout the year, by participating in investor roadshows and presentations to shareholders.
Feedback from these visits is reported to the Board.
The Executive Directors also have regular contact with analysts and brokers.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and other Non-Executive Directors receive feedback on matters raised at the meetings with shareholders and are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders.
As a result of these procedures, the Non-Executive Directors believe that they are aware of shareholders views.
In addition, Karen Jones, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, consulted our major shareholders with regards to the Directors Remuneration Policy to be put forward for approval at our upcoming AGM and is available to meet with major shareholders.
Arrangements can also be made through the Company Secretary for major shareholders to meet with newly appointed Directors.
The Group maintains a website at www.
com which is regularly updated and contains information about the Group.
The Code encourages boards to use the Annual General Meeting to communicate with investors and to encourage their participation.
In compliance with the Code, the Board welcomes as many shareholders as possible to attend the Annual General Meeting to discuss any interest or concern, including performance, governance or strategy, with the Directors.
All Directors are expected to attend the Annual General Meeting.
The Chairs of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer shareholder questions, through the Chairman of the Board, on the responsibilities and activities of their Committees.
Shareholders also have the opportunity to meet with the Directors following the conclusion of the formal part of the meeting.
In compliance with the Code, at the Annual General Meeting, the Chairman will announce the level of proxies lodged on each resolution, the balance for and against and abstentions, and such details will be placed on the Groups website following the meeting.
A separate resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting in respect of each substantially separate issue.
Directors Conflicts of Interest In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and section 175 of the Companies Act 2006, formal procedures for the notification and authorisation of potential and actual conflicts of interest have been approved by the Board.
These procedures, which enable the Directors to impose limits or conditions when giving or reviewing authorisation, ensure that only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered can authorise conflicts, and require the Board to review the register of Directors conflicts annually and on an ad-hoc basis when necessary.
Any potential conflicts of interest in relation to newly appointed Directors are considered by the Board prior to appointment.
These procedures have operated effectively throughout the current financial period.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 17 May 2017.
