68 Governance Report Audit Committee This is my second year on the Board and second report as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Building on the previous year, I have continued to visit Audit Company operations around the Group, including data centres, business continuity facilities, online fulfilment services and supplier premises.
There were further visits to Sainsburys Bank in Edinburgh and to the newly acquired Argos Contact Centre in Widnes and Head Office in Milton Keynes.
Committee Retail store tours, both escorted and unannounced, are a regular feature.
The Committee provides oversight of the risk profile across the Group.
This is undertaken by reviewing the principal risks and uncertainties and through regular updates from internal and external auditors.
A new development this year has been the inclusion of Sainsburys Argos into the Group risk management approach and into the activities of the Committee.
The Companys principal risks and uncertainties are set out on pages 42 to 44.
We monitor the audit and risk activities of the operations of Sainsburys Bank: including the continued transition from Lloyds Banking Group and recent integration of Argos Financial Services.
Data security and governance continues to be an area of focus for the Committee.
Good progress is being made in identifying and managing data risks and in preparing for the introduction of new legislation in 2018.
This years external Board evaluation process considered the role and effectiveness of the Committee.
I am pleased to report that feedback relating to the Committee was positive and that we continue to provide the necessary support to the Board.
Dear Shareholder, The significant financial and reporting matters considered by the Committee during the year are set out from page 69.
This year, the wide-ranging activities of the Committee have included the acquisition and I am indebted to my co-Directors on the Committee for their time and insight during this past year.
We, together with internal colleagues and external integration of HRG, monitoring the transition advisers, covered a wide range of topics and governance matters.
Our of Sainsburys Bank and the management of intention is to continue in a similar, diligent manner over the coming year.
David Keens Chairman, Audit Committee Governance Report 69 The Business Continuity Management Policy and the Code Compliance Accountability Officer Policy The FRC Audit Quality Review letter Committee membership The Committees revised terms of reference and its effectiveness The Audit Committee is chaired by David Keens, with Matt Brittin and Brian Cassin as its other members, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Susan Rice stepped down as a member of the Committee on Significant financial and reporting matters 4 May 2016.
An accounting and tax paper was prepared by management and presented to the Audit Committee four times during the year.
This provided detail on the The Board has determined that David Keens has recent and relevant financial main financial reporting judgements and issues.
The Committee as a whole has relevant retail sector experience were also prepared when considered necessary.
for instance, David Keens held the role of Group Finance Director of Next plc for 24 years.
The Committee considered the following significant financial and reporting issues during the year: Attendees The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Director of Internal Audit, Director of Group Finance, Company Secretary and Corporate Impairment of financial and non-financial assets Services Director, representatives from Sainsburys Bank and the external The impairment of financial and non-financial assets was considered auditor attended Audit Committee meetings.
by the Committee, this is particularly appropriate in todays challenging marketplace.
As disclosed in note 2 of the Notes to the Committee activities Financial Statements, a review for impairment triggers is performed The key activities of the Committee during the year in fulfilling its at each reporting date by considering if any current or future events responsibilities included reviewing, monitoring and approving the following: suggest the recoverable value of certain assets may be less than their Financial reporting carrying value.
The integrity of the financial statements and any other formal The Committee reviewed managements assessment of recoverable announcement relating to financial performance value and relevant judgements made.
An impairment and onerous The significant financial reporting issues and judgements contained in contract charge of 37 million was recognised in the year, as well as the financial statements 57 million in relation to IT assets written off.
The implementation of new accounting standards Complex property transactions The Companys funding and liquidity position and its impact on the There was one major property transaction in the year, being the Companys financial and operational capabilities opening of the Nine Elms store in August 2016.
The assumptions and qualifications in support of the viability statement and going concern including stress testing against risk materialisation The Committee has reviewed the concepts of this transaction in Assessment of whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced and a previous year to ensure that all accounting and tax issues are understandable identified and appropriately presented in the accounts, including whether amounts recognised reflect the overall substance of these Risk management and internal controls transactions.
Please refer to note 3 of the Notes to the Financial Risk management updates including reviews of principal risks Statements for property profits recognised in the year.
and uncertainties Pensions accounting The Risk Management Policy Following the acquisition of HRG during the year, the Group now holds Reports from the Audit and Risk Committees of Sainsburys Bank and on two defined benefit schemes: the Sainsburys defined benefit scheme all important operating and regulatory matters, including the transition and the HRG defined benefit scheme.
of the Bank, its liquidity, cash flows, capital adequacy and risk management processes The Committee reviewed a summary of the key assumptions used in arriving at the valuations and obligations for both defined benefit External audit pension schemes for the half-year and year-end reporting including The scope of the external audit plan and fee proposal inflation, discount and mortality rates.
Benchmarking is assessed to The provision of non-audit fees in accordance with our policy ensure that the assumptions are appropriate.
The independence and objectivity of Ernst & Young Of particular note this year was the effect that the UK Referendum vote The quality and effectiveness of Ernst & Young had on discount rates following a downward move in corporate bond The reappointment of Ernst & Young as auditor yields, and the impact on the IAS 19 accounting deficit and therefore distributable reserves in the Group.
The year-end reported discount rate Internal audit was 2.7%, giving a consolidated IAS 19 pension deficit of 974 million The internal controls framework before tax.
Managements responsiveness to Internal Audits findings and recommendations Items excluded from underlying results The European Securities and Markets Authority ESMA published Changes to the Internal Audit Charter guidelines on Alternative Performance Measures APMs which The scope of the internal audit plan applied to relevant communications released on or after 3 July 2016.
The effectiveness of the Internal Audit function In light of the ESMA guidance, additional disclosure is now also included on the APMs used by Sainsburys please refer to page 190.
Other The integration of Sainsburys Argos Items excluded from underlying results are reviewed by the Committee, and the Committee is satisfied that the Groups Whistleblowing presentation of these items is clear and that further disclosure is The transition of Sainsburys Bank included where appropriate.
Updates on data governance and information security The Companys compliance with the Grocery Supply Code of Practice Ongoing material litigation 70 Governance Report Audit Committee continued Fair, balanced and understandable assessment The Board is required to confirm that the Annual Report and Financial Sainsburys Bank reporting Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable The Committee receives updates on the key agenda items discussed see page 100.
To enable the Board to make this declaration, there is a yearat the Banks Audit Committee including accounting judgements and end review process to ensure the Committee, and the Board as a whole, has estimates and on all important operating and regulatory matters such access to all relevant information and, in particular, managements papers as its liquidity, cash flows, capital adequacy and risk management on significant issues faced by the business.
The Committee received a paper processes.
Representatives from the Bank Audit Committee and the from management detailing the approach taken in the preparation of the Bank Internal Audit team attend meetings of the Committee at least Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The Audit Committee, and all other twice a year.
Board members, also received drafts of the Annual Report and Financial During the year the accounting judgements and estimates reviewed Statements in sufficient time to facilitate their review and enable them to by the Committee have included impairment assessments of the challenge the disclosures if necessary.
In addition, Ernst & Young reviewed loans and advances due to Sainsburys Bank customers, progress on the consistency between the narrative reporting of the Annual Report and the the Bank transition, tax judgements and provisions and progress on Financial Statements.
the implementation of IFRS 9 Financial instruments.
Viability statement Supplier income The Committee has assessed whether three years continue to be an Supplier income is considered by the Committee, and whilst the appropriate timeframe over which to make the viability statement.
It was majority is calculated through a formulaic process, the Committee is concluded that the current three year assessment period remains appropriate satisfied with the controls in place to manage any areas of judgement and this was reviewed and adopted by the Board.
The processes underpinning the assessment of the Groups longer-term The Committee ensures the Group provides adequate reporting, prospects were reviewed.
including income statement and balance sheet disclosures within The viability statement and our approach to assessing long-term viability can the Financial Statements from page 99 and is satisfied with the level be found on page 45. of disclosure.
Acquisition of Home Retail Group External auditor On 2 September 2016, the Group acquired 100 per cent of the issued Independence and objectivity of the external auditor share capital of HRG, a listed company based in the United Kingdom.
The independence and objectivity of the external audit function is a fundamental safeguard to the interests of the Companys shareholders.
Significant work was undertaken to prepare for the integration of HRG, In order to ensure their independence, the Audit Committee has overseen with the following areas in particular being considered by the Audit the Companys policy which restricts the engagement of Ernst & Young in Committee: relation to non-audit services.
The approach to aligning the reporting dates of HRG and Sainsburys The policy is designed to ensure that the provision of such services does not have The transfer of HRG financial services entities to Sainsburys Bank an impact on the external auditors independence and objectivity.
It identifies certain types of engagement that the external auditor shall not undertake, Alignment of accounting policies between HRG and Sainsburys including internal audit and actuarial services relating to the preparation of Reviewed how the acquisition would impact the Groups IFRS 8 accounting estimates for the financial statements.
It also requires that individual Operating Segments disclosures.
Whilst an additional segment engagements above a certain fee level may only be undertaken with prewas identified, it was concluded that it met the aggregation approval from the Audit Committee, or if urgent, from the Committee Chairman criteria per IFRS 8 and the Groups reported segments therefore and ratified by the subsequent meeting of the Committee.
The policy also remained as Retail, Financial Services and Property Investment.
recognises that there are some types of work where a detailed understanding Reviewed the accounting and financial reporting for the of the Companys business is advantageous.
The policy is designed to ensure acquisition.
This included reviewing the assumptions made in that the auditor is only appointed to provide a non-audit service where it is relation to valuing the assets and liabilities, which resulted in considered to be the most suitable supplier of the service.
net assets acquired of 1,035 million and goodwill of 58 million.
Refer to note 31 of the Notes to the Financial Statements for more The Audit Committee received a report on the non-audit services being information.
provided and the cumulative total of non-audit fees.
The cumulative nonaudit fees are capped at 70% of the average of the audit fees for the Group for The transition to Ernst & Young as auditors of Home Retail Group the preceding three year period.
Updates to accounting standards The Audit Committee concluded that Ernst & Young remained objective Management are currently preparing for the implementation of three and independent in their role as external auditors and that they continue to new accounting standards: challenge management effectively.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for the year commencing 11 March 2018 The Audit Committee confirms that it has complied with the provision of the IFRS 15 Revenue effective for the year commencing 11 March 2018 Statutory Audit Services Order 2014.
IFRS 16 Leases effective for the year commencing 10 March 2019 Audit and professional fees paid to the external auditor The Audit Committee reviewed Ernst & Youngs overall work plan, and We have reviewed impact assessments prepared by management approved their remuneration and terms of engagement.
The majority on the transition to each of these accounting standards and the of the non-audit work undertaken by Ernst & Young during 2016 17 was assumptions made.
Additional disclosures in relation to each of these audit related assurance services and tax advisory services.
These totalled are included in note 1 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
The total audit fees for the year in respect of the Group and subsidiaries were 1.9 million.
For a breakdown on the fees please refer to note 5 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
We note that within the External Audit report there is a risk associated with Effectiveness of the external auditor adjustments made to revenue.
We have condensed this and have concluded Ernst & Young were appointed in July 2015 as the Companys auditor.
that we have appropriate procedures and controls in place not to include this as a significant area of judgement.
The Audit Committee reviewed Ernst & Youngs effectiveness during the year.
Additionally, a questionnaire was completed by the members of the Committee with feedback sought from key stakeholders including Governance Report 71 the Interim Chief Financial Officer and Director of Group Finance.
The questionnaire included evaluation of the audit partner and audit team, the Review of Risk action corporate risk approach to the audit, communications with the Committee, how Ernst & tracking dashboards Young supported the work of the Audit Committee, and their independence and objectivity.
Bi-annual divisional risk update The Audit Committee concluded that Ernst & Young provided audit services efficiently and effectively and to a high quality.
Areas for improvement or greater attention were discussed and shared with Ernst & Young and Operating Board management.
Appointment of the external auditor The Audit Committee has made a recommendation to the Board to reappoint Ernst & Young as the Companys auditor for the 2017 18 financial year.
Accordingly, a resolution proposing the reappointment will be tabled at the 2017 AGM.
Annual internal Board Audit Quality Review controls Review of risk process, The Audit Quality Review team of the Financial Reporting Council FRC certification corporate risks and sign reviewed Ernst & Young's audit of the Group's Annual Report and Financial by divisional off of principal risks and Statements 2016.
The FRC have given us a copy of their report, which has been management uncertainties reviewed by the Committee and discussed with Ernst & Young.
The report does not give the Committee any concerns over the quality, objectivity or independence of the audit.
Risk management and internal controls The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and the system of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Certain of these Audit Committee responsibilities have been delegated to the Audit Committee as outlined below.
The risk management process is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Divisional and Corporate risk updates misstatement or loss.
The risk management process and the system of internal controls have Game changer Risk appetite been in place for the whole year, up to the date of approval of the Annual output survey results Report and Financial Statements, and accord with the UK Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting and the Governance Code.
The Board received updates on risk management and internal controls from corporate risk.
The target risk position is captured to reflect managements the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
All Committee papers and minutes risk appetite where this differs to the current net position.
The Operating were made available to the whole Board.
Board reviews the corporate risk dashboards during the year, comprised of key risk indicators, to ensure they identify any potential risk movements The Board also received reports relating to safety, other relevant risks, towards or away from their risk appetite.
This enables the Operating Board to controls and governance.
Any specific matters which could have affected the agree and monitor appropriate actions as required.
Companys reputation were reported to the Board as they occurred.
The risk management process is embedded at the Operating Board level The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal and supported by a divisional risk management process.
Operating Board controls and has ensured that any required remedial action on any identified members certify annually that they are responsible for managing their weaknesses has been, or is being taken.
business objectives and internal controls so as to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that the risks in their areas of responsibility are The diagram on the right provides a high-level overview of the key risk appropriately identified, evaluated and managed.
management activities undertaken by the Operating Board, Audit Committee and Sainsburys divisional management that allow the Board to fulfil their Internal Audit provides the Audit Committee with a risk management update obligations under the UK Corporate Governance Code and Companies Act twice a year which provides detail of the key risk activities undertaken at the 2006.
The annual risk management process concludes with the Boards robust divisional and corporate level.
assessment of the Companys principal risks and uncertainties, including those that could threaten its business model, future performance, solvency The risk management process is illustrated in the diagram on page 72. and liquidity, and the completion of an annual internal controls certification.
The specific risk activities undertaken in the financial year 2016 17 were as follows: Corporate risk management process Internal Audit facilitated risk workshops with each divisional leadership Accepting that risk is an inherent part of doing business, the risk team to identify the key risks which may prevent the achievement management process is designed to identify key risks and to provide of divisional objectives.
Each divisional management team produced assurance that these risks are fully understood and managed in line with and maintained a divisional risk map and supporting risk register.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness The likelihood and impact of each key risk was evaluated at a gross of the risk management process at least annually.
level before consideration of mitigating controls and net level after consideration of mitigating controls.
Managements risk appetite The Operating Board maintains an overall corporate risk map which is was reviewed and further actions to mitigate the risk were identified reviewed twice a year by the Audit Committee and formally discussed as required.
The risk map captures the most significant risks faced by the business and identifies the potential impact and likelihood at both a The implementation of divisional risk actions were tracked by Internal gross level before consideration of mitigating controls and net level after Audit and reported to divisional leadership teams periodically.
Risk action consideration of mitigating controls.
The Operating Board discusses and implementation rates are reviewed by the Operating Board regularly to agrees the level of risk that the business is prepared to accept for each key monitor progress towards their risk appetite.
72 Governance Report Audit Committee continued Divisional management regularly reviews key divisional risks and the Internal Audit provided independent assurance to management and the effectiveness and robustness of the mitigating controls as part of their Committee as to the existence and effectiveness of the risk management normal business activities.
Independent assurance over the controls is process: also provided through the delivery of the Internal Audit risk based plan.
Internal Audit conducted a risk appetite survey in December 2016 with The Operating Board reviewed and challenged the output of the divisional the Operating Board to assess the extent to which consideration of risk risk process including new risks, risk movements and key risk themes.
appetite is embedded in the business.
The output of the survey was Where divisional risks are aligned to corporate risks the corporate risk presented to the Operating Board and Audit Committee for review and map was updated as appropriate.
discussion: and Corporate risk dashboards comprised of key risk indicators have been The Board reviewed the risk management process and corporate developed to enable risk owners to identify any potential movements risks at the year-end and approved the Companys principal risks and towards or away from their risk appetite.
The Operating Board regularly uncertainties as set out on pages 42 to 44. reviewed the risk dashboards, reflecting any risk movements on the The risk management process is illustrated below: corporate risk map as required.
Internal Audit facilitated a game-changer and horizon scanning risk workshop to identify external and uncertain risks over a five to ten year timeline.
Key themes and outputs from this exercise were reviewed by the Operating Board to identify the potential impact on key corporate risks.
Divisions Operating Board Audit Committee Plc Board Internal Audit 1 2 November Divisional Risk Operating Board 3 December Workshops Risk Review assess key risks to their review challenge business objectives divisional risk output and update corporate risk register as Horizon Scanning & appropriate Game-Changer Risk Workshops focus on external and unknown risks March Risk Dashboard Audit Committee Internal Audit ongoing risk review corporate risk-based monitoring and divisional risks half-year plan and sign-off principal risks and uncertainties May Management Risk Dashboard Board annual certification that ongoing risk review of risk process, risks in their areas of monitoring corporate risks and responsibility are sign-off of principal identified, evaluated risks and uncertainties and managed July 1 2 Divisional Risk Operating Board 4 Workshops Annual Risk Workshop assess key risks to their assessment of key business objectives corporate risks and risk appetite discussion August 2 Operating Board Risk Review review challenge divisional risk output and update corporate risk map as appropriate September Risk Dashboard Audit Committee Internal Audit ongoing risk review corporate risk-based monitoring and divisional risks half-year plan 1 2 3 Output Output Output 4 Output Divisional risk maps Corporate Principal Risk and Uncertainties The risk management process feeds into and registers risk map reflecting key corporate risks the Company strategy, plan and objectives Governance Report 73 Internal controls Grocery Supply Code of Practice The system of internal control encompasses all controls, including those In February 2010, a new Grocery Supply Code of Practice GSCOP was relating to financial reporting processes including the preparation of the implemented following the recommendation of the Competition Commission.
consolidated Group accounts, operational and compliance controls and those Each grocery retailer to which it applies had to appoint a Code Compliance relating to risk management processes.
It also includes the controls over Officer whose duties include hearing disputes between suppliers and the Sainsburys interests in joint ventures.
Sainsburys appointed the Director of Internal Audit as its Code Compliance Officer.
The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the internal controls systems on an ongoing basis, enabling a cumulative assessment to be made.
The GSCOP requires that each grocery retailer to which it applies delivers an processes used during the year to support this assessment are as follows: annual compliance report to the Groceries Code Adjudicator which has been approved by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Furthermore, a summary Discussion and approval by the Board of the Companys strategy, plans of the compliance report must be included in our Annual Report and Financial and objectives, and the risks to achieving them Statements.
Review and approval by the Board of budgets and forecasts, including those for both revenue and capital expenditure Summary annual compliance report Regular reviews by management of the risks to achieving objectives and Sainsburys has invested significant time and resource in providing mitigating controls and actions comprehensive training to all relevant colleagues as required under GSCOP which is reinforced by online knowledge testing.
Sainsburys has also Regular reviews by management and the Committee of the scope and dedicated internal resource to provide all relevant colleagues with day-toresults of the work of Internal Audit across the Company and of the day advice and guidance.
The Trading Division, in consultation with the implementation of their recommendations Legal Services Department and the Code Compliance Officer, continues to Regular reviews by the Committee of the scope and results of the work of assess the adequacy of policies and procedures in place to support GSCOP the external auditors and of any significant issues arising awareness and compliance.
Regular reviews by the Audit Committee of accounting policies and levels of delegated authority A small number of alleged breaches of GSCOP have been received in the reporting period, which were dealt with within the Trading Division using Regular reviews by the Board and the Committee of material fraudulent our standard internal escalation procedure.
The resolution of five of these activity and any significant whistleblowing by colleagues or suppliers and alleged breaches was facilitated by the Code Compliance Officer during actions being taken to remedy any control weaknesses the reporting period.
Additional matters Internal Audit The Committee has regularly reviewed the Internal Audit departments resources, budget, work programme, results and managements implementation of required actions and its recommendations.
The Director of Internal Audit reports to the Committee Chairman and has direct access to all members of the Committee and the Chairman.
She is given the opportunity after each meeting to meet with the Committee separately without management being present.
She has regular meetings with all Committee members.
The purpose, authority and responsibility of Internal Audit are defined in the Internal Audit Charter which the Committee reviews annually.
The effectiveness of the Internal Audit department is monitored and reviewed over the course of the year.
The Committee has set KPIs which are used to assist it in reviewing the effectiveness of Internal Audit.
The Director of Internal Audit reported against these KPIs twice during the year, highlighting any failure to achieve the target scores and explaining the reason therefore.
In addition, an effectiveness questionnaire was completed by the Chairman of the Board and the members of each of the Committees and the Operating Board.
The Committee concluded that Internal Audit continued to be effective.
Whistleblowing The Companys whistleblowing procedures ensure that arrangements are in place to enable colleagues and suppliers to raise concerns about possible improprieties on a confidential basis.
All issues raised have been investigated and appropriate actions taken.
Any significant issues are highlighted to the Audit Committee.
Sainsburys Bank Sainsburys Bank is a subsidiary of the Company which has an independent board responsible for setting the Banks strategy, risk appetite and annual business plan as well as the day-to-day management of the business.
The Board of the Bank has an independent Chairman and a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Bank will continue to provide to each Audit Committee an update on performance and the chairs of the Banks Audit Committee and Risk Committee will present to the Audit Committee.
There is alignment between the Sainsburys Internal Audit function and their colleagues within Sainsburys Bank equivalent team.
