Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT I am pleased to present the Report of the Nomination Committee for 2017.
This Report provides shareholders with an overview of the activities carried out by the Committee during the year.
On 6 July 2016, I succeeded Lord Bilimoria as Chairman of this Committee.
On 27 January 2017, it was announced that we were intending to merge with Tesco.
Prior to this announcement, the Committee had conducted a search with the assistance of The Zygos Partnership, for a candidate to replace Lord Bilimoria who was due to retire in 2016 having completed nine years of service.
This search had resulted in the identification of a candidate, however both the Committee and the Board were firmly of the view that any change to the composition of the Board whilst merger discussions with Tesco were ongoing was inappropriate.
Moreover, the Board considered that the Company would benefit from a stable Board following the announcement of the merger and were therefore delighted when Andrew Cripps, rather than retiring, agreed to continue as a Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Looking forward, the Committee will continue to review long term succession plans for the Board, with the aim of ensuring that an appropriate balance of skills, experience and diversity is maintained, mindful of any change in circumstances.
I will be available to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM to answer any questions relating to the role of the Committee.
Stewart Gilliland Chairman of the Nomination Committee 17 May 2017 30 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance Role and Responsibilities of the Committee The Committee has defined Terms of Reference which can be found in the Investor Centre Legal Documents section of the Groups website.
A copy may be obtained from the Company Secretary.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of additional Directors and for reviewing the size, structure and composition including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board and the membership of Board committees to ensure that they have the necessary range of competencies, knowledge and experience required for the direction and oversight of the business.
Membership and Meeting Attendance The following Non-Executive Directors served on the Committee during the year: Number of Maximum % of Member Meetings Possible Meetings Member Since Attended Meetings Attended Stewart Gilliland Chairman 8 July 2015 4 4 100 1 Lord Bilimoria Retired 6 July 2016 5 March 2008 2 2 100 Gary Hughes 6 July 2016 2 2 100 Karen Jones 4 February 2015 4 4 100 Notes: 1.
Retired from the Board and as Chairman of the Committee.
All members of the Committee are and were considered by the Board to be independent.
No member of the Committee nor any other Director participates in discussions concerning or votes on his or her own reelection or evaluation of his own performance.
Details of the skills and experience of the Directors are contained in the Directors biographies on pages 20 and 21.
Their remuneration is set out in the Remuneration Report.
The quorum necessary for the transaction of business is two, each of whom must be a Non-Executive Director.
Only members of the Committee have the right to attend Committee meetings, however, during the year, Charles Wilson Chief Executive was invited to attend meetings.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
Meeting Frequency and Main Activities in the Year The Committee met on four scheduled occasions during the year ended 24 March 2017.
All members of the Committee attended every scheduled meeting.
Since 24 March 2017, the Nomination Committee met on one occasion to review the Committees report within the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts and recommended its approval to the Board.
During the year ended 24 March 2017 the Committee: reviewed the size, structure and composition of the Board: continued the search for a new Non-Executive Director with appropriate skills and experience to replace Lord Bilimoria.
Lord Bilimoria did not participate in the discussions or work of the Committee in relation to this topic: revisited the planned changes to the Non-Executive Director membership of the Board in light of the proposed merger with Tesco: recommended to the Board that all of the Directors who have indicated their willingness to stand for re-election be proposed for re-election as Directors at the forthcoming AGM: and reviewed the Committees report within the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts and recommended its approval to the Board.
Board Composition Succession Planning The Board plans for its own succession with the support of the Committee.
The Committee remains focused on behalf of the Board, on Board succession planning for both Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee aims to ensure that: the succession pipeline for senior executive and business critical roles in the organisation is adequate: processes are in place to identify potential successors and manage succession actively: there is a structured approach to developing and preparing possible successors: and processes are in place to identify at risk posts.
31 Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Board Composition Succession Planning continued On at least an annual basis each Directors intentions are discussed with regard to continued service on the Board and their succession is considered in the context of the shape of the overall Board and the corporate governance guidance on NonExecutive tenure.
This transparency allows for an open discussion about succession for each individual, both for short-term emergency purposes as well as longer term plans.
As in previous years, we conducted an analysis of the balance of skills on the Board as a whole, taking account of the future needs of the business in the light of the business strategy, the Board changes set out above, and the knowledge, experience, length of service and performance of the Directors.
In accordance with our policy, we also had regard to the requirement to achieve a diversity of characters, backgrounds and experience amongst Board members.
Summary of Board Changes Gary Hughes succeeded Andrew Cripps as Chairman of the Audit Committee from 1 December 2016.
Stewart Gilliand succeeded Lord Bilimoria as Chairman of the Nomination Committee from 6 July 2016.
Non-Executive Director Search To assist it in the search for a new Non-Executive Director to succeed Lord Bilimoria the Committee again engaged The Zygos Partnership.
The Zygos Partnership was provided with a detailed brief of the desired candidate profile based on merit and against objective criteria including an assessment of the time commitment expected and their services were used to conduct a thorough search to identify suitable candidates.
The Committee considered a list of potential candidates with the skills, knowledge, independence and diversity in its widest sense gender, nationality, age, experience, ethnicity and background which would benefit the Company.
The search had resulted in the identification of a female candidate, however due to the pending merger with Tesco we are not progressing with the appointment.
Should the position change then the Board and the Committee would take appropriate steps to review the composition of the Board.
The Board confirms that The Zygos Partnership is not connected with the Company in any other way.
The Company did not use open advertising to search for suitable candidates for the role of Non-Executive Director, as we believe that the optimal way of recruiting for these positions is generally to use targeted recruitment based on the skills and experience required.
Skills Balance and Directors Performance Evaluation During the year, the Committee also considered the membership of the Board and each of its Committees.
The Committee continues to actively review the long term succession planning process for Directors to ensure the structure, size and composition of the Board and its Committees continue to be effective, thus ensuring appropriate levels of corporate governance and best practice and support for the Company as it pursues its strategy.
As part of its review, the Committee considered the performance and independence of Stewart Gilliland, Helena Andreas, Andrew Cripps, Gary Hughes and Karen Jones, each of them having confirmed their willingness to stand for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
As announced on 30 March 2017, in light of the proposed merger with Tesco, the Committee considered the composition of the Board and its Committees and determined that the Company would benefit from stability, as well as retaining the knowledge and experience Andrew Cripps has gained of the Company.
Accordingly, Andrew Cripps, rather than retiring from the Board and leaving the Company as had previously been proposed, has agreed to continue as a non-executive director and to offer himself for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Having undertaken a performance evaluation, the Committee considered that the performance of each of the Non-Executive Directors proposed for re-election, being Stewart Gilliland, Helena Andreas, Gary Hughes, Karen Jones and Andrew Cripps, was effective and that they have each demonstrated a strong commitment to their role.
The Committee has also undertaken a review of each of the Non-Executive Directors other interests and external time commitments, such review being particularly rigorous in accordance with the Code in the case of Karen Jones as she has served in excess of seven years on the Board and in the case of Andrew Cripps as he has served in excess of nine years on the Board, and has concluded that each of them is independent in character and judgement and that there are no relationships or circumstances likely to affect or which appear to affect his or her judgement.
In considering whether Andrew Cripps continued to be independent as he will have served on the Board for more than nine years, the Committee considered the time dedicated to his various roles as non-executive director, including Deputy Chairman of Swedish Match AB, Chairman of the Audit Committee of Howden Joinery Group plc and of Boparan Holdings Limited, where he is also Senior Independent Director and his contribution to the Board in discussions generally.
The Committee was satisfied that he continued to remain independent, having regard to the Codes independence criteria.
The Committee were satisfied that each of the Directors proposed for re-election had the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company to enable him or her to discharge the duties and responsibilities of a director effectively.
Accordingly, the Committee recommended to the Board that they each be proposed for re-election as a Director at the forthcoming AGM.
32 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance Diversity We value diversity in the Boardroom and see it as a wider topic than simply gender.
Our Directors come from different backgrounds, a wide range of professions and each brings unique capabilities and perspectives to our discussions.
We are committed to maintaining a diverse Board.
Appointments to the Board and throughout the Group will continue to be made on merit and overall suitability for the role against objective criteria with due regard to the benefits of diversity including, but not limited to, ethnicity, experience and gender.
We do not consider quotas appropriate as a target for ethnic minority or female representation on company boards, since they are likely to lead to compromised decisions on Board membership, quality and size.
Whilst the Committee has not determined to set targets for the number of ethnic minorities or women on the Board, the Committee is mindful of the Women on Boards Davies Review, Improving the Gender Balance on British Boards, published in October 2015.
The priority is and will remain, however, to continue to make appointments to the Board on merit and to recruit Directors who offer the right skills and complement the rest of the Board with a view to achieve effective diversity, in its widest sense.
When recruiting, we require any search agency to have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms setting out the seven key principles of best practice to abide by throughout the recruitment process.
An analysis of Directors by gender as at 24 March 2017 is as follows: Male Female Number Number Director 6 2 As outlined on page 32 the search for a new Non-Executive Director resulted in the identification of a female candidate.
Due to the potential merger with Tesco we are not progressing with the appointment.
Statistical gender diversity employment data for the Group can be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on page 10.
Committee Performance and Effectiveness The Board additionally undertook an annual review of the Committees performance and effectiveness and concluded that the Committee operated effectively.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 17 May 2017.
Stewart Gilliland Chairman of the Nomination Committee 33
