58 Governance Report Corporate Governance We welcomed Kevin OByrne as our new Chief Financial Officer in January 2017.
Kevin has a wealth of retail and financial experience from his previous Corporate senior roles at Kingfisher, Dixons and Poundland and has a track record in growing businesses.
We are sure that he will make a great contribution to the business and to the Board.
We are also pleased that Simon Roberts is joining Sainsburys as Retail and Operations Director on the Operating Board.
Simon Governance previously held senior positions at Boots and Marks & Spencer and we believe that he will have a major impact on our future success.
We are sorry that Mary Harris will be stepping down from the Board at this years AGM having completed over nine years of service as a Non-Executive Director.
I would like to thank Mary for her very valuable contribution over that time and particularly for her skilful leadership of the Remuneration Committee over recent years.
I am pleased that Susan Rice will take over as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on Marys departure.
A search for a new Non-Executive Director to join the Board is under way.
As a Board, we take governance very seriously and we regularly discuss and review our ways of working and our effectiveness.
During the year, we asked Manchester Square Partners MSP to carry out a review of our effectiveness and are now working through an action plan, based on their feedback, to build on our strong foundations.
We believe that Sainsburys unique values and culture play a key role in our success and we were therefore particularly pleased with MSPs conclusion in this regard that the Board embodies and leads by example on the behaviours and culture which Sainsburys aims to drive throughout the organisation.
Their review is described in detail on page 61.
Dear Shareholder We continue to have a mix of men, women and ethnic backgrounds on our The Board this year has maintained its particular Board.
This diversity is in line with good governance and appropriate for both Sainsburys and our customer base.
We continue to focus on increasing our focus on the Companys strategic direction and on diversity and inclusivity at all levels of the business and I draw your attention driving the creation of sustainable long-term value to the detailed review on pages 39 and 65. for shareholders.
This is particularly important in a sector like ours which is experiencing significant change and which is highly competitive.
David Tyler Over an extended period, the Board considered the potential attractions of Chairman Argos and was closely engaged this year with the acquisition of its owner, Home Retail Group plc HRG, believing that this will accelerate the strategy announced in 2014.
We are pleased with the pace of integration and the opportunities that Argos is providing.
We are now a multi-channel, multiproduct retailer with a market-leading digital offer and nationwide fast-track delivery capabilities.
Compliance Statement Food is our core business and it is our priority to offer customers great quality and choice at fair prices which differentiates us in an increasingly competitive The Board is committed to strong governance and, during the year, market.
The Board reviews our supermarket business on a regular basis to the Company has complied with all the provisions of the UK Corporate ensure it is well positioned to meet the challenges of the current trading Governance Code Governance Code.
This report outlines how we have environment.
Our focus is on creating the differentiated offer our customers applied the Governance Codes main principles throughout the year.
want and achieving cost savings and efficiencies.
Published by the Financial Reporting Council, the Governance Code is Another of our priorities has been the delivery of the growth strategy of available at www.
During the year we have had a number of opportunities to meet the Banks management team and Board, to discuss progress and agree the key actions for the short and medium term.
Upon the completion of the HRG acquisition, we reviewed our senior management structure and made some important changes to the executive team.
We take succession at Board and senior management level very seriously and believe that we have management of the highest calibre.
We announced that John Rogers, our Chief Financial Officer since 2010, would be appointed to the key role of Chief Executive Officer of Sainsburys Argos.
In this role he will continue to drive the integration of Argos with Sainsburys general merchandise business, and deliver the ongoing digital transformation across Sainsburys Argos.
John and the experienced Management Board at Sainsburys Argos have made an excellent start in their new roles.
Governance Report 59 Division of responsibilities Leadership Chairman, David Tyler Responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all How we are governed aspects of its role and for setting the Board agenda.
Ensures effective The Board currently comprises three Executive Directors, the Chairman and communication with shareholders and that the Board is aware of the views six Non-Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors bring wide and of major shareholders.
Facilitates the contribution of the Non-Executive varied commercial experience to the Board and committees.
The Directors are Directors through a culture of openness and debate, and ensures constructive subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
and re-election at each AGM thereafter.
All members of the Board, other than Mary Harris, will retire and seek election or re-election by shareholders at this Chief Executive Officer, Mike Coupe years AGM.
John McAdam stepped down from the Board in July 2016 and Responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group and executing the Susan Rice succeeded him as Senior Independent Director.
strategy, once agreed by the Board.
Creates a framework of strategy, values, organisation and objectives to ensure the successful delivery of results, and In the period between John Rogers being appointed as Chief Executive Officer allocates decision making and responsibilities accordingly.
Manages the risk of Sainsburys Argos in September 2016 and Kevin OByrne being appointed profile in line with the risk appetite identified and accepted by the Board.
as Chief Financial Officer of the Company in January 2017, Ed Barker acted Takes a leading role, with the Chairman, in the relationship with all external as Interim Chief Financial Officer and attended Board meetings and investor agencies and in promoting Sainsburys.
relations presentations in that capacity.
Senior Independent Director, Susan Rice Acts as a sounding board for the Chairman and as a trusted intermediary for the other Directors.
Meets with the other Non-Executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman at least once a year in order to undertake a review of the Chairmans performance.
Available to discuss with shareholders their views and any concerns that cannot be resolved through the normal channels of communication with the Chairman or the Executive Directors.
Role of the Board and its committees Board The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the Company, setting the Companys strategy, financial objectives and risk appetite, providing leadership to the business including on culture, values and ethics, monitoring the Companys overall financial performance and ensuring effective corporate governance and succession planning.
The matters reserved for the Board can be found on our website at www.
co. uk Operating Board PLC Com C m oim tte me is ttees Day-to-day management of the Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Corporate Responsibility Group is delegated to the Operating The Audit Committee reviews The Remuneration Committee The Nomination Committee and Sustainability Board, which is chaired by Mike the integrity of the financial recommends and reviews reviews the balance of skills, Committee Coupe.
The Operating Board has information provided to the remuneration policy, knowledge, experience, The Corporate Responsibility delegated certain powers to the shareholders, oversees ensuring it is aligned to the independence and diversity and Sustainability CR&S Operating Board Committees, the Companys system of long-term success of the of the Board and its Committee reviews the each of which has approved terms internal controls and risk Company.
It also approves the Committees, and succession of reference setting out its areas broad CR&S strategy and the management, approves the remuneration and benefits planning at Board and senior of responsibility.
John Rogers Companys progress on the internal and external audit of Executive and Operating management levels.
and Peter Griffiths represent the key corporate responsibility process, and monitors the Board Directors.
Sainsburys Argos Management More details on page 64 initiatives including diversity, process for compliance with Board and the Sainsburys Bank More details on page 74 relevant laws, regulations values and colleague and Board respectively on the Operating and policies.
The Operating Board held 12 scheduled meetings during the year.
More details on page 68 More details on page 66 The responsibilities of each Director are set out on pages 56 and 57.
Terms of reference for each committee can be found on the website.
Corporate Responsibility and Trading Board Group Safety Committee Operating Board Paul Mills-Hicks Tim Fallowfield Sustainability Steering Group Committees Mike Coupe Investment Board Diversity and Inclusivity Kevin OByrne Steering Group Data Governance Committee Angie Risley Tim Fallowfield 60 Governance Report Corporate Governance continued Home Retail Group acquisition Key areas of focus of the Board Given the strategic importance of the acquisition of HRG, the Board was fully The Board and Committees have a scheduled forward programme of meetings.
engaged in planning, negotiating and approving the transaction, which is This ensures that sufficient time is allocated to each key area and the summarised below.
Boards time together is used effectively.
There is sufficient flexibility in the programme for specific items to be added to the agenda which enables the Board to focus on key matters relating to the business at the appropriate time.
Planning The Board had in depth discussions over several months about the benefits and The principal activities of the Board during the financial year included the Up to Nov potential long-term shareholder value 2015 following items, some of which were considered at each meeting, and others that could be created through a potential acquisition of HRG.
The Board provided were reviewed periodically throughout the year: challenge and guidance to the executive team.
The Boards detailed review confirmed Item that the combination of the businesses was attractive in principle for shareholders and Financial and Operational Performance customers of both companies.
The Board reviewed and discussed: Negotiation In November 2015, the Company approached Annual budget and Corporate five year plan HRG about the possibility of a combination Nov 2015 to of the two businesses.
On 5 January 2016, CEO Report including a market and trading update April 2016 Sainsburys announced a possible offer for Performance against key targets of Sainsburys, Sainsburys Argos and HRG.
A sub-committee was established to Sainsburys Bank oversee the negotiations and due diligence, Customer insights and service standards and to ensure robust governance.
The Board Financial items including Preliminary and Interim results and the Annual Report approved the terms and conditions of the offer.
Dividend Policy and recommendations Treasury and tax policy Completing On 2 April 2016, the HRG Board announced Pensions the deal and they would recommend Sainsburys offer to April to Sept planning the their shareholders.
During April to September, 2016 Strategy integration the Board had oversight of the progress of the transaction and supported the subAt the strategy conference and on a regular basis throughout the year, the Board reviewed: committee in making decisions on a timely The implementation of the agreed strategic plan, focusing particularly on the HRG basis.
Relevant documentation was reviewed acquisition and integration, the core supermarket strategy and Sainsburys Bank and approved by the Board.
Potential further strategic initiatives It was imperative that there was an Regular market updates organisational and operational plan in Competitor performance place to commence integration.
The Board approved the appointment of John Rogers as Risk & Governance Chief Executive Officer of Sainsburys Argos on completion of the deal.
The Board reviewed and discussed risk and governance matters including: Reports from the Board committees Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and CR&S Post completion The acquisition completed on 2 September and integration 2016.
The integration of the Argos business Information security and data governance Sept 2016 into Sainsburys started immediately.
Regular Board Evaluation onwards updates on integration, synergies and trading Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability performance and the emerging strategy of Internal controls and risk management Sainsburys Argos were considered by the Safety reports health and safety, and food Board.
The Board took the opportunity to Public Affairs meet the management team and visit stores.
Litigation Investor relations and other stakeholder engagement Risk management During the year David Keens, the Audit Committee Chairman, gave detailed Colleagues updates to the Board following each Audit Committee meeting on risk The Board received updates on: management and internal controls and the specific matters considered by Talent, diversity and succession planning the Audit Committee.
The Director of Internal Audit attends at least one Colleague pay Board meeting a year as part of the Boards overall review of the effectiveness Significant reorganisations of risk management and the system of internal controls.
In addition, specific HR Policy risks are regularly discussed.
For instance, the Board receives an annual update and quarterly updates on health and safety, and food safety.
One of Strategy the particular risks the Board also examined this year was data governance The Board continued to prioritise its reviews of the implementation of the and information security and how the risks were being mitigated through a agreed strategic plans, focusing particularly on the HRG acquisition, the combination of people, process and technology change.
core supermarket strategy and Sainsburys Bank.
A two day strategy conference, with the attendance of the Board and Operating Board, was held in October.
The strategy conference was a key opportunity for the Board to discuss, challenge and focus on strategy, including in-depth reviews of the retail market, competition, pricing and promotions, customer insights, Sainsburys Bank strategy and the five year corporate plan.
The strategy conference is carefully structured to achieve a balance between presentations and time for debate and discussion.
External advisers attended for part of the conference.
During the year, the Board also received regular updates on progress against the strategy and, in July, it will agree the objectives and principal areas of focus for the next strategy conference.
Governance Report 61 Board operation and attendance Effectiveness The Board held eight scheduled meetings during the year, including the twoday strategy conference held in October.
A significant number of additional Board evaluation ad hoc meetings and conference calls were also convened to deal with specific matters, particularly in relation to key decisions concerning the acquisition Key findings from 2015 16 review of HRG.
1 Build on the strong links with the Board of Sainsburys Bank and the broader management team at the Bank.
The Board had a number of informal meetings during the year.
These included The Board has had regular opportunities to review the progress of informal meetings of the Board the day before most Board meetings, and Sainsburys Banks growth strategy during the year.
The September Board meetings with individual members of the Operating Board and their leadership meeting was held at the Banks offices in Edinburgh, giving the Board teams to receive updates on their specific areas of responsibility.
In addition, an opportunity to meet the Banks Board, including the Chairman and the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors met without the Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors, and the senior management team who made being present, and the Non-Executive Directors also met without the Executive detailed presentations.
Directors or the Chairman being present.
2 Some specific items could be given more visibility at Board level, including All Directors were made aware of the key discussions and decisions of each of the work to increase diversity at all levels across the business.
the four principal Committees by the Chairman of each Committee providing The Board received a detailed update on the Companys diversity and a detailed summary at the Board meeting following the relevant Committee inclusivity priorities at the strategy conference in October, with further meeting.
Minutes of Board and Committee meetings were circulated to updates at CR&S Committee and Board meetings.
Directors shortly after those meetings took place.
3 Continue to monitor the broader competitive landscape, given the extent The following table shows the attendance of Directors at scheduled Board of the multi-channel retail market and the pace of change.
The Board discussed the broader competition landscape at the strategy Board Audit Remuneration Nomination CR&S conference in October and frequently at Board meetings.
Matt Brittin 8 8 4 4 4 4 2016 17 review Mike Coupe 8 8 2 2 The Board agreed that the 2016 17 review should be carried out by an Mary Harris 8 8 5 5 4 4 1 2 external facilitator.
Three different suppliers took part in a tender process David Keens 8 8 4 4 4 4 and the Board determined that Manchester Square Partners MSP should be appointed to conduct the evaluation exercise of the Board and its Brian Cassin 7 8 4 4 4 4 Committees.
MSP had carried out the previous external review in 2013 14 Susan Rice 8 8 1 1 5 5 4 4 this continuity was felt to be advantageous in tracking any changes in the John Rogers 8 8 Boards effectiveness over that period.
It was agreed that the review would Jean Tomlin 7 8 5 5 4 4 2 2 explore a broad range of dimensions covering strategy, operational priorities, David Tyler 8 8 4 4 the Boards role, its structure and balance, succession, risk management and governance.
These themes were developed into a full written set of questions Kevin OByrne 2 2 to ensure that the objectives of the Board review were met.
John McAdam 3 3 1 1 Notes: Ed Barker attended two meetings in his capacity as Interim CFO.
The maximum number of meetings The review was conducted from November 2016 to February 2017.
MSP had held during the year that each Director could attend is shown in brackets.
Brian Cassin and Jean Tomlin were access to the Board and strategy conference papers for the prior 12 months.
each unable to attend one Board meeting due to prior business commitments.
Board members first completed a questionnaire and individual meetings were then held with all Directors, the Company Secretary, the Interim On the rare occasions that a Director is unavoidably unable to attend Chief Financial Officer, the Group HR Director, the Chief Executive Officer of a meeting, the Chairman briefs them before the meeting so that their Sainsburys Bank and the audit partner from Ernst & Young.
As part of the comments and input can be taken into account at the meeting, and process MSP attended and observed a Board meeting.
MSP presented the provides an update to them after the meeting.
conclusions to the Board at a meeting convened for that purpose and the Board discussed the key points and agreed certain actions.
Following the presentation, the Senior Independent Director reviewed the Chairmans performance with the other Directors and met him to provide feedback.
The Chairman provided feedback to each Director on their individual contributions to the Board and, with each of them, considered their development priorities.
MSP concluded that the Board is functioning well and in line with first class corporate governance, the Board dynamics are excellent this is a collegiate, consensual, cohesive and supportive but challenging Board with a high degree of mutual trust, respect and integrity.
62 Governance Report Corporate Governance continued to operations around the Group which were particularly relevant to his role as MSP highlighted a number of positive themes which had the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
For more information see page 68. emerged from the evaluation, which include: Kevin OByrne and John Rogers also have continuing comprehensive There is clarity and alignment on the role of the Board, the strategic inductions consistent with the scale and profile of their new executive roles.
priorities, key challenges and risks.
All Non-Executive Directors feel the need to challenge constructively Professional development, support and believe the quality of debate is high and has become more and training robust.
We have a programme for meeting Directors The Board provides strong leadership and support to the business training and development requirements.
The and is successfully overseeing a period of significant change.
Board programme includes regular presentations from management and informal meetings to There is a strong sense of shared values.
The Board embodies and build their understanding of the business and leads by example on the behaviours and culture which Sainsburys sector.
This year a number of Board meetings aims to drive through the organisation.
were held at offsite locations including: The pace has increased significantly, especially around strategy, decision making and execution.
Marine Harvest Risk is well monitored and managed.
The Board held its June meeting at Sainsburys salmon supplier, Marine Harvest, at their Scottish office.
Here the Board had the opportunity to meet There are effective, efficient and thorough Board structures, with the Food Commercial Director, and the Trading Division leadership team processes and information flows.
and to discuss the overall trading strategy, including pricing and promotions, provenance and supplier relationships.
The Board also received a presentation on Marine Harvest, met their management team and toured their facility.
The Board identified the following actions: This has given the Board a greater understanding of Sainsburys trading strategy, focus on differentiation, supplier relationship management and the Review the Board programme to continue to find sufficient time for relationship with Marine Harvest.
strategy and deep dives on big topics, with integration of individual topics if possible.
Sainsburys Bank Develop more informative KPIs around digital activities and the The Board held their September meeting at Sainsburys Bank in Edinburgh competitive environment.
and met with Sainsburys Bank Non-Executive Directors, Chairman, Executive Having discussed Mary Harriss plans to step down from the Committee and senior management.
They discussed the opportunities and Board at the AGM, start the succession process for an additional challenges facing the financial services sector, received a detailed overview Non-Executive Director.
of the Banks strategy including short and medium term plans and met the broader management team.
Extend the timings of Board visits to the other business locations or suppliers in order to allow more time for interaction.
Sainsburys Argos Find additional opportunities to meet the broader management The Board met the Sainsburys Argos Management Board and senior teams.
management team, in Milton Keynes in November, and had the opportunity to discuss trading, integration and strategic plans, and to visit stores.
It is anticipated that the 2018 Board evaluation exercise will be carried The Online Fulfilment Centre in Bromley-by-Bow out internally.
The Board discussed online strategy and toured the facility with the management team at the new Sainsburys Online Fulfilment Centre in Induction Bromley-by-Bow.
The purpose built Online Fulfilment Centre is 185,000 sq.
ft. We have a comprehensive and tailored induction programme in place for and has the capacity to fulfil 25,000 customer online orders per week.
Directors in order for them to gain an understanding of all aspects of the Group, including our culture and values, strategy, sustainability, governance During the year the Company Secretary provided updates to the Board on and the opportunities and challenges facing the business.
The programme relevant governance matters, Directors duties and obligations, and new includes store and depot visits and meetings with other members of the legislation and its impact on the Company including the new Market Abuse Board, members of the Operating Board, senior management and external Regulations and the Green Paper on Corporate Governance Reforms.
The programme is ongoing for Non-Executive Directors, who often Audit and Remuneration Committees received regular updates on relevant meet members of the management team on an individual basis to continue accounting and remuneration developments, trends and changing disclosure to build up their knowledge of the Company or visit stores, depots and other requirements from external advisers and management.
The Chairman, in business locations and also suppliers.
Subsequent training is available on an collaboration with the Company Secretary and management, ensured that ongoing basis to meet any particular needs.
all Directors were properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings and that they had sufficient, reliable and timely access to relevant information.
During the year, Brian Cassin and Kevin OByrne joined the Board and Directors have access to independent professional advice if necessary John Rogers was appointed as Chief Executive Officer of Sainsburys Argos.
and to the advice of the Company Secretary in fulfilling their duties and David Keens continued his induction following his appointment to the Board responsibilities.
Independence and conflicts of interest Brian Cassin The Chairman satisfied the independence criteria of the Governance Code Brian Cassin joined the Board on 1 April 2016.
During his induction to date, on his appointment to the Board and all the Non-Executive Directors are Brian has met with members of the Board and had a series of one to one considered to be independent.
Each of the Directors has a duty to avoid a meetings with members of the Operating Board and senior management to situation where he she has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that get an insight into each of their areas of responsibility.
He visited a number conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
The of stores including the new store at Nine Elms.
He also attended a colleague Companys Articles of Association permit the Directors to authorise conflicts listening group where he heard feedback from store colleagues and he met and potential conflicts, where appropriate.
The Board has established with external advisers to understand regulatory matters and obligations.
procedures for the disclosure by Directors of any such conflicts, and also for the consideration and authorisation of these conflicts by the Board.
David Keens In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Board considered and David Keens joined the Board on 8 July 2015.
He has had a comprehensive and authorised each Directors potential conflicts of interest during the year.
tailored induction which has continued this year and included further visits Governance Report 63 Whenever a Director takes on additional external responsibilities, the Board Private shareholders considers any potential conflicts that may arise.
The Board continues to Our private shareholders are encouraged to access the Companys monitor and review potential conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
The Interim and Annual Reports and presentations on our website.
Other Board has specifically considered the executive or non-executive roles that useful information such as announcements, historic dividend records some of the Non-Executive Directors have with companies that may be and shareholder communications is also available on the website suppliers to Sainsburys.
The Board is satisfied that the independence of the www.
co. uk investors Directors who have executive or non-executive roles with other companies is not compromised.
AGM Shareholders had the opportunity to meet and question the Board at the Prior to appointment, each Non-Executive Director confirms that they will AGM.
There was a display of various aspects of the Companys activities have sufficient time available to be able to discharge their responsibilities and Mike Coupe made a business presentation.
This year the AGM will be effectively.
During the year, the Board reviewed, in advance, disclosures by held on 5 July 2017.
Non-Executive Directors seeking to undertake additional commitments.
All resolutions proposed at the 2016 AGM were taken on a poll vote and The Board remains confident that individual members are able to devote were passed with significant majorities.
sufficient time to undertake their responsibilities effectively.
Suppliers The Board receive regular updates on the trading strategy, and supplier Relations with relationship management was a key area of focus of the June Board meeting held at Marine Harvests facility in Scotland when Marine Harvest's stakeholders management and the Trading Division Leadership team presented to the Board page 62.
The Companys compliance with the Grocery Supply Code The Company is committed to maintaining good communications with of Practice is monitored by the Audit Committee page 73 and David Keens stakeholders.
met the Grocery Code Adjudicator in his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Supplier relationship management was also discussed by the Institutional shareholders CR&S Committee and in two CR&S stakeholder meetings, Mike Coupe and Normal shareholder contact is the responsibility of Mike Coupe, Jean Tomlin had the opportunity to hold discussions with key suppliers and Kevin OByrne and James Collins, Head of Investor Relations.
The Chairman met with institutional shareholders and other large investors.
The Senior Independent Director, Susan Rice, is also available Colleagues to attend meetings as required.
The CR&S Committee discussed insight on colleague engagement, and summaries of the key issues that were important to colleagues, at each of The Company met regularly with its large investors and institutional the meetings.
It has been agreed that some of the Non-Executive Directors shareholders who, along with sell-side research analysts, were invited to will meet colleagues from the National Great Place to Work Group to hear presentations by the Company immediately after the announcement of colleagues views on matters which are at the top of their agenda and share the Companys interim and full-year results.
with them some of the items on the Board agenda.
This will enhance the link Large investors and institutional shareholders also visited a number of between the Non-Executive Directors and colleague representatives.
They are also invited to participate in conference calls following the announcement of the Companys trading statements.
The content of these presentations and conference calls are webcast and are posted on the Companys website www.
co. uk investor-centre so as to be available to all investors.
While activity early in the year was constrained by Takeover Panel Rules relating to our offer for HRG, the Company met, through regular postresults roadshows, ad hoc meetings, conference attendances and site visits in the UK, US and Europe, a total of 187 shareholders and potential investors in 229 meetings over the course of the year.
Feedback from institutional shareholders The Board received regular updates on the views of major investors and the Investor Relations programme at each Board meeting.
Makinson Cowell provided investor relations consultancy services to the Company and external analysis to the Board on the views of institutional investors and sell-side analysts.
Makinson Cowell additionally carried out an extensive Investor Study, covering share price performance, the share register, the Investor Relations programme and investor views on the retail market, communication, strategy and management.
Key conclusions and recommendations arising from this survey were presented to the Board.
Non-Executive Directors also received regular market reports and broker updates from the Companys Investor Relations department.
Investors are increasingly interested in corporate responsibility matters, details of which can be found on pages 66 and 67.
Information on countering bribery can be found on page 97.
