64 Governance Report Nomination Committee Succession and diversity at Board and senior management levels are key aspects of our agenda.
Our priorities over the year were as follows: Nomination To implement the succession plan for the Argos Chief Executive Officer role and ensure a smooth transition.
To plan and implement the appointment of a new Chief Financial Officer.
Committee To support succession at Operating Board and senior management levels, including the appointment of Simon Roberts as Retail and Operations Director, and the appointment of a new management board for Sainsburys Argos.
To plan succession at Non-Executive level in light of Mary Harris decision to step down from the Board at this years AGM, following over nine years of service to the Company.
A search process for a new Non-Executive Director is under way.
To review our progress on becoming a more diverse and inclusive business.
The Committee received a full update on the Companys progress at the strategy conference in October and Directors continue to receive regular updates at Board meetings.
To oversee the Companys approach to resourcing the needs of the business, developing our colleagues and recruiting new talent.
The Committee is pleased with the progress made on these priorities during the year and believes that the new appointments at Board and senior level position the business well for the future.
Dear Shareholder The Nomination Committee has overseen the David Tyler Boards succession planning during the year which Chairman has resulted in the appointments of John Rogers and Kevin OByrne to their new roles.
We believe that they will carry out their responsibilities in a highly effective way, and that they will contribute significantly to our operational and strategic discussions, and complement the existing balance of skills and experience around the boardroom table.
Governance Report 65 Succession planning Diversity and inclusivity The Board takes succession planning for both Board members and senior We want to be the most inclusive retailer'.
We will achieve this aspiration by management very seriously.
All of the Non-Executive Directors are members recruiting, retaining and developing diverse and talented people and creating of the Nomination Committee which is chaired by David Tyler.
Mike Coupe is an inclusive environment where everyone can be the best they can be and invited to attend meetings.
During the year, the Committee held four formal where diverse views are listened to.
The Board is highly supportive of the meetings and there were regular updates on its various search processes initiatives to promote diversity and inclusivity throughout the business.
instance, Jean Tomlin attended Sainsburys first Black, Asian, Minority Ethnic BAME event, delivering a key note speech to over 200 BAME colleagues At the strategy conference in October, the Committee reviewed succession about her career journey, experiences and challenges.
plans, development and talent management for senior managers as well as progress on inclusivity throughout the business.
In March 2017, following the The Board receives regular updates on inclusivity and both the CR&S Board evaluation, the Committee considered the balance, skills and diversity Committee and the Nomination Committee had detailed presentations on the of the Board.
As part of its succession planning the Committee agreed to start range of priorities and the progress against them during the year.
More about a search for a new Non-Executive Director in light of Mary Harris stepping these initiatives and the progress being made can be found on page 39. down from the Board at the AGM, and discussed the preferred experience Our gender diversity statistics can be found in the table below.
For most of for the role specification.
The Committee also approved the appointment of the year, two members of the Operating Board 22% were women, however Susan Rice as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in July 2017.
Susan following the departure of Sarah Warby in January 2017, the number fell to one.
has been a member of the Remuneration Committee since September 2015.
Each of our Directors were recruited following a robust selection process Colleagues Male Female which has been facilitated by independent executive search consultants.
Board 10 7 70% 3 30% The Committee believes Sainsburys has a good balance and diversity Operating Board 9 8 89% 1 11% amongst Non-Executive Directors, with several having extensive experience Divisional Directors and Senior 265 183 69% 82 31% of retail and consumer-facing businesses and other highly relevant skills Managers derived from serving in a range of major executive and non-executive positions throughout their careers.
Company 191,202 85,746 45% 105,456 55% The Committee oversaw the two key appointments of John Rogers and Kevin OByrne during the year.
Board balance John Rogers John was promoted to the role of Chief Executive Officer of 3 Sainsburys Argos upon completion of Sainsbury's acquisition of HRG in September 2016.
Johns experience goes beyond his most recent role as Chief Financial Officer.
His vast experience as a leader in the business in strategy, digital, online, financial services and property 6 since he joined Sainsburys in 2005 made John the ideal candidate to lead Sainsburys Argos.
As Chief Executive Officer he will continue to drive the integration of Argos with Sainsburys general merchandise business, and deliver the Non-Executive Director Executive Directors ongoing digital transformation across Sainsburys Argos.
Board diversity Kevin OByrne Identify.
Using the agreed brief, the Committee reviewed and shared feedback on a list of internal and external candidates 3 from independent executive search consultants Egon Zehnder International.
The diverse list of candidates was appraised against the key competencies and experience required for the role.
Mike Coupe and Angie Risley Group HR Director led a series of interviews with the shortlisted candidates.
Preferred candidates then met with David Tyler, David Keens and John Rogers following which the Committee met to discuss feedback.
After further meetings with Non-Executive Directors, Kevin Men Women OByrne was recommended for appointment by the Committee.
He was identified as the preferred candidate particularly due to his wealth of retail and finance experience, and his track record in Board tenure growing businesses.
Kevins appointment as Chief Financial Officer was approved and announced on 7 November 2016 and took effect on 9 January 2017.
30% During the search process Ed Barker, Sainsbury's Director of Group Finance, 40% was appointed Interim Chief Financial Officer from 5 September 2016 until 9 January 2017.
