Governance Governance Corporate governance I am pleased to present the Boards annual report on corporate governance, which confirms that the Company has fully complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the year.
Also, as previously announced The Board is committed Stephen Williams will retire from the to ensuring that corporate Board following the conclusion of the governance is an integral part Companys 2017 AGM.
We are grateful of our organisation.
It is key to Stephen for remaining on the Board to how we interact with our to ensure an orderly transition of the leadership of the Remuneration investors, employees, suppliers Committee.
Shareholder engagement UK Corporate Governance Code The 2016 17 financial year has been The Board has reviewed the Companys one of significant engagement with performance against the UK Corporate our shareholders.
We held a Capital Governance Code the Code and has Market Day in November 2016, concluded that the Company complied which was attended by our major with the Code throughout the 2016 17 shareholders, at which executives financial year.
A copy of the Code is presented details of our strategy.
As part We have twice consulted investors of our annual corporate governance in connection with the Companys review, the Board also considered the remuneration policy and further details Richard Baker new provisions contained within the of these consultations are provided in 2016 Corporate Governance Code, Chairman the remuneration report on pages 78 which applies to the Company with to 98.
I would like to thank all those effect from the 2017 18 financial year.
investors that have taken the time to Iam pleased to confirm that we already engage with us, whether by responding comply with these new provisions.
to the consultations, attending the Board membership Capital Market Day or meeting with The Board welcomed David Atkins and Company representatives throughout Deanna Oppenheimer as independent the year.
Your input is much appreciated.
non-executive directors during the year.
I also very much enjoyed meeting a Since the end of the financial year, we number of our shareholders at our AGM have also welcomed Adam Crozier as last year and I look forward to doing so an independent non-executive director.
again at this years AGM on Wednesday Each of these individuals brings skills 21 June 2017. and experience to aid the Boards discussions.
Further details of the appointment of the new non-executive directors is provided in the Nomination Committee report on pages 75 to 77.
As announced during the year, Wendy Richard Baker Becker retired from her position as a Chairman non-executive director of the Board in 24 April 2017 December 2016 following her nine year tenure.
I would like to thank Wendy for her contribution and commitment to the Board and we wish her well for the Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 62 Governance Leadership and the Board of Directors The Board of Directors Composition of the board Board experience There are 11 members of the Number of directors Chairman Board including the Chairman, Executive directors Chief Executive and Senior Independent non-executive directors Retail sector 7 Independent Director.
The composition of the Board is shown in the chart to the right.
Travel and 6 hospitality sector Biographical details of each of the directors can be found on Marketing 6 pages 64 and 65.
We believe that it is vital for the Board to include a diverse Legal 3 range of skills, backgrounds and experiences, to enable a Age of the board Financial 6 broad evaluation of all matters 46-55 considered and to contribute 56-65 to a positive culture of mutual 66-75 International 11 respect and constructive challenge.
The mix of skills and experience represented on the Commercial property 5 Board is outlined to the right.
Technology and digital 7 Human resources 8 Board responsibilities Ensuring a culture of openness and Senior Independent Director The Board is responsible for the debate around the Board table.
longterm success of the Company and Leading the annual evaluation of the ensures that there are effective controls The Senior Independent Director provides Board, the committees and individual in place which enable risk to be assessed a sounding board for the Chairman and directors.
All Board members have supports him in the delivery of his Ensuring, through the General responsibility for strategy, performance, objectives.
The Senior Independent Counsel, that the members of the risk and people.
Director is available to shareholders if Board receive accurate, timely and they have concerns which the normal The Chairman and Chief Executive have clear information.
channels have failed to resolve or which clearly defined roles which are separate would be inappropriate to raise with the and distinct.
The specific duties and Chairman or the executive team.
He also Chief Executive division of responsibilities between the leads the annual evaluation of the Chairman and Chief Executive have Chairman on behalf of the other directors.
been agreed by the Board and are set Optimising the performance of out below, together with information the Company.
The Senior Independent Director can on the roles of the Senior Independent be contacted directly or through the Daytoday operation of the business.
Director, the executive directors and General Counsel.
Ensuring effective communication the non-executive directors.
Executive directors The creation of shareholder value Chairman by delivering profitable growth and The executive directors are responsible for a good return on capital.
the daytoday running of the business Leadership of the Board and setting and for implementing the operational its agenda including approval of the Ensuring the Company has a strong and strategic plans of the Company.
Groups strategy, business plans, team of highcalibre executives, and annual budget and key areas of putting in place appropriate business importance.
management succession and Non-executive directors development plans.
Maintaining appropriate contact with The nonexecutive directors play a major shareholders and ensuring Leading and motivating a large key role in constructively challenging that Board members understand their workforce of people.
and scrutinising the performance of views concerning the Company.
the management of the Company and helping to develop proposals on strategy.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 63
