Governance Governance Audit Committee report During the year, we have As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am welcomed David Atkins as a pleased to present the Audit Committee member of the Audit Committee.
David is currently Chief Executive report for the year ended 2 March 2017. of Hammerson plc and his The report provides an overview of the appointment ensures that the Audit Committee continues to work that the Audit Committee has have the competencies relevant undertaken during the year and the issues to the industry in which the Company operates.
As part of his Committee induction, David Atkins attended meetings with the Chairman of the Audit Committee, Group Finance Director, the General Counsel and the Managing Directors of Premier Inn & Restaurants and Costa.
The Committee meets at least four times a year and will hold additional meetings as and when required.
Meetings are attended by members of the Committee and, by invitation, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Director of Internal Audit, the Group Financial Controller, the General Counsel and other relevant Chris Kennedy people from the business when Chairman, Audit Committee appropriate.
The external auditor, Deloitte LLP is also invited to meetings.
Composition of the Committee Membership of the Audit Committee and meeting attendance All members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors Meetings attended and Name of director eligible to attend as required by the Committees terms of 1 reference and have been selected to be Chris Kennedy Chairman 3 4 members of the Committee based on David Atkins their individual financial and commercial 2 Wendy Becker 4 4 experience.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, Susan Taylor Martin 4 4 the Board considers that I have recent 2 Simon Melliss 3 3 and relevant financial experience through my current role as Chief 1 Chris Kennedy missed one Committee meeting due to a commitment made prior to his appointmentas a director.
Financial Officer of ARM Holdings plc.
2 Simon Melliss and Wendy Becker stepped down from the Committee on 30 September 2016 I will step down from this position on and 31 December 2016 respectively.
As part of the annual review of the Companys compliance with the Code, the skills and experience of the Committee have been evaluated.
Further in accordance with the 2016 Corporate Governance Code applying to the Company with effect from its 2017 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 72 Governance financial year, the Board has agreed whether the Annual Report and Impairment that the Committee as a whole has the Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, A full asset impairment review is competencies relevant to the sector in balanced and understandable and undertaken every year and the which the Company operates.
provides the information necessary Committee is provided with information for shareholders to assess the on how the impairment values have Responsibilities of the Committee Groups performance, business been derived.
Areas of judgement The Board has delegated specific model and strategy: around the calculation of the discount responsibilities to the Committee in rate used, the growth rates applied, the regulatory announcements accordance with the Code.
The key the sensitivities of the judgements and of the results: responsibilities of the Audit Committee the impairments booked are discussed are to: a going concern assessment: and challenged.
The impairment values presented by management were noted monitor and review the integrity of the a long-term view of the Groups going and agreed by the Committee.
Groups financial results and the concern basis: financial reporting process: Non-underlying items a review of the Speaking Out reports monitor the statutory audit of the Consideration was given to the submitted in accordance with the annual and consolidated accounts: appropriateness of disclosure for Groups whistleblowing policy: all of the items classified as monitor the effectiveness of the a review of the Committees non-underlying.
This included the Groups internal controls and risk effectiveness and terms of reference: nature of the items and whether they management systems: and met the criteria as defined by the review and monitor the independence a review of the Group Finance systems accounting policy.
In addition, the of the statutory auditor, in particular, upgrade programme.
Committee was provided with details the provision of additional services: around the restructuring provisions To aid its review, the Committee created within non-underlying and in approve the internal audit plan and considers reports from the Group particular around the exit of the hotel monitor and review the effectiveness Finance Director, the Group Tax Director, operations in South East Asia.
Regular of the Groups internal audit function: the Director of Internal Audit, the updates have been provided in relation and General Counsel and also reports from to the progress of the exit and the level Deloitte LLP as the external auditor on have primary responsibility for the of provisioning has been challenged the outcomes of their half-year review recommendations to the Board in accordingly to ensure that it is sufficient and annual audit.
The Committee looks relation to the external auditor.
to meet the potential obligations.
for constructive challenge from Deloitte Further details on the Committees as external auditor.
Taxation responsibilities are in the Committees The method of calculating the terms of reference on the Groups The key areas of judgement and Groups tax expense and liability website: www.
estimation considered by the and the provisioning for potential Committee, in relation to the 2016 17 tax liabilities were considered.
Main activities during the year accounts were: Assumptions are made around In 2016 17, the Audit Committees the assets which qualify for capital work included internal controls, risk Defined benefit pension allowances determined ultimately via management, internal audit, external The Committee reviewed, considered the aid of a thirdparty expert, the level audit and financial reporting.
and exercised judgement on the of disallowable expenses, provisions for The specific details of the matters assumptions used to calculate the uncertain exposures or recoveries, the discussed included: pension scheme assets and liabilities extent of rolled over gains, indexation under IAS 19, to satisfy itself that the quality and integrity of accounting thereon and the tax base into which appropriate consideration and balance policies and practices: they have been rolled.
All have an had been given to all macroeconomic impact on both deferred and current factors.
The principal assumptions used the clarity of the disclosures and tax.
These were reviewed and challenged and the sensitivities around them were compliance with financial reporting with the judgements being noted and considered and the consistency in standards and relevant financial and agreed.
The Committee also reviewed approach from 2015 16 to 2016 17 was governance reporting requirements: the judgements exercised on tax assessed, concluding with the same material areas in which significant provisioning as part of its annual estimates as reached by management.
judgements have been applied or review of key provisions.
where there has been discussion with the external auditor: Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 73 Governance Governance Audit Committee report continued Fair, balanced and understandable allows employees to report anonymously Mandatory Use of Competitive In order to confirm to the Board and in confidence.
During the year the Tender Processes and Audit Committee that the Annual Report and Accounts, Committee reviewed the re-launch of Responsibilities Order 2014, as published taken as a whole is fair, balanced the policy, processes and reporting by the UK Competition and Markets and understandable, there has been structure for Speaking Out, and agreed Authority.
The Group intends to put a thorough verification and approval that appropriate arrangements are in the external audit out to tender every process using the Committees place for proportionate and independent 10 years in the future.
knowledge of the Group, as investigations.
The Committee receives Auditor independence outlined below: regular reports from the General Counsel To safeguard the objectivity and on the operation of this function.
the Annual Report is drafted by the independence of the external auditor, appropriate senior management with Internal audit the Committees terms of reference overall coordination by the Secretariat The Audit Committee monitors set out the nonaudit services that team to ensure consistency: and reviews the scope, extent and are permitted in certain circumstances effectiveness of the Companys internal and those not permitted at all.
This comprehensive reviews of the drafts audit function.
Regular presentations prevents the auditor being able to of the Report and Accounts are and updates were given to the provide certain services such as internal undertaken by management, the Committee by the Director of Internal audits.
For certain specified audit and Executive Committee and me, as the Audit and private discussions were held auditrelated services, the Group can Audit Committee Chairman: with the Director of Internal Audit as employ the external auditor without a final draft is reviewed by the Audit and when necessary.
reference to the Audit Committee, Committee prior to consideration subject to a specified fee limit.
For External auditor by a committee of the Board: and the services permitted in certain On behalf of the Board, the Committee circumstances, agreement must formal approval of the Annual Report overseas the relationship with the be sought from me, as Chairman of and Accounts is given by a committee external auditor.
Deloitte was reappointed the Committee where fees are less of the Board.
as auditor of the Company at the than the limit specified, or with full 2016 AGM following a tender process Based upon this review, the Committee Audit Committee approval where undertaken in 2015.
The effectiveness determined that the Annual Report is fees are anticipated to be greater.
of the external audit process is fair, balanced and understandable.
A tender process would be held dependent on appropriate audit risk where appropriate.
Internal control and risk management identification at the start of the audit The Audit Committee monitors the cycle.
We received from Deloitte a Deloitte are engaged to provide systems of risk management and detailed audit plan, identifying their independent assurance over the internal control.
In addition, the assessment of these key risks.
systems transformation programme Committee completes an annual review governance and deep dive reviews in These risks were reviewed and they, of the effectiveness of these systems in to the high risk stages of the project, as together with the work done by the March, assessing the risk management permitted by the policy on non-audit auditor, were challenged to test framework and policy, managements services.
This was approved by the managements assumptions and risk assessment and review process, Audit Committee.
Independence is estimates around these areas, as well and the monitoring and reporting of risk.
maintained as they are not designing as other areas reported upon.
The This review is completed in conjunction the system or its controls but reviewing effectiveness of the audit process was with an internal control effectiveness and reporting to assist the wider assessed in addressing these matters review from Internal Audit and Group programme governance required through the reporting we received Finance, and considers all material for a successful go-live.
from Deloitte at both the halfyear controls, including financial, operational and yearend.
In addition, feedback Following a review of the services and compliance controls.
The system was sought from management on the provided by our external auditor, and processes were considered to be effectiveness of the audit process and Deloitte LLP, and taking into robust and no significant weaknesses targeted and tailored questionnaires consideration the ratio of non-audit were noted.
A robust assessment of the were completed.
The points raised to audit fees of 0.25, we can confirm principal risks facing the Company was were taken into account in this years that it continues to be independent.
carried out, considering risk appetite, year-end process.
As part of our and each risk was assessed and the level review process, the Committee will be of assurance required was determined.
assessing the work of the year-end audit Further details of the principal risks once finalised and formal discussions identified and agreed by the Company of the effectiveness review will take can be found on pages 60 and 61. place at the Audit Committee meeting Chris Kennedy Speaking Out facility in July2017.
Chairman, Audit Committee In accordance with the Code, the 24 April 2017 Audit tender Committee has continued to review Deloitte was appointed as the Groups the Companys whistleblowing function, auditor in 2015.
The Committee confirms known as Speaking Out.
The system compliance with the provisions of the is operated by two external third-party Statutory Audit Services for Large providers, Hospitality Action in the UK Companies Market Investigation and Navex Global internationally, and Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 74
