Governance Nomination Committee report I am pleased to present the Nomination Committee report that provides an overview of the work that has been undertaken by the Committee during the year.
Richard Baker Chairman, Nomination Committee Succession planning is key to a successful Board and the Membership of the Nomination Committee and meeting attendance Committee was pleased to Meetings attended and Name of director eligible to attend recommend the appointments of David Atkins, Deanna Oppenheimer Richard Baker Chairman 3 3 and Adam Crozier to the Board.
1 David Atkins David and Deanna joined the Board 2 Wendy Becker 3 3 on 1 January 2017.
Adam Crozier Sir Ian Cheshire 3 3 joined the Board on 1 April 2017.
2 Simon Melliss 2 2 The Committee meets at least twice 1 Deanna Oppenheimer a year and will hold additional meetings Stephen Williams 3 3 as and when required.
Meetings are attended by members of the Committee 1 David Atkins and Deanna Oppenheimer joined the Committee on 1 January 2017. and, by invitation, the Chief Executive, 2 Simon Melliss and Wendy Becker stepped down from the Committee on 30 September 2016 the Group Finance Director, the Group and 31 December 2016 respectively.
HR Director and the General Counsel.
Composition of the Committee All members of the Committee are non-executive directors.
During the year, the membership of the Committee was reviewed and all non-executive directors have now joined the Committee.
Role of the Committee The role of the Nomination Committee is to review the Board composition and identify and nominate directors who could add value to the Boards performance.
The Committee is also responsible for succession planning, evaluating the directors on an annual basis and striving for a balance of skills, knowledge, independence, experience and diverse representation.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 75 Governance Governance Nomination Committee report continued Responsibilities of the Committee the Board before appointment and The Committee is responsible for The Committee has specific any changes to the Chairmans ensuring that Board and committee responsibilities on behalf of the Board commitments should be reported membership is progressively refreshed and these are detailed below: to the Board as they arise: and and that there is no undue reliance on any one individual.
This is reviewed at review the results of the annual to regularly review the structure, the annual meeting in February.
Board evaluation that relate to the size, and composition of the Board composition of the Board.
to include the balance of skills, Board appointments and diversity knowledge, independence, experience Appointments to the Board are based The full terms of reference are and diversity and to make on merit against objective criteria.
available on the Companys website: recommendations to the Board www.
Diversity and equality have always in respect of any changes: been core values at Whitbread.
The Main activities during the year to consider succession planning for Board believes that diversity is of In 2016 17, the Committees main the Board and to determine the skills utmost importance, ensuring the activities have included: and experience required for future effectiveness of the Board and the Board appointments: the appointment and on boarding of Company and its continued success.
three new independent nonexecutive Whitbread appoints members of the to identify and nominate, for the directors: Board on the basis of performance approval of the Board, candidates and the ability to continually contribute a review of the Board size, structure to fill Board vacancies as and when to the Board, on the grounds of the and composition, with a view to they arise: knowledge, skills and experience ensuring the continued ability of the to evaluate the balance of skills, required.
We are committed to an organisation to compete effectively knowledge, experience and active policy of equal opportunities in the marketplace: diversity required prior to making and embraced diversity at all levels.
an appointment to the Board and on a review of the talent and succession The appointment of new directors the basis of this evaluation to prepare planning for the Board, taking into The Committee annually evaluates a role description outlining the account the challenges and the balance of skills, experience, capabilities required for a particular opportunities facing the business: independence and knowledge on appointment: the reelection of directors at the AGM: the Board, preparing a description to keep the leadership needs of the and of the role and capabilities required Company under review, both executive the terms of reference and for a particular appointment and and non-executive with a view to effectiveness.
consider a matrix of skills and ensuring the continued ability of the competencies of the Board.
Company to effectively compete: keep up to date and fully informed about strategic issues and commercial changes affecting the Company and the market in which it operates: Length of tenure of directors as at 2 March 2017 to ensure that on appointment to the Board, non-executive directors receive a formal letter of appointment setting David Atkins out the time commitment in respect Richard Baker of the role: Alison Brittain to annually review the time required Nicholas Cadbury from non-executive directors and to Sir Ian Cheshire ensure that a performance evaluation Adam Crozier is undertaken to determine if Chris Kennedy non-executive directors are spending Deanna Oppenheimer sufficient time to fulfil their duties: Louise Smalley for the appointment of a Chairman, Susan Taylor Martin to prepare a job description including Stephen Williams the time commitment expected.
A proposed Chairmans other significant commitments should be disclosed to Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 76 Governance We use external search consultants The Committee followed the same to engage and identify a number of process for the appointment of Adam candidates, ensuring equal representation, Crozier as a non-executive director, aligned with the role and capabilities joining the Board on 1 April 2017.
Adam required for the appointment.
Selected has a strong background in business candidates meet with the Committee transformations, brands, communication and further interviews take place before and marketing.
His expertise will be of an appointment is made.
great value to the Board as we continue to expand the Premier Inn and Costa brands.
Board changes during the year Following a review of the composition Our approach to the annual of the Board, it was determined that the reelection of directors Committee should appoint three new As required by the Code, all directors non-executive directors.
Zygos was will be subject to reelection at the appointed by the Board as the adviser next AGM.
As part of my individual to the Committee in the search for performance review of each external candidates.
Zygos has no non-executive director, I reviewed their other connections to the Company.
contribution and time commitment to the Company.
All directors are When appointing new directors, the proposed for reappointment at this Committee reviewed a matrix of Board years AGM.
Details setting out why skills and considered which skills each director is deemed to be suitable were required, taking into account the for reappointment will be included strategic development of the Company.
with the AGM papers circulated to all shareholders.
Following this, a detailed specification was prepared for each non-executive As mentioned, Stephen Williams will role and a preliminary list of candidates be stepping down from the Board in was prepared for consideration.
June 2017 after serving nine years as a non-executive director.
Following the interview and assessment process, Deanna Oppenheimer and David Atkins were appointed as nonexecutive directors, joining the Board on 1 January 2017.
Deanna has a strong background in mass consumer Richard Baker retail and her experience of having Chairman, Nomination Committee worked with a broad range of leading 24 April 2017 edge digital businesses will add significant value to the Whitbread Board.
Deanna also replaced Stephen Williams as Chair of the Remuneration Committee from 1March 2017.
As the CEO of a major UK business with interests across a number of European markets, David also has significant experience in the European retail property sector that will provide the Whitbread Board with invaluable insights as we continue to expand both in the UK and overseas.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 77
