Governance Nomination Committee Report Role of the Committee Time spent on matters Our role is to review Board composition, Nomination consider succession planning and 1 Board composition 22% evaluate skills required in Board 2 Succession planning 40% Committee candidates.
3 Board skills 13% 4 Board evaluation 25% Committee members consist of five independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
1 4 Attendance During the year, the Committee met on five occasions.
3 Member Attendance Philip Green Chair 5 2 Andrew Goodsell 5 Ray King 5 Bridget McIntyre 5 Orna NiChionna 5 Dear Shareholder, Our terms of reference Gareth Williams 5 This year we have focused on Our terms of reference were reviewed ensuring that there was a structure by the Committee and subsequently The Company Secretary attends all in place that enabled appropriate approved by the Board on 20 September meetings as secretary to the Committee.
These explain our role and the In addition, the Group Chief Executive throughout the Group.
authority delegated by the Board and Officer and Group HR Director attend are available on the Saga website at by invitation.
It was important that we had http: corporate.
co. uk corporateconfidence that we have the right information corporate-governance and people in senior roles, with the Our remit from the Company Secretary at Sagas appropriate skill set and that the Regularly reviewing the structure, registered office.
appropriate strategic and operational size and composition including the discussions were taking place.
We skills, knowledge, independence, What we have done during the year have held a number of unscheduled Board composition experience and diversity of the meetings to discuss how best to have Board and making recommendations At the centre of our remit is a detailed a balanced Board and Executive understanding of the Boards and the with regard to any changes.
Team that work well together and Giving full consideration to Board Committees structure, size and to identify how best to develop our composition.
Changes to the Board succession planning for Directors Executive Team.
and other senior executives, to composition throughout the year are explained in the Effectiveness section ensure progressive refreshing Philip Green of the Board.
of the Corporate Governance Statement Chair, Nomination Committee on pages 50-51.
Evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge, independence, The Division of responsibilities between experience and diversity on Chairman, Group Chief Executive Officer the Board and, in light of this and Role of Senior Independent Director evaluation, preparing a description document was reviewed and approved of the role and capabilities required by the Board on 1 November 2016. for a particular appointment and its expected time commitment.
Reviewing the results of the Board performance evaluation process that relate to the composition of the Board.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 52 Strategic report Governance Financial statements On 19 December 2016, the Company Diversity Effectiveness of the Nomination announced my resignation from the We continue to believe that it is in the Committee Board and my position as Senior very nature of Saga to recognise the Evaluation Independent Director with effect from benefits that diversity brings.
Our policy An external evaluation of the 31 March 2017.
Orna NiChionna will is to appoint the best possible candidate, Committees effectiveness took place assume the position of Senior considered on merit and against during the year, as part of the Board Independent Director and Chair objective criteria and in accordance with effectiveness review for details see page oftheCommittee at this time.
the Equality Act 2010, rather than to set 51.
This was completed by Independent quotas for a particular aspect that may Audit Limited.
The review indicated that Whilst we did not make any deflect from achieving this fundamental the Committee is working well in appointments to the Board during the target every time.
At the date of this addressing the main issues it is having to year, we did discuss how the Company report, 25% of the Board is female.
cover and is taking a thorough approach would ensure that there is the right level During the year, we agreed to refer to Director performance evaluation and of oversight of the regulated businesses to Chair rather than Chairman for all succession planning.
and that those companies had senior Committee Chairs.
leaders with the right experience in Looking ahead, we will continue to place.
We concluded that it was Succession planning and talent respond to any issues that may arise Important to have the right governance, management during 2017 and will continue to identify leadership and independence for such The future directional structure of the our future talent pipeline, to ensure that roles.
As a result of this discussion, executive team was a focal point in light the structure, size and composition.
Bridget McIntyre was appointed as of Andrew Strongs retirement at the end including the skills, knowledge, Senior Independent Director for Saga of the financial year and to strengthen independence and experience and Services Limited on 22 March 2017. the customer facing areas of the diversity of the Board is right, conducting business important due to the focus skills gap analysis where necessary.
Appointment of Directors on customer-centricity.
Our terms of reference explain how we recruit and appoint Directors to the We reviewed succession planning, noted Board.
We will use open advertising short and long-term caretakers for each or the services of external advisers to senior role and focused on removing key facilitate our search for the best possible areas of vulnerability, executive team candidates from a wide range of development and overall leadership backgrounds, as appropriate.
Philip Green Chair, Nomination Committee Russell Reynolds Associates were A framework for reviewing talent within approved as our search consultants the Group was put in place following an and will map candidates against skills extensive talent mapping exercise.
Russell Reynolds home-grown talent and external hires Associates has no other connection provide a strong skill base, a need with the Company.
tofocus on leadership training was identified, to support the changes An overview of the Director induction required within the Group.
A leadership process has been included in the programme was developed to tailor Effectiveness section of the Corporate training needs to individuals.
Senior Governance Statement on pages 50-51. individuals were also encouraged to takeon additional roles in line with theOne Saga approach outlined on page 17 andwere invited to present toCommitteeand Board meetings.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 53
