Strategic report Our resources and relationships People, culture and community introducing a development course, Celebrating success and rewarding Saga people are core to our brand.
We recognise that their energy, passion, Leading the Saga Way, thats focused exceptional performance is part of our on embedding a high-performing and culture, and our reward commitments andcustomer advocacy drives Sagas success, and were incredibly proud of high-support culture in our organisation.
Our top 100 leaders are working through their ability and creativity.
This year weve We are committed to: continued to invest heavily in our people, this programme and we will soon be extending it to our 400 senior leaders.
and focused key activities to embed The making our rewards simple and easy Saga Way further.
It encourages our Building strength across our leadership to understand: team is essential for us tosustain our people to be brave and challenge, strive rewarding great performance: to deliver exceptional service to our high levels of employee engagement being competitive and fair: and drive short and long-term business customers, whilst creating a purpose creating flexible reward structures and belonging to what we call The performance.
for all of the Saga family: SagaFamily.
making our rewards work for the Were passionate about our peoples long-term: and progression at Saga, so weve continued We recognise the benefit of having highly sharing our success.
energised and engaged employees who to review talent at all levels every six months.
We have also extended our have shared values and believe in our We balance the need to attract and products and services.
We are delighted succession pipeline to five to seven retain high quality talent essential to yearsto identify our rising stars, as that 2016 was another solid year for the Companys success with the need employee engagement.
Our annual wellas training our managers to have to manage costs, ensure we remain honest career conversations, and set engagement survey produced the competitive and fair, and recognise highest level of employee participation: stretch objectives that support our exceptional performance.
We recognise 81% of our employees responded to our of our people with our business is really survey and we maintained a sustainable that mobilising talent across Saga is important to us.
Thats why we have engagement score of 81%, which essential in deepening our connection again awarded 300 worth of shares wasvery encouraging.
We continue toour customers, innovating our to our people so they can share in toconsistently out-perform the UK products and services, and retaining oursuccess and are aligned with our national norm.
Our plan is to do thisevery year.
Weve continued to improve our employee value proposition providing ourpeople with clear reward and career Gender diversity January 2017 structures, with commitments from us Male Female that support them to grow with Saga, Total and enable us to attract high quality Actual % Actual % talent into our business.
3 Thats why in 2016 we developed our Employees 1,930 44% 2,564 56% 4,494 in-house learning and development All 2,054 44% 2,623 56% 4,677 calendar to maximise the learning opportunities at Saga.
Weve also Notes: spent 2016 investing in our leadership 1 Directors of the Company including executive and non-executive.
and management capabilities by 2 All divisional Directors, and employees with strategic input and influence.
3 All Saga employees excluding Directors and senior managers.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 16 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Working for a busy, customer focused company is a pleasure, and there seems to be a real effort to give something back to the employees these days, which is very refreshing and exciting.
There is a deep respect amongst employees for Sagas customers Diversity and having an employee which has found a new voice in the basethat brings different perspectives, Saga Way.
backgrounds and ways of thinking is very important to our business.
Our policy is Employee engagement I think the open opportunities available that full and fair consideration is given We focused on improving Talent for those individuals who want to toapplications for employment by all Management, Culture and Reward develop and progress are outstanding.
applicants, including those with disabilities, & Benefits in our Group Employee and for continuing the employment of Whats the best thing about working Engagement Action Plan.
We have employees who become disabled during worked very hard and are incredibly here?
We are committed to treating proud of everything that we have all employees fairly and offering equal achieved so far.
opportunities in all aspects of employment and advancement.
Its really important to us that our people speak up, get heard and we take action when necessary.
Thats why weve created channels that support two-way 100th anniversary.
Titan Travels local Saga also has an important social communication to understand whats commentary and campaigning aspect to charity near Redhill was the Golden working in Saga, and how we can Lion Childrens Trust: Destinology the brand and we have spoken up on a continue to improve our business for number of issues that affect the nations raised funds for The Bolton Hospice: both our customers and people.
Weve and, Bennetts local charity has been over 50s GP waiting times, Stamp Duty made great strides in 2016 to develop exemptions for downsizing, employment Myton Hospice in Coventry.
We have our internal communication plans so that set up charity representatives at each of older people, pension changes, age we encourage the development of a discrimination and the social care crisis site to help us coordinate activities One Saga culture, whilst helping our and we have also introduced company to name but a few.
people understand our strategic matched funding to encourage people objectives and how they fit with them.
We have also produced reports on to participate.
topics including over 50s travel spend Our goal is to be the best employer in During the year our contact centres were and the changing face of travel for those the South East and everywhere that we used for Children in Need and Sports in retirement, and the future of pensions.
operate and we continue to have strong Relief and the phones were manned by leadership commitment with a clear plan Saga is strictly non-party political but volunteers from across the business.
we do survey over 50s opinions of political topics.
Our polling prior to the As a signatory to the Corporate Community and Social Covenant we have polices that support EU Referendum correctly predicted the Were proud to give something back.
employees who are members of the outcome 52% vs 48%.
Our polls also Saga is a major employer in Thanet, reserve forces or are spouses of those show that over 50s remain confident in Folkestone, Hastings and Redhill.
serving in our armed services.
We also the future and the Referendum did not We recognise our responsibilities to support local army, air and sea cadets dent their passion for travel.
the communities from which we draw and hold an annual Armed Forces day potential recruits and also aim to be Our insight is aided by the Saga Populus BBQ that raises money for: Royal British a good neighbour to local residents.
Panel the largest poll of over 50s Legion: The Soldiers Sailors and opinion.
Since its inception in 2007, Airmens Families Association: Help for After seeking the opinion of many Saga 1.3 million respondents have provided Heroes: and, Royal Navy and Royal customers and employees, we are proud 24 million answers to a range of Marines Charity.
that The Silver Line is Sagas first ever topical questions.
This is a great The Saga Respite for Carers Trust has fit with our ethos as, like The Silver Line, Human rights paid for respite care and provided making the lives of people better is at Saga conducts business in an ethical holidays for 28 carers and their the heart of what we are here to do.
Policies to support companions during the year.
recognised human rights principles We make a real commitment to give This year the Saga Charitable Trust include those on non-discrimination, back to the communities in which we has provided 14 grants totalling over health and safety and environmental liveand work.
Saga has a zero tolerance variety of local charities through allowing forunschooled girls in India, the approach to bribery and corruption.
them to use our Pavilion at Sagas HQ construction of a 12 bed childrens groups supported include the Cub homein Malawi and a farmer training Scouts which were celebrating their programme in Peru.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 17 Strategic report Our resources and relationships continued The Group is committed to transparency Greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide tCO or carbon 2 within our supply chain.
We have carried dioxide equivalent tCO e 2 out risk assessments and conducted 2016 17 2015 16 1 due diligence on our material suppliers, Emissions Emissions full details of which will be included Scope 1 100,951 tCO e 100,692 tCO e 2 2 within our annual statement which will Scope 2 location-based 5,343 tCO e 6,235 tCO e 2 2 be published as stipulated under the UK Total Scope 1 & 2 106,294 tCO e 106,927 tCO e Modern Slavery Act 2015.
This statement 2 2 will summarise our actions to address tCO e per m customer sales 89.9 94.8 2 the risk of modern slavery and human 2 Scope 2 market-based 658 tCO 1,078 tCO 2 2 trafficking within ourown operations Scope 3 425 tCO e 1,637 tCO e 2 2 and those of our suppliers.
Notes: Health and safety 1 2015 16 Scope 1 emissions have been restated, following a review of fugitive gas emissions: Saga is committed to protecting the emissions factors have been identified for all gases that have a global warming potential.
health, safety and welfare of employees, 2 Emissions from the consumption of electricity outside the UK and emissions from purchased customers and anyone affected by electricity calculated using the market-based approach using supplier specific mission factors our operations.
We have a positive are reported in tCO rather than tCO e due to the availability of emission factors.
2 2 health and safety culture and seek Methodology to improve continuously health and Total location-based emissions We quantify and report our safety performance.
2016 17 organisational GHG emissions in We meet our obligations through 1 Scope 1 95% alignment with the GHG Protocol, which 2 Scope 2 5% thedevelopment and implementation includes alignment with the Scope 2 3 Scope 3 0% ofsuitable policies and procedures.
Guidance reporting Scope 2 purchased Beyond this, everyone in Saga has a electricity using both the location-based personal responsibility for health and and the market-based methodology.
2 safety and for performing the activities The UK Government 2016 Conversion they undertake in a safe manner Factors for Company Reporting have and this is regularly communicated.
been utilised in order to calculate Scope Greenhouse gas emissions 1, Scope 2 location-based and Scope 3 This section of the annual report has emissions from corresponding activity been prepared in accordance with our data.
IEA emissions factors have been 1 regulatory obligation as a listed company used for the conversion of consumption to report greenhouse gas emissions from Bel Jou in St Lucia for the period GHG pursuant to Section 7 of The that it was under control of Saga plc.
Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report Supplier-specific emissions factors and Directors Report Regulations 2013. have been applied for the calculation of Scope 2 market-based emissions, During the 2016 17 financial year, the where available.
Group emitted a total of 106,294 tCO e 2 from fuel combustion Scope 1 direct Emissions factors have been sourced and electricity purchased for ourown from the US Environmental Protection use Scope 2 indirect.
This isequivalent Agency EPA for refrigerant gases that to 89.9 tCO e per m customer sales.
do not have an emissions factor in the 2 We have also chosen tovoluntarily report UK Government database to ensure that Scope 3 emissions arising from our all gases that have a global warming business travel, which contribute 425 potential are accounted for.
tCO e. 2 The table above shows our GHG emissions for the year ended 31 January 2017.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 18 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Reporting boundaries use of electric vehicles in our Scope 2 electricity emissions by andlimitations maintenance fleet, and, where practical, reporting type We consolidate our organisational active initiatives to switch off unused boundary according to the operational equipment.
The management of our control approach and have adopted a carbon impact has seen an improvement 7,000 materiality threshold of 5% for GHG in the score calculated by the Carbon 6,000 reporting purposes.
Disclosure Project and Saga now has 5,000 4,000 a B score which benchmarks well with The GHG sources that constitute our 3,000 comparable UK based companies.
There operational boundary for the 2016 17 2,000 is a long-term plan to further improve reporting period are: 1,000 thatscore targeting an A score in 0 2019.
Overall our Scope 1 and Scope Scope 2 Scope 2 Scope 1: Natural gas combustion 2emissions have reduced by 0.6% location-based market-based within boilers, marine fuel combustion compared with last year.
2015 16 Emissions 2016 17 Emissions within ships, road fuel combustion within vehicles, fuel combustion Supplier partnerships within non-road mobile machinery These relationships are fundamental Saga purchases electricity for the and fugitive refrigerants from toour business model.
We work very majority of its buildings from a 100% air-conditioning equipment closely with our suppliers to deliver the renewable supply from Haven Power.
Scope 2: Purchased electricity products and services to the standard The remainder of the UK electricity is consumption for our own use our customers expect.
supplied by SSE, which has a cleaner Scope 3: Business travel from fuel mix than the UK average.
Once we have designed and tested reporting of our emissions in this way products and services, we decide how demonstrates the impact that selecting Diesel used in non-road machinery was best to source them for our customers these suppliers has on our GHG previously not reported due to lack of in-house or from a third party.
emissions, and that we are making data availability, but is now recorded and efforts to reduce our climate impact will be reported from 2016 17 onwards.
We are not a commission-based through the purchase of electricity Scope 3 business travel emissions from business.
We design bespoke products generated from cleaner sources.
rail and air have been identified, but not ourselves then look for the best possible included in our disclosure due to a lack partners to supply them, comparing Improving performance of accurate data.
them for service and value.
Over time we Saga actively monitors and manages can move if more appropriate, or better, its carbon impact.
Our shipping business Assumptions and estimations partners become available.
Our partners has seen a reduction in marine fuel During this reporting year the Bel Jou work with us in this way because it is a usage by 3% through careful route hotel in St Lucia was sold on 20 July mutually advantageous relationship planning: there have however been 2016.
No data was available for Bel Jous they benefit from our brand, customer unforeseen leakages in refrigerant operations in 2016 17 due to the change knowledge and access to an attractive which have mitigated these reductions.
The emissions for the target market.
Saga, and its customers, There are reductions in fleet fuel usage period of the year in which Bel Jou was benefit from our partners expertise and and business mileage, and the sale of part of the Group have been estimated resources.
This also means that we Allied Healthcare and the Bel Jou hotel using data from 2015. maintain responsibility for delivery and have reduced electricity use by 15%.
continue to own the relationship with our In some cases, where data is missing, In our main office sites, there are customers, ensuring we can manage the values have been estimated using either ongoing initiatives to reduce utility customer experience at all times.
an extrapolation of available data from use.
These include, but are not limited the reporting period or data from 2015 to, a programme replacing all office as a proxy.
lighting with LED, ongoing use of voltageoptimisation in large sites, active Energy procurement decisions management of building management The following graph shows the Groups systems to control carefully main building Scope 2 emissions from purchased infrastructure and a capital infrastructure electricity, which have been calculated programme to replace old inefficient using both the location-based and the equipment with modern energy efficient market-based methodologies.
There is a continued ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 19 6,235 5,343 1,078 658
