Governance Accountability Board assessment of risk Risk management and internal control management and internal control The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups risk management and internal control, including setting of Top down: riskappetite.
In accordance with Group risk policy Saga plc Board and strategy sectionC 2.3 of the Code the Board Group risk appetite isresponsible for reviewing the Principal risk oversight effectiveness of risk management Group compliance andcontrol systems, specifically that: oversight There is an ongoing systemised Group Risk process for identifying, evaluating and Group CEO Committee managing the principal risks faced by the Company.
This system has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
The system is regularly reviewed by Business the Board.
board The system accords with the FRC guidance on risk management, internal control and related financial and Business Audit, business reporting.
Risk and Bottom up: Business Compliance Business risk appetite Executive During 2016 the Board has directly, or Committee definition and policy Committee through delegated authority to the Risk Identification, assessment and Audit Committees, overseen and and mitigation of business specific risks reviewed the development and Upward reporting of key performance of risk management residual risks activities and practices and internal Business Risk control systems in the Group.
Specific Committee details regarding the Risk and Audit Committees involvement in the development and review of risk management and internal control systems are provided in the Risk and Audit Committee reports on pages 62-65 and 58-61 respectively.
As a result of its consideration and contribution to risk management and internal control activities, the Board is satisfied that the risk management and internal control systems in place remain effective.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 54 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Regulator External Audit Risk Management and control is Sagas three lines of defence risk governance achieved through application of the three lines of defence model as follows: model 1st line of defence Risk taking by management, in line with agreed risk Governing body Board Audit Committee appetite, risk policies and procedures.
Various governance forums in each business review all risk exposures and Senior management risk mitigation activities on a regular basis, supported by the 2nd line of defence oversight functions.
Consideration of business risks is a 1st line of 2nd line of 3rd line of defence defence defence standing agenda item at each executive meeting within the Group.
Financial control Management 2nd line of defence Independent Security controls oversight provided by the various control Internal Risk management functions, including risk, compliance and Audit health and safety.
Specific duties include Internal control Compliance advice on Group and business risk measures Health and safety appetites, independent review of both the rating of key risks, and approach and adequacy of business risk management strategies.
The 2nd line of defence is Group risk management cycle also responsible for reporting on the management of principal risks and uncertainties to the Risk Committee Group Strategy and Board.
3rd line of defence Independent Business-specific Group risk appetite assurance on the operation and risk appetites effectiveness of internal control throughout the Group, including Group risk policy Group Strategy consideration of the effectiveness of the risk management process.
The 3rd line of defence reports to the Board by way of the Audit Committee.
Risk assessment Independent policies Sagas spread and variety of business assurance operations require risk and internal control issues to be considered at both specialist business level and aggregated Risk review Risk review Group level.
Risk and internal control oversight is provided at all Committees and key concerns are raised to the Audit and Risk Committees and ultimately to the Board if required.
The financial crime, data and information security committee provides an additional forum to consider specialist risks arising in these areas.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 55 Governance Accountability continued Risk management cycle assessments are reviewed at business Risk monitoring The Group risk management cycle is an risk committees and the principal risks All risk registers are independently iterative cycle of activities, comprising are subject to independent review by the reviewed by the risk team on an ongoing the following: Risk Committee.
Explicit consideration basis to test for completeness of risk and is also given as to whether risks lie control capture, effective testing of key Identification of risk appetite within or outside of risk appetite.
Any control measures, and recording and Saga defines risk appetite as the amount risk close to appetite limits on a residual reporting of any exceptions and overdue and sources of risk which we are willing basis is further examined to ensure actions.
to accept in aggregate in pursuit of our that our desired risk reward balance objectives.
Group risk appetite is derived Risk information is maintained.
from our strategic objectives and is used All risk data, including risks, controls, as a measure against which all of our Risk registers have been created control tests and incidents, is captured current and proposed activities are for each business to capture their key inan internet-enabled risk portal.
Group risk appetites and risks, associated controls and incidents.
portal produces risk reports for all tolerances are further defined within the These registers are typically sub-divided governance meetings.
Principal risks and uncertainties section by function or business area.
The highest Independent process assurance pages 20-22. rated residual risks in terms of impact Sagas internal audit function Internal and probability for each business are Business risk appetites are separately Audit provides independent assurance aggregated at Group level to produce crafted, complementary to Group of the effectiveness of the risk a list of principal risks and uncertainties, appetites but customised to reflect the management procedures at both Group assessed at residual level against Group specific needs and characteristics of and business levels.
Business risk appetites Process feedback may be different to Group appetites but All business CEOs certified compliance Outputs from the risk management cannot exceed them.
with the risk management framework at cycle are fed back to the Risk Committee the year end.
Group and business risk appetites are to assist with necessary revision of the reviewed at least annually to ensure that Risk review Group risk management policy and they are aligned with any changes in Reports on key risks and controls, framework.
They may also be used strategy or specific strategic initiatives.
and incidents, are presented to each to inform future iterations of the governance forum meeting specified in Groups strategy.
Risk policies the Committee structure, flow of risk, Saga has a Group risk policy, A statement confirming that the Board compliance and internal control defining our risk management strategy, is able to confirm that they have carried information chart on page 54.
In framework, governance structures, out a robust assessment of risks is addition, checks against control and detailed assessment and mitigation contained on page 42. effectiveness, and any exceptions or processes.
Beneath this Group overdue actions are also considered.
Internal control document, individual business policies Each of these governance meetings Internal Audit acts as the 3rd line of are created, customised to reflect is attended by key 1st and 2nd line of defence within Sagas three lines of specific business characteristics but defence managers and the actions are defence risk management framework.
still consistent with the overall risk minuted and followed up at the next The objective of Internal Audit is to management framework.
Significant control weaknesses helpprotect the assets, reputation are reviewed at least annually and or failures are escalated to the individual andsustainability of the organisation by approved at business or Group boards business board in question or, if of providing independent, reliable, valued as appropriate.
sufficient scale and seriousness, to and timely assurance to the Board and theRisk Committee.
Each Group risk Risk assessment and risk registers executive management.
To preserve committee also considers cross-Group All Saga businesses assess each risk the independence of Internal Audit, risks and incidents to ensure the risk for likelihood and impact.
Most use the Head of Internal Audits primary ofcontagion is minimised.
a common risk assessment matrix, reporting line is to the Chair of the Audit although several have a customised Committee, and the Internal Audit team Risk oversight impact scale to reflect their size or the is prohibited from performing operational Independent oversight of the risk highly specialist nature of their risks duties for the business.
management process, including key risks and their associated management, Each business then creates appropriate All activities of the Group fall within the incidents and compliance, is provided by controls to manage such risks.
Risks scope of Internal Audits remit and there the Chief Risk Officer and the risk team, are rated on both an inherent and a are no restrictions on the scope of the compliance team, the Risk residual basis and are rated on a red, Internal Audits work.
Internal Audit fulfils Committee and, ultimately, the Board.
amber, yellow and green scale.
Risk its role and responsibilities by delivering the annual, risk-based audit plan.
Each ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 56 Strategic report Governance Financial statements audit within the plan provides an opinion The Group has an established and wellof potential financial impact were derived on the control environment and details understood management structure with from both internal calculation and of issues found.
Internal Audit works documented levels for the authorisation examples of similar incidents in the with the businesses to agree remedial of business transactions and clear bank public domain.
actions necessary to improve the control mandates to control the approval of The three largest sensitivities in terms environment, and these are tracked payments.
Control of the Groups cash of financial impact were identified as to completion.
resources is operated by a centralised the following: Treasury function.
The Head of Internal Audit submits 1.
T he cumulative impact of a repeated reports to, and or attends, Board and Internal management reporting and failure of management to deliver Audit Committee meetings for the external statutory reporting timetables change, operational efficiencies, and subsidiary Saga businesses, as well and delivery requirements are well supplier and pricing initiatives in the as the Audit Committee meetings.
Control Groups largest insurance broker, of these is maintained centrally and Financial reporting Saga Services Limited.
environment that is regularly reviewed The Group maintains computer systems by the Board.
The principal elements to record and consolidate all of its 3.
Impact on AICLs investment of the control environment include financial transactions.
These ledger portfolio due to default of the comprehensive management and systems are used to produce the largest credit institution.
financial reporting systems and information for the monthly management processes, defined operating controls accounts, and for the annual statutory Three scenarios were then modelled and authorisation limits, regular Board financial statements.
The trading for the assessment period: the three meetings, clear subsidiary board and subsidiaries within the Group prepare largest sensitivities in terms of financial operating structures, and an Internal their accounts under Financial Reporting impact as if each were certain to occur Audit function.
Standard FRS 101. independently: the expected financial impact for all sensitivities combined Internal control and risk management The accounts production process drawing on the assigned probability systems relating to the financial reporting ensures that there is a clear audit trail for each one: and a reverse stress test process and the process for preparing from the output of the Groups financial considering what PRU, or combination consolidated accounts ensure the reporting systems, through the of PRUs might lead to breach of accuracy and timeliness of internal conversion and consolidation processes, performance and cash flow and external financial reporting.
to the Groups financial statements.
The Group undertakes an annual Viability statement The outcome of this modelling confirmed strategy process which updates the plan An assessment period of five years that none of the top three sensitivities for the next five years, and produces a was selected.
This is consistent would compromise the Groups viability detailed budget for the next financial with our long-term financial planning either in isolation or in combination.
Throughout each year, detailed horizon and importantly it embraces The reverse stress test demonstrated reforecasts are performed by each area the construction of our new cruise thatthelikelihood of one or any of the Group each month and are ship which will become operational combination of PRUs causing us to consolidated to provide an updated view in 2019 and the option to purchase breach performance and insolvency of expected performance for the current a second ship that would become thresholds was extremely remote.
Each reforecast covers the income operational in 2021. statement, cash flow and balance sheet As set out in the Audit Committee report Our list of principal risks and positions phased on a monthly basis on pages 58-61, the Directors have uncertainties PRUs derived from through to the end of the financial year.
reviewed and discussed the rationale our robust review of risks was reviewed and conclusions of managements Regular weekly and monthly reporting with risk owners, Group Finance and viability testing.
The Directors viability cycles allow management to assess Group Risk to consider which risks might statement is contained on page 42. performance, and identify risks and threaten the Groups ongoing viability opportunities at the earliest opportunity.
and the achievement of its strategic plan.
Statement of review Trading performance is formally reviewed These PRUs are given in the Strategic The Boards statement of review on a weekly basis by the management Report on pages 20-22.
All of the PRUs of the effectiveness of Sagas risk of the trading subsidiaries, and monthly have been considered and severe but management and internal control by the management of the Group.
plausible outcomes for each have been systems is contained on page 42.
Performance is reported to the Board identified.
The financial impact in terms at each Board meeting.
Performance of both profit and cash of each outcome is assessed against budget and against has been quantified and a probability of the latest forecast expectations.
Assessments ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 57
