Governance Compliance Statement The Board is committed to high The Directors have considered each The Group has access to sufficient standards of corporate governance of the Groups principal risks and cash and other financial resources and manages Sagas operations in uncertainties detailed on pages together with a large renewing income accordance with the Code.
A full version 20-22and the potential impact of stream from insurance policies and of the Code can be found on the these risks on the business model, high-repeat purchase levels from Financial Reporting Councils FRC future performance, solvency and customers of its other products, and website www.
The Company liquidity over the period.
The Directors long-term contracts with a number of complied with all of the provisions of the have made a key assumption that suppliers across different industries.
As Code throughout the year.
itisreasonable to believe that debt a consequence, the Directors believe funding to replace the existing senior that the Group is well placed to Viability statement bank facilities when they mature successfully manage its business risks.
willbe available in all plausible The Directors have considered the The Directors have a reasonable viability of the Group over the marketconditions.
expectation that the Company has five-year period to January 2022 adequate resources to continue in and have concluded there to be Fair, balanced and operational existence for the a reasonable expectation that the understandable foreseeable future.
It is therefore Group will be able to continue in In accordance with the principles of appropriate to adopt the going operation and meet its liabilities the Code, the Board has established concern basis in preparing the as they fall due over this period.
arrangements to evaluate whether financial statements.
the information presented in the The Directors have determined the annual report is fair, balanced and five year period to January 2022 to Assessment of risk understandable.
Having taken be an appropriate period over which Through the risk cycle detailed on advice from the Audit Committee, to assess the Groups viability, pages 54-57, the Board is able to the Board considers the annual report as this period: confirm that it has carried out a and accounts, taken as a whole, are robust assessment of the principal is consistent with the planning fair, balanced and understandable risks facing the Company, including horizon over which the Directors and provides the information those which would threaten our normally consider the strategic necessary for shareholders to business model, future performance, direction, future performance, assess the Companys position solvency or liquidity, in accordance capital and solvency requirements and performance, business model with section C 2.1 of the Code.
of the business: and strategy.
includes the delivery of the Statement of review contracted new ship and the The risk management process Going concern optional second ship in 2021: and detailed on pages 54-57 was The Groups business activities, includes the refinancing of the in place for the year under review together with the factors likely to senior bank facilities that mature and up to the date of approval affect its future development and in April 2019. of this report.
performance, its exposure to risk and its management of these risks, In making this statement the Directors The Board has conducted a review have considered the resilience of the details of its financial instruments of the effectiveness of Sagas risk and derivative activities, and details Group, taking account of its current management and internal control position and long-term strategic plan, of other financial and non-financial systems, including all material liabilities are described throughout the principal risks facing the business financial, operational and compliance in severe but plausible scenarios, and the annual report principal risks and controls, and concluded that these uncertainties pages 20-22: Group the effect of any mitigating actions.
Chief Financial Officers review pages 30-39: accountability pages 54-57: Audit Committee report pages 58-61: Risk Committee report pages 62-65 : and notes 17, 18, 23, 24 and 25.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 42 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Company applied the main principles of the Code as follows: A.
Effectiveness C. Accountability A1 The role of the Board B1 The composition of the Board C1 Financial and business The Board met formally six times The Nomination Committee is reporting during the year.
The schedule of responsible for regularly reviewing The Strategic Report is set out on matters reserved for the Board was the composition of the Board, pages 01-39 inclusive and this reviewed on 20 September 2016. considering succession planning provides information about the There is a clear governance structure and evaluating skills, knowledge performance of the Group, the throughout the Group, which sets out and experience required in business model, strategy and principal delegated authorities.
risks and uncertainties relating to the Groups future prospects.
A2 Division of responsibilities B2 Appointments to the Board There is a clear division of The appointment of new Directors C2 Risk management and responsibilities between the Chairman tothe Board is led by the Nomination internal control and the Group Chief Executive Committee and the process is such The Board sets out the Groups Officer.
A document clarifying these that candidates are selected on merit, risk appetite and risk policy.
The and the role of the Senior Independent and with due regard for the benefits of effectiveness of the Groups risk Director was reviewed and approved diversity.
Further details of the activities management and internal control by the Board on 1 November 2016. of the Nomination Committee can be systems is reviewed annually.
The This document is reviewed annually.
found on pages 52-53. activities of the Risk Committee, which assists the Board with its A3 The Chairman B3 Commitment responsibilities in relation to the The Chairman sets the agendas On appointment, Directors are management of risk, are summarised for meetings, manages the meeting notified of the time commitment on pages 62-65. timetable in conjunction with the expected from them.
External Company Secretary and facilitates directorships, which may impact on C3 Audit Committee and auditors open and constructive dialogue the existing time commitments of the The Board has delegated a number during the meetings, with particular Executive Directors, must be agreed of responsibilities to the Audit focus on strategic issues.
The beforehand with the Chairman.
Committee, which is responsible Chairman promotes constructive for overseeing the Groups financial B4 Development relations between Executive and reporting processes, internal controls A tailored programme is set up when Non-Executive Directors.
and the work undertaken by the a Director joins the Board and this is external auditors.
During the year, the A4 Non-Executive Directors ongoing to ensure that Directors Audit Committee oversaw a formal The Non-Executive Directors provide skills and knowledge are regularly and thorough audit tender process.
objective, rigorous and constructive updated and refreshed.
This is explained in the Audit challenge to management and meet Committee report on page 61.
B5 Information and support regularly without the Executive The Chairman, in conjunction with Directors.
The Senior Independent The Chairs of the Risk and Audit the Company Secretary, ensures that Director acts as a sounding board for Committees are Board members and all Board members receive accurate the Chairman, led an evaluation on provide regular updates to the Board and timely information and are kept the Chairmans performance and regarding Committee business.
informed on all governance matters.
isavailable for meetings with majorshareholders.
B6 Evaluation The Board conducted an externally facilitated annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors, as set out on page 51.
B7 Re-election of Directors All Directors are subject to shareholder annual re-election.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 43 Governance Compliance Statement continued D. Remuneration E. Relations with shareholders D1 The level and components E1 Dialogue with shareholders ofremuneration The Board actively engages with The Remuneration Committee is shareholders and values opportunities responsible for setting levels of to meet with them.
The Chairman remuneration which will attract, hasdirect contact with our major retain and motivate Board members.
shareholders and ensures that the Remuneration is structured to link Board is kept informed of shareholder it to both corporate and individual views and that all Directors are in performance, so that managements touch with shareholder opinion.
interests are aligned with those of TheSenior Independent Director shareholders and the long-term isavailable for meetings with major success of the Company.
shareholders and the Non-Executive Directors are provided with analyst D2 Procedure and broker briefings.
Details of the work of the Remuneration Committee and E2 Constructive use of Remuneration Policy can be found in generalmeetings the Directors Remuneration Report The Board see the AGM as an on pages 67-89 inclusive.
important opportunity to meet with shareholders.
The Chairman and Chairs of each Committee are available for questions during the formal part of the business and the Board and senior management are available after the meeting.
Details of how the Board engages with shareholders can be found on page 66.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 44
