Strategic report Governance Financial statements Governance Leadership A key part of our Saga People Action Plan and setting Sagas values and standards.
The commencement, material to address themes from Becoming the A fundamental part of this role is expansion, diversification or cessation Best employee survey and to ensure we considering the balance of interests of any of Sagas activities.
are embedding the Saga Way, was to between our shareholders, our customers, Sagas regulatory, financial and material develop a Leadership Development our employees and the communities in operational policies.
Programme across a range of levels across which we work.
Changes relating to Sagas capital, the Group.
This started with the Group corporate, management or We also provide oversight and supervision Executive and was then cascaded to their control structures.
of Sagas operations ensuring: direct reports, approximately 72 people.
Material capital or operating expenditures, The programme is made up of three outside pre-determined tolerances or successful implementation of workshops, due to complete in November beyond the delegated authorities.
This investment in people is core to Major capital projects including post sound planning and competent the success of our strategy and our aim is investment reviews where not considered management: to filter this to all senior managers so that in detail by the Audit or Risk Committee a solid system of internal control and the leadership team are aligned in how or where the Board decide a full review is risk management: growth is delivered.
For more details, required, corporate action or investment adequate accounting and other see page 16. by Saga that will have, or are likely to records: and have, a financial cost greater than the compliance with statutory and All Directors, members of the Group amount set out in the relevant contract regulatory obligations.
Executive Committee and persons approval processes from time to time.
discharging managerial responsibilities Our Board Any material contract or joint venture and receive training on an ongoing basis, to The Board has a clearly articulated set of material arrangements with customers ensure they remain aware of regulatory matters which are specifically reserved to it or suppliers.
In addition, and this is reviewed annually the last review all Non-Executive Directors visit business A review of our strategic objectives and being 20 September 2016.
These include: areas so that they remain close to what financial performance takes place at each Any decision likely to have a material Saga does, see how strategy works in Board Meeting.
impact on Saga from any perspective action and how the discussion in the including, but not limited to, financial, boardroom translates to the front line Details of the Board activities during operational, strategic or reputational.
of the business, including our call centres the year can be found The strategic direction of the overall and cruise ships.
on page 47. business, objectives, budgets and The Board of Directors forecasts, levels of authority to approve The Board is responsible for, and provides, expenditure, and any material changes the overall direction for management, to them.
debating what our strategic priorities are Board attendance during the year The Board is scheduled to meet at least six times a year and then meets on an ad hoc basis as necessary.
During the year it met formally on six occasions.
In addition, meetings were convened as necessary to approve strategic matters, and a strategy event was held in November where annual and five year plans for each of the businesses were presented to the Board and discussed.
The Chairman meets regularly with the Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Directors outside of the formal meetings.
Attendance at Member Role Board meetings Andrew Goodsell Chairman Leadership, Board governance, setting tone for agenda and 6 facilitating open Board discussions, performance and shareholder engagement Lance Batchelor Group Chief Executive Officer Developing strategy for Board approval 6 and Group performance Jonathan Hill Group Chief Financial Officer Group financial performance, including 6 creation of budget and five-year plans for recommendation to the Board Non-Executive Directors: 1 James Arnell Private Equity Investor appointed 2 Independent Non-Executive Directors: Philip Green Participate in, assess, challenge and monitor Executive Directors delivery 6 of the strategy within risk and governance structures, financial controls and Ray King 5 integrity of financial statements, and Board diversity.
Evaluate and appraise Bridget McIntyre 6 the performance of Executive Directors and senior management.
Orna NiChionna 5 Gareth Williams 6 Note: 1 James Arnell resigned on 22 April 2016 and attended all Board meetings prior to his resignation.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 45 Governance Leadership continued The Company Secretary attends all meetings as secretary to the Board.
In addition, other executives and directors fromaround the Group, and external advisers, are also invited, to provide insight into key strategic areas.
Strategic direction of the Group.
The Boards Leadership and management.
responsibilities Setting values and standards in accordance with the Saga Model and theSaga Way see pages 10 and 16 respectively.
Considering the needs of our shareholders, employees and customers.
Ensuring compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations.
The Nomination The Audit Committees The Risk Committees The Remuneration Committees responsibilities responsibilities Committees responsibilities Monitoring the integrity Advising on the Groups responsibilities Providing recommendations of financial statements.
risk appetite, tolerance Setting and monitoring the on size, structure and Reviewing internal and and strategy.
Remuneration Policy for composition of the Board.
Overseeing and advising senior executives.
Monitoring and reviewing the Board on current risk Recommending and Evaluating skills, knowledge, the effectiveness of the exposures and future monitoring remuneration independence and diversity Internal Audit function.
packages for Executive of the Board.
Assessing the adequacy Reviewing risk assessment Directors, the Chairman Identifying and and effectiveness of the and management and senior management.
nominatingcandidates Companys internal controls procedures.
Reviewing and administering tofillBoard vacancies.
Monitoring principal employee share schemes.
Reviewing Board Reviewing Sagas annual business risks.
Setting key performance performance evaluation and half year financial Reviewing the adequacy indicators for the Annual results in relation to Board statements and and effectiveness of risk Bonus Plan and long-term composition.
Considering and approving the compliance function.
Preparing an annual terms of engagement Reviewing and monitoring remuneration report.
management response Monitoring the scope to the Chief Risk of the annual audit and Officers findings and the extent of the non-audit recommendations.
The Remuneration work undertaken by Committee Report external auditors.
is contained within the Ensuring whistleblowing Directors Remuneration and anti-fraud systems Report on pages 67-89 are in place within Saga.
and is incorporated See pages 52-53 See pages 58-61 See pages 62-65 intothis Corporate for the Nomination for the Audit for the Risk Governance Statement Committee report.
The Executive Committee Implementing strategy as determined by the Board.
reports directly to the Board Executive management monitoring trading against strategy.
via the Group Chief Executive Day to day operational management and cultural leadership Officer and Group Chief and people development.
Financial Officer and is Managing risk and conduct.
responsible for: ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 46 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board activities during the year Strategy Reviewed strategic initiatives: Performance of Saga Investment Services.
Our Board is structured to Membership.
Progress of building our new ship.
1 support becoming a more Brand proposition.
The Saga Healthcare pilot: discussed customer-centric business Adobe Marketing Cloud.
howthe business can be scaled.
Discussed financing strategy and dividend The impact of the quota share arrangement.
policy approved change in the target range from 40-60% to 50-70%.
Customers Discussed how to re-position our brand and Reviewed customer engagement identified Every Board decision includes communicate brand values.
how we can improve our customer journeys, 2 consideration of how it will Identified core group of and discussed and offer our customers differentiated affect our customers howtolook after our HACs.
products, whilst maintaining outstanding levels of service.
Shareholder engagement Listened to our shareholders before, during DRIP allowed cash dividends to be turned Effective communication with and after the AGM.
3 our shareholders Leadership and employees Introduced the Leadership Development Free shares awarded to eligible employees Ensuring our people are core Programme, to put the Saga Way at the under the Share Incentive Plan for the second 4 to the success of our strategy centre of what we do and planned how to roll year running.
and are aligned in how growth this out to all senior management.
Discussed how reward should link to is delivered Annual review of talent development and performance.
Improved the recruitment process to help Acted on the results of the Becoming the with finding, selecting and onboarding Best employee engagement survey great Saga people.
introduced better communications and reviewed the appraisal system.
Governance and risk Reviewed our risk appetite and tolerance Approved the Audit Committees Governance to support levels thresholds.
recommendation to re-appoint external 5 ourstrategy Ensured our risk policy continued auditors and sign off financial crime policies.
Approved tax, environmental, health and Frequent business and regulatory updates safety and communication policies, matters presented to the Board.
reserved for the Board and Committees Introduced new share dealing codes terms of reference.
following the introduction of the EUs Externally facilitated Board and Committee Market Abuse Regulation.
evaluation exercise, which included a review of the previous years action plans.
Governance in action Becoming an ever more customer-centric Membership HACs Brand Detail considered by Risk organisation and Audit Committees Growing our Adobe Marketing Cloud Reviewed by insurance business new insurance platform Executive Committee Built in to senior executives New holidays proposition objectives Remuneration Growing our travel business monitoring progress Committee of new ship build Strategic discussion Saga Money decision at Board Investing for future growth Saga Healthcare Saga Retirement Villages Communicated to shareholders and the market Developing our people Leading the Saga Way ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 47
