Governance Effectiveness The members of the Board Independence of Non-Executive McCallum, and Deputy Chair of the The Board considers its overall size Directors National Trust and within the Group.
and composition to be appropriate, The Board considers five of the NonShesits on our Audit, Nomination and having regard in particular to the Executive Directors to be independent of Remuneration committees and chairs independence of character, integrity, Sagas executive management and free the Risk Committee.
The Board was of differences of approach and experience from any business or other relationships the opinion that Orna has a good feel for of all the Directors.
We give due regard that could materially interfere with the what we do as a business, our values, to the benefits of diversity in its widest exercise of their independent judgement.
and what's right for our customers, and sense for the current and future Board These Directors are Philip Green, has made a strong contribution during composition, recognising that this is Ray King, Bridget McIntyre, Orna her time on the Board.
essential for effective engagement with NiChionna and Gareth Williams.
Philip On 22 April 2016, as a result of the share our key stakeholders.
will be resigning from the Company placing undertaken by Acromas Bid Co on 31 March 2017, as detailed below.
We consider that the skills and Limited, Non-Executive Director James experience of our individual members, Changes to the Board Arnell resigned from the Board.
This particularly in the areas of insurance, Whilst we did not make any was in accordance with the Relationship financial services, consumer services, appointments to the Board during the Agreement dated 8 May 2014 which brand management, corporate finance, year, the Nomination Committee did required his resignation once the indirect mergers and acquisitions, and risk discuss how the Company would ensure shareholding of the Private Equity management, are fundamental to the that there is the right level of oversight Investor he represented fell below 10%.
pursuit of our strategic objectives.
of the regulated businesses within the We continue to comply with the Codes In addition, the quoted company Group and that those companies had recommendation that at least half of experience of members of the Board senior leaders with the right experience our Board members are independent in a variety of sectors and markets in place.
More details can be found in Non-Executive Directors.
For full details is invaluable to Saga.
the Nomination Committee report on of Board composition see pages 48-50. pages 52-53.
Composition of Board Appointment of Directors During the year, we announced that Our Nomination Committee terms 1 Chairman 1 Philip Green will resign from the Board 2 Executive Directors 2 of reference explain how we recruit and and his position as Senior Independent 3 Non-Executive Directors 5 appoint Directors to the Board.
We will Director on 31 March 2017, to chair use open advertising or the services of another business.
He will be replaced external advisers to facilitate our search as Senior Independent Director by 1 for the best possible candidates Orna NiChionna, one of our current from a wide range of backgrounds, Non-Executive Directors.
Orna both joined the Board during the Companys IPO in 2014.
2 Ongoing training and induction 3 of Non-Executive Directors Orna was selected as the replacement All Non-Executive Directors attended Senior Independent Director due to her meetings with senior management experience as Senior Independent and subsidiary directors and strategy Non-Executive Director and Chair of the sessions for each of our businesses Remuneration Committee of Royal Mail to understand the short and long-term plc, Chair of client service at Eden ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 50 Strategic report Governance Financial statements goals of the Group.
They continue to whether the Board gets what it needs had listed.
Strengths identified included visit all areas of the business to gain to facilitate a well-structured and a stable and strong senior management first-hand experience of how Saga focused discussion: team, a healthy culture of transparency, works, including listening to calls how well the Board agenda and and a consistent and concerted effort during visits to our call centres.
discussion is focused on strategy tocommunicate openly with the andthe main market and Non-Executive Directors.
There was Our induction process was reviewed to competitive challenges: good coverage of the principal risks and ensure that it will serve to familiarise new how the Board gets a picture of how subsidiary level governance worked Directors with our strategy, competitive our culture and risk are embedded: well, with appropriate escalation when and industry environment, Group the line of sight Non-Executive necessary.
Interests of a wide group of structure, governance and risk profile Directors have into the way in which stakeholders, including shareholders, appetite and provide for meetings with the Group is run and controlled: was considered and a lot of weight and key members of senior management.
steps taken to develop a strong attention was given to the people management team through strategy of the Group.
It was now time Board effectiveness review succession planning and talent for the Board to focus on successful The Board and its Committees management: execution of Group strategy.
undertook their first externally facilitated organisation of meetings, including evaluation of their performance during Board development plan for 2017 18 agenda setting, time spent on each the year.
The evaluation was conducted Looking ahead, the Board will continue item and quality of papers: and by Independent Audit Limited.
to work on ensuring that the content corporate governance and regulatory Independent Audit Limited does not have of all Board meetings remains aligned compliance support.
any other connection to the Company.
to strategy and the key drivers of A report prepared by Independent performance.
Risk management will Independent Audit Limiteds review Audit Limited was presented to the continue to link directly to strategic consisted ofa review of Board and Board.
As a result of this in-depth drivers, principal risks and uncertainties.
Committee papers, observation of Board discussion, a board development plan The pre-read papers and time allocated and Committee meetings, and interviews was agreed and discussed further with for discussion at each Board will support were held with Directors Committee Independent Audit Limited.
this approach and will include forward members and attendees to give them thinking analysis, where appropriate.
anopportunity to express their views The review concluded that governance about questions such as: had developed well since the Company The results of the evaluation of the Chairmans performance were also considered by the Senior Independent Director and the Non-Executive Directors Process for Board and Committee evaluation and were discussed with the Chairman.
Annual re-election Face to face meetings held to facilitate an The Directors are standing for re-election open discussion between Independent Audit Limited at the AGM, with the exception of Philip and Directors meeting attendees Green, who is resigning on 31 March 2017.
Our view is that each of the Directors standing for re-election should Reports produced by be appointed, as we believe that they Independent Audit Limited have the skills required for the Board to discharge its responsibilities, as outlined in each of their biographies set out on pages 48-49. Review discussion with Chairman and Committee Chairs Discussed at Board Action plans ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 51
