Governance Audit Committee Report Role of the Committee Reviewing and assessing the Our role is to monitor the integrity of the Audit adequacy and effectiveness of the financial statements of the Group, review Companys internal financial and report to the Board on significant Committee controls and other internal control financial reporting issues and systems including, but not limited judgements, and review and assess to, whistleblowing, fraud detection the adequacy and effectiveness of the and the prevention of bribery.
Companys internal financial controls Approving the Internal Audit and other internal control systems.
charter, budget and work plan and receiving regular reports.
All members are independent NonMonitoring and reviewing the Executive Directors.
The Board is effectiveness of the Companys satisfied that I have recent and relevant Internal Audit function, in the financial experience and that the context of the Companys overall Committee as a whole has competence risk management system.
relevant to the sector in which the Receiving reports from the audit Company operates.
Considering and making Attendance recommendations to the Board in During the year, the Audit Committee relation to the appointment and met on five occasions.
Dear Shareholder, re-appointment of the Companys Member Attendance I am pleased to report on the Audit external auditors, their remuneration Committees activities during the year Ray King Chair 5 and the services they provide.
Ensuring that at least once every Philip Green 5 10 years the audit services contract Bridget McIntyre 4 This has been another busy year in is put out to tender.
Saga, as the Group continues to Orna NiChionna 5 Monitoring, reviewing and develop its business processes to assessing the external auditors Gareth Williams 5 deliver growth and improvements in independence of and effectiveness efficiency.
A key part of our job as a and reviewing the external audit The Company Secretary acts as Committee is to provide assurance work plan.
secretary to the Committee and attends that our internal controls remain Reviewing the findings of the audit all meetings.
In addition, the Chairman, strong as the Group develops and with the external auditors.
Group Chief Executive Officer, Group also to seek continuous improvement.
Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Our deliberations have continued to Time spent on matters Controller, Chief Risk Officer, Head of benefit from significant stability since 1 Financial statements 15% Internal Audit and representatives from the IPO in the membership of the 2 Internal financial controls 19% our external auditors attend by invitation.
Committee and in the senior 3 Internal Audit 25% During the year, the Committee held 4 Business reviews 17% leadership team, including the heads private meetings with the external 5 External audit 24% of key control functions: I thank them auditors and Head of Internal Audit: I also for their contribution to our work.
had regular update meetings with them.
Ray King 1 5 Chair, Audit Committee Our remit Monitoring the integrity of financial 2 statements of the Company 4 and providing an opinion to the Board that the annual report 3 and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair balanced and understandable.
Reviewing and reporting to the Board on significant financial reporting issues and judgements.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 58 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our terms of reference of audit emphasis were identified by During the year we received Our terms of reference were reviewed them during their planning work.
presentations focusing mainly on by the Committee and subsequently Discussed with EY their main internal control from the following approved by the Board on 20 September observations following the interim and business areas: 2016.
These explain our role and the full year audit.
Saga Services Direct Choice authority delegated to us by the Board Carried out an effectiveness review of regulated businesses and are available on the Saga website the external audit process and external We received an update on activities at http: corporate.
from the independent Non-Executive information corporate-governance and Director who chairs the Saga Reporting from the Company Secretary at Sagas Services audit committee.
This Considered the Groups key registered office.
covered the work undertaken by accounting policies and financial Internal Audit, the compliance What we have done during the year judgements.
monitoring programme, the conduct Internal Audit Agreed with management the risk framework and steps taken to Approved the Internal Audit Charter, arrangements for the introduction of address the threat of cybercrime.
received regular reports on the work IBM Cognos Controller, a new of the Internal Audit function during the consolidation ledger tool to administer year, considered resourcing within the the statutory and management Saga Money Internal Audit team and approved the accounts.
Areas of focus included the product work plans for 2017 18.
Reviewed the key areas of judgement, portfolio particularly the innovative Engaged KPMG to carry out a review including insurance reserving products for equity release, share of the effectiveness of the Internal methodology for the year, valuation dealing and retirement income and Audit function in line with the of goodwill and the pension liability.
the governance structure to ensure Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors Considered the viability statement the appropriate level of oversight IIA Standards recommendation.
and the underpinning tests performed anda sufficient level of transparency Reviewed an assurance map showing by management.
were in place for Saga Investment the controls in place at the first line Reviewed the interim and full year Services Limited, the joint venture of defence management controls, results before their consideration by with TilneyBestInvest.
The chair of second line of defence quality the Board and considered the annual the audit committee for this business assurance, financial, risk, compliance, report as a whole.
confirmed that no major issues were health and safety and security identified during that committees Other internal controls controls and third line of reviews of the first and second Continued to work in co-operation defence internal audit.
linesofdefence or conflicts with the Risk Committee on key areas This showed that there were of interest process.
Reviewed policies covering financial Considered an Internal Audit review crime including anti-bribery, antiwhich analysed audit findings during AICL corruption and anti-fraud, the year to provide an initial qualitative We received feedback from the chair whistleblowing and non-audit fees.
indicator of the risk and control of AICLs audit committee and the Received a report at each meeting culturein each of the businesses Chief Executive Officer of this business.
in relation to whistleblowing and the subject to audit.
We also reviewed the management proceedings of the Group financial Considered a report from Internal process for examining reserving crime, data and information Audit on the effectiveness of the assumptions and considered the security committee.
Groups risk management framework, regulatory environment in Gibraltar, with particular focus on Saga Services ongoing requirements of Solvency II Our work, up to the date of this annual Limited.
This concluded that a robust capital requirements and possible report, in accordance with the Code risk management framework was in impact of a change in the Ogden andFRCs revised Turnbull Guidance place, with a good risk and control discount rate.
onInternal Control, confirmed that culture evident across the Group.
nosignificant failings or weaknesses were identified.
Where areas for External audit improvement were identified, processes Considered the external auditors are established to ensure that the EY engagement terms including the necessary action is taken and that fee proposal for 2016 17, and made progress is monitored.
Considered the annual report planning timetable and process and EYs intended approach to auditing areas where significant risks and other areas ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 59 Governance Audit Committee Report continued Valuation of goodwill and intangibles We advised the Board that we supported Destinology post-acquisition 1,538.8m.
We considered the the statement made on page 42. review methodology for performing It is Sagas normal practice to Viability statement impairment reviews on the carrying The Groups methodology for production carry out post-acquisition reviews value of goodwill and considered the of acquired businesses, normally of its viability statement is shown on output of each review, and concluded page 57 and the viability statement itself around 12 to 18 months post that no impairments were necessary.
acquisition to ensure that we on page 42.
We internalise any key learnings.
We considered and supported the actuarial Jointly with the Risk Committee we reviewed the acquisition rationale, our advice regarding the valuation of the considered and approved the list of actions to integrate and manage the assets and liabilities of the scheme principal risks and uncertainties see acquired business, its market and and the key assumptions used in pages 20-22 and the methodology used financial performance and future deriving those values.
to provide for an assessment of ongoing plans and prospects.
We specifically considered: Reports were received from EY at the reviewed Destinology and supported managements plans to grow the conclusion of their work on the interim the relevant assessment time period: and full year results and during the business as an important part of the the list of principal risks and Groups overall travel offering.
The reports on uncertainties and associated severe the full year results included specific but plausible potential outcomes: and focus on those areas identified as Interim and full year results the appropriateness of the scenarios having significant audit risk or other The interim and full year results were modelled.
reviewed, together with papers from management summarising the process We confirmed to the Board that we Fair, balanced and understandable of preparing the financial statements, the considered that it was reasonable for the At the request of the Board, the appropriateness and application of key Directors to make the viability statement Committee has considered whether, accounting policies, and the areas of on page 42. in its opinion, this annual report and significant judgement, including how accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, Internal control and Internal Audit those judgements were made.
balanced and understandable and A key part of our work is the oversight of whether it provides the information Key areas of significant judgement which the Internal Audit function.
This includes necessary for shareholders to assess we considered were as follows: reviewing the results of the internal the Groups performance, business auditors work and the assurance from model and strategy.
Valuation of insurance contract Internal Audit on its 3rd line of defence liabilities 642.3m.
We considered the review of the functioning of the risk When forming our opinion, we actuarial processes for valuing these management framework.
We also considered whether: liabilities, the level of liabilities by review and monitor managements accident year and by heads of responsiveness to the internal auditors the report was clear with an damage, and the conclusions of the findings and recommendations.
understandable layout, with key insurance Reserving Committee.
We The function consists of 12 people messages given suitable prominence: received the views of EY from their with a broad range of skills: we also the report was fair and presented work on the assessment of reserves, purchase audit skills externally for a balanced picture: and concluded that the valuation of specialised audits.
the reporting on the business insurance contract liabilities was segments in the narrative was appropriate.
We also considered the We are satisfied that the Internal Audit consistent with the reporting in accounting for the new quota share function had appropriate resources the financial statements: contract and the accounting policies, throughout the year.
the key performance indicators were processes and procedures related to disclosed at an appropriate level: Where Internal Audit reviews identify the new funds withheld reinsurance statutory and adjusted measures contract with NewRe.
Since the year significant areas of business risk these were explained clearly: and are considered by the Risk Committee.
end, we have considered the impact the significant issues and key of the governments announcement Details of these can be found in the Risk judgements referred to in the Committee Report on pages 62-65. regarding the Ogden discount rate narrative reporting were consistent for Sagas insurance liabilities.
with the disclosures set out in the financial statements.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 60 Strategic report Governance Financial statements In line with recommendations of the IIA Effectiveness of external auditors Committee recommended and the Standards, it is our policy to carry out an We discussed our interaction with the Board approved the proposed external review of the effectiveness of the audit team and the audit partner during appointment of KPMG LLP as the Internal Audit function at least every five the year and impressions gained.
Companys auditor for the year for the years.
Accordingly, we engaged KPMG We considered: financial year ending 31 January 2018. to undertake this review during the year.
This appointment is subject to approval our perception of the Auditors The conclusion was that the function by shareholders of the Company at the understanding and insights into was competent, effective and well led, AGM to be held on 22 June 2017. the Groups business model: with strong alignment to principal risks.
how EY approached key areas of Effectiveness of the Committee Areas of development were identified as judgement and the extent of challenge: Evaluation the need to focus on emerging risks and the quality of the Auditors reporting An external evaluation of the more use of third party specialists where to the Committee and their overall Committees effectiveness took place appropriate.
As a result, the audit plan efficiency: and during the year, as part of the Board and audit process includes greater input from management via a effectiveness review for details see page emphasis on emerging risks and further questionnaire on the efficiency and 51.
This was completed by Independent analysis has been completed to identify conduct of the audit.
The review indicated that which audits will benefit from specialist the Committee is working well and did technical input.
The Committee is satisfied that the audit not identify any significant development continues to be effective and provides Auditor independence and points requiring action.
anappropriate independent and non-audit services objective challenge to the Groups The independence of EY is reviewed seniormanagement.
by the Committee and confirmed by the Auditor throughout the year.
External audit re-appointment and tendering A robust non-audit fee policy is in place Ray King Auditor appointment and external and is adhered to.
This is reviewed Chair, Audit Committee audit tendering annually and was last approved At the AGM last year EY were reon 6 December 2016 following appointed as our statutory auditors.
consideration of the requirements of During the year, in accordance with the EU Audit Directive and Regulation the Statutory Auditors and Third which came into force on 17 June 2016.
Country Auditors Regulations 2016 This includes a list of non-audit services which require FTSE 350 companies to where we are satisfied the Auditor tender the audit at least every 10 years, can carry out those services without a formal tender process took place, affecting their role as Auditor.
There led by the Committee.
are clear approval levels where the Committee Chair or the whole This was a structured process, where Committee is required to authorise the Company initially considered the top assignments.
Competitive tendering 10 firms in the UK in 2016 according to is used for substantial work.
Given that the Group on employment of former employees is a conglomerate with significant of the Auditor was also approved presence in regulated industries, the during the year.
auditor had to have sufficient depth specialist knowledge, resource and The audit fees payable to EY in respect relevant experience.
Three of the big of the year ended 31 January 2017 were four firms, including EY, tendered for the 1m 2016: 1.1m and non-audit service audit.
The process involved meetings fees incurred were 0.2m 2016: 0.2m.
with individual Committee members and This equates to a non-audit to audit fee management, review of key documents ratio of 0.2 2016: 0.17.
A summary of via a secure data room and formal fees paid to the Auditor is set out in note presentations.
As a result, the 4 to the consolidated financial statements on page 127.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 61
