Governance Risk Committee Report Role of the Committee Reviewing the Groups capability to Our role is to monitor the Groups Risk identify and manage new risk types risk and compliance management and ensuring that a supportive risk procedures described on pages 54-57 Committee management culture is embedded and review principal business risks and and maintained throughout the compliance matters regularly on behalf Group, in conjunction with the Audit of the Board.
We seek to consider our and Remuneration Committees.
risks on an individual and aggregated Where appropriate, agreeing with basis across our businesses.
the Remuneration Committee how All Committee members are independent risk should be recognised when Non-Executive Directors.
setting performance objectives for executive remuneration.
Attendance Reviewing reports on any material The Committee met five times during breaches of risk limits and the the year.
Reviewing reports on the Member Attendance effectiveness of risk management Orna NiChionna Chair 5 operations.
Philip Green 4 Reviewing and monitoring managements responsiveness to Ray King 5 Dear Shareholder, the findings and recommendations Bridget McIntyre 5 I am pleased to present a summary of the Chief Risk Officer.
of our work during the financial year Gareth Williams 5 Reviewing Group compliance to January 2017. performance, assessing the The Company Secretary acts as adequacy and effectiveness of the Customers are at the heart of what secretary to the Committee and attends various compliance functions and we do, and during 2016 the Group all meetings.
The Chairman, Group Chief giving particular consideration to launched many initiatives and projects Executive Officer, Group Chief Financial any breaches and or required as a direct result of work undertaken Officer, Chief Risk Officer and Head notifications to compliance to align our business model more of Internal Audit attend by invitation.
authorities and how these have closely with customer needs and During the year the Committee and been rectified.
The Committee sought Chair held private meetings with the Exploring sources of risk and to ensure that these initiatives did not Chief Risk Officer.
mitigation processes in each expose the Group to excessive risks of our major business areas.
either operational, financial Our remit or reputational.
Time spent on matters Advising the Board on the Groups 1 Risk policy, appetite and strategy 15% We received presentations from each overall risk appetite, tolerance 2 Risk reports 14% and strategy.
of the various Group businesses, so 3 Compliance 13% that we could understand and Considering and recommending 4 Business reviews 58% to the Board the nature and extent challenge their identified major risks, review their key controls and of the principal risks the Group is willing to take in achieving mitigations and establish what this 1 meant for the principal risks strategic objectives.
Keeping under review the Groups for the Group as a whole.
overall risk assessment processes 2 Orna NiChionna that inform the Boards decision Chair, Risk Committee making, ensuring both qualitative 4 and quantitative metrics are 3 used, and reviewing these measures regularly.
Keeping under review the effectiveness of the Groups risk management systems.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 62 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our terms of reference Management of third party suppliers An Internal Audit review on the Our terms of reference were reviewed was considered in detail, recognising the effectiveness of the risk management by the Committee and subsequently importance of this in light of the imminent framework took place during the year, approved by the Board on 20 September modern slavery legislation see page 18 with particular focus on Saga Services 2016.
These explain our role and the for a summary of the steps being taken Limited, and was considered by the authority delegated to us by the Board to ensure compliance.
This concluded that a and are available on the Saga website at the failure of Parabis Law LLP and the robust risk management framework was http: corporate.
co. uk corporateeffect that this had had on our insurance in place, with a good risk and control information corporate-governance and business.
Whilst we found that the risk to culture evident across the Group.
A from the Company Secretary at Sagas our business of relying on a single key continuous improvement approach will registered office.
supplier had not been fully appreciated, be taken to strengthen processes and the response to the failure was managed drive consistent control standards within What we have done during the year well, with no disruption to customer front line businesses and to build on Risk strategy, policy and appetite service: and the lessons learned were second line of defence capabilities.
We reviewed our principal risks and used to design and implement a more uncertainties against strategy.
This We have reviewed and approved the rigorous approach to supplier selection included those risks that would threaten description of principal risks and the and monitoring in future.
our business model, future performance, explanation as to how these are solvency or liquidity.
The principal risks We considered investments made by managed or mitigated is contained and uncertainties assessment was also asset fund managers on our behalf and within this report.
See: reconciled with the viability statement.
were reassured that these followed pages 20-22 for a summary of ethical guidelines.
We discussed the possible impact of principal risks: and terrorism on travel as well as the effect The General Data Protection Regulation pages 54-57 for further information on of Brexit on the Group and considered will affect how we do business.
We our risk management processes.
the risks associated with internal projects considered the work undertaken by the These are designed to manage rather and activities, in particular the new Data Protection Strategy Group that was than eliminate risk of failure to achieve ship and new insurance platform.
established to ensure that all necessary business objectives and can only provide Developments in relevant industries, steps will be taken before the regulation reasonable and not absolute assurance such as the emergence of autonomous comes into force in May 2018. against material misstatement or loss.
vehicles and possible impact on the The Group risk policy was reviewed and motor insurance industry, were we approved this before it was signed also considered.
The revised policy was We recognise the need to review risk subsequently circulated to all directors appetites and tolerances on a continuous and board attendees of all subsidiary basis.
We considered risks outside of companies and made available to all agreed risk appetite and concluded that staff via the intranet.
where this is the case, the probability of occurrence was very low and existing mitigating actions were appropriate to the scenarios.
Risk appetite was considered on an aggregate basis each quarter.
We were satisfied that controls were in place which meant that the risk of significant failing across the business model was remote.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 63 Governance Risk Committee Report continued Management and reporting Review of individual businesses AICL and CHMC Limited At each meeting, we considered a Each of our meetings included a Noted the governance structure of detailed risk report.
This included a presentation from one or two of the both companies and requirements summary of each businesss business CEOs and senior members of the Financial Services management monitoring.
We worked of the team to discuss in detail the risk Commission in Gibraltar.
with the Chief Risk Officer to consider and compliance issues in their business, Discussed the claims process and each business areas strategies in the prioritised according to risk ratings considered the claims history.
context of their risk framework to ensure in the Groups risk register.
Noted how legislative events such that all forward-looking risks had been as the Courts Act 2003, Legal Aid Reviews of individual businesses during identified and considered.
Sentencing and Punishing of the year included the following: Offenders Act 2012 and possible All business CEOs certified compliance Saga Services Limited changes to the Ogden discount with the risk management framework at regulated business rate affected the business.
Noted the risk and assurance Discussed how underwriting risk framework following the was managed.
Review of incidents, particularly consolidation of Saga Services Considered the effect of the relating to significant control Limited, Direct Choice Insurance growing relevance of the motor panel.
failures or weaknesses Services Limited and Bennetts Reviewed the quota share Incidents are included in the risk reports.
We reviewed and discussed these in Discussed how to strengthen order to identify causes, necessary supplier relationships.
action, lessons learned and monitoring Saga Money Considered the impact of the requirements.
Considered the governance FCAs regulatory changes on structure, including the role of Compliance renewal documents.
Internal Audit, Compliance and Risk.
At each meeting, we received a Group Discussed key risks and Reviewed supplier relationships regulation report, which included the opportunities for this business and to ensure performance was in line status of the Group compliance how these would evolve within the with risk appetite and tolerance monitoring plan for the regulated overall strategy for the Group.
businesses in financial services, travel Considered the risk associated and healthcare.
The relationships of with the joint venture, Saga Insurance platform replacement individual businesses with regulators, Investment Services Limited.
Considered the drivers for change management of incidents and the impact Reviewed the principal risks for and risks associated with the of the Financial Conduct Authoritys this business.
annual business plan were considered Noted that the horizon risks would Discussed whether it was and discussed.
Material changes to be reviewed to assess how risk appropriate to introduce a home compliance regulations were also noted.
interacted with the strategic developed or package platform.
Reviewed resource requirements, cost and implementation timetable.
Shipping Conducted a review of third parties involved in the implementation.
Looked at the assurance structure and minimum standards required Assessed the proposed governance structure for the project.
by each relevant Flag state.
Reviewed the relationship with Asked that regular updates on the implementation be provided at V Ships and our requirement for them to operate at beyond each Board meeting.
Considered the programme of work on maintenance and resilience assurance for the ships.
Assessed the current status of the new build, including a review of the governance structure, design timetable and how our customers expectations would be included.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 64 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Since the year end, a presentation has Group insurance arrangements been received from the travel division.
Considered the insurance programme for the Group including Effectiveness of the Risk Committee cost, management of brokers and Evaluation advisers and summary of cover.
An external evaluation of the Discussed whether any additional Committees effectiveness took place cover was required, specifically in during the year, as part of the Board relation to the threat of financial effectiveness review for details see page crime or cybercrime.
This was completed by Independent Audit Limited.
The review indicated that the Committee is working well and IT is well-supported by management.
Discussed our approach to security and encryption.
Looking ahead, we will continue to Reviewed disaster recovery ensure that risk processes are aligned procedures and times.
with strategy, that risk tolerance levels Received presentations on the are monitored and the impact of risk on quality and frequency of staff our businesses and on an aggregate training in cybersecurity awareness basis is considered.
In particular, we and actions.
will focus on developing our approach Refreshed our understanding of to assessing the effectiveness of risk the IT infrastructure and how IT management, looking at the impact our support was managed throughout risk management approach has on the the Group.
way the business is run and how decisions are taken.
We will also ensure Change management that we will bring in outside expertise Reviewed the Group change should we feel that our oversight of any strategy roadmap.
particular risk areas would benefit from Considered how projects were independent specialist input.
linked and how best practice and consistency levels were maintained across the Group with optimum utilisation of resource and people skills.
Discussed how the health of Orna NiChionna change programmes was Chair, Risk Committee monitored by the use of five key indicators schedule, resource, quality, scope and budget.
Concluded that the change management team acted as risk mitigation and needed to improve the disciplines for change demand throughout the Group, so that change was made only when necessary.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 65
