Governance Board of Directors 1 3 1 2 4 1 Andrew Goodsell 3 Jonathan Hill Chairman Group Chief Financial Officer Skills, competencies and experience: Andrew joined Saga in 1992 Skills, competencies and experience: Jonathan joined Saga in April as Business Development Manager, Saga Services.
He became Saga 2015 from Bovis Homes Group plc where he was Group Finance Group Business Development Director in 1995, Chief Executive of Director.
Prior to that, he held various senior roles within TUI Travel Saga Services and Saga Investment Direct in 1999, Deputy Group and Centrica.
Jonathan qualified as a Chartered Accountant at Price Chief Executive in 2001 and Chief Executive and Chairman in 2004.
Jonathan has experience in strategic planning He has led two management buyouts at Saga.
The second, in 2007, and development, and delivery of large corporate projects.
He brings brought together Saga and the AA under the holding company Acromas this and a wealth of senior financial operational and listed company Holdings.
Andrew was Executive Chairman of the AAfrom 2007 until experience to his role at Saga.
Acromas Holdings sold it in 2014: and Executive Chairman of Saga from Committee membership: Executive.
2007 until he became Non-Executive Chairman on 1 July 2015.
Andrew has an established track record of driving growth in the companies he 4 Philip Green CBE has led.
His in-depth knowledge of Saga and his well-established Senior Independent, Non-Executive Director relationship with Sagas regulators are invaluable to the Group.
Skills, competencies and experience: Philip joined the Company in Other roles: Andrew is also Chairman of Age UKs Fundraising May 2014, on listing.
Philip was previously Chairman of Clarkson plc, and Development Board.
Chief Executive of United Utilities Group plc and Chief Executive of Committee membership: Nomination.
His earlier business experience includes serving as Chief Operating Officer of Reuters Group plc and Chief 2 Lance Batchelor Operating Officer of DHL for Europe and Africa.
Philip was awarded a Group Chief Executive Officer CBE in the 2014 Queens Birthday Honours List.
This was for services Skills, competencies and experience: Lance joined Saga as Group to business and to charity in the UK and South Africa.
Philip brings his Chief Executive Officer in March 2014.
Prior to that he was CEO of experience of running a variety of complex international organisations Dominos Pizza Group plc from 2011-2014 and CEO of Tesco Mobile and acting as an Executive and Non-Executive Director of many public from 2008-2011.
His earlier experience includes senior marketing roles companies to the Board.
Philip will retire from the Company with effect at Procter & Gamble, Amazon.
Lances first career from 31 March 2017. was as a Royal Navy submarine officer.
He holds an MBA from Harvard Other roles: Philip is currently Chairman of Carillion plc.
He is also Business School.
Lance has worked in consumer-facing businesses Chairman of BakerCorp, a US industrial services company owned by and brand-centric roles throughout his career, focusing on creating Permira and Chairman of Corsair Infrastructure Management, based in products that are tailored to the customer.
Lance also has a wealth of New York.
Philip is also the UK Prime Ministers adviser on corporate senior operational experience in listed companies which he brings to responsibility and Chairman of Sentebale, a charity set up by HRH his role at Saga.
Other roles: Lance is a Trustee of the National Gallery and White Committee membership: Nomination Chair, Audit, Remuneration Ensign Association.
He is also a Vice Patron of the Royal Navy & Royal and Risk.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 48 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 5 7 6 8 5 Ray King 7 Orna NiChionna Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Skills, competencies and experience: Ray joined the Company in Skills, competencies and experience: Orna joined the Company in May May 2014, on listing.
Previously, Ray was ChiefExecutive of Bupa from 2014, on listing.
Previously, Orna was Senior Independent Non-Executive 2008-2012, after serving as Group Finance Director from 2001-2008.
Director of HMV plc, Northern Foods plc and Bupa and a Non-Executive Before Bupa, Ray was a Non-Executive Director of Friends Provident plc, Director of the Bank ofIreland UK Holdings plc and Bristol & West plc.
She Deputy Chief Executive of Parity Group plc, Director of Group Finance and was a former Partner at McKinsey & Company, where her client portfolio Control at Diageo plc and Group Finance Director of Southern Water plc.
included many consumer facing clients.
Orna has significant experience in In 2015, Ray resigned as a Reporting Panel Member of the Competition strategy and new concept development and launch, business turnaround, and Markets Authority and as a Non-Executive Director of Infinis Energy logistics redesign and supply change management.
She brings these skills Plc.
Rays financial experience, his detailed knowledge of regulatory and to the Board along with her considerable experience in other Noncompliance requirements and experience of running a business similar Executive Director roles.
Orna will assume the position of Senior to Saga, andhis Non-Executive Director experiences including that of Independent Director and Chair of the Nomination Committee of the chairing audit committees are all immensely helpful to the Board.
Company with effect from 31 March 2017.
Other roles: Ray is currently Chairman of Rothesay Holdco UK Ltd and of its Other roles: Orna is currently Senior Independent Non-Executive Director regulated subsidiary, Rothesay Life plc.
He is also a Non-Executive Director and Chair of the remuneration committee of Royal Mail plc.
Orna is also of the Financial Reporting Council where he is a member of the Codes and currently the Deputy Chair of the National Trust, Trustee of Sir John Standards Committee and chairs the Audit and Assurance Council.
Soanes Museum and Chair of Client Service at Eden McCallum.
Committee membership: Audit Chair, Nomination, Remuneration Committee membership: Risk Chair, Audit, Nomination andRisk.
6 Bridget McIntyre 8 Gareth Williams Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Skills, competencies and experience: Bridget joined the Board in Skills, competencies and experience: Gareth joined the Company January 2016.
Bridget was previously Chief Executive of the RSA in May 2014, on listing.
Previously, Gareth was Human Resources UK business and a Director of RSA Insurance Group plc having held Director of Diageo plc where he also had oversight responsibility senior roles at Aviva and pre-merger Norwich Union.
Bridget is an for corporate relations and held a series of key positions in human associate of the Chartered Institute ofManagement.
In addition resources at Grand Metropolitan plc.
Gareths contributions to the to her extensive insurance experience, Bridget has a strong Board are on all aspects of human resources and people strategy understanding of how retail businesses work and a track record in and this, combined with his experience of working at Director level improving business performance.
She also brings considerable general in a consumer facing organisation and his knowledge of corporate and financial management experience to the Board.
Bridget was recently relations, management development and resourcing, brings a unique appointed Senior Independent Director of Saga Services Limited.
perspective to discussions with the Board and its Committees.
Other roles: Bridget is currently a Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Other roles: Gareth is currently Chairman of YSC Limited and a Audit Committee of Adnams plc, Director of Jarrold & Sons Limited and is Non-Executive Director of WNS Holdings Limited.
founder of her own social enterprise organisation Dream On, a SuffolkCommittee membership: Remuneration Chair, Audit, Nomination based community interest company focused on improving the lives of and Risk.
She is also a Trustee of The Health Foundation, where she chairs the Audit and Risk Committee, and a Trustee of The Blossom Charity.
Committee membership: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Risk.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 49
