GOVERNANCE Chairmans introduction I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 31January 2017, on behalf of the Board.
I firmly believe that a robust and effective governance framework is essential to support management in delivering thecompanys strategy.
Our shareholders also play an important role in supporting the company, Dear shareholders, and the investor community continues to be an influential force in I am pleased to present our Corporate Governance Report for the year shaping corporate governance.
There are a number of areas of particular ended 31 January 2017, on behalf of the Board.
focus for shareholders, and boards will continue to face investor scrutiny The role of the Board is to lead the company and to oversee its on their activities.
Shareholders provide meaningful contribution to governance.
The Board plays a critical role in ensuring that the tone for promote effective governance through open and constructive two-way the companys culture and values is set from the top, and I firmly believe dialogue with boards, and we place great value on this engagement.
that a robust and effective governance framework is essential to support We have reviewed our governance framework with reference to the UK management in delivering the companys strategy.
This is particularly true Corporate Governance Code, and a statement of compliance with the for Kingfisher as we continue to deliver our ONE Kingfisher strategy.
Code is set out on the following page.
We continue to strive towards the An effective Board must maintain a level of independence and objectivity, very highest standards of governance, and this report provides an insight and have the correct balance of experience, diversity, and skills.
It also into how, through its actions, the Board and its committees have fulfilled needs a good understanding of the operations of the business.
delighted to lead a Board with such independence, experience, diversity As mentioned in my earlier statement on page 1, I will be stepping and knowledge.
These criteria continue to be a focus for the Boards down as Chairman at the conclusion of the AGM.
I would like to take this succession planning arrangements.
opportunity to thank you, our shareholders, for the support you have During the year, with external support, the Board conducted an provided to me and the Board throughout my time as Chairman.
I am independent effectiveness evaluation of the Board, its principal confident that your Board, led by Andy Cosslett, will continue to serve committees, and individual directors.
The results of this evaluation thecompany well and maintain progress in the delivery of the ONE confirmed that the Board, its principal committees, and individual Kingfisher plan over the coming years.
More information aboutAndy directors continue to operate effectively.
A few key areas for further andthe Nomination Committees appointment process, can be found development were identified during the review, and these are set out onpage 64. on page 58 of this report.
The Board, supported by the Group Company Secretary, will continue to review and seek to improve the companys Daniel Bernard governance frameworks and systems.
This will be particularly valuable as Chairman the Board reviews Kingfishers delivery against key performance indicators and strategic milestones of the long-term plan.
21 March 2017 Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 52 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AT A GLANCE KEY BOARD ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR STRATEGY OPERATIONS Held deep-dive strategic sessions with management on Received performance updates from the CEO at every key topics including digital strategy and innovations, retail meeting, including transformation plan delivery and retail operations, brand, customer, offer and supply chain strategies.
Continued to monitor performance against our five year Visited new stores and received competition updates.
FINANCE AND RISK GOVERNANCE, PEOPLE AND OTHER Reviewed the companys key risks, mitigations and risk appetite.
Received briefings on health and safety, litigation matters, pension scheme funding, and corporate Considered financial performance at every meeting, and governance developments.
regularly reviewed financingand liquidity requirements.
Reviewed senior management succession planning and Considered financial reporting and key external performance, key appointments, and considered values communications, ensuring these were reviewed against and culture.
best practice by our external auditors and reflected feedback from investors.
Considered and approved the appointment of the new Chairman following recommendation from the Nomination Committee.
2017 BOARD COMPOSITION TENURE AND BOARD ATTENDANCE Tenure in years Attendance Current Directors 11% 22% Daniel Bernard 10 10 10 Andrew Bonfield 6 10 10 Pascal Cagni 6 10 10 1 Clare Chapman 6 9 10 1 Anders Dahlvig 7 9 10 Rakhi Goss-Custard 1 10 10 67% Vronique Laury 2 10 10 Mark Seligman 5 10 10 Karen Witts 4 10 10 Chairman 1 All directors attended all scheduled Board meetings during the year.
However, Clare and Anders were unable to attend one Independent additional meeting, called at short notice, due to prior commitments.
non-executive directors The above table shows the number of years each director had served on the Board as at Executive directors the financial year end, and their attendance at Board meetings during the year.
Committee meeting attendance is shown in the report for each committee.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE THE CODE During the 2016 17 financial year, Kingfisher was subject to the September 2014 Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council available from www.
In last years report, the company advised that, following shareholder approval of the new Remuneration Policy at the 2016 AGM, the company would become non-compliant with Code Provision D. 1.1 in relation to grants under long-term incentive schemes.
The Board is pleased to confirm thatthroughout the year, with the exception of Provision D. 1.1. the company has complied with all Principles and Provisions set out in the Code.
Further details are set out on page 54. www.
com 53 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The notes below outline the companys compliance with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code for the year ended 31 January 2017.
This should be read in conjunction with the Corporate Governance Report.
A copy of the Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils website: www.
The 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code will apply to the financial year ending 31 January 2018.
The Board considers that the company has complied with the Code for the whole year ending 31 January 2017, except with regards to Provision D. 1.1 in relation to grants under long-term incentive schemes.
4 Training and development The Boards role in leading the The balance of skills, experience, Directors induction programmes company and the formal schedule independence, and knowledge on are individually tailored for each of matters reserved to the Board are the Board is the responsibility of appointment.
The Chairman annually both summarised on page 56. the Nomination Committee and reviews the development needs of is reviewed annually whenever each of the non-executive directors.
2 Division of responsibilities appointments are considered.
Ongoing development needs are The roles of Chairman and Chief considered when setting the Board The majority of the Board are Executive are separate and forward agenda, including deep-dives, independent non-executive directors, clearly defined.
topic briefings and site visits.
as shown in the composition chart on A.
3 Role of the Chairman page 53.
5 Provision of information and The Chairman leads the Board and support B.
2 Board appointments ensures its effectiveness.
The Chairman, supported by the Group The appointment of new directors to Company Secretary, ensures that Daniel Bernard was independent at the Board is led by the Nomination Board members receive appropriate first appointment.
The ChairmanCommittee, who then make and timely information.
All directors designate, Andy Cosslett, is recommendations to the Board.
may seek advice from the Group also independent.
More detail about succession Company Secretary and may also take A.
4 Role of the non-executive planning and the appointment independent advice in relation to their directors process can be found in the duties, at the companys expense.
The Board has a Senior Independent Committees report on page 64.
6 Board and committee Director SID, Mark Seligman, who B.
3 Time commitments performance and evaluation may be contacted by shareholders The time commitments of nonAn  performance and other directors as required.
executive directors are considered evaluation was completed during The SIDs role in the Chairmans by the Nomination Committee at the year.
More information about the succession is described in the appointment and reviewed annually.
evaluation can be found on page Nomination Committee report on 58and the findings and actions for The Chairman considers new external page 64. each committee are located in the appointments which may impact relevant committee report.
Meetings are held between the nonexisting time commitments.
executive directors in the absence B.
7 Re-election of Directors Executive directors hold no more of the executive directors, and in the At the 2016 AGM, all directors were than one external non-executive absence of the Chairman.
subject to either election or re-election.
More information on the With the exception of DanielBernard, There are no directors whose time responsibilities of the Chairman, CEO all directors will be standing for commitments are considered to be a and SID can be found on page 56. either election or re-election by matter for concern.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 54 Governance C ACCOUNTABILITY REMUNERATION RELATIONS WITH D E SHAREHOLDERS C. 1 Financial and business D. 1 Level and elements E. 1 Shareholder engagement reporting of remuneration.
Details of engagements with The Directors and Auditors The Directors Remuneration Report shareholders during the year may Statements of Responsibility on pages66 to 87explains the work befound on page 59. can be found on pages 91and of the Remuneration Committee.
E. 2 Use of the AGM 99respectively.
The remuneration received by the The 2017 AGM will be held on directors, in accordance with the Information on the companys 13 June 2017.
The whole Board Remuneration Policy is presented on business model and strategy can is expected to attend the AGM pages 78-80. befound on pages 1 to 46. and be available to answer As advised in last years Annual Report, shareholders questions.
The Directors viability statement the company became non-compliant and confirmation that the business To facilitate shareholder participation, with Code Provision D. 1.1 following is a going concern can be found on electronic proxy voting and the approval of, and grant of awards page 46. voting through the CREST proxy under, the Kingfisher Alignment Share appointment service are available.
C. 2 Risk management and & Transformation Incentive Plan.
Allvotes are taken by way of a poll internal control systems Code Provision D. 1.1. requires that toinclude all shareholder votes cast.
long-term awards be phased rather The Board sets the companys risk than awarded in one large block: the appetite and reviews the Audit Transformation Incentive conflicts Committees assessment of the with this, as it is designed to be a effectiveness of the risk management single block awarded to cover a fiveand internal controls during the year performance period.
The findings of this review are included in the Audit Committee D. 2 Development of Report on pages 60to 63.
Remuneration Policy and packages C. 3 Role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee The Remuneration Policy was fully reviewed during 2015 16 and, The Audit Committee supports following extensive shareholder the Board in its responsibilities in consultation, was approved at relation to corporate reporting, risk the 2016 AGM.
The 2016 Annual management and internal controls, Report and Accounts contains more and manages the relationship with information about how the Policy the companys external auditors.
Committee provides regular reports tothe Board.
Under the Code, the Policy must be brought back to shareholders for review or revision no later than the 2019 AGM.
com 55 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED BOARD LEADERSHIP Composition of the Board The role of the Board The structure, size and composition of the Board is regularly reviewed to ensure it remains suitable for the needs of the business.
The current The Boards primary responsibility is to promote the long-term success of balance of the Boards skills, experience, independence and knowledge, the company and deliver sustainable shareholder value.
The Board has together with regular briefings by executives below Board level, ensures ultimate responsibility for the management, direction and performance that views, perceptions and discussions are not dominated by any one of the company, and leads and controls the companys business.
Board is also responsible for ensuring appropriate resources are in place to achieve its strategy and deliver sustainable performance.
Through There is an established, formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for authorities delegated to its committees, the Board directs and reviews the selection and appointment of new directors to the Board, which Kingfishers operations within an agreed framework of controls, allowing is described in the Nomination Committee report on page 64.
At the risk to be assessed and managed within agreed parameters.
The Board Annual General Meeting AGM to be held on 13 June 2017, shareholders is collectively accountable to shareholders for the proper conduct and will be asked to approve the re-electionof all current directors, with the success of the business.
exception of Daniel Bernard, who will not be standing for re-election.
The Boards powers are set out in the companys Articles of Association, Independence of Non-executive Directors which are available to view on our website, and may be amended by a At its meeting in March 2017, the Board considered the independence special resolution of its members.
of each of the non-executive directors other than the Chairman, who The schedule of matters reserved for the Board includes the was deemed independent by the Board at the date of his appointment consideration and approval of: against the criteria specified in the Code, and determined that all remain independent.
the companys overall strategy, medium-term plans and annual budgets: The appointment terms for each non-executive director are available for inspection at the companys registered office.
These will also be available financial statements and companys dividend policy, including the for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
recommendation of the final dividend: major acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure: Diversity on the Board major changes to the capital structure including tax and treasury The company is proud of the level of diversity that exists on its Board.
management: and The Board remains committed in its belief that a balanced Board, with a major changes to accounting policies or practices.
broad range of skills, experience, independence, knowledge and diversity, including gender diversity, is an effective Board.
As a company, we encourage diversity and promote a culture of inclusion at all levels of our business.
We believe in and are committed to maximising the benefits that this approach provides.
Charts demonstrating the gender split at Board level, senior management level, and for all employees across the company can be found on page 65.
Roles of the Chairman, Senior Independent Director, Chief Executive Officer and Group Company Secretary Chairman Senior Independent Director Ensuring that the Board determines the nature, and extent, of Acting as a sounding board for the Chairman of the Board, the significant risks the company is willing to take to achieve its providing support for them in the delivery of their objectives.
Chairing the Nomination Committee when it is considering the Setting the style and tone of Board discussions and setting succession to the role of Chairman of the Board.
a plan of Board activity that primarily focuses on strategy, Working with the Chairman, other directors and shareholders performance, value creation and accountability.
asnecessary to resolve any significant issues.
Ensuring that there is effective and appropriate communication of financial and other information by the company to its shareholders.
Chief Executive Officer Group Company Secretary Leading the executive management of the companys business Ensuring good quality information flows from executive management to the Board and its committees.
Maintaining a dialogue with the Chairman on important and strategic issuesfacing the company.
Advising the Board on legal, compliance andcorporate governance matters.
Facilitating inductions and ongoing training for all directors.
The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman, SID and Chief Executive Officer are available from the Companys website www.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 56 Governance GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Kingfisher Board AUDIT COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE  Overseefinancial Oversee Board composition Oversee the linking of reward reporting, audit and risk.
Read more on page 60 Read more on page 64 Read more on page 66 Group Executive Led by Vronique Laury to create a long-term sustainable business with a strong purpose by developing a strategy that will create uniqueness and leadership.
Deliver that strategy through business plans and milestones.
Engage all colleagues: recruit, retain and develop the best talent.
FINANCE & BUSINESS SERVICES PEOPLE OFFER & SUPPLY CHAIN KAREN WITTS ALASTAIR ROBERTSON ARJA TAAVENIKU Lead the financial and legal agenda Lead the people agenda to effectively Lead and develop the sustainable, unique with audit, risk, investor relations, support all our global activities.
and unified offer of products.
health and safety, GNFR and corporate Develop engaged and skilled Deliver customer benefits which include governance services.
colleagues to champion the newhigher quality and sustainable Responsible for developing our customer experience.
products, lower prices, simpler sustainable business model ranges, clearer merchandising and Develop the leadership skills and creating the conditions for better packaging.
required to deliver the companys continuous improvement.
Ensure availability, delivering to all stores and customers homes.
CUSTOMER, BRAND, SALES & RETAIL OPERATIONS DIGITAL & IT COMMUNICATIONS & JEAN-PAUL CONSTANT STEVE WILLETT SUSTAINABILITY PIERRE WORECZEK Develop home improvement Create the conditions of leadership Define and drive the digital strategy to customer insights to form the basis inevery country.
deliver industry-leading digital solutions ofeverythingwe do.
and capability, unlocking seamless Work closely with the Country and customer journeys and leveraging Define and build brand strategy and lead Operating Company CEOs to: Screwfixs best-in-class digital capability.
its execution in every country.
1 increase  Support ONE Kingfisher with the design, Lead on sustainability strategy and inall our operations: and delivery, operation and support of all manage our global corporate reputation 2 deliver an outstanding customer IT services.
experience in each store and online.
com 57 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED prepared, tailored to support the Group Executive as they deliver the BOARD EFFECTIVENESS  milestones.
Transformation delivery and financial Board meetings performancereporting has been updated during the year.
The Board The Board holds regular scheduled and supplementary meetings considered management development reviews and succession plans for throughout the year, which are structured to allow open discussion.
key senior management roles, and refreshed its Board-level emergency At each meeting the Board receives certain regular reports, which succession plans.
include an update from the Chief Executive Officer, current trading finance including liquidity and capital expenditure reports from the In autumn 2016, an  was conducted by Chief Financial Officer, and reports from the Group Company Secretary, Ffion Hague of Independent Board Evaluation to review theperformance including governance, legal, insurance and risk updates.
Regular updates and effectiveness of the Board, its committees and individual directors.
on people, risk, sustainability and public affairs are also provided during Ffion Hague and Independent Board Evaluation each have no other the year.
connections withKingfisher and were therefore considered independent in accordance with the Code.
All directors participate in discussions about strategy, trading and financial performance, and risk management of the company.
Comprehensive A comprehensive brief was developed with the external assessment team briefing papers are circulated to all directors approximately one week who attended Board and Board committee meetings during September before each meeting.
Any director unable to attend a meeting may and November 2016.
The team also conductedindividual interviews with discuss any issues with the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer.
every Board member andwith other key colleagues.
Each year the Board holds at least one meeting outside the UK, in a The main areas considered during the evaluation were: country in which the company operates.
In 2016 17 the Board held shareholder accountability, relationship and interface: two meetings in France, and used these opportunities tomeet senior strategy: management of the Operating Companies, visit stores in the area, obtain a customer perspective and review local market conditions.
governance and compliance: board focus: The Chairman and non-executive directors meet regularly without the risk management: executive directors being present.
The Chairman maintains regular succession planning: contact with the Senior Independent Director.
board composition: Board evaluation board culture: Following the 2015 16  board evaluation, the Board relationship with senior management: and undertook to reviewthe forward business agenda and reporting of key decision-making.
performance indicators, andrenew focus on succession planning and talent management.
Significant improvement was seen in each of these areasduring the year.
A fully revisedforward Board agenda has been BOARD EVALUATION FINDINGS AND 2017 18 ACTION PLAN Key Findings Development Plans Board Information Flows It was felt that, whilst Board papers and The Group Company Secretary will lead on information flows had improved, there was still developing the quality and effectiveness of Board some scope to further develop the quality of papers and presentational materials, including information made available to the Board.
further work on paper format, length, and content, to support effective decision-making by the Board and its committees.
Board Succession Planning The Board agreed that there were robust Board succession planning, including a review of succession plans in place at executive level, the Board skills matrix, would be a key focus of the although it was felt that succession planning Nomination Committee during the year.
for the Board, and particularly for non-executive directors, needed tobea focus during the year ahead.
Contact with Senior The Board felt that it would benefit from further Further contact with key senior management, Management contact with key senior management to further including Operating Company CEOs, has now been enhance its understanding of the key issues and built into the Board Forward Planner for 2017 18. opportunities facing the business.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 58 Governance The results of the evaluation were considered by the Board at its experience to perform the functions required of the directors of a listed meeting in January 2017.
No significant issues were highlighted and company.
There is also an agreed procedure whereby directors may the review indicated that the Board, its committees, the Chairman and take independent professional advice at the companys expense in the each of the directors continued to work effectively.
The contribution furtherance of their duties.
and commitment of each director, and their interaction with each other, Conflicts of interest remained good, and the challenge offered by the non-executive directors The company has robust procedures in place to identify, authorise and was robust and appropriate.
manage potential or actual conflicts of interest, and these procedures The Board Action Plan for 2017 18, based on the findings of the above have operated effectively during the year.
Following review of the register process, is outlined in the table on the previous page.
The Board will of directors situational and transactional conflicts, the Board confirmed continue to review its procedures, effectiveness and development in the that there were no situations of which they were aware which would, or year ahead, and the Chairman will use the output ofthe Board evaluation potentially could, give rise to conflicts with the interests of the company, in his individual meetings with directors during the year.
other than those that might arise from directors other appointments.
Where such potential conflicts arise, they are reviewed, and if appropriate, The Board has confirmed that the contribution of each of the directors approved by the Board.
Processes for managing suchconflicts are put in continues to be effective and that shareholders should be supportive of place to ensure no conflicted director is involved in any decision related their re-election to the Board.
Directors other key appointments are set out in the Induction, information and professional development directors biographies on pages 50 and 51.
The Kingfisher directors induction programme is designed to develop Relations with shareholders a directors knowledge and understanding of the companys operations Kingfisher and the Board acknowledge the importance of having and culture.
The comprehensive programme is tailored to meet each effective and regular lines of communication with both existing and directors specific requirements and is phased to allow feedback and potential shareholders.
These engagements take a variety of forms and further customisation of development activities.
include capital markets events, presentations, roadshows in Europe, A tailored induction programme was created forRakhi Goss-Custard, North America and Asia, conferences, store and operational facility whojoined the Board in 2016.
Alongside the Investor Relations team, relations involve the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and other members of the Group individual one-to-one meetings with the Chairman, the Chief Executive Executive.
In total, around 500 meetings were undertaken last year.
Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and all other directors: Meetings with the Chairman, Senior Independent Director and other meetings with management of the Operating Companies and other Board directors e. g. with the Chair of the Remuneration Committee key senior managers across the company: are also offered to our major shareholders each year.
site visits to the companys stores: During the year we have engaged with shareholders on a range of briefing sessions on the activities of the committees to which she has topicsincluding: been appointed: and an online resource site of key reference materials to support the above.
investment case: ONE Kingfisher business strategy and the five year plan: If required, external training courses may be provided at thecompanys expense.
financial and business performance: final and half year results, including trading updates: Subsequent training in specific aspects of the companys businesses is sustainability: provided to directors when requested and regularly as part of site visits.
governance, including succession planning: and Directors are briefed on issues at Board and committee meetings, for example receiving briefings on cyber risks, and relevant commercial, legal executive remuneration.
All directors have full and timely access to Results, annual reports, latest analyst estimates and technical guidance, relevant information ahead of each meeting.
presentations and archived webcasts are all available at kingfisher.
com and can be viewed and downloaded on our Investor Relations iPad App.
In accordance with best practice, the Chairman considers and addresses the development needs of the Board as a whole, if any, and ensures that We can also be followed on Twitter @kingfisherplc.
each director updates their individual skills, knowledge and expertise.
Annual General Meeting The Board also receives regular reports and feedback from discussions The Board welcomes the opportunity to engage with our wider, retail with the companys institutional shareholders and is informed of any shareholder base each year at the Annual General Meeting.
issues or concerns raised by them.
This process allows directors to At the 2017 AGM, to be held on Tuesday 13 June 2017, all resolutions develop necessary understanding of the views of these shareholders will again be put to shareholders on a poll, and the results announced to and also enables the Board to judge whether investors have a the London Stock Exchange.
They will also be published on our website, sufficient understanding of the companys objectives.
In addition to shortly after the meeting.
Further details about the 2017 AGM can be planned development and briefings, each director is expected to take found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, which is available at responsibility for identifying their own individual needs and to take kingfisher.
necessary steps to ensure that they are adequately informed about the company and their responsibilities as a director.
The Board is confident that all its members have the requisite knowledge, ability and www.
