Governance Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Corporate governance report continued Leadership Structure of the Board and its Committees Chairman Key objective: Governance of the Board PLC Board Key objectives: Overall conduct of the business and strategy setting Corporate Executive Audit Compliance and Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Key objectives Key objectives Key objectives Key objectives Key objectives Implementation of strategy and Effective governance of financial Development and Development and Advice to the Board on Board actions in respect of financial reporting, internal controls implementation of the implementation of the Groups and senior management planning and performance: and risk management systems: Groups policies on corporate remuneration framework appointments and succession day-to-day management review of significant accounting compliance and corporate and policies for Directors planning: monitoring of the of operations.
Reviewing and and colleagues including composition of the Board and estimates: management of the ensuring compliance with all incentives, bonuses and its Committees.
relationship and appointment of those policies and ethical and pensions.
the external auditor: monitoring governance standards.
Ensuring and review of the effectiveness the Group fulfils its role as a of the Groups Risk and Internal good corporate citizen.
Board responsibilities PLC Board The formal schedule of matters reserved for 1,2 Members the Board remains unaltered from 2015 16 Andrew Higginson, David Potts, Trevor Strain, Rooney Anand, Neil Davidson, Belinda Richards, and is set out in the Corporate governance PaulaVennells compliance statement which can be found in the investor relations section of the Groups Key objective website, www.
Overall conduct of the business and strategy setting.
The Board is committed to a clear division Responsibilities of responsibilities between the Chairman Development and approval of the strategy and key policies of the Group: and the CEO.
This has been reviewed by the Monitoring of progress towards achieving all Board and Group objectives: Board during the year and is also set out in the Management of culture and values: Corporate governance compliance statement.
Monitoring of financial performance, critical operational issues and risks by reviewing performance against strategy, objectives, business plans and budgets: Board Committees Formal approval of the Groups Risk Register: Approval of all communications to shareholders, including the Annual Report and Financial Statements, The decisions delegated by the Board to half-yearly financial report and interim management statements: its Committees and the activities of those Approval of changes to the Groups capital structure, external financial reports, major expenditure: and Committees during the financial year 2016 17 Approval of membership of the Board on recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
are described within each Committees report below.
1 All Non-Executive Directors are independent.
2 Irwin Lee stepped down from the Board on 31 August 2016.
During the year, the Group considered Throughout the year, the majority of the Board consisted of independent Non-Executive Directors.
the changes recommended by the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and implemented those changes, as appropriate, throughout the Group.
The Corporate governance compliance statement contains the terms of reference of the Committees and these have been updated during the year to take into account changes in the Code.
26 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Senior Independent Director Effectiveness It was felt that the Group and the Board would receive more value from an external review Rooney Anand was appointed as the Senior Non-Executive Directors once members of the Board had had sufficient Independent Director on 1 January 2016 when time to settle into role.
An internal review led The Non-Executive Directors bring a varied he joined the Board.
Rooney has extensive by the Chairman and the Company Secretary range of skills and experience to the Group.
knowledge of the retail and fast moving took place in 2016 17.
Details of their experience outside the Group consumer goods industries.
are set out in their respective biographies on The evaluation comprised the Company The Senior Independent Director provides page 24.
Secretary conducting an interview with each shareholders with an alternative contact to member of the Board individually covering the The Board is satisfied that all Non-Executive the Chairman, the CEO and the CFO.
The Senior following key areas: Directors, including the Non-Executive Independent Director also carried out the Chairman, remain independent according overall Board and Committee effectiveness: Chairmans performance review.
to the definition contained in the Code.
the work of the Board, including the approach The criteria used to determine independence to control, risk, strategy and transactions, and Board activities in 2016 17 are set out in the Corporate governance the regulatory environment: compliance statement, which can be found in The Boards focus in this financial year was: organisation and conduct of Board meetings: the investor relations section of the Groups setting the strategy: website, www.
timing and content of Board papers: efficiency of time: review of results and forecasts and approval The minimum time commitment expected of of regulatory announcements: the Non-Executive Directors is 12 days per year, Board and senior management succession: including attendance at the AGM, Board away review of the annual business plan and the mix of skills and experience on the Board: days and site visits, plus adequate preparation monthly updates from the Executive the amount of time devoted to Board and time.
The Board is satisfied that each of the Committee regarding its delivery: Committee matters: Non-Executive Directors commits sufficient the conduct of the business in accordance training and awareness: and time to the business of the Group and with its values: contributes to the governance and operations overall Director performance.
review of the performance of the CEO: of the Group.
This has been confirmed by approval of the 2017 18 budget and the Board effectiveness evaluation referred Responses were collated by the Company commercial plans, including productivity to below.
Secretary and discussed with the Chairman savings required to invest in the core offer: and the Board.
The Chairman arranges regular discussions approving the plan for the Groups balance between all the Non-Executive Directors The review concluded that the Board operates sheet and capital structure strategy: including himself as a group without well and cohesively and that the Chairman management present.
fostered an atmosphere of open discussion approving the Groups continued operations which encouraged full participation.
and growth opportunities in online, wholesale Board evaluation and manufacturing: and The improvements that the Group had made The Board arranges for its own performance, review of the governance structure and to Board organisation and agendas in the and that of its Committees and Directors, to activities of the subcommittees of the Board.
previous year were thought to work well.
This is usually facilitated Papers were well written and received in a by an external agency every three years with timely fashion.
the most recent external review taking place in The Board engaged on appropriate topics for 2013 14.
As the majority of the Board members discussion with the right balance of information were appointed shortly before the start of provided.
The move to fewer Board meetings the financial year 2016 17, it was decided that but with Board members travelling to the the Group would conduct an internal Board meeting the night before, allowed longer, more effectiveness review this year and conduct an intensive Board sessions and the chance to external review in the early part of 2017 18. engage more informally with each other, and with the Executive Committee.
Attendance at meetings Board Nomination Remuneration Audit CCR Andrew Higginson 8 8 3 3 6 6 4 4 David Potts 8 8 4 4 Trevor Strain 8 8 1 Rooney Anand 7 8 2 3 5 6 4 4 Neil Davidson 8 8 3 3 6 6 7 7 4 4 Belinda Richards 8 8 3 3 6 6 7 7 4 4 2 Paula Vennells 8 8 3 3 5 6 6 7 3 4 3 Irwin Lee 5 5 1 1 4 4 5 5 2 2 1 Rooney Anand was unable to attend one meeting due to a pre-existing commitment which was known to the Group at the time of his appointment.
2 Paula Vennells was unable to attend one meeting due to a pre-existing commitment which was known to the Group at the time of her appointment.
3 Irwin Lee stepped down from the Board on 31 August 2016.
27 Governance Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Corporate governance report continued Members felt this had been useful in getting to Executive Committee Audit Committee report know each other and the senior members of the business, leading to better understanding.
1 1 Members Members Board members made helpful and insightful David Potts, Trevor Strain, Andy Atkinson, Darren Belinda Richards Chair, Neil Davidson, suggestions for improvement, particularly on Blackhurst, Clare Grainger, Gary Mills Paula Vennells areas of the business they would like more Key objectives Key objectives discussion on.
These suggestions will be Implementation of strategy and actions in Effective governance of financial reporting, implemented in 2017 18 as part of the Groups respect of financial planning and performance: internal controls and risk management systems: ongoing effort to constantly improve its day-to-day management of operations.
review of significant accounting judgements, corporate governance.
assumptions and estimates: management Executive Directors are included in the Groups of the relationship and appointment of the Responsibilities performance appraisal process, which includes external auditor: monitoring and review of the Development and implementation of strategy.
setting clear and measurable objectives and effectiveness of the Groups Risk and Internal Oversight of: reviewing performance against those objectives Audit function.
financial performance, reporting and control: on a bi-annual basis.
The Chairman and risk management: Non-Executive Directors are responsible for operational improvement programmes: and Responsibilities monitoring and reviewing the performance of control and supervision of all Group The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee the Chief Executive, who in turn is responsible operational activities.
the responsibility for reviewing on its behalf and for monitoring the performance of the CFO.
Making recommendations to the Board making recommendations to the Board as to: in respect of: the integrity of financial reports, including During the year, the Group also reviewed and budgets and long term plans: reviewing significant financial reporting considered its relationship with its principal dividend levels: and issues and considering how these issues have advisers, and concluded these were effective.
been addressed: Succession planning for senior management.
whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced Membership and understandable: 1 Mark Amsden stepped down from the Committee on The Nomination Committee considers the effectiveness of the Groups internal 15 February 2017. that the Board and Executive Committee control and risk management system: contain the skills and experience necessary the effectiveness of the Risk and Internal Audit Executive Committee activities in 2016 17 function: and in light of the Groups current activities and the independence and appointment of the strategic direction.
The Executive Committees focus in this external auditor, approval of their fees: and financial year was: monitoring of the Groups policy on nonRe-election of Directors driving trading performance and reviewing audit services.
All the current Directors submit themselves financial performance: for re-election at the AGM to be held on 1 Irwin Lee stepped down from the Committee on reducing the cost base of the organisation: 31 August 2016.
After reviewing the outcome of implementing the Groups six priorities: performance evaluations, the Board confirms Audit Committee Chair that the contributions made by the Directors overseeing the Groups compliance with its The Board is satisfied that Belinda Richards offering themselves for re-election at the AGM obligations under the Groceries Supply Code has recent and relevant financial experience in June 2017 continue to be effective and that of Practice GSCOP : appropriate to her position as Chair of the the Board supports their re-election.
overseeing the Groups commitment Audit Committee.
Belinda is considered to have to corporate social responsibility in sufficient financial experience, having been Directors interests particular in minimising food waste, in a corporate finance partner at Deloitte for The interests of the Executive and supporting the Groups charity partner over ten years.
Additionally, she serves on the Non-Executive Directors of the Group, and Sue Ryder and in supporting the charitable Advisory Group of Audit Committee Chairmen their immediate families, in the shares of the Morrisons Foundation: at the Financial Reporting Council.
Group, along with share options, are contained overseeing the Groups continued in the Directors remuneration report set out development of its wholesale, online and Audit Committee activities in 2016 17 on pages 33 to 46.
At no time during the year manufacturing operations: did any of the Directors have a material interest During the year, the Committee has: approval of capital budgets: in any significant contract with the Group or determining the draft budget and long considered the appropriateness of the any of its subsidiaries.
term plan: Groups Annual Report and Financial Statements and Half-yearly report: periodic review of performance against strategic objectives: reviewed the effectiveness of the internal controls and the work of Risk and Internal determination of principal risks for the Group: Audit and discussed key risks described approval of the projects with Ocado, Amazon, in more detail on pages 17 to 19 : Doddle, Timpson, Palmer & Harvey and Rontec: reviewed key policies including those review of changes to speed up and simplify governing tax, treasury, expenses and the business: corporate hospitality: implementation of a new sales-based ordering reviewed the recognition of commercial system: and income and the controls in place over agreeing improvements to the Groups compliance with GSCOP: IT infrastructure.
28 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 understood the Governance Code and store cash flows, which remains consistent The Committee has reviewed the level of stock reporting requirements: and with the prior year.
provision and key assumptions underpinning the provisions and considers these to reviewed the Viability statement.
In addition, property contracts where be appropriate.
the expected future cash flows are less In respect of financial reports, the Committees than the future contract commitments, Pensions focus was: an onerous contract provision should be The Group operates a number of defined recognised.
The Committee reviewed the key the accounting judgements made by benefit pension schemes.
Accounting for judgements and understood the reasons for management that could have a significant defined benefit pension schemes requires year-on-year movements.
effect on the Groups financial results: the application of a number of assumptions the clarity of disclosure of financial The Committee reviewed the sensitivity of key which have an impact on the valuation information: and assumptions along with their impact on the of the schemes assets and liabilities.
impairment and onerous contract provisions whether the Annual Report, taken as a whole, The IAS 19 valuations are performed by and is satisfied the assumptions applied by is fair, balanced and understandable the an independent actuary.
Directors statement on this can be found The Committee has reviewed the on page 49 of this Annual Report.
Commercial income assumptions used in the schemes valuations.
The Committee has considered Commercial income is a deduction from Financial reporting matters the appropriateness and sensitivity of the the cost of purchase, and it is recognised in assumptions used by the independent actuaries The Audit Committee has considered whether accordance with signed supplier agreements, in the valuation.
The Committee has concluded suitable accounting policies have been applied with most income subject to little or no that the assumptions are appropriate.
and has reviewed key accounting judgements subjectivity or judgement.
and estimates made by management during The Committee reviewed the legal advice The Groups definition of commercial the year.
The key judgements and financial the Group has obtained with regard to the income is disclosed in note 1.1 of the financial reporting matters considered by the recognition of a pension surplus for the statements and is consistent with the definition Committee are outlined in this section.
Groups defined benefit pension schemes in the prior year.
and considered the treatment appropriate.
Impairment of property, plant and Commercial income continues to be an area The Committee reviewed managements equipment, intangible assets and onerous of focus for the Committee.
During the year, assessment of the accounting treatment property contracts the Committee has considered the policies resulting from the set-up of the new defined applied with regard to commercial income, Impairment and onerous property contracts contribution scheme and agreed with the key judgements, the level of income continue to be a focus area for the Committee.
recognised and the financial statement The Groups policy to assess impairment disclosure.
The Committee has been updated The Committee also instigated an update at the on an annual basis, or where changes in on the Groups initiative to simplify trading Board regarding the outcomes of the triennial circumstances indicate impairment or arrangements and understood the impact this valuation as part of understanding the Groups impairment reversal, is disclosed in note 3.1 of has had on commercial income during the year.
The impairment review is comprehensive, covering non-financial assets, In considering the appropriateness of Internal control and risk management principally the Groups property portfolio, commercial income recognised in the year IT assets and goodwill.
The Board has overall accountability for and the financial position at the year end, ensuring that risk is effectively managed across the Committee has reviewed reports from The Groups trading performance and evidence the Group.
Risks are reviewed by the Executive management and Internal Audit outlining of the market value for properties and sites are Committee for all functions twice annually and the accounting judgements and the control considered by the Group as part of the annual results are brought to the Board.
The Committee understood the impairment review.
Management estimates the of the Board, the Audit Committee has key judgements in this area and considers them recoverable amount of assets to determine responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness to be appropriate.
the extent of any impairment charge or of internal control including financial, whether a reversal of a previous impairment The Group continues to seek to provide operational and compliance controls.
This assessment resulted transparency of disclosure surrounding in a reversal of previous impairment on certain The Groups principal risks are set out on commercial income.
The Committee also pages 17 to 19. cash generating units and an impairment charge reviewed the key messages from the FRC lab being recognised on others, as disclosed in note case study highlighting the good practice in In order to do this, as a matter of course in 3.3 of the financial statements.
the Groups approach to commercial income any one year, the Committee: disclosure.
The Committee remains supportive The Committee reviewed the Groups receives and agrees appropriate actions in of the level of disclosure made in this area.
assessment of recoverable value and reassessed response to regular reports from the Risk the key assumptions and judgements made and Internal Audit function on: Stock in the light of current market conditions and the status of internal control and risk trading performance.
The Committee also Stock is a material balance in the Groups management systems across the Group: financial statements, with stock held across considered how management had assessed the departments findings, annual plan and the potential impact of the uncertain a large number of locations.
Stock count procedures have remained consistent with the resources available to it to perform its economic conditions and the impact of an work: and exit from the EU in the impairment review.
The Committee has reviewed managements any concerns expressed by colleagues Judgement is required in determining provisions key assumptions including the market valuation about possible malpractice or wrongdoing: for shrinkage and valuation and the Committee of the store portfolio.
It has also understood reviews these judgements as part of the annual the methodology and approach to forecast accounting policy review.
29 Governance Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Corporate governance report continued reviews financial whistle-blowing reports Viability statement Effectiveness and independence of the from colleagues: external auditor The Groups business model and strategy, reviews the external auditors management as outlined on pages 8 and 9, are central to an The Committee considered the effectiveness letter on internal financial control: understanding of its future viability.
The Group of  LLP PwC continues to progress against the current as auditor during the year.
In making this seeks reports from senior management on turnaround strategy, focusing on strengthening assessment the Committee considered the the effectiveness of the management of key the core supermarkets and delivering capital output of an effectiveness survey completed risk areas: and light growth whilst maintaining discipline and by the Directors and management, the monitors the adequacy and timeliness control in relation to costs and upholding a information presented by the auditors, of managements response to identified strong balance sheet.
management responses to the auditors audit issues.
findings, including any adjustments, and the The Directors have assessed the viability of the level of non-audit fees.
These systems and processes have been in place Group over a three year period to January 2020. throughout the period and up to the date of The Groups business model is not dependent The Committee holds meetings with the approval of this Annual Report.
on any particular contract or resource with auditor without management present.
fixed end dates: the period was selected The purpose of these meetings is to understand The main features of the Groups internal because the Groups forecasts associated with the auditors views on the control and control and risk management systems relating the detailed strategic and financial plans are governance environment and managements to the accuracy and reliability of financial prepared over this period and were considered effectiveness within it.
To fulfil its reporting, including the process for preparing to be the most robust and appropriate means responsibilities in respect of the independence consolidated accounts, are: to support its Viability statement.
and effectiveness of the external auditor, the recruitment of suitably qualified and Committee reviewed: The Board assesses the Groups prospects experienced finance colleagues: primarily through the strategic planning process.
the terms, areas of responsibility, duties and segregation of duties, clear lines of The latest strategic planning update with scope of work of the external auditor as set accountability and delegation of authority: the Board was held in November 2016 with out in the engagement letter: policies and procedures that cover financial involvement of all relevant functions across the audit work plan for the Group: planning and reporting, preparation of the business.
the detailed findings of the audit, including financial information, and capital expenditure: As part of the strategic planning process, a discussion of any major issues that arose a robust period end review process the Directors make a number of assumptions during the audit: including review and commentary from about business performance and the ability of the letter from the external auditor process owners: the Group to raise debt financing.
The Group confirming its independence and objectivity: a tiered review process for external financial carefully plans and reviews the maturity profile and reports involving internal stakeholders from of debt facilities to avoid coterminous maturity the audit fee and the extent of non-audit relevant areas of the business: dates, and liquidity forecasting gives visibility of services provided during 2016 17. headroom under committed facilities over the information and data security policies and period of the financial plans.
procedures: and The policy on the engagement of the external Key metrics in the plan, such as cash flow, self certification by each section of auditor to supply non-audit services is set out the business.
interest cover, liquidity and the ability to raise in the investor relations section of the Groups debt financing, were subject to sensitivity website see www.
The Committee regularly reviews the Groups testing by flexing a number of the main financial PwC has continued to provide certain nonprocess for risk management and internal assumptions in order to assess the impact of audit services throughout the year.
In the year control and annually conducts a formal review principal risks in severe but plausible scenarios.
the non-audit services work provided by PwC of these processes.
No significant failings or All principal risks were considered as part of the was in line with the policy and the ratio of audit weaknesses of internal control were identified testing but particular focus was given to: to non-audit services was within the 1:0.7 limit during these reviews.
Limited weaknesses set in the policy.
and areas where controls could be further business interruption: automated were identified.
Clear action plans The Committee is satisfied that this non-audit competitiveness: are in place to address these weaknesses and activity carried out by the statutory auditors customer: are captured as part of functional risk registers is subject to safeguards to avoid a threat to data: and with defined management responsibility.
the auditors independence or objectivity.
The Committee understands the importance financial and treasury.
These safeguards include separate teams for of a robust risk management process and audit versus non-audit work.
Scenarios tested included measuring the impact control environment and looks to progressively of a downturn in sales, an increase in costs, or External audit tender strengthen it over time.
Furthermore, As noted in last years Annual Report, the Board reverse stress testing was performed to appointed PwC as external auditor in June 2014. understand the level of performance decline The Group confirms that it has complied with that the Group could withstand.
the provisions of the Competition and Markets Based on this assessment, and taking into Authoritys Order in respect of The Statutory account the Groups current position, the Audit Services for Large Companies Market Directors have a reasonable expectation that Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive the Group will be able to continue in operation Tender Processes and Audit Committee and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the Responsibilities Order 2014 statement three year period of their assessment.
30 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 attracting candidates with a wide range of Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Nomination Committee report backgrounds and experience, ensuring that CCR Committee the best individual for the role is appointed.
1 Members Specific targets have not been set as it is 1 Andrew Higginson Chair, Rooney Anand, Neil Members considered that they may drive the wrong Davidson, Belinda Richards, Paula Vennells Neil Davidson Chair, Andrew Higginson, David behaviours.
However, guidelines are in place Potts, Rooney Anand, Belinda Richards, Paula 2 to ensure that the long list for any particular Vennells, Darren Blackhurst, Andrew Clappen Key objectives vacancy at management level includes a Advice to the Board on Board and senior balanced profile of candidates.
management appointments and succession Key objectives planning: monitoring of the composition of the Development and implementation of the Particular focus continued throughout the year Board and its Committees.
Groups policies on corporate compliance and on increasing female representation in the Retail corporate responsibility.
Six of the 20 most senior retail field team compliance with these policies and ethical and Responsibilities are now female, up from two just over a year governance standards.
Evaluating the current and required mixture of ago, an increase from 9% to 30%.
An additional skills and experience on the Board: ten female store managers were appointed Responsibilities Sourcing and selecting candidates: during the year, meaning that 10% of our store Oversight that the business is doing the right General oversight of people and capability managers are now female.
thing in areas of corporate responsibility, within the business: including: Oversight and understanding of the Groups Progress on the diversity agenda is measured GSCOP: leadership and succession plans: and through regular functional talent reviews.
food safety and food integrity: Oversight of the Groups plans on diversity These reviews consider the ethnicity, gender, health and safety: and inclusion.
age and length of service of all colleagues gender pay gap: at Morrisons.
1 Irwin Lee stepped down from the Committee on cyber security: 31 August 2016.
At the end of the 2016 17 financial year the ethical trading: Board included two women members, 29% of modern slavery: its total composition.
The Boards policy is that Nomination Committees activities in 2016 17 environmental and competition compliance: female representation should be maintained at data protection: Selection process not less than 20% and aspires that this should governance and reputation: and be higher than 30%.
This policy will continue the Morrisons Foundation.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for to be considered as part of the Committees Generally ensuring that the Group is acting succession planning and the recommendation as a good corporate citizen.
regular review of the Boards composition of Director appointments to the Board.
The Committee considers the size and 1 Irwin Lee stepped down from the Committee on 31 August 2016.
Mark Amsden stepped down from the Committee on composition of the Board on an ongoing basis.
2 Andrew Clappen is the Group Corporate Services Director.
The Committee will consider the skills of Following the decision for the UK to leave the Andrew joined Morrisons in 2012 and is responsible for the outgoing and remaining Board members to Corporate Affairs and Policy, CSR & Ethical Trading, Agriculture EU, the Committee and Board have worked assess any gaps and develop a candidate profile.
and Technical Services Food and General Merchandise hard to reassure, engage and support our Technology, Safety, Quality, Compliance and Health & Safety The Board uses external search consultancies of the Group.
Prior to Morrisons, Andrew was the Senior Vice colleagues from the EU.
The Committee and to source suitable candidates.
The Committee President responsible for Food Safety, Quality Assurance & Board are confident that our multi-cultural sites Regulatory Affairs at Loblaw Companies Ltd in Canada.
recommends appointments on merit against and stores will offer all our colleagues the same the criteria applied in developing the candidate commitments of respect, opportunity, training profile and taking into account the mix of skills, CCR Committees activities in 2016 17 and fair pay.
The Group has improved our ways experience and diversity on the Board.
of working to make our business accessible The Committees focus in this financial year was for our EU colleagues through better English Diversity a review of: language training, translation support, simplified The Committee recognises the benefits of a GSCOP compliance including training and processes and more opportunities to progress.
diverse colleague base across the Group and results of internal reviews: is supportive of initiatives with the business Other areas of focus cyber and IT security risk: to improve diversity at all levels.
The Committee also spent time reviewing health and safety incidents and actions taken The Group wishes to increase female succession planning for both the Board and and progress of health and safety initiatives: representation in the Leadership team to Executive Committee as well as of the talent energy strategy and carbon at least 30%.
This target has not yet been pool for levels below Executive Committee.
The Leadership team currently has ethical trading: 18% female representation and the Committee recognises that more work is needed in redistribution of food waste: this area.
Recruitment and promotion food safety and improvements: policies have been reviewed with a view to food integrity and testing: and Gender diversity non-financial whistle-blowing reports.
Female Female Male Male representation representation % representation representation % Total Remuneration Committee report Board 2 29% 5 71% 7 The report from the Remuneration Committee Senior management 14 18% 65 82% 79 is contained in the Directors remuneration report on pages 33 to 46.
Total 16 19% 70 81% 86 31 Governance Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Corporate governance report continued The Groceries Supply Code of Practice Enquiries from suppliers on GSCOP related Matters dealt with elsewhere in the GSCOP matters are dealt with in accordance with the Strategic report or Directors report regulations.
Any matter not resolved directly GSCOP applies to designated grocery retailers The way the Group generates value and the with a buyer is escalated to the relevant in the UK with an annual turnover in excess Boards strategy for delivering the Groups Category Director and, if requested, to our of 1bn.
This code of practice adds specific objectives are described in our business model appointed CCO.
During 2016 17 we successfully regulations into the trading relationships on pages 8 and 9, and in our six priorities worked with suppliers to resolve any GSCOP between the designated grocery retailers section on pages 6 and 7.
The information complaints through the commercial escalation and their suppliers.
regarding the Takeover Directive disclosures are process or with the intervention of our CCO.
The consideration of going concern We actively engage with the relevant regulatory Contact details and further information can be is described on page 47. bodies, the Office of the Groceries Code found at www.
Adjudicator GCA and the Competition and Annual General Meeting AGM Markets Authority CMA, to build best practice Relations with shareholders in relation to the Code.
We have regular All Executive Directors and Non-Executive meetings with the GCA and provide updates The Board is committed to communicating Directors attend the AGM unless unable on our activity and details on specific areas the strategy to analysts, investors and to do so due to circumstances outside of of interest for the Adjudicator.
shareholders on a regular basis through a their control.
In June 2016 the GCA published a case study Notice of the 2017 AGM of the Group is to providing clarification on activity Morrisons had The Investor Relations programme includes: be sent to shareholders with an accompanying undertaken in July 2015.
The GCA determined formal presentations of full and half letter from the Chair.
The AGM will be held that Morrisons had breached paragraph 3 of year results: at the Groups headquarters at Gain Lane in GSCOP, Variation of Supply Agreements by Bradford on 15 June 2017.
Format of the meeting: interim management statements: indirectly requiring suppliers to pay lump sums that were not provided for in the relevant a summary presentation of results is regular meetings between institutional supply agreement.
The GCA acknowledged that provided before the Chairman deals with the investors, the CEO, the CFO and the Investor we had responded immediately when alerted formal business: Relations team in the UK and overseas to the issue, had conducted an extensive following the full and half year results: all shareholders present can question the internal investigation and no further action was Chairman, Chairmen of the Committees regular meetings between the Chairman and required to be taken.
and the Board during the meeting and major shareholders to discuss any aspect of informally afterwards: In response to the GCAs case study, and the Group or its governance arrangements: supplier and buyer feedback, we enhanced the Board encourages participation of attending key investor conferences: and extended our training programme for all individual investors at the AGM: and communication between the Chairman supplier-facing colleagues.
This training covered following the meeting, details of the voting on of the Remuneration Committee and all colleagues in the Trading teams together with the resolutions will be made available on the major shareholders on remuneration bespoke training for colleagues in our Supply website at www.
com policy and significant changes in Chain and Finance teams who work closely with Investor-centre generalmeetings.
remuneration arrangements: the Trading function.
Over 1,000 colleagues responding to enquiries from shareholders have been through the programme.
The Directors recommend shareholders vote and analysts through the Investor Relations in favour of each resolution, believing them In addition, we strengthened our overarching team: and to be in the best interests of the Group.
governance in this area with the establishment dedicated shareholder and investor sections Shareholders will be notified of the availability of a governance group comprising of senior on the corporate website.
of the Annual Report and Financial Statements leadership team members across the Trading, on the website unless they have elected to Supply Chain, Finance, Legal and Compliance In addition, the Investor Relations team receive a printed version.
This group undertook a detailed provides a regular update to the Board and review of current activity and compliance feedback from meetings held between with the GCAs sector-wide priority areas executive management and institutional and supplier relationship development.
The Groups brokers seek Routine reports and updates are provided to independent feedback from analysts and our Executive Committee and CCR Committee, investors following the full and half year results on activity and all relevant aspects of GSCOP meetings which is reported to the Board.
including developments about its operation or regulation.
We formally report details of activity over the year and specific complaints made by the suppliers to our Code Compliance Officer CCO, and to the GCA and the CMA at the financial year end.
