JPM Mercantile pp19 35 06 04 2017 11:24 Page 27 Governance continued Authority to repurchase the Companys shares for cancellation All other matters are reserved for the approval of the Board.
resolution 14 A formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision has been approved.
This includes determination and monitoring At the Annual General Meeting held in May 2016, shareholders of the Companys investment objectives and policy and its future gave authority to the Company to purchase up to 14.99% of its strategic direction, gearing policy, management of the capital then issued share capital.
This authority will expire on structure, appointment and removal of third party service 24th November 2017 unless renewed by shareholders.
The providers, review of key investment and financial data and the Directors consider that the renewing of the authority is in the Companys corporate governance and risk control arrangements.
interests of shareholders as a whole, as the repurchase of shares at a discount to the underlying net asset value NAV enhances the At each Board meeting, Directors interests are considered.
These NAV of the remaining shares.
Repurchased shares may be are reviewed carefully, taking into account the circumstances cancelled or held in Treasury.
Any shares held in Treasury will only surrounding them, and, if considered appropriate, are approved.
be reissued at a premium to NAV.
It was resolved that there were no actual or indirect interests of a Director which conflicted with the interests of the Company, which Approval of dividend policy resolution 15 arose during the year.
The Directors seek approval of the Companys dividend policy to continue to pay four quarterly interim dividends, which for the year The Board has procedures in place to deal with potential conflicts ended 31st January 2017 have totalled 46.0 pence per share.
of interest and following the introduction of The Bribery Act 2010, has adopted appropriate procedures designed to prevent bribery.
Recommendation It confirms that the procedures have operated effectively during The Board considers resolutions 11-15 are likely to promote the the year under review.
success of the Company and are in the best interests of the The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and additional Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely information is unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the provided to the Board to enable it to function effectively and to resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
holdings which amount in aggregate to 77,487 shares representing approximately 0.09% of the existing issued ordinary There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent share capital of the Company.
The full text of the resolutions are professional advice if necessary and at the Companys expense.
set out in the Notice of Meeting on pages 64 and 65.
This is in addition to the access that every Director has to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, JPMF, which is Corporate Governance Statement responsible to the Board for ensuring that applicable rules and Compliance regulations are complied with and that Board procedures are followed.
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of Board Composition Directors Responsibilities on page 35, indicates how the Company The Board, chaired by Hamish Leslie Melville, consists of seven has applied the principles of good governance of the Financial non-executive Directors, all of whom are regarded by the Board as Reporting Council UK Corporate Governance Code the UK independent, including the Chairman.
The Directors have a breadth Corporate Governance Code and the AICs Code of Corporate of investment, business and financial skills and experience relevant Governance, the AIC Code, which complements the UK to the Companys business and brief biographical details of each Corporate Governance Code and provides a framework of best Director are set out on pages 23 and 24.
Upon the retirement of practice for investment trusts.
Hamish Leslie Melville the Board will comprise six Directors.
The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of There have been no changes to the Chairmans other significant corporate governance and considers that the Company has commitments during the year under review.
complied with the best practice provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, insofar as they are relevant to the Companys A review of Board composition and balance is included as part of the business, and the AIC Code throughout the year under review.
annual performance evaluation of the Board.
The Board appointed Sandy Nairn as its Senior Independent Director with effect from Role of the Board 3rd December 2014.
A management agreement between the Company and JPMF sets The Senior Independent Director leads the evaluation of the out the matters which have been delegated to the Manager.
This performance of the Chairman and may be contacted by includes management of the Companys assets and the provision shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through of accounting, company secretarial, administration and some discussion with the Chairman.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 27 JPM Mercantile pp19 35 05 04 2017 08:50 Page 28 Governance continued Tenure Audit Nomination Board Committee Committee The Chairman, Sandy Nairn and Ian Russell, having been Directors Meetings Meetings Meetings of the Company for more than nine years, have retained their Director Attended Attended Attended independence by standing for annual reappointment.
In this regard, the Board recommends the reappointment of Sandy Nairn 1 Hamish Leslie Melville 63 1 and Ian Russell, who, having served in excess of nine years, retire Helen James6 3 1 and offer themselves for reappointment at this years AGM.
They Angus Gordon Lennox6 3 1 have a wealth of experience in the financial sector, as set out in Harry Morley 63 1 their biographies on pages 23 and 24, and make a valuable Sandy Nairn 63 1 contribution to the workings of the Board.
Ian Russell 52 The Board has agreed that, subject to his reappointment by Jeremy Tigue 63 1 shareholders at the forthcoming AGM, Angus Gordon Lennox will 1 succeed Hamish Leslie Melville as Chairman, with effect from the Attended by invitation.
Board Committees Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual General Nomination Committee Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of Association, it is The Nomination Committee, chaired by Hamish Leslie Melville, required that they be reappointed by shareholders.
Thereafter, consists of all the Directors and meets at least annually to ensure subject to the performance evaluation carried out each year, the that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and experience Board will agree whether it is appropriate for each Director to seek to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and propose suitable reappointment.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance candidates for appointment when necessary.
The appointment Code, from 2011 onwards, Directors continuing in office have process takes account of the benefits of diversity, including sought annual reappointment.
The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out The Boards policy on diversity, including gender, is to take account in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are available for of the benefits of these during the appointment process.
However, inspection on request at the Companys registered office and at the Board remains committed to appointing the most appropriate the AGM.
candidate, regardless of gender or other forms of diversity.
Therefore, no targets have been set against which to report.
Induction and Training On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary provide all The Committee conducts an annual performance evaluation, to Directors with induction training.
Thereafter, regular briefings are ensure that the Board, all members of the Board and its provided on changes in law and regulatory requirements that committees have devoted sufficient time and contributed affect the Company and the Directors.
Directors are encouraged to adequately to the work of the Board.
attend industry and other seminars covering issues relevant to The Committee also reviews Directors fees and makes investment trust companies.
Regular reviews of the Directors recommendations to the Board as and when appropriate, in training needs are carried out by the Nomination Committee by relation to remuneration policy and implementation.
means of the evaluation process described below.
An externally facilitated Board evaluation is carried out every Meetings and Committees three years.
In 2011 and 2014 such evaluations were carried out by The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to Stephenson & Co, which has no other connection to the Company.
Details of membership of committees are shown with Such an evaluation is due to be carried out later in 2017. the Directors profiles on pages 23 and 24.
Directors who are not members of Committees may attend at the invitation of the Audit Committee Chairman.
The Audit Committee, chaired by Harry Morley, consists of all the Directors other than the Chairman and meets at least three times The table below details the number of Board, Audit Committee each year.
The members of the Committee consider that they and Nomination Committee meetings attended by each Director.
have the requisite skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities During the year there were six Board meetings, three Audit of the Committee.
For details of their qualifications see pages 23 Committee meetings and one Nomination Committee meeting.
Hamish Leslie Melville is not a member of the Audit These meetings were supplemented by additional meetings held Committee, however, he is invited to attend meetings as a guest.
to cover procedural matters and formal approvals.
In addition The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the there is regular contact between the Directors and the Manager Manager in relation to the half year and annual accounts and the and Company Secretary throughout the year.
Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
28 JPM Mercantile pp19 35 05 04 2017 08:50 Page 29 Governance continued At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee provides The Audit Committee examines the effectiveness of the confirmation to the Board as to how it has discharged its Companys risk management and internal control systems, responsibilities so that the Board may ensure that information receives information from the Managers Compliance department presented to it is fair, balanced and understandable, together with and reviews the scope and results of the external audit, its details of how it has done so.
effectiveness and cost effectiveness, the balance of audit and non-audit services and the independence and objectivity of the During its review of the Companys financial statements for the external auditors.
The Audit Committee also receives year ended 31st January 2017, the Audit Committee considered confirmations from the Auditors, as part of their reporting, in the following significant issues, including those communicated by regard to their objectivity and independence.
In the Directors the Auditors during their reporting: opinion, the Auditors are considered independent.
Significant issue How the issue was addressed The Audit Committee also has a primary responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the reappointment and removal Valuation and The valuation of investments is undertaken in of external auditors.
A predecessor firm of  existence of accordance with the accounting policies, disclosed in LLP PwC was appointed on 8th January 1885, shortly after the investments note 1 b to the accounts on page 46.
Controls are in place to ensure that valuations are appropriate and Companys launch.
The audit engagement partner rotates every existence is verified through custodian reconciliations.
five years in accordance with ethical guidelines and 2017 is the second year for the current partner.
Recognition of The recognition of investment income is undertaken investment income in accordance with accounting policy note 1 d to the As part of its review of the continuing appointment of the Auditors, accounts on pages 46 and 47.
The Board regularly the Audit Committee considered the length of tenure of the audit reviews subjective elements of income such as firm, its fee, its independence from JPMF and the Investment special dividends and agrees their accounting Managers and any matters raised during the audit.
exercise was undertaken in 2014, as a result of which PwC was Going concern The Directors have considered the Companys reappointed.
Written submissions were received from five audit investment objective, risk management policies, firms.
These were considered in full by Board representatives and capital management policies and procedures, the a shortlist of three firms was drawn up.
Meetings were held between nature of the portfolio and expenditure and cash flow a Committee of the Board and the shortlisted firms, using a projections.
As a result, they have determined that selection checklist.
Following those meetings, PwC was chosen, the Company has adequate resources, an appropriate which was discussed with all Directors and the reappointment financial structure and suitable management approved by Board resolution.
A further tender review will be arrangements in place to continue in operational conducted in 2019 and a change of Audit firm will be proposed to existence for at least twelve months from the date of approval of these financial statements.
Please refer to shareholders for approval at the 2020 AGM.
the section headed Going Concern on page 31 for The Audit Committee reviews and approves any non-audit services further details.
provided by the independent Auditors and assesses the impact of Compliance with Approval for the Company as an investment trust any non-audit work on the ability of the Auditors to remain Sections 1158 under Sections 1158 and 1159 has been obtained independent.
PwC reviews debenture loan covenants on an annual and 1159 and ongoing compliance with the eligibility criteria is basis.
Otherwise, no such work was undertaken during the year.
Details of the fees paid for audit services are included in note 6 on page 49.
The Board was made fully aware of any significant financial reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the Representatives of the Companys Auditors attend the Audit preparation of the financial statements.
Committee meeting at which the draft Annual Report & Accounts are considered.
Having conducted the formal tender in 2014, and Having taken all available information into consideration and having reviewed the performance of the external auditors, including the discussed the content of the annual report and accounts with the quality of work, timing of communications and work with JPMF, the Alternative Investment Fund Manager, Investment Managers, Committee considered it appropriate to recommend their Company Secretary and other third party service providers, the reappointment.
The Board supported this recommendation which Audit Committee has concluded that the Annual Report and was put to shareholders at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Accounts for the year ended 31st January 2017, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information In order to safeguard the Auditors objectivity and independence, any necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and significant non-audit services are carried out through a partner other performance, business model and strategy and has reported these than the audit engagement partner where appropriate.
Fees paid findings to the Board.
The Boards conclusions in this respect are for audit services, audit-related services and other non-audit services set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 35. are set out, where relevant, in note 6 on page 49.
There were no The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 29 JPM Mercantile pp19 35 05 04 2017 11:00 Page 30 Governance continued significant non-audit engagements during the year under review.
The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of risk The Audit Committee has assessed the impact of any non-audit work management and internal control which is designed to safeguard carried out and is content with the Auditors ability to remain the Companys assets, maintain proper accounting records and independent and objective.
The Directors statement on the ensure that financial information used within the business, or Companys system of risk management and internal control is set out published, is reliable.
However, such a system can only be designed to below.
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and therefore can only provide reasonable, but not Terms of Reference absolute, assurance against fraud, material mis-statement or loss.
Both the Nomination Committee and the Audit Committee have Since investment management, custody of assets and all written terms of reference which define clearly their respective administrative services are provided to the Company by JPMF and responsibilities, copies of which are available for inspection on the its associates, the Companys system of risk management and Companys website, on request at the Companys registered office internal control mainly consists of monitoring the services provided and at the Companys AGM.
by JPMF and its associates, including the operating controls Relations with Shareholders established by them, to ensure they meet the Companys business objectives.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the Company.
and managing the significant risks faced by the Company see It aims to provide shareholders with a full understanding of the Principal Risks on pages 21 and 22.
This process, which was in Companys activities and performance and reports formally to place during the year under review and up to the date of approval shareholders twice a year by way of the Annual Report and Accounts, of the Annual Report and Accounts, accords with the guidance of and Half Year Financial Report.
This is supplemented by the daily the Financial Reporting Council.
As explained above, the Company publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of the net asset is not required to have an internal audit function of its own, but value of the Companys shares.
relies on the internal audit department of the Manager.
This All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged, to arrangement is kept under review.
The key elements designed to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which the provide effective risk management and internal control are as Directors and representatives of the Manager are available in person follows: to meet with shareholders and answer questions.
In addition, a Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by the presentation is given by the Investment Managers who review the Board of key investment and financial data, including Companys performance.
During the year the Companys brokers management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of and the Investment Managers hold regular discussions with larger transactions and performance comparisons.
The Directors are made fully aware of their views.
The Chairman and Directors conduct visits to larger shareholders when Management Agreement Appointment of a manager, requested and make themselves available as and when required to depositary and custodian regulated by the Financial Conduct address shareholder queries.
The Directors may be contacted Authority FCA, whose responsibilities are clearly defined in through the Company Secretary whose details are shown on a written agreement.
The Chairman can also be contacted via the Companys Management Systems The Managers system of risk website at www.
management and internal control includes organisational The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in time to agreements which clearly define the lines of responsibility, give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of the Annual delegated authority, control procedures and systems.
Shareholders wishing to raise questions in monitored by the Managers Compliance department which advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit questions via the regularly monitors compliance with FCA rules.
Companys website or write to the Company Secretary at the address Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the shown on page 71.
Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the Board.
Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, keeps published on the Companys website shortly after the Annual under review the effectiveness of the Companys system of risk General Meeting.
management and internal control by monitoring the operation of Risk Management and Internal Control the key operating controls of the Manager and its associates as The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Directors, at least follows: annually, to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of reviews the terms of the management agreement and receives risk management and internal control and to report to regular reports from the Managers Compliance department: shareholders that they have done so.
This encompasses a review of all controls, which the Board has identified as including reviews reports on the risk management and internal controls business, financial, operational, compliance and risk management.
and the operations of its Custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is itself independently reviewed: 30 JPM Mercantile pp19 35 05 04 2017 11:01 Page 31 Governance continued reviews every six months an independent report on the risk judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of our management and internal controls and the operations of the clients.
So far as is practicable, we will vote at all of the meetings Manager: and called by companies in which we are invested.
reviews quarterly reports from the Companys depositary.
Stewardship Engagement JPMAM recognises its wider stewardship responsibilities to its clients By the means of the procedures set out above, the Board confirms as a major asset owner.
To this end, we support the introduction of that it has carried out a robust assessment of the effectiveness of the the FRC Stewardship Code, which sets out the responsibilities of Companys system of risk management and internal control for the institutional shareholders in respect of investee companies.
Under year ended 31st January 2017 and to the date of approval of this the Code, managers should: Annual Report and Accounts.
publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge their During the course of its review of the system of risk management stewardship responsibilities to their clients: and internal control, the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: significant.
monitor their investee companies: Going Concern establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: The Directors believe that, having considered the Companys be willing to act collectively with other investors where investment objective see page 19, risk management policies see appropriate: pages 57 and 61, capital management policies and procedures see have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their voting page 62, the nature of the portfolio and expenditure and cash flow record: and projections, the Company has adequate resources, an appropriate financial structure and suitable management arrangements in place report to clients.
to continue in operational existence and they have not identified JPMAM endorses the Stewardship Code for its UK investments and any material uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue to supports the principles as best practice elsewhere.
We believe that do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval regular contact with the companies in which we invest is central to of these financial statements.
our investment process and we also recognise the importance of For these reasons, the Directors consider that there is reasonable being an active owner on behalf of our clients.
evidence to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing JPMAMs Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Guidelines are the Companys financial statements.
available on request from the Company Secretary or can be Corporate Governance and Voting Policy downloaded from JPMAMs website: http: www.
This The Company delegates responsibility for voting to the Manager.
also sets out its approach to the seven principles of the FRC The following is a summary of the Managers policy statements on Stewardship Code, its policy relating to conflicts of interest and its corporate governance, voting policy and social and environmental detailed voting record.
issues, which has been reviewed and noted by the Board.
Details of social and environmental issues are included in the Strategic Report on page 21.
By order of the Board Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of Corporate Governance JPMorgan Funds Limited, JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to our Company Secretary investment process.
As part of our commitment to delivering 6th April 2017 superior investment performance to our clients, we expect and encourage the companies in which we invest to demonstrate the highest standards of corporate governance and best business practice.
We examine the share structure and voting structure of the companies in which we invest, as well as the board balance, Copies of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the AIC Code may be oversight functions and remuneration policy.
These analyses then found on the respective organisations websites: www.
uk and form the basis of our proxy voting and engagement activity.
co. uk Proxy Voting JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted to it as it would manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent and diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 31
