AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Overseeing effective controls Dear shareholders, I am pleased to present the Audit Committee Report for the year ended 31 January 2017, on behalf of the Board.
Over the following pages we provide insight into the workings of the Audit Committee and its activities in the year.
Our report provides an overview of the significant issues the Audit Committee assessed and the Committees opinion on the Annual Report when viewed as a whole.
We have consideredthe alternative performance measures used in Kingfishers financial reporting, to more clearly convey the underlying performance of the business during the transformation programme.
These measures aredescribed on page 61.
We continued to receive regular in-depth presentations from the management of Kingfishers Operating Companies, providingthe Committee with real insight into the businesss challenges, how risks are managed and mitigated, and how effectively our system of AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERS internal control is operating.
These are allareas of particular focus Joined Attendance while implementing the major change programmes required to deliver ONE Kingfisher.
These sessions provide us with an opportunity to Andrew Bonfield Chairman 11 02 2010 4 4 challenge, discuss, and debate issues with management, while sharing Anders Dahlvig 16 12 2009 4 4 our experience.
Rakhi Goss-Custard 1 02 2016 4 4 Mark Seligman 1 01 2012 4 4 We also considered and reviewed the internal control framework we have in place to ensure good practice and high standards in all our business support services, including the controls forourlegal and financial KEY DUTIES & RESPONSIBILITIES compliance activities.
At the Committees request, the Chief Financial Officer and senior members of the Finance Department attend meetings of the In accordance with its terms of reference, the Audit Committee.
In addition, the external and internal auditors are regular Committee is required, amongst other things, to: attendees.
Our effective working relationship with the wider business has review, understand and evaluate the companys control been maintained through the year.
of internal financial risk, and other controls and their This year we welcomed Rakhi Goss-Custard to the Committee.
The associated systems: members of the Committee have been chosen to provide the wide range monitor and review the effectiveness of the companys of financial and commercial experience needed to fulfil its duties and internal audit function on an annual basis: the Committee is well-placed to continue thisoversight and governance oversee the relationship with the external auditor, and role in the year ahead.
Details ofthe members and theirattendance at make recommendations to the Board in relation to their Committee meetings during the year are shown to the left.
I am grateful appointment, remuneration and terms of engagement: to all the Committee membersfor their contribution during the year.
oversee the process for determining whether the I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions Annual Report and Accounts present a fair, balanced and about the work of the Committee.
understandable assessment of the companys position and performance, business model and strategy: evaluate and approve the going concern assumption Andrew Bonfield and longer-term viability statements: Chairman of the Audit Committee agree the scope of the annual audit programme for 21March 2017 both the external and internal auditors and review the outputs: and monitor and review the external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness.
The Committees terms of reference were reviewed during the year and, following minor amendment, are considered fit for purpose and reflect best practice.
The terms of reference are available on the companys website kingfisher.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 60 Governance FINANCIALREPORTING Significant financial reporting matters The significant financial reporting matters the Committee considered in the year are detailed below: The Committee considered the 2.4 billion carrying value of goodwill to determine whether any impairment had been suffered.
The Committee reviewed the validity of cash flow projections based on four-year strategic plans and the significant financial assumptions used, including the selection of appropriate discount and long-term growth rates in light of market volatility, following the EU referendum and the US elections.
These projections and assumptions were further challenged through the use of sensitivity analyses.
As set out in note 12 to the consolidated financial statements, no impairments of goodwill resulted from this exercise and the Committee did not consider that a reasonably possible change in the assumptions used would cause an impairment to be recognised.
The Committee considered the treatment and presentation of transformation costs and exceptional items, and associated alternative performance measures such as underlying and adjusted profits.
Transformation costs set out in the Financial Review and note 2a of the consolidated financial statements included those related to the unified and unique offer range implementation and the digital strategic initiative.
Exceptional items set out in the consolidated income statement and note 5 to the financial statements included store impairments and movements in the UK and continental Europe restructuring provisions, which were also reviewed for appropriate recognition and measurement.
The Committee concluded that the inclusion of transformation costs and exceptional items was useful to readers in providing an indication of the companys underlying business performance, and that the prominence, explanation and reconciliation of the alternative performance measures were appropriate.
The Committee reviewed the principal judgements relating to inventories, which at 2.2 billion represent a significant component of the consolidated balance sheet.
This included a review of the application of the companys stock provisioning policy, which takes into consideration such factors as stock turn, range or fide-listed status, shrinkage, damage and obsolescence when assessing the net realisable value of inventories held at the reporting date.
The Committee considered the estimated impacts on future selling prices of the companys transformation plan and associated range review and clearance activities.
The Committee concluded that the stock provisions recorded were appropriate.
The Committee reviewed the significant judgements and estimates relating to corporate and business taxes, in particular those surrounding uncertain tax positions.
The company is subject to taxes in numerous jurisdictions and there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Committee considered managements assessment of the significant exposures, including opinions from external advisers, and concluded that the provisions recorded and disclosures made were appropriate.
The Committee reviewed the significant judgements relating to rebates and continues to be satisfied with the judgements taken andthe control environment in relation to the recognition of rebate income and financial statement reporting.
In conducting these reviews, the Committee considered the work and recommendations of the companys finance function and received reports from the companys external auditor on their findings, including any control observations relevant to their audit work.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Committee formally reviews the companys annual and interim financial statements and associated announcements, and considers significant accounting principles, policies and practices and their appropriateness, financial reporting issues and significant judgements made, including those summarised above.
The Committee also advises the Board on whether the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, and provide the necessary information to assess the companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee concluded that these disclosures, and the processes and controls underlying their production, meet the latest legal and regulatory requirements for a listed company andthat the 2016 17 Annual Report and Accountsare fair, balanced and understandable.
com 61 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED During the year, among other matters, the Committee: GOVERNANCE Andrew Bonfield is designated as the Committee member with considered the going concern and longer-term viability statements, recent and relevant financial experience.
All other members of the reviewing the scenarios and risk mitigations which underpin the AuditCommittee are deemed to have the necessary ability and sensitivity analysis completed, and considered how these align to experience tounderstand financial statements.
delivery of the strategic plan over the five-year period initially adopted.
The impact of both separate and cumulative scenarios occurring, All members of the Committee receive an appropriate induction.
The and the potential mitigating actions, were considered in confirming induction programme offered to Rakhi Goss-Custard in 2016included Kingfishers expected resilience.
Further information is provided in the an overview of the business, its financial dynamics and risks, and access Strategic Report on page 46: to the companys operations and staff including members of the finance, considered the internal audit functions regular reviews of the Unified internal audit, tax, treasury, legal and company secretariat teams.
Ongoing training is available to all members of the Committee as required.
IT Platform to provide the Committee with assurance over the governance, performance and delivery of this programme.
This is a The Committee has a standing agenda linked to events in the companys significant project for the company and the Committee is satisfied financial calendar for consideration at each meeting, and within the thatthe correct level of control is being maintained.
Further reviews annual audit cycle, to ensure that its work is in line with the requirements willbe carried out in 2017: and of the Code.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman of the received presentations from the IT function, focusing on cyber risks Board and the Chief Executive Officer regularly attend meetings, as do thecompany faces and the mitigations in place.
the Chief Financial Officer, the Deputy Chief Financial Officer, the Group Audit and Risk Management Director, Group Financial Controller and the Group internal audit external auditor.
Private meetings were also held with the external and The Committee receives updates from the internal audit programme internal auditors at which management were not present.
Reports during the year included updates on the companys risk management systems, findings from reviews of these The effectiveness of the Committee was considered as part of the Board systems, and reviews of the remit, organisation, annual plan and evaluation detailed on page 58.
The evaluation found the Committee resourcesof the internal audit function.
continues to be seen as rigorous and efficient.
The evaluation report noted improved clarity of reporting to the Committee regarding risk During the year, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the internal management, which had been an action identified in the 2015 16 audit function.
The review was conducted using an internal questionnaire evaluation, but that continued progress in this area was desirable.
with input from the functions key stakeholders within the company, The risk and controls reporting from the Operating Companies was the external auditors and the Committee.
No significant issues were also considered and it was agreed to increase the time allocated to highlighted by the review.
External audit ACTIVITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE DURING The Committee reviews and makes recommendations to the Board with THE YEAR regard to the re-appointment of the external auditor.
In doing so, the Internal controls and risk Committee takes into account auditor independence and audit partner The Committee received and considered reports during the year from the rotation.
Deloitte LLP were appointed as external auditor in 2009 10, internal audit function on the work they had undertaken in reviewing and following a formal tender process.
Richard Muschamp was appointed lead auditing the company, in order to assess the quality and effectiveness of audit partner following the conclusion of the 2013 14 audit process.
During the year, the Committee agreed the approach to and scope of The Committee also received and considered reports from the companys the audit work to be undertaken by the external auditor, Deloitte LLP.
The external auditor, Deloitte LLP, which included any control findings relevant Committee also reviewed and agreed the terms of engagement andfees to their audit.
payable in respect of the 2016 17 audit work.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor for their audit services are given in note 7to the The Committee considered reports on the output from the companyaccounts.
In addition, the external auditor provided the Committee with a wide process used to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks and reviewed schedule of each matter on which there was an initial difference between the annual report on the companys systems of internal control and their them and management in relation to the accounting treatment, and the effectiveness, and reported the results of the review to the Board.
No final decisions on these issues.
The Committee also considered the effectiveness and independence Further information on the companys risk management and internal control of the external auditor.
The Committee reviewed the experience and procedures can be found on pages 38-46. expertise of the audit team, the fulfilment of the agreed audit plan As part of the Committees continuing programme to increase its and any variations to it, feedback from the companys businesses and awareness of the companys operations and to understand the the contents of the external audit report.
The Committee received a implementation of Operating Company control processes, the statement of independence from the auditor, a report describing their Committeereceived presentations from the senior management of arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest, Castorama Poland, Russia and France, Brico Dpt France and Iberia andreviewed the extent of non-audit services provided to the company.
Spain and Portugal, and from the senior management of Kingfishers The Committee confirmed its satisfaction with both the effectiveness Information Technology function.
andindependence of the external auditor.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 62 Governance The Committee has recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be the significant risks faced by the company.
Such a system is designed proposed for re-appointment by shareholders as the companys external to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business auditor at the forthcoming AGM.
As a result of its work during the year, objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance the Committee has concluded that it acted in accordance with its terms against material misstatement or loss.
of reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity of the Further information regarding our approach to Risk Management is provided external auditor.
on page 38 of the Strategic Report.
During the year, the Committee considered the timing for the next Management is required to apply judgement in evaluating the risks facing audittender.
The knowledge base built up year-on-year by the the company in achieving its objectives, in determining the risks that are incumbent external auditor is considered to be particularly important considered acceptable to bear, in assessing the likelihood of those risks as the companyimplements the transformational change programme.
materialising, in identifying the companys ability to reduce the incidence The Committee is confident that the external auditor continues to be and impact on the business of risks that do materialise, and inensuring independent and effective and for this reason it is considered to be in the the costs of operating particular controls are proportionate to the interests of shareholders to retain Deloitte LLP until a competitive tender benefit provided.
is held in time for the audit of the 2019 20 financial results.
Monitoring The Committee confirms compliance with the provisions of the Statutory There are clear processes for controlling and monitoring the system Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of internal control and reporting any significant control failings or of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities weaknesses together with details of corrective action.
These include: Order 2014, as published by the UK Competition and Markets Authority.
an annual planning process and regular financial reporting, In addition to their statutory duties, the services of Deloitte LLP are also comparing results with plan and the previous year on both a monthly engaged where, as a result of their position as external auditor, they either andcumulative basis: must, or are best placed to, perform non-statutory audit services.
This is written reports from the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial primarily work in relation to matters such as the interim review, additional Officer which are submitted to each Board meeting: assurance procedures, shareholder circulars, regulatory filings and certain regular formal reports from Operating Company management to the business acquisitions and disposals.
Other work is awarded on the basis Audit Committee on the control environment in their business and ofcompetitive tendering.
actions taken to maintain or improve the environment as appropriate: During the year, the company updated its policy on the use of its and external auditor for non-audit work.
The external auditor is precluded reports and presentations to the Board on certain areas of specialist from engaging in non-audit services that would compromise their risk.
These include treasury, insurance, tax and pensions.
independence or violate any laws or regulations affecting their appointment as external auditor.
The approval of the Chairman of the A formal bi-annual certification is provided by the Chief Executive Committee is required prior to awarding high-value non-audit contracts Officer and Finance Director of each Operating Company, stating to the external auditors, and the non-audit work planned and performed that appropriate internal controls were in operation and confirming is monitored by the Committee.
The companys policy on the use of compliance with the companys policies and procedures.
Any weaknesses the external auditor for non-audit work can be found on the companys are highlighted and the results are reviewed by Operating Company website kingfisher.
management, the Group Audit and Risk Management Director, the Deputy Chief Financial Officer, the Audit Committee and the Board.
The ACCOUNTABILITY, RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL internal audit function monitors and selectively checks the results of this CONTROL exercise, ensuring that representations made are consistent with the Internal control and risk management results of its work during the year.
The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control, The internal audit function follows a planned programme of reviews that which is designed to safeguard the assets of the company and ensure the are aligned to the companys risks.
The function: reliability of the financial information for both internal use and external publication, and to comply with the Guidance on Risk Management, works with the Operating Companies to develop, improve and embed Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting and the risk management tools and processes into their business operations: UKCorporate Governance Code.
reports directly to the Audit Committee and has the authority to review any relevant part of the company and its businesses: The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control system, including financial, operational and compliance controls oversees the operation of the individual Operating Companies audit committees: and and risk management in accordance with the Code, for the period from 1 February 2016 to the date of approval of these Annual Report provides the Audit Committee and the Board with objective assurance andAccounts 2016 17. on the control environment across Kingfisher.
The Board has approved a set of policies, procedures and frameworks for effective internal control.
The company has procedures for the delegation of authorities for significant matters, to ensure approval is sought at the appropriate level.
These procedures are subject to regular review and provide an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing www.
