Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Corporate governance report Chairmans governance statement I am pleased to introduce on behalf of the Board, Morrisons Corporate governance report for the financial year 2016 17 This year was another very competitive As the majority of the Board were appointed Andrew Higginson Chairman time in the UK grocery market, but a year during the last financial year, we took the in which Morrisons made good progress in decision to delay the external review of Board its turnaround.
This is perhaps best reflected effectiveness by one year as noted later in in improving like-for-like sales.
This year we undertook an internal evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board The Board has been very active in supporting and its Committees.
The results are summarised management in this journey and overseeing the on page 27.
The evaluation did not highlight operational improvement as we provide a better any particular areas of concern, although shopping experience for customers.
The Board Board members provided helpful and insightful has also devoted time to further developing the suggestions which will be considered.
Groups long term strategy in such a competitive environment, from overseeing the balance sheet Diversity strategy, to reviewing risks and risk appetite, As I stated last year, the turnaround of Morrisons from improving capability in both people and will be customer and colleague led.
As such, we systems, and to ensuring that the Group fulfils recognise the importance of diversity across its role as a good corporate citizen.
our colleague base, and the Board itself.
This has The Board has also spent time with the new been key this year, as we have restructured much Executive Committee and the restructured of the leadership of the business.
The Board Leadership team, to help and pass on their continues to meet our policy to maintain experience.
Given that several of the Board female representation at not less than 20% with In a business as fast members took up their positions shortly before an aspiration to increase this to at least 30%.
the start of the year, there has also been an paced as Morrisons, good At the end of the financial year, 29% of total ongoing familiarisation programme to enable Board composition was female, and at no point corporate governance Directors to fully understand the diversity of during the year was there less than 25% female the business and its component parts.
becomes allthe more representation on the Board.
The diversity of We were sorry to lose the service of Irwin Lee our Retail team continues to be an area of focus.
important as a Non-Executive Director during the year.
The proportion of female store managers has Irwin decided to return to his native Philippines increased from 7% to 10% this year whilst the and go back into a full time executive role.
proportion of female regional managers has We are grateful for his contribution to increased to 30% from 9% last year.
We have also Corporate governance statement the Group.
actively increased the gender diversity of the The Board considers that its corporate Leadership team which is now 18% female.
governance policies and procedures are Board composition and effectiveness appropriate and that the Group has applied the Progress on the diversity agenda is measured principles and complied with the provisions of the I am delighted to see the Board and through regular functional talent reviews.
2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code management team working well together to These reviews consider the ethnicity, gender, throughout the financial year 2016 17 and to the guide the Group through this turnaround.
I am age and length of service of all colleagues.
date of this Annual Report.
The one exception satisfied that the Board is independent and to this is in relation to the external assessment of Retail, particularly grocery retail, is a very fast contains an appropriate mixture of skills and Board effectiveness which will be discussed later paced industry.
It is particularly important in this report.
The experience the Board members that we have good corporate governance and bring from other companies and industries The Code is available on the Financial Reporting continually review and challenge ourselves to is being proven to be invaluable in guiding Councils website www.
We will continue to listen hard to our Morrisons on the long and important journey Compliance statement stakeholders and respond quickly where we can we must make.
I also consider that each of The Boards Corporate governance compliance as we continue the journey to Fix the business.
statement sets out how the Group complies with the Non-Executive Directors has committed each of the provisions of the Code.
It is available and is able to commit an appropriate amount Andrew Higginson in the investor relations section of the Groups of time in fulfilling effectively their role and Chairman website, www.
