NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Ensuring balance and diversity Dear shareholders, I am pleased to present the Nomination Committee Report for the year ended 31 January 2017, on behalf of the Board.
The Nomination Committee has an important role to play in evaluating Board composition and ensuring that it remains appropriate for the delivery of the Companys strategy and businessobjectives.
When I advised the Board that I was considering stepping down, Mark Seligman, the Senior Independent Director, led the process to find my successor, supported by the Nomination Committee.
Having completed this process, the Committee is very pleased to have secured a new non-executive Chairman with the calibre, skills and relevant experience of Andy Cosslett.
You can read more about the succession process, and the Committees approach to Board diversity onthe following page.
As part of the succession process, we also considered the composition of each Board Committee.
This resulted in Andy Cossletts appointment NOMINATION COMMITTEE MEMBERS to this Committee.
He will succeed me as Chairman of the Committee at Joined Attendance theconclusion of the AGM.
Daniel Bernard Chairman 24 05 2006 4 4 During the year, the independence, performance, and contribution Andrew Bonfield 11 02 2010 4 4 of Pascal Cagni, Clare Chapman, Andrew Bonfield and Anders Dahlvig Pascal Cagni 17 11 2010 4 4 was reviewed, each having served on the Board for more than six years.
Clare Chapman 2 12 2010 4 4 Pascal, Clare, Andrew and Anders were not present for the Committees 1 Anders Dahlvig 19 12 2009 3 4 deliberations.
The Committee recommended the Board re-appointment Rakhi Goss-Custard 1 02 2016 4 4 of Pascal and Clare for an additional three-year term.
The Committee was Mark Seligman 1 01 2012 4 4 also satisfied that all non-executive directors continue to be independent in character and judgement, and recommended that all serving 1 Anders was unable to attend ameeting in May 2016 due to a prior commitment.
directors are put forward for re-election by shareholders at the AGM.
TheCommittees terms of reference were also reviewed during the year.
KEY DUTIES & RESPONSIBILITIES The Committee is well-placed for the year ahead.
Long-term succession planning at Board level will be a key focus, to ensure Kingfisher retains and attracts the very best talent necessary to succeed in the delivery of the In accordance with its terms of reference, the Nomination transformation plan and beyond.
Committee is required to: review the structure, size and composition of the Daniel Bernard Board and make recommendations to the Board, Chairman of the Nomination Committee as appropriate: identify the balance of skills, knowledge, diversity and 21 March 2017 experience on the Board and nominate candidates to fill Board vacancies: ensure that, upon appointment, all directors undergo an appropriate and tailored induction, and that existing Board members receive the opportunity for training to support their development and contribution to the Board: review the time commitment and independence of the non-executive directors: and review succession plans with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the organisation to compete effectively in the marketplace.
The Committees full terms of reference are available on the companys website kingfisher.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 64 Governance CASE STUDY Chairmans succession Role criteria:In 2016, Daniel Bernard indicated his desire to step down from the Kingfisher Board, once a suitable successor had been found.
Mark Seligman, the Senior Independent Director, led the Nomination Committee during the process.
We engaged with JCA Group 1 Limited JCA to assist in this search process.
A comprehensive role brief was prepared and the search strategy agreed.
In developingthe role criteria, we considered the skills and experience that the Board would benefit from when overseeing the implementation of the longterm strategy.
Care was taken to ensure the candidates were assessed on merit against these objective criteria and with due regard to the benefits of diversity in its widest definition, including diversity of gender, ethnicity, nationality, skills, experience and background.
Selection process:A short-list of suitable candidates met initially with Mark Seligman and Vronique Laury, and the most suitable of these met with Clare Chapman and Andrew Bonfield, Chairs of the Remuneration and Audit Committees, and Karen Witts, the Chief Financial Officer.
Thepreferred candidate alsomet the remaining members of the Board, including Daniel Bernard, ahead of our final decision.
The Committee was impressed by the calibre of interested candidates.
The successful candidate, Andy Cosslett, brings a wealth of relevant experience and was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director and Chairman-designate, effective 1 April 2017.
Andy will formally take on the role of Chairman at the conclusion of the AGM, as part of an orderly handover process.
Induction:A tailored induction programme has been developed, and includes meetings and briefing sessions with key shareholders, Group Executive members, key functional leaders, and Operating Company management teams which will provide Andy with a broad understanding of our businesses.
1 Clare Chapman is a non-executive director of Heidrick and Struggles, which owns JCA.
Clare was not involved in decisions regarding the appointment or remuneration of JCA.
JCA have no other relationship to Kingfisher.
Andy Cosslett, N Chairman-designate Appointed to the Board effective 1 April 2017.
Expertise and experience:Andy Cossletts early career was with Unilever in a variety of branding and marketing roles.
He then spent 15 years at Cadbury Schweppes in senior, international roles before becoming CEO for InterContinental Hotels Group IHG.
Andy was at IHG for six years, creating value by leveraging the power of its brands alongside effecting significant transformational and cultural change.
He served as CEO for Fitness First from 2012 to 2015, where he was again successfully instrumental in repositioning the brand.
Since 2015, Andy has also been Operating Partner for Advent International.
Other directorships: Andy joined the Board of the Rugby Football Union RFU in April 2012 and served as Chairman of the organising committee of the 2015 Rugby World Cup.
He was appointed Chairman of the RFU in October 2016.
44% DIVERSITY The Committee has continued its commitment to diversity, retaining and 43% of Group Executive members are female.
The company is strong Board-level diversity of experience, ethnicity, nationality and proud of the diversity that exists right across Kingfisher.
Kingfishers performance demonstrates the value of this diversity, committed to maximising the benefits of our diverse workforce to 56% which is alsoreplicated at Group Executive level 44% of Board members deliverreal and sustainable benefits.
BOARD SENIOR MANAGEMENT TOTAL WORKFORCE FTE Male Female 44% 20% 39% 56% 80% 61% Male Male Male Female Female Female www.
