DIRECTORS REPORT NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT No appointments to the Board were made in the period, however general discussions on long-term DEAR SHAREHOLDER, succession planning, including the timing and the The role of the Nomination Committee is to establish process for recruitment and transition, were held by the a framework for the process of appointment of new Chairman with members of the Nomination Committee Directors to the Board.
The Nomination Committee is and at Board level.
also responsible for overseeing succession planning requirements, including the identification and DIVERSITY assessment of potential Board candidates and making We strongly support the principle of boardroom diversity, recommendations to the Board for its approval.
of which gender is one element.
Anne Sheinfield has been on the Board since June 2010 and the Board is NOMINATION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP very pleased to benefit from her valuable contribution.
During the period the Nomination Committee was Boardroom diversity, including gender, is an chaired by David Bernstein and its other members were important consideration when assessing a candidate's Ronald Stewart, Anne Sheinfield and Andrew Jennings.
ability to contribute to, and complement the abilities of, The composition of the Nomination Committee during a balanced Board.
the year complied with Provision B.
Our Board appointments will always be made on The Nomination Committee is responsible for merit against objective criteria, and this will continue nominating candidates for appointment to the Board.
to be the priority rather than aiming to achieve an All Non-Executive Directors are advised of the time externally prescribed diversity target.
commitment considered necessary to enable them to fulfil their responsibilities prior to appointment.
The Group continues to support the development The terms of reference for the Nomination and progression of all employees, with the aim of Committee are available on the Companys website maintaining and achieving diversity throughout all www.
APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD The Companys Articles of Association require one third of the Directors for the time being to retire each year, David Bernstein CBE and for each Director to retire from office at least once Chairman of the Nomination Committee every three years.
However, in line with Provision B.
7.1 23 March 2017 of the Code, the Board has determined that all Directors must retire and stand for re-election by shareholders on an annual basis.
43 Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 NEVER HANGING AROUND NEVER HANGING AROUND
