S St tr ra at tegi egic c R Re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fiin na an nci cia alls s Nomination Committee Report This report provides details of the role of the nationwide store visits with the Groups Retail Nomination Committee, the work it has undertaken Operations Director, Commercial Director and during the year and details of how it intends to carry previous CEO, Richard Hayes: out its responsibilities going forwards.
attending the preliminary results presentation and an introduction to investors during April 2016: and ROLE OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE meetings and days out with Regional Managers, Area The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board by Managers and Store Managers.
keeping the composition of the Board under review and by conducting a rigorous and transparent process when COMMITTEES FOCUS FOR THE FUTURE new appointments to the Board are made.
The Nomination Committees priority over the coming A more detailed explanation of the Nomination year will be to continue to develop the succession Committees role is set out in the Corporate Governance planning process for all key roles in our senior Report on page 43 and the Committees terms of management team and, in particular, to conduct a reference, which are published on Card Factorys rigorous search and selection process for a successor investor website www.
com, to our CFO, Darren Bryant.
comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In addressing this, succession planning policy will: MEMBERSHIP focus on the needs of the business over the medium The Nomination Committee is chaired by Geoff Cooper, to longer term and the importance of maintaining the and its other members are Octavia Morley, David Stead appropriate balance of skills and experience across and Paul McCrudden.
both the executive management team and among the Non-Executive Directors: and The Chief Executive Officer attended the two meetings held this year by invitation.
The Company Secretary recognise that the Groups best interests are served acts as secretary to the Committee.
by ensuring that the individuals who lead the Group represent a range of skills, experiences, backgrounds MEETINGS and perspectives, including gender but who at all As currently constituted, the Committee met twice times are most suitable people for their roles.
during the year with details of attendance set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 40.
GENDER AND ETHNIC DIVERSITY Our policy is that the Board should always be of mixed COMMITTEE ACTIVITY IN 2016 17 gender and ethnically diverse, but we feel that quotas The Committees main activity during the year, as are not appropriate as they are likely to lead to described in more detail in the introductory letter to compromised decisions on Board membership, quality this report, was to support our Chief Executive Officers and size.
We will, however, seek to ensure that specific effort is Welcoming our new CEO made to bring forward female candidates and those Karen Hubbards induction process took place over from a range of ethnic backgrounds for Board three months with extensive input and involvement of appointments.
We will also monitor the Groups the Groups retiring CEO Richard Hayes.
Karens approach to people development to ensure that it induction covered all parts of the Group, and included: continues to enable talented individuals, from both one-to-one meetings with senior management team genders and from all ethnic groups, to enjoy career members: progression activities within the Group.
meetings with the Chairman and Non-Executive Details of the gender balance within the Group are set Directors: out in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on attending Board and divisional board meetings: page 31. attending colleague listening groups: BOARD EVALUATION immersion time at our online subsidiary, Getting The Board conducted its second internal evaluation Personal: during the year which was led by the Chairman and a tour and meetings with senior management at our facilitated by the Company Secretary.
Further details in-house print facility, Printcraft: are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 44.
Board evaluation will continue to be an introduction to the design studio and how it conducted on an annual basis and the Board will, as operates: required by the UK Corporate Governance Code, later working in Card Factory stores and the warehouses this year its third year since composition engage with at the Groups distribution centre in Wakefield: an external agency to assist in the process.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 73 73 Nomination Committee Report continued TENURE AND RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the Directors will seek re-election at the next AGM on 25 May 2017.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 27 March 2017.
Geoff Cooper Chairman of the Nomination Committee 27 March 2017 74 74 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
