DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD INDEPENDENCE STATEMENT The Board considers Non-Executive Directors Ronald Stewart, Anne Sheinfield and Andrew Jennings to be STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE independent for the purposes of the Code.
During the period the Company was subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code dated September BOARD OPERATION 2014.
The Code was issued by the Financial Reporting The Board meets regularly throughout the year.
It Council and is available for review on the Financial considers all issues relating to the strategy, direction Reporting Councils website https: www.
and future development of the Group.
The Board has The Board confirms that the Company has complied a schedule of matters reserved to it for decision that with the provisions set out in the Code throughout the is regularly updated.
These include decisions on the year, except in respect of Code Provision C. 3.1 Audit Groups strategy, financial budgets, major capital Committee to have at least three independent Nonexpenditure and transactions, appointment of territorial Executive Directors.
An explanation of the reason for and product licence partners, store openings, dividend this departure from the Code is set out on page 37. policy, Group bonus and risk profile.
The requirement An explanation of how the main principles have for Board approval on these matters is understood and been applied is set out on pages 67 to 69 and, in communicated widely throughout the Group.
The Nonconnection with Directors remuneration, in the Executive Directors meet with the Chairman separately Directors Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 66. during the year.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors meet without the Chairman present to appraise the BOARD COMPOSITION Chairmans performance.
The Board currently comprises the Non-Executive Operational decision making, operational Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief Operating performance and the formulation of strategic proposals Officer & Group Finance Director and three independent to the Board are controlled by the Groups Executive Non-Executive Directors.
Biographies of these Directors Committee, which is comprised of the Board of Directors appear on page 36.
The Board is of the view that its of No Ordinary Designer Label Limited the Groups current membership provides an appropriate balance of operating subsidiary together with relevant heads skills, experience, independence and knowledge, which of department as required.
The Executive Committee enables it to discharge its responsibilities effectively.
meets regularly throughout the year.
This is reinforced by the findings of the external Board evaluation carried out in the prior period.
TED BAKER PLC NOMINATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS COMMITTEE REMUNERATION RISK COMMITTEE COMMITTEE AUDIT IT STEERING COMMITTEE COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE COMMITTEE 32 DIRECTORS REPORT To enable the Board to function effectively and for fair, balanced and understandable and believe that this the Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and provides the information necessary for shareholders timely access is provided to all relevant information.
A to assess the Companys position and performance, comprehensive board pack is prepared and circulated business model and strategy.
in advance of each Board meeting.
Board members regularly input into the level and quality of information BOARD EVALUATION provided, and request specific board papers on During the previous period, an externally facilitated additional agenda items.
There is an agreed procedure evaluation of the Board and Committees effectiveness for Directors to take independent professional was undertaken by Sean OHare of Boardroom Dialogue advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Limited, an independent external adviser with no other This is in addition to the access each Director has to the connection to the Company.
That Board evaluation concluded that the Board was The Company maintains an appropriate level of working well, considering the right topics on a timely Director and Officer Liability insurance cover and, basis and with an appropriate level of challenge.
Areas through the Articles of Association and Directors terms of focus for the Non-Executive Directors continue to of appointment, has agreed to indemnify the Directors be enhancing Board engagement with the Executive against certain liabilities to third parties and costs Committee and building on existing long-term and expenses incurred as a result of holding office as succession planning throughout the Group, which have a Director.
Save for such indemnity provisions in the been addressed during the current period.
Companys Articles of Association and in the Directors During the period, the Board undertook an informal terms of appointment which were in force throughout evaluation of its own performance, its committees the period and are in force as at the date of these performance and the performance of its Directors, with financial statements, there are no qualifying third-party continuing assessment undertaken throughout the indemnity provisions in force.
Informal evaluations and assessments The Code requires that the Board provides a fair, conducted by the Board and its committees covered balanced and understandable assessment of the a range of issues around Board and Committee Companys position and prospects in its external membership, roles and responsibilities, and succession.
The Directors were responsible for the The next externally facilitated Board evaluation shall preparation and approval of the Annual Report and be conducted in accordance with the requirements of Accounts and consider them, taken as a whole, to be the Code.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE The table below details the number of Board and Committee meetings held during the period and the attendance record of each Director.
BOARD AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION MEETINGS COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD 10 3 2 - Ray Kelvin 10 NA NA NA Lindsay Page 9 NA NA NA David Bernstein 10 3 2 - Anne Sheinfield 10 NA 2 - Ronald Stewart 10 3 2 - Andrew Jennings 10 3 2 NA 33 Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 DIRECTORS REPORT COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS CONFLICTS OF INTERESTS The Group attaches considerable importance to the The Companys Articles of Association take account of effectiveness of its communication with its shareholders.
certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating The full report and accounts are sent to all shareholders to Directors conflicts of interest.
These provisions and further copies are distributed to others with potential permit the Board to consider, and if thought fit, to interest in the Groups performance.
authorise situations where a Director has an interest Led by the Chief Executive, the Chief Operating that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests Officer and the Finance Director, the Group seeks to build of the Company.
The Board has adopted procedures on a mutual understanding of objectives between the for the approval of such conflicts.
The Boards powers Company and its institutional shareholders by making to authorise conflicts are operating effectively and the general presentations after the interim and preliminary procedures are being followed.
results: meeting shareholders and potential investors to discuss long-term issues and gathering feedback: and communicating regularly throughout the year via its investor relations programme.
All shareholders have access to these presentations, as well as to the Annual Report and Accounts and to other information about the Company through the investor relations website at www.
Shareholders may also attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which they have the opportunity to ask questions.
Non-Executive Directors are kept informed of the views of shareholders by the Executive Directors and are provided with independent feedback from investor meetings.
