DIRECTORS REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Meetings with senior management, internal audit and the external auditor, together with the regular DEAR SHAREHOLDER, circulation and review of board papers and financial The role of the Audit Committee is to monitor the integrity information, have enabled the Audit Committee to of the Groups financial statements and reporting discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively.
responsibilities and to maintain its internal control and compliance procedures.
During the period, the Audit AUDIT COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Committee focused on the Groups risk management During the period, Ronald Stewart was Chairman of systems particularly cyber risk, inventory and foreign the Audit Committee.
The other members were David currency risk.
This Audit Committee Report has been prepared in Provision C. 3.1 of the Code provides that the accordance with the Code and includes: Audit Committee should comprise of at least three independent Non-Executive Directors, and that the a description of the significant issues that the Audit Chairman of the company should not be a member Committee considered in relation to the financial of the Audit Committee.
The Board recognises that statements, and how these issues were addressed: the Company has not been compliant with Provision an explanation of how the Audit Committee C. 3.1 of the Code during the period but considers has assessed the effectiveness of the external David Bernstein, notwithstanding his appointment audit process and the approach taken to the as Chairman, to be a valuable member of the Audit reappointment of the external auditor, and Committee because of his recent and extensive relevant information on the length of tenure of the financial experience.
current audit firm and when a tender was last The terms of reference for the Audit Committee are conducted: and available on the Companys website www.
an explanation of how the Groups auditors objectivity and independence are safeguarded when providing non-audit services.
37 Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 DIRECTORS REPORT KEY MATTERS A summary of the key matters considered by the Audit Committee during the period is set out below: AGENDA ITEMS MARCH JULY OCTOBER 2016 2016 2016 Full Year Report Interim Report Y Y KPMG Audit Committee Paper summarising the results from the year-end external audit Y KPMG Audit Committee Paper summarising the results from the interim review Y KPMG Management Letter on control observations Y Effectiveness of external auditors Y Y Y Independence of KPMG Y Y Y Risk management Y Y Findings of internal audit reviews Y Key tax risks and approach Y Y Impairment policy review Y Terms of reference of the Audit Committee Y Whistle blowing Y Non-audit services provided by KPMG Y Non-audit spend Y Employment of former KPMG staff Y Materiality Y Y Resourcing Y Y Cyber risk review Y Y Post investment appraisal stores Y Stock analysis Y Foreign currency risk Y Y Social media policy review Y Key supplier risk Y Impact of Brexit Y Y General data protection regulation Y The main areas of judgement and estimation are set out in the accounting policies on pages 84 to 91.
38 U S I N G O U R B O T T L E DIRECTORS REPORT SIGNIFICANT ISSUES 2 Carrying value of retail fixed assets being The Audit Committee received and reviewed reports leasehold improvements from management and the external auditors setting Leasehold improvements for stores are identified out the significant issues in relation to the financial for further impairment testing primarily on the basis statements for the period which related to the carrying of current and projected performance, with growth value of inventory and the carrying value of retail fixed assumptions based on Directors knowledge and assets being leasehold improvements.
Given the relative immaturity of the These issues were discussed and challenged with brand outside the UK, the payback period is typically management during the period.
They were also longer and it is not uncommon for new stores to make discussed with the external auditors at the time the Audit losses in their start-up phase.
Judgement is therefore Committee reviewed and agreed the external auditors applied by the Directors in assessing the trigger group audit plan, when the external auditors reviewed point for impairment, recognising that losses in the the half year interim financial statements in October start-up phase are not always indicative of the future 2016, and also at the conclusion of the audit of the performance of a particular store.
The future forecasts financial statements for the period.
are inherently judgemental and the key sensitivity includes achieving the growth rates for a particular 1 Carrying value of inventory store and relevant to the specific market.
A change in The Directors have used their knowledge and these assumptions will impact the future forecasts and experience of the fashion industry in determining the managements assessment of the profitability of each level and rates of provisioning required to calculate store.
The assumptions are continually reviewed against the appropriate inventory carrying values.
Inventory is current trading performance and external factors that carried in the financial statements at the lower of cost impact the fashion industry and consumer demand for and net realisable value.
Sales in the fashion industry specific regions, including for example macro-economic can be extremely volatile with consumer demand conditions that may impact consumer spending patterns changing significantly based on current trends.
The Directors use their knowledge of the result there is a risk that the cost of inventory exceeds fashion industry and experience built over many years its net realisable value.
Management calculates the to set and monitor the assumptions included within inventory provision on the basis of the ageing profile of the forecasts.
Provisions are considered on a seasonal The external auditors explained to the Audit basis taking into consideration the various channels that Committee the work they had conducted during the are available to the Group to sell existing inventory and year.
On the basis of their audit work, the external the estimated prices that can be achieved.
Any changes auditors reported no inconsistencies or misstatements to the prices that can be achieved could impact the that were material in the context of the financial provisions that are required to cover the risks associated statements as a whole: and in the view of the Audit with holding older season inventory.
Adjustments are Committee this supports the appropriateness of the made where appropriate based on Directors knowledge Groups methodology.
and experience to calculate the appropriate inventory carrying values.
3 Misstatements Management confirmed to the Audit Committee that Management confirmed to the Audit Committee that there have been no significant changes to the approach it was not aware of any material misstatements or used to estimate inventory provisions from the prior year.
immaterial misstatements made intentionally to achieve The external auditors explained to the Audit Committee a particular presentation.
The external auditors reported the work they had conducted during the year.
On the to the Audit Committee the misstatements that they basis of their audit work, the external auditors reported had found in the course of their work and no material no inconsistencies or misstatements that were material amounts remain unadjusted.
The Audit Committee in the context of the financial statements as a whole: confirms that it is satisfied that the external auditors and in the view of the Audit Committee this supports the have fulfilled their responsibilities with diligence and appropriateness of the Groups methodology.
40 DIRECTORS REPORT After reviewing and challenging the presentations spend is also reviewed by the Audit Committee on an and reports from management and consulting annual basis.
Details of the auditors' remuneration for where necessary with the external auditors, the Audit audit and non-audit fees are disclosed in Note 3 to the Committee is satisfied that the financial statements financial statements for the period.
appropriately address the critical judgements and key The Audit Committee recognises that the estimates both in respect to the amounts reported and independence of the external auditors is an essential the disclosures.
The Audit Committee is also satisfied part of the audit framework and the assurance that it that the significant assumptions used for determining the provides.
The Audit Committee monitors any nonvalue of assets and liabilities have been appropriately audit work that is undertaken by the external auditors scrutinised, challenged and are sufficiently robust.
to ensure that their objectivity and independence is not compromised.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews 4 Future IFRS developments the level of non-audit fees and as noted above preThe Audit Committee has discussed future accounting approval for any such services is required from the Audit developments likely to affect the presentation of the Committee Chairman above set monetary thresholds.
approving any non-audit services the Audit Committee considers any threats, perceived or actual, to the TAX GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK auditors independence taking regard of the guidance The Finance Director is responsible for the Groups tax contained in the relevant ethical standards.
policy which is implemented with the assistance of the senior finance and Group tax team.
This is reviewed To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, on an ongoing basis as part of the regular financial the Audit Committee reviewed: planning cycle.
In addition, the Groups tax status is reported regularly to the Board and Audit Committee.
the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring all plan and variations from it: significant tax matters including the Groups tax policy.
reports highlighting the major issues that arose In accordance with the measures announced in during the course of the audit: and the Finance Act 2016, Ted Baker will publish on its feedback from the businesses evaluating the website details of the Groups Tax Strategy as it relates performance of each assigned audit team.
to or affects UK taxation in the financial year ended 27 January 2018.
The Audit Committee held meetings with the external auditors before each Audit Committee EXTERNAL AUDIT meeting to review key issues within their scope of The Audit Committee oversees the Groups relationship interest and responsibility.
To fulfil its responsibility with the external auditors and makes recommendations for oversight of the external audit process, the Audit to the Board in relation to their appointment, Committee reviewed: reappointment and removal and approves their remuneration and terms of engagement.
The Board and the terms, areas of responsibility, associated Audit Committee also review the independence of the duties and scope of the audit as set out in the external auditors and consider the engagement of the external auditors' engagement letter for the external auditors to supply non-audit services.
forthcoming year: The Company has adopted a formal policy on the the external auditors' overall work plan for the supply of non-audit services by the external auditors.
forthcoming year: They may only provide such services on condition the external auditors' fee proposal: that such advice does not conflict with their statutory the major issues that arose during the course of the responsibilities and ethical guidance.
The Audit audit and their resolution: Committee Chairmans pre-approval is required before key accounting and audit judgements: the Company uses non-audit services that exceed financial limits set out by that policy and the aggregate 41 Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 DIRECTORS REPORT the level of errors identified during the audit: and recommendations made by the external auditor in their management letters and the adequacy of managements response.
Consideration is also given by the Audit Committee to the need to include the risk of the withdrawal of the external auditor from the market in its risk evaluation and planning.
The Audit Committee considers the reappointment of the external auditor each year and assesses their independence on an on-going basis.
KPMG have been the Companys external auditors since 2001, with a competitive audit tender process last carried out in 2012.
The Audit Committee notes the final Order from the Competition and Markets Authority and the new EU Regulation on audit rotation and will ensure compliance with these requirements in considering when next to tender the external audit.
The requirements of the Code and the Order and EU Regulation notwithstanding, the Audit Committee will continue to monitor the effectiveness of the external auditors on an annual basis and will tender in accordance with the new EU regulations.
KPMG have expressed their willingness to continue in office as external auditors.
The Audit Committee has recommended to the board that KPMG LLP be appointed as the Groups external auditors for the 2017 18 financial period.
WHISTLEBLOWING The Audit Committee is responsible for the review of the Companys procedures for responding to the allegations of whistle blowers and the arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible financial reporting irregularities.
Ronald Stewart Chairman of the Audit Committee 23 March 2017 42
