S St tr ra at tegi egic c R Re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fiin na an nci cia alls s Audit and Risk Committee Report This report provides details of the role of the Audit and assessing whether the Annual Report and Accounts Risk Committee and the work it has undertaken during for the year ended January 2016, taken as a whole, the year.
were fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess ROLE OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE the Companys strategy, business model and The principal responsibilities of the Committee, which performance: has received delegated authority from the Board, areto: approval of the Groups half-year results statements oversee the integrity of the Groups financial published in September 2016: statements and public announcements relating to considering the findings of a routine review by the financial performance: Financial Reporting Council FRC' of our Annual oversee the Groups external audit process including Report and Accounts for the year ended January 2016: its scope and the extent of the non-audit services verifying the independence of the Groups auditor, provided by our auditor: approving their audit plan and audit fee and setting monitor the effectiveness of financial controls: performance expectations: evaluate the process for identifying and managing considering the findings of the Audit Quality Review risk throughout the Group: and of KPMGs audit for the year ended January 2016: ensure that the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, reviewing the findings, and the implementation of balanced and understandable.
actions arising from, the internal audit projects undertaken by Deloitte LLP during the year: A more detailed explanation of the Audit and Risk reviewing the systems and controls which the Group Committees role is set out in the Corporate Governance has in place to enable the Board to make proper Report on page 42.
The Committees terms of judgements on a continuing basis as to the financial reference, which are published on Card Factorys position and prospects of the Group: investor website www.
com, reviewing the Groups risk register in March and comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
September: MEMBERSHIP reviewing the work carried out by the Groups loss The Audit and Risk Committee is chaired by David prevention team in detecting and preventing fraud Stead, and its other members are Octavia Morley and and theft of cash and stock: Paul McCrudden.
monitoring the Groups compliance with its policy for use of our auditor for non-audit work: As David Stead is a chartered accountant and was the reviewing the Groups tax strategy: Chief Financial Officer of Dunelm Group plc from 2003 to 2015, the Board considers that he has both recent monitoring the implementation of a capital and relevant financial experience in accordance with the restructuring within the Groups subsidiaries to facilitate requirements of the Code.
the payment of dividends to shareholders: and with the support of both KPMG LLP and Deloitte LLP, The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, monitoring developments in legislation, reporting and the Chairman of the Board usually attend meetings and practice which affect matters for which the of the Committee by invitation, along with Committee is responsible.
representatives from our auditor, KPMG LLP, and our internal audit services provider, Deloitte LLP.
The ACTIVITIES AFTER THE YEAR END Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
In the period following the year end, the Committee met once in March 2017 and reviewed the following: MEETINGS The Committee met four times during the year with the Groups risk management framework, ensuring it details of attendance at these meetings set out in the enables the Directors to identify and carry out a Corporate Governance Report on page 40. robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group including those that would threaten its business ROUTINE ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR model, future performance, solvency orliquidity: During the year, the work of the Committee has the process undertaken by management to support principally fallen under the following areas: the Groups viability statement which is set out on reviewing the integrity of the draft financial page 77 including the time period assessed and the statements for the year ended January 2016, the principal risks and combinations of risks modelled: appropriateness of accounting policies and going concern assumptions and considering the auditors report regarding its findings on the annual results: Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 49 49 Audit and Risk Committee Report continued the integrity of the draft financial statements for the additional store counts of seasonal inventory at the year ended January 2017, including the end of the key trading seasons for the business: appropriateness of accounting policies and going reviews of inventory levels by store: and concern assumption: detailed analytical review to assess the the external auditors report: reasonableness of the inventory figure.
the systems and controls which the Group has in place to enable the Board to make proper The Committee is satisfied that the judgements made judgements on a continuing basis as to the financial by management are reasonable and that appropriate position and prospects of the Group: disclosures have been made in the Annual Report andAccounts.
whether this Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and Accounting for foreign exchange hedging instruments provides the information necessary for shareholders The business aims to hedge a significant proportion of to assess the Companys position and performance, planned foreign currency stock purchases.
A number of business model and strategy: forward hedges including structured options are in the performance, effectiveness and qualifications of place and, where appropriate, hedge accounting is the external auditor and recommendation for their adopted by the Group.
reappointment: and Hedge accounting is by nature complex and is subject the Companys policy on the use of auditors for to documentary requirements and periodic non-audit services.
effectiveness testing involving a degree of judgement.
In order to ensure compliance with the requirements for SIGNIFICANT AREAS OF JUDGEMENT hedge accounting the Group formally documents the Within its terms of reference, the Committee monitors designation of foreign currency hedges at the outset of the integrity of the Groups annual and half-year results, each hedging relationship and hedge effectiveness is including a review of the significant financial reporting tested on a monthly basis.
Forecast foreign currency issues and judgements contained in them.
requirements and the level of hedges in place are monitored on an ongoing basis.
At its meeting in March 2017, the Committee: reviewed the Groups results for the financial year: considered a The Committee is satisfied that accounting policies in paper prepared by KPMG LLP, which included respect of hedge accounting have been comments on significant reporting and accounting appropriatelyapplied.
matters in the year under review: and reviewed a paper from the Chief Financial Officer to support the ASSESSMENT OF ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS Directors going concern and viability statements.
The Committee confirmed to the Board that it considered this Annual Report and Accounts as a whole The major accounting issues discussed by the to be fair, balanced and understandable, to the extent Committee concerned: possible whilst complying with all applicable legal, the existence and valuation of the Groups inventory: and regulatory and reporting requirements.
the accounting relating to the Groups foreign exchange hedging instruments.
INTERNAL AUDIT Deloitte LLP provide internal audit services for the Inventory Group, giving additional support in evaluating the The Group holds significant volumes, and a broad effectiveness and robustness of the Groups system of range, of inventory.
Certain of the Groups inventory internal control and its approach to identifying and procedures are manual in nature as are certain controls mitigating risks.
around inventory once it has left the Groups distribution centre and has been delivered to stores.
In During the year, Deloittes work covered the following light of these manual procedures and controls, there is a areas: heightened risk that a material misstatement could arise the Groups point of sale technology systems a due to the volume or cost of inventory being comprehensive review of the Groups current systems incorrectlyrecorded.
in light of the Groups current and future requirements taking into account the Groups growth The Group has a number of formal processes and and development since these systems were procedures to assess the reasonableness of the introduced: inventory value presented in the Annual Report and the resilience of the Groups IT network and cyber Accounts.
These include: security this principally focused on assessing the full inventory counts twice yearly both in-store and in Groups vulnerability to external threats but also the Groups distribution centre: considered some of the potential internal threats.
It 50 50 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 S St tr ra at tegi egic c R Re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fiin na an nci cia alls s included development recommendations which are Resolutions to reappoint KPMG LLP as auditor and to being implemented over a period of time under the authorise the Directors to agree their remuneration will supervision of the Committee by a cyber security be put to shareholders at the AGM.
steering group that includes relevant members of the Groups senior management team: Our current policy is to tender the statutory audit at least every ten years.
As KPMG LLP have been our the Groups inventory management systems this auditor since 2011 12, this means that the next tender review considered all key aspects of the Groups will be for the 2021 22 audit at the latest.
We intend to inventory management systems with a focus on store invite at least one firm outside the Big Four to stock controls, reverse logistics and participate in the tender process.
inventorycosting: the Groups crisis management arrangements the Whilst we have not now conducted a competitive review focused on the development of the Groups tender for the audit for more than six years, the existing crisis management arrangements and the Committee and the Board continue to believe this is in steps the Group needs to take to develop these to the best interests of shareholders.
KPMG LLP have, the satisfaction of the Committee.
during their time as the Groups auditor, developed an extensive knowledge of the Group and they successfully LOSS PREVENTION supported the Group through its IPO in 2014.
KPMGs During the course of the last year, the Group completed knowledge and experience and the stability this a detailed review of its loss prevention function, which provides is important to the Group as it continues had been identified as an area where improvements through its initial years as a listed Group.
In line with were required particularly given the high proportion of audit partner rotation requirements 2016 17 is the first transactions in Card Factory stores that are conducted year in which the Independent Auditors Report will be in cash.
The review incorporated the views of all key signed by KPMG LLPs new audit partner who has stakeholders within the business and identified a attended all of the Committee meetings during the year number of areas for improvement.
and who has separately met with the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Having considered the findings, the senior management team, with the support of the Committee, restructured We comply with the Competition and Markets the Groups loss prevention function.
The main objective Authoritys Statutory Audit Services Order 2014. of this restructuring was to introduce a more holistic set of loss prevention activities, incorporating a greater use The Group has no contractual arrangements for of data to support investigations and a more robust example, within borrowing arrangements that restrict approach to disciplinary action when supported by its choice of auditor.
Whilst initially the teams actions were focussed on fraud and theft detection, these have evolved during the course of the year, with greater education and awareness of prevention methods being rolled out across the Groups retail management team.
The Committee continues to receive regular reports on the activities of the loss prevention team and the progress being made.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR KPMG LLP have conducted the statutory audit for the financial year ended 31 January 2017 and they attended all four of the Committee meetings held during that year as well as the one held in March 2017.
The Committee had the opportunity to meet privately with them during the period.
The fee paid to KPMG LLP for the statutory audit of the Group and Company financial statements and the audit of Group subsidiaries pursuant to legislation was 107,500.
A breakdown of fees paid to KPMG LLP during the financial year is set out in note 4 to the financial statements on page 96.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 51 51 Audit and Risk Committee Report continued USE OF AUDITORS FOR NON-AUDIT WORK Factorys investor website www.
The Committee recognises that the use of audit firms com.
The key changes to the policy are to reflect that: for non-audit services can potentially give rise to fees for non-audit services provided by the statutory conflicts of interest and is therefore a sensitive issue.
auditor in any year may not exceed 70% of the The Group has a formal policy regarding its use of audit average fees for the Group statutory audit in the firms for non-audit services and the Committee, in three previous years: addition to being responsible for the oversight of our the auditor will be prohibited from providing certain auditor on behalf of the Board, also has responsibility non-audit services, including: for monitoring how this policy is implemented.
almost all tax work including general tax advice: Under the policy, our auditor is currently eligible for internal audit: selection to provide non-audit services where it is in the corporate finance: and Groups best interest for it to do this and it is best placed to deliver the required service in terms of quality involvement in management activities, including and cost, taking into account their skills and experience.
working capital and cash management and the This is subject to the overriding principle that the provision of financial information.
auditor may not provide a service which: places them in a position to audit their own work: FRC REVIEWS Review of Annual Report and Accounts results in them making management decisions for During the year the Conduct Committee of the FRC the Group: carried out a routine review of the Companys Annual creates a mutuality of interest: or Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 January 2016 in accordance with Part 2 of the Committees Operating puts them in the role of advocate for the Company or Procedures.
Based on their review, the Company was any member of the Group.
informed that the Committee did not wish to raise any questions or queries with us although they retain the All work commissioned from our auditor is required to right to revisit that in the future.
This is a pleasing be sanctioned by the Chief Financial Officer, who outcome, although it is important to note that the consults with the Committee Chairman if the fee Conduct Committees review only considered the involved is significant or if there are any issues Companys compliance with reporting requirements regarding independence, and the policy has built in rather than verifying the accuracy of the information levels of authority to control the awarding of non-audit contained in the report which the Company is work to the Companys auditor.
The Chief Financial Officer also periodically provides FRC Audit Quality Review the Committee with reports on audit, audit related and The FRCs Audit Quality Review team carried out a non-audit expenditure, together with details of any review of the audit conducted by KPMG LLP for the material non-audit related assignments.
year ended 31 January 2016 specifically in the areas of revenue recognition, inventory and foreign exchange The aggregate fees paid to KPMG LLP for non-audit hedging.
In selecting which aspects of an audit to work during the year were 36,000 equivalent to 33% review, the FRC take account of those areas considered of the audit fee.
During the course of the year we have to be higher risk by the auditors and Audit and Risk engaged KPMG LLP to provide tax advice, to perform Committee, their knowledge and experience of audits of an independent review of our half-year results, and for similar entities and the significance of an area in the sundry additional assignments including advice in context of the financial statements.
Control and connection with a capital restructuring exercise within analytical review procedures relating to store revenue the Groups subsidiaries.
Full details are given in note 4 recognition were identified as areas where limited to the financial statements on page 96. additional evidence of and development in the work carried out by KPMG LLP would be appropriate and The Committee is satisfied that the overall levels of they have responded to the FRC confirming the actions audit related and non-audit fees, and the nature of they will take to address these findings.
services provided, are not such as to compromise the objectivity and independence of our auditor.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Committee on 27 March 2017.
Following the issue of the EU Audit Directive in June 2016, we have reviewed our policy regarding the use of audit firms for non-audit services.
A copy of the revised David Stead policy which has been adopted is available on Card Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee 27 March 2017 52 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
