Corporate Governance Report LEADERSHIP AND APPROACH hosting our first Corporate Governance presentation The Board is committed to the highest standards of for investors reflecting upon our journey so far as a corporate governance.
The Board understands the listed company.
importance of its leadership on governance in setting the culture and values instilled in the business, and in CODE COMPLIANCE achievement of long-term strategic goals whilst Save as set out in the paragraphs below, the Board has successfully managing risks for our shareholders.
complied with and intends to continue to comply with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance We believe that good governance is demonstrated by Code published in September 2014 by the Financial applying corporate governance principles and Reporting Council the UK Corporate Governance guidelines in a way that enhances or protects the value Code or the Code a copy of which can be obtained of the business.
This ensures a pragmatic governance from www.
The Company will report to its culture sits alongside the entrepreneurial spirit which shareholders on its compliance with the UK Corporate has enabled Card Factory to develop into the business Governance Code in accordance with the Listing it is today.
KEY GOVERNANCE ACTIVITIES ROLE OF THE BOARD Key activities during the year were: The strategy for the growth of the business is determined by the Board in a manner that both managing and supporting the induction of our Chief facilitates the development and growth of the Group Executive Officer, Karen Hubbard, who formally over the long term in the interests of its shareholders, succeeded Richard Hayes in April 2016: and recognises the importance of our duties to in light of Karens appointment, enabling further colleagues, customers, the community in which we reflection on and refinement of the Groups strategy operate and the interests of our other stakeholders all and agreeing clear actions for development over the of which have been central to the development of the short to medium term.
This included capturing business and its culture to date.
Richard Hayes reflections on his time with the business prior to his retirement in June: In addition to setting strategy, the Board takes overall responsibility for measuring the Groups progress through the Nomination Committee, further towards this and ensures that the exercise of its control developing succession plans for the wider and decision-making powers are aligned with its management team: strategic direction.
supporting the management team with their development of the Groups mission, vision and BOARD COMPOSITION, BALANCE values which will support the Groups future AND INDEPENDENCE development and growth: The Board currently comprises six members.
carrying out our second internal Board evaluation which included a review of our progress against the The Code recommends that at least half the board of objectives the Board set itself during its first Board directors of a UK listed company, excluding the evaluation in January 2016: Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent in reviewing the objectives and performance of the character and judgement and free from relationships or business in each of the four pillars of its growth circumstances which may affect, or could appear to strategy: affect, the directors judgement.
a review of the Groups foreign exchange strategy in light of the UKs decision to leave the European Union: In the period between Karen Hubbards appointment to the Board, as Chief Executive Officer Designate, on continually reviewing the matters being considered 22February 2016 and Richard Hayes retirement from by the Board during the year as well as planning the the Board and the Group at the end of June 2016, the Boards agenda for the year ahead: constitution of the Companys Board did not technically a full review of the Groups share dealing codes and comply with this recommendation as the Board practices in light of the introduction of the Market consisted of the Non-Executive Chairman, three Abuse Regulations: Independent Non-Executive Directors and three inviting external speakers from a range of Executive Directors.
This non-compliance was only backgrounds to Board meetings to share their temporary and to allow for an orderly handover to business insights, experience and also their views on Karen Hubbard following her appointment.
the prevailing macroeconomic environment and its impact on retailers: and 38 38 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 S St tr ra at tegi egic c R Re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fiin na an nci cia alls s Senior Independent Director Octavia Morley The Board considers all of the current Non-Executive The Code recommends that the board of directors of a Directors as independent Non-Executive Directors company with a premium listing should appoint one of within the meaning of the Code and free from any the Non-Executive Directors as a Senior Independent business or other relationships that are likely to interfere Director to provide a sounding board for the Chairman with the exercise of their independent judgement.
and to serve as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary.
The Senior Independent Director Although the Board remains small relative to some should be available to shareholders if they have other similar premium listed companies, the preference concerns, which contact through the normal channels is for it to remain this way to ensure it continues to be of the Chief Executive Officer has failed to resolve, or an effective and efficient decision-making body that for which such contact is inappropriate.
Octavia Morley supports the Groups growth.
This is kept under review has been appointed as the Senior Independent Director to ensure the Board has the appropriate balance of of the Company and has considerable experience of skills and experience to support its exercise of its duties.
acting as an Independent Non-Executive Director Additionally, the Board is mindful of ensuring that having been an Independent Non-Executive Director of succession planning extends to the Board itself and is John Menzies plc between 2006 and 2015. currently considering this.
BOARD RESPONSIBILITY Chairman Geoff Cooper The Company has a clear division of responsibilities The Code recommends that, on appointment, the between the Non-Executive Chairman and the Chief chairman of a company with a premium listing on the Executive Officer.
In general terms, the Non-Executive Official List should meet the independence criteria set Chairman is responsible for running the Board and the out in the Code.
Chief Executive is responsible for running the Groups On appointment, the Board considered Geoff Cooper to business on a day-to-day basis.
be independent but his appointment is subject to the terms of a letter of appointment dated 30 April 2014 This clear division of responsibilities, when taken under which, as part of his remuneration, Geoff was together with the schedule of matters which the Board given the option to invest 330,000 in the Company by has reserved for its own consideration, ensures that no means of an acquisition of ordinary shares as part of, or one person has unlimited and unchecked power to alongside, the offer of shares conducted in conjunction make decisions that may have a material impact on the with the Companys IPO at the offer price of 225p per Group as a whole.
A copy of the matters reserved for share the Offer Price.
Geoff took up this offer at the the Board is available on Card Factorys investor time of the IPO and agreed to acquire 146,666 ordinary website www.
This entitled him, on the second anniversary of request, from the Company Secretary.
the completion of the IPO, to make a further investment of 330,000 in the Company by purchasing a further 146,666 ordinary shares at the Offer Price.
Geoff exercised this option on 24 May 2016 and is now entitled, subject to his remaining as Chairman of the Company, on the third anniversary of the IPO, to make one further investment of 330,000 in the Company by purchasing a further 146,666 ordinary shares at the Offer Price.
Notwithstanding Geoff Coopers share options and his role as an adviser to Charterhouse, the Board considered Geoff to be independent on appointment.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 39 39 Corporate Governance Report continued BOARD ATTENDANCE During the year, the Board held eight scheduled meetings and various Board Committee meetings were also held with attendance as follows: Remuneration Audit and Risk Nomination Board Meetings Committee Committee Committee Director Role 8 meetings 3 meetings 4 meetings 2 meetings Geoff Cooper Non-Executive Chairman and Chair of Nomination Committee 8 3 2 Octavia Morley Senior Independent Director and Chair of Remuneration Committee 8 3 4 2 David Stead Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair of Audit and Risk Committee 8 3 4 2 Paul McCrudden Independent Non-Executive Director 8 3 4 2 Richard Hayes Executive Director 3 Karen Hubbard Chief Executive Officer 8 Darren Bryant Chief Financial Officer 8 Richard Hayes retired from the Board on 30 June 2016.
BOARD ACTIVITIES AND EFFECTIVENESS Board meetings are structured to ensure they focus on key strategic and operational matters that are affecting the business and examples of those matters considered by the Board during the year are set out below.
Additionally, the Board considers any decisions that are within the matters reserved for the Board.
The Board had in place a schedule of matters that were discussed during the year and a similar schedule is in place detailing matters for discussion at Board meetings in the current financial year.
As part of its normal planning, the Board puts these schedules in place in advance of each financial year and they include regular reports from the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer on the operational and financial performance of the Group together with regular feedback from the Non-Executive Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors on their engagement with the business.
They also include a rolling agenda of other key strategic, operational, governance and risk topics, as well as periodic presentations from senior management team members which ensure that the Groups Non-Executive Directors remain informed of key developments within the Group.
This is regularly updated to ensure the Board is responsive to the strategic and operational issues affecting the business.
The key topics discussed by the Board during the year were: Strategy Performance Governance Group strategy overview Annual results Group crisis plan Mission, vision and values Interim results Treasury policy Group IT strategy development Sales analysis including key seasons Governance and legal updates Property strategy Competitor activity review New and retiring CEO reflections Product development initiatives Review of store rollout programme Principal risks review Foreign exchange strategy Group IT projects update Investor relations updates Supply chain and logistics Card Factory website review Board and Committee planner Design studio review Getting Personal review Human Resources Groups capital structure Health and safety Online marketing strategy Board evaluation Business efficiencies inventory Market Abuse Regulations Republic of Ireland SAYE 2017 grant Review of EPOS National living wage 40 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 S St tr ra at tegi egic c R Re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fiin na an nci cia alls s The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer All Directors receive papers in advance of Board have overall responsibility for investor relations.
They meetings including regular reports from the senior are currently supported by the Companys retained management team covering the parts of the business financial PR advisers, MHP Communications, and its they are responsible for and which monitor achievement corporate brokers, UBS, who help organise against the Groups key performance indicators, both presentations and visits to the Groups operations and financial and strategic.
stores for analysts and shareholders.
To aid efficient decision-making, a standard summary The formal reporting of the Groups full and half-yearly report has been developed for material matters results has been and will continue to be a combination requiring Board approval that includes managements of presentations, group calls and meetings and one-toclear recommendation on the matters being addressed.
one meetings in a variety of locations where we have shareholders.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief The Board measures the time spent on strategy, Financial Officer report back to the Board after any governance and performance at each meeting.
Over the investor-related events and also ensure that the Board is year, the majority of our time was spent on strategy, kept regularly informed of feedback from analysts and followed by performance and governance, which the shareholders.
In addition, the Chairman and the NonBoard considers to be appropriate.
Executive Directors regularly join the Executive Directors at these investor-related events and Minutes of all Board and Committee meetings are taken occasionally meet with shareholders separately to by the Company Secretary and circulated for approval.
discuss the Groups approach to governance and other The minutes record actions, decisions and deadlines governance developments which affect the Group.
The arising out of the topics discussed and a rolling list of key actions accompanies the minutes for each Board Groups brokers also provide feedback after the full and meeting.
This enables the Board to monitor the half-year results announcements and, as appropriate, progress with each action by those responsible on a other investor-related events to inform the Board about regular basis.
In addition, the Company Secretary investor views.
monitors progress with less material actions and regularly reports to the Board.
All the Non-Executive Directors and, in particular, the Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available External speakers to meet with major shareholders, if they wish to raise During the year, the Board also invited several external issues separately from the arrangements described speakers to attend our Board meetings as lunch guests.
In addition, in January 2017 the Chairman, These sessions, whilst relatively informal, allowed the Non-Executive Directors and the Company Secretary Board to benefit from the business insights and hosted the Companys first corporate governance experience of our guests as well as their views on the presentation for the Groups major investors.
We have prevailing macroeconomic environment and its impact asked attendees to provide feedback on the event and on retailers.
The Board intends to continue with this are considering making this a regular event.
programme of speakers during the coming year.
The Company will also communicate with shareholders Board strategy day through the AGM, at which the Chairman will give an For its Board meeting in July 2016, the Board held a account of the progress of the business over the last strategy discussion at which it reviewed each element year and a review of current issues, and will provide the of the Groups four growth pillars.
This provided our opportunity for shareholders to ask questions.
All newly appointed CEO, Karen Hubbard, an opportunity Directors will be available at the AGM.
to share her insights into the strategy and to bring her considerable retail experience to the discussion.
The Card Factorys investor website is also updated with actions arising from this meeting have been built into news and information including this Annual Report and managements programme of activities with the Board Accounts which sets out our strategy and performance having the opportunity to review progress at together with our plans for future growth appropriate times throughout the year.
INVESTOR RELATIONS SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDERS The Board recognises the importance of explaining Details of the Groups significant shareholders and of financial results and key strategic and operational shareholder voting rights are set out in the Directors developments in the business to the Companys Report on page 76. shareholders, and of understanding any shareholder concerns.
The Board regularly communicates and meets with shareholders and analysts and the Board will continue to adopt this approach.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 4 41 1 Corporate Governance Report continued NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR MEETINGS experience.
The Audit and Risk Committee is currently The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors chaired by David Stead, and its other members are met four times in the year without Executive Directors Octavia Morley and Paul McCrudden.
The Directors being present and they intend to continue to meet consider that David Stead has recent and relevant regularly to ensure that any concerns can be raised and financial experience.
discussed outside formal Board meetings.
On one of these occasion, the Senior Independent Director and The Audit and Risk Committee met four times during the other Non-Executive Directors continued the the year and, in future, will meet no fewer than three meeting without the Chairman to review times per year.
The Audit and Risk Committee has taken appropriate steps to ensure that the Companys Auditor is The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors independent of the Company and obtained written regularly have informal meetings with the Executive confirmation from the Companys Auditor that it Directors and other members of the senior complies with guidelines on independence issued by management team in the business, often at a store the relevant accountancy and auditing bodies.
location or at the Groups head office.
The Audit and Risk Committee has access to sufficient BOARD COMMITTEES resources to carry out its duties, including the services The Board has three committees: of the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary an Audit and Risk Committee: and the Groups loss prevention team.
In addition, a Nomination Committee: and Deloitte LLP, provide internal audit services to the Group.
Independent external legal and professional a Remuneration Committee.
advice can also be taken by the Audit and Risk Committee if it believes it necessary to do so.
If the need should arise, the Board may set up additional committees.
The Audit and Risk Committee chair will be available at Annual General Meetings of the Company to respond to Audit and Risk Committee questions from shareholders on the activities of the The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board in Audit and Risk Committee during the year, a report on discharging its responsibilities with regard to: which is set out on pages 48 to 52 of the Governance financial reporting: section of this report.
external and internal audits and controls, including reviewing and monitoring the integrity of the Groups The Audit and Risk Committees terms of reference, annual and interim financial statements: which are available on request from the Company Secretary and are published on Card Factorys investor reviewing and monitoring the extent of the non-audit website www.
com, comply with work undertaken by external auditors: the Code.
advising on the appointment of external auditors: overseeing the Groups relationship with its external Remuneration Committee auditors: The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in determining its responsibilities in relation to reviewing the effectiveness of the external audit remuneration, including: process: making recommendations to the Board on the reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal Companys policy on executive remuneration: controls and risk management systems: and setting the over-arching principles, parameters and whistleblowing and loss prevention.
governance framework of the Groups remuneration policy: and The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving determining the individual remuneration and benefits the Annual Report and Accounts and the half-yearly package of each of the Companys Executive reports remains with the Board.
The Audit and Risk Directors, its Company Secretary and other members Committee will give due consideration to laws and of the Groups senior management team.
regulations, the provisions of the Code and the requirements of the Listing Rules.
The Remuneration Committee also ensures compliance with the Code in relation to remuneration and is The Code recommends that an Audit Committee should responsible for preparing an annual remuneration comprise of at least three members who are report for approval by the Companys members at Independent Non-Executive Directors, and that at least itsAGM.
one member should have recent and relevant financial 42 42 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 S St tr ra at tegi egic c R Re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fiin na an nci cia alls s less than once a year.
A report on the activities of the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairmans fees are Nomination Committee during the year is set out on determined by the full Board.
page 73 of the Governance section of this report.
The Nomination Committees terms of reference, which The Code provides that a Remuneration Committee are available on request from the Company Secretary should comprise of at least three members who are and are published on Card Factorys investor website Independent Non-Executive Directors, free from any www.
com, comply with relationship or circumstance which may or would be theCode.
likely to, or appear to, affect their judgement and that the Chairman of the Board of Directors may also be a TRAINING AND INDUCTION member provided he is considered independent on It is important to the Board that all Directors have the appointment.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired ability to influence and challenge appropriately so that by Octavia Morley, and its other members are Geoff the Board and the Group, as a whole, can maximise the Cooper, David Stead and Paul McCrudden.
benefit they derive from their business knowledge andexperience.
The Remuneration Committee met three times during the year and, in future, will meet not less than twice a year.
New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the Board, including meeting other The Board and the Remuneration Committee have members of the Board, the senior management team, employed Kepler a brand of Mercer, a consulting other key team members and the Groups advisers.
The agency which specialises in executive remuneration, to induction includes visits to the Groups stores, head advise and assist in connection with the Groups office, its design studio, Printcraft the Groups print executive remuneration arrangements and its reporting obligations.
Kepler do not provide any other services to facility and the headquarters of its online subsidiary, the Group.
A report on the Remuneration Committees activities Since joining in February 2016, Karen Hubbard has been during the year is set out on pages 53 to 54 of the through an extensive tailored induction plan details of Governance section of this report.
which are set out in the Nomination Committee Report on page 73.
The Remuneration Committees terms of reference, which are available on request from the Company Throughout the year, all of the Non-Executive Directors Secretary and are published on Card Factorys investor have continued to visit all of the Groups operations website www.
com, comply with both informally and together with members of the the Code.
senior management team and feedback is given at the following Board meeting.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee assists the Board in Additionally, the Non-Executive Directors have this year discharging its responsibilities relating to the informally buddied up with members of the senior composition and make-up of the Board and any management team to build on their day-to-day committees of the Board.
It is also responsible for knowledge of specific areas of the business and support periodically reviewing the Boards structure and those team members in sustaining and developing our identifying potential candidates to be appointed as four pillars growth strategy.
Directors or committee members as the need may arise.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for evaluating New Directors are also given the opportunity to review the balance of skills, knowledge and experience and the information about the Group including Board and size, structure and composition of the Board and Committee papers and strategy documentation which committees of the Board, retirements and appointments they may find useful in preparing for their role.
of additional and replacement directors and committee members and will make appropriate recommendations The Groups Company Secretary and General Counsel to the Board on such matters.
periodically reports to the Board on any new legal, regulatory and governance developments that affect The Code recommends that a majority of the members the Group and, where necessary, actions are agreed.
of a Nomination Committee should be Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee is Please see the Directors biographies on pages 34 to 36 chaired by Geoff Cooper, and its other members are for details of the skills and experience of each Director.
Octavia Morley, David Stead and Paul McCrudden.
The Directors therefore believe that the Company is in compliance with the Code.
The Nomination Committee met twice during the year and, in future, will meet not Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 43 43 Corporate Governance Report continued BOARD EVALUATION APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS The Board conducted its second internal evaluation All Directors have service agreements or letters of during the year which was led by the Chairman and appointment in place and the details of their terms are facilitated by the Company Secretary.
This second set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages evaluation predominantly assessed the Boards 53 to 71.
The service agreements and letters of performance against the objectives agreed at the appointment are available for inspection at the evaluation carried out in January 2016 which the Companys registered office during normal Chairman and Company Secretary reviewed and provided businesshours.
feedback on in advance of the session.
The key objectives The Articles of Association of the Company provide that the Board has set itself for the coming year are to: a Director may be appointed by ordinary resolution of ensure a robust plan is established to secure growth the Companys shareholders in general meeting, or by under the Groups four pillar and associated function the Board so long as the Director stands down and strategy, and to monitor progress on its achievement: offers him or herself for election at the next AGM of the ensure a comprehensive succession plan is Company.
The Articles also provide that each Director established for the senior management team and must stand down and offer him or herself for re-election other key employees: by shareholders at the AGM at least every 3 years.
The appoint, induct and settle a new CFO into the Board Code recommends that directors of companies in the and senior management team: FTSE 350 index should be subject to annual re-election.
initiate a process aimed at identifying longer-term The Company complies with this recommendation.
growth options for the Group: and Directors may be removed by a special resolution of increase the proportion of unstructured debate on shareholders, or by an ordinary resolution of which the Boards agenda.
special notice has been given in accordance with the Board evaluation will continue to be conducted on an Companies Act 2006.
The Articles of Association of the annual basis and the Board will, every third year, as Company also provide that the office of a Director shall required by the Code, conduct an externally facilitated be vacated if he is prohibited by law from being a evaluation, with the first of these to take place later this Director, or is bankrupt: and that the Board may resolve calendar year.
that his or her office be vacated if he or she is of unsound mind or is absent from Board meetings CONFLICTS OF INTEREST without consent for six months or more.
A Director may The Companies Act 2006 allows the Board of a public also resign from the Board.
The Nomination Committee company to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts makes recommendations to the Board on the of interest of individual Directors where the Articles of appointment and removal of Directors.
Association of the company contain an enabling provision.
The Companys Articles of Association give In accordance with the Code, all Directors will retire the Board this authority subject to the following from the Board and offer themselves for re-election at safeguards: the AGM.
Directors who have an interest in matters under POWERS OF DIRECTORS discussion at a Board meeting must declare that The business of the Company is managed by the Board, interest and abstain from voting: and which may exercise all of the powers of the Company, only Directors who have no interest in the matter subject to the requirements of the Companies Act being considered are able to approve a conflict of 2006, the Articles of Association of the Company and interest and, in taking that decision, the Directors any special resolution of the Company.
As stated above, must act in a way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the success of the the Board has adopted internal delegations of authority Company.
in accordance with the Code and these set out matters which are reserved to the Board or committees and the The Directors are able to impose limits or conditions powers and duties of the Chairman and the Chief when giving authorisation if they feel this is appropriate.
All Directors are required to disclose any actual or potential conflicts to the Board and there are no current At the AGM of the Company, the Board will seek matters disclosed that are considered by the Board to authority to issue shares and to buy back and reissue give rise to a conflict of interest.
Any shares bought back would either be held in treasury, cancelled or sold in accordance with the All conflicts are considered by the Board and any provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
For further authorisations given are recorded in the Board minutes details see the Notice of Annual General Meeting which and reviewed annually by the Board.
The Board considers accompanies this report.
that its procedures to approve conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest are operating effectively.
44 44 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 S St tr ra at tegi egic c R Re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fiin na an nci cia alls s ADVICE, INDEMNITIES AND INSURANCE in the event there is a change in their assessment of All Directors have access to the advice and services of the impact or likelihood of the risk or they identify a the Company Secretary.
In addition, Directors may seek new risk which the Group may face, the Groups risk legal advice at the Groups cost if they consider it register is updated to reflect this: necessary in connection with their duties.
the Audit and Risk Committee regularly reviews the Groups risk register and gives detailed consideration The Directors of the Company, and the Companys to those risks which have been identified as principal subsidiaries, have the benefit of a third-party indemnity risks affecting the Group and the actions being taken provision, as defined by section 236 of the Companies and processes in place to mitigate them as well as Act 2006, in the Companys Articles of Association.
In providing regular and rigorous challenge to the addition, Directors and Officers of the Company and its Executive Directors: subsidiaries are covered by Directors and Officers the Board as a whole carries out a review of the liability insurance as well as prospectus liability principal risks affecting the Group twice a year as insurance which provides cover for liabilities incurred by well as assessing whether the Group is striking an Directors in the performance of their duties or powers appropriate balance between its appetite for risk and in connection with the issue of the Prospectus in the achievement of its strategic goals: and relation to the IPO.
Until his retirement on 30 June 2016, Richard Hayes Executive Director had the benefit of certain principal risks, for example, competitor these policies.
No amount was paid under any of these activity and business strategy are, as part of the indemnities or insurances during the year other than the day-to-day management of the business, the subject applicable insurance premiums.
of separate and regular detailed discussions at Board meetings and meetings of the senior ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION managementteam.
The Companys Articles of Association can only be amended by a special resolution of its shareholders in a The Board collectively recognise that the continuous general meeting, in accordance with the Companies robust assessment and control of risk are fundamental Act2006.
to the Group achieving its strategic and operational objectives, and the Audit and Risk Committee seeks to GOVERNANCE AND RISK ensure that the risk management framework evolves The Board, as a whole, takes overall responsibility for with the business and the trading environment in which ensuring that the Company has a continuous and robust the Group operates.
process in place to identify, evaluate and manage any significant risks that may affect the achievement of the The risk management framework is designed to Groups strategic and operational objectives.
Given the manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to nature of our business and our operating model, we do achieve strategic objectives and can provide only not have a separate risk committee.
Our Audit and Risk reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against Committee oversees our risk management framework material misstatement or loss.
as part of its activities, and ensures that it enables the Committee and the Board to carry out a robust The Board and the Audit and Risk Committee have assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk including those that would threaten its business model, management framework and the Companys risk future performance, solvency or liquidity.
register and their alignment with the Companys strategic objectives in accordance with the Code for the The key elements of the process which have been period ended 31 January 2017 and up to the date of established by the Group to identify, evaluate and approving the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board manage any significant risks are as follows: as a whole considered the principal risks and relevant the Board and the senior management team take a mitigating actions and determined that they were leadership role in managing risk within the business acceptable for a retail business of the size and and look to embed the principles of sound risk complexity as that operated by the Group.
management in the teams they are responsible formanaging: specific risks are recorded in the Groups risk register and assessed in terms of impact and likelihood: responsibility for monitoring and managing these risks on a day-to-day basis is given to the relevant members of the Groups senior management team and they provide regular updates to the Groups Executive Directors and the rest of the senior management team: Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 45 45 Corporate Governance Report continued INTERNAL CONTROL AND AUDIT every member of the senior management team Overall responsibility for the system of internal control having clear responsibilities and operating within and reviewing its effectiveness lies with the Board.
In its defined policies and procedures covering such areas day-to-day operations, the Group continuously assesses as capital expenditure, treasury operations, financial the performance of its internal controls and, where targets, human resources management, customer necessary, looks to enhance its control environments.
service and health and safety: Additionally, Deloitte LLP were appointed in 2015 to the Executive Directors and the senior management provide internal audit services to the Group.
Further team monitoring compliance with these policies and details of the scope of their work during the year is set procedures and, in addition, regularly reviewing out in the report of the Audit and Risk Committee on performance against budget, analysis of variances, pages 50 and 51.
The internal audit plan that has been major business issues, key performance indicators agreed with Deloitte supports the Groups assessment and the accuracy of business forecasting: and of its controls and processes.
a continuous review programme of store compliance by the loss prevention team as regards financial The Groups system of internal control can be procedures in stores, by risk assessors working in the summarised as follows: health and safety team and by other teams within theGroup.
Board Takes collective responsibility for internal controls The Audit and Risk Committee has responsibility for Reserves certain matters for the Board overseeing the Groups system of internal controls and of Oversees the control framework and responsibility for it the internal audit programme and receives the report of Approves key policies and procedures the external auditor as part of the annual statutoryaudit.
Monitors development of performance Audit and Risk Committee The Board and the Audit and Risk Committee have Oversees effectiveness of internal control framework monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of the Receives reports from external auditor Groups internal control systems in accordance with the Approves internal audit programme Code for the period ended 31 January 2017 and up to Receives internal auditreports the date of approving the Annual Report and Accounts and confirmed that they are satisfactory.
Senior management team Responsible for operating within the control framework Internal control systems such as this are designed to Monitors compliance with policies andprocedures manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to Recommends changes to controls where needed achieve business objectives and can provide only Monitors performance reasonable and not absolute, assurance against material Loss prevention team accounting misstatement or loss.
Where any significant Focus on cash losses and fraud in stores failures or weaknesses are identified from the systems of internal control, action is taken to remedy these.
Compliance and safety risk assessors Review compliance with internal procedures that ensure DISCLOSURES UNDER DTR 7.2.
6R good health and safety standards are observed The disclosures the Company is required to make Co-sourced internal audit function pursuant to DTR 7.2.
6R are contained in the Directors Report on pages 75 to 78.
Deloitte LLP SHARE DEALING CODE Specific elements of the current internal control The Company has introduced a new code of securities framework include: dealings in relation to the ordinary shares.
The code was a list of matters specifically reserved for Board adopted during the financial year and addresses the approval: requirements of the new EU Market Abuse Regulation which came into force in July 2016.
The code adopted clear structures and accountabilities for colleagues, applies to the Directors, members of the senior well understood policies and procedures, and management team and to other relevant employees of budgeting and review processes all of which the the Group.
Following the abolition of the Model Code Executive Directors are closely involved with: contained in the Listing Rules, the Companys previous share dealing code, which was largely based upon these, was abolished.
46 46 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 S St tr ra at tegi egic c R Re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fiin na an nci cia alls s ANTI-BRIBERY The Company has implemented internal procedures and measures including the provision of an Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy designed to ensure compliance by it and other members of the Group with the UK Bribery Act 2010 as amended.
WHISTLEBLOWING The Group is committed to conducting its business with honesty and integrity, with high standards of corporate governance and in compliance with legislation and appropriate codes of practice.
We expect all colleagues to maintain such high standards but recognise that all organisations face the risk of things going wrong from time to time, or of unknowingly harbouring illegal or unethical conduct.
We recognise that a culture of openness and accountability is essential in order to prevent such situations occurring, or to address them when they do occur.
We maintain a whistleblowing policy that is designed to encourage colleagues to report such situations without fear of repercussions or recriminations provided that they are acting in good faith.
By having early knowledge of any wrongdoing or illegal or unethical behaviour, we improve our ability to intervene and stop it.
The policy sets out how any concerns can be raised and the response that can be expected from the Company and provides colleagues with the assurance that they can do this in complete confidence.
Our Loss Prevention team, in its day-to-day activities, seeks to reinforce this message and, in addition, the Group periodically uses communication campaigns to supplement this.
The Audit and Risk Committee is notified of any whistleblowing reports.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 27 March 2017.
Geoff Cooper Chairman 27 March 2017 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 47 47
