Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Corporate Governance Report Compliance with good corporate governance is Under the Companys Articles of Association, all Directors important to the Board.
This report sets out how the are required to retire and offer themselves for re-election Company has applied the main principles set out in every three years.
However, in accordance with the the UK Corporate Governance Code published by Code, all Directors will retire and offer themselves for rethe Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 election at the 2017 AGM.
the Code and the extent to which the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code.
The Company Board Operation will be required to apply the main principles of the The Board is responsible for the direction, management 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code for the 2017 2018 and performance of the Company.
The Board held nine annual report.
This report includes relevant provisions scheduled meetings during the year under review and of the Code, where appropriate.
ad hoc meetings were held between scheduled meetings, where required.
Directors attendance at The Board scheduled Board and Committee meetings is set out in The Board currently consists of six Directors: an the table opposite.
The Board is responsible for Executive Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer and providing effective leadership and promoting the four Non-Executive Directors.
Martin Davies is the success of the Group.
The Board has a formal schedule senior independent Non-Executive Director.
The name, of matters reserved specifically to it for decisions which position and brief profile of each Director is set out on include major strategic matters, approval of financial page 76. statements, acquisitions and disposals and significant capital projects, which is kept under regular review to The composition of the Board is kept under review and ensure it is appropriate in light of the Groups activities.
changes are made when appropriate and in the best interests of the Group.
The Board considers that its The Board delegates certain powers to Board Committees, composition during the year had the necessary balance as set out below.
of Executive and Non-Executive Directors providing the desired blend of skills, experience and judgement Board papers are circulated to Directors prior to Board appropriate for the needs of the Groups business and meetings which include up-to-date financial information, overall effectiveness of the Board.
The Boards reports from the Executive Directors and papers on composition also provides entrepreneurial leadership major issues for consideration by the Board.
The Board within an appropriate framework of effective control.
has a formal procedure for Directors to obtain independent professional advice.
The independence of the Non-Executive Directors is considered by the Board on an annual basis.
All NonAll Board members have full access to the Company Executive Directors, save for Andy Rubin, are considered Secretary who is a fully admitted solicitor and attends to be independent by the Board.
Andrew Leslie was all Board and Committee meetings.
The Company formerly an Executive Director of Pentland Brands Plc, Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on a subsidiary of Pentland Group Plc Pentland, the Corporate Governance matters.
The appointment and Companys largest shareholder.
Andrew Leslie does not removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the represent the interests of Pentland on the Board and Board as a whole to determine.
retired from Pentland Brands Plc in 2008.
Andy Rubin is the Chairman of Pentland Brands and a Director of All newly appointed Directors receive an appropriate Pentland Group Plc and is, therefore, not considered by induction when they join the Board.
Relevant training the Board to be an independent Non-Executive is arranged as and when deemed appropriate.
The Board believes that the Non-Executive Directors have provided ample guidance to the Board A performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and perform an effective role in challenging the and individual Directors was conducted during the Executive Directors, when appropriate.
This consisted of an internally run exercise conducted through the completion by each Director of From time to time, the Executive Chairman meets with a questionnaire prepared by the Company Secretary the Non-Executive Directors without the other Director which encourages each Director to give his opinions present to discuss Board performance and other on Board and Committee procedures, operation and matters considered appropriate.
effectiveness as well as any other matter they wish to raise.
The Board considers that all the Directors are able to devote sufficient time to their duties as Directors of the Company.
The brief biographical detail on page 76 includes details of the Chairmans other directorships of listed companies.
The Board is satisfied that these appointments do not conflict with the Chairmans ability to carry out his role effectively for the Group.
Governance Corporate Governance Report continued A separate questionnaire was completed by the Audit Committee Directors other than the Executive Chairman in relation to the performance of the Executive Chairman Membership and Meetings with the Senior Independent Director discussing the The Audit Committee currently comprises three resulting feedback with the other Non-Executive independent Non-Executive Directors: Martin Davies, Directors, taking into account the views of the other Andrew Leslie and Heather Jackson.
Martin Davies Executive Director excluding the Executive Chairman.
The Board considers that The feedback from the evaluation process is used by the composition of the Audit Committee provides the the Board to identify strengths and development areas required skills and experience.
and confirmed that the Board and its Committees were operating effectively.
The Board determined that an The Audit Committee met twice in the year with internal performance evaluation exercise was the external auditor attending part of each meeting.
Details of attendance at Audit Committee meetings are set out in the table opposite.
The Company, through its majority shareholder Pentland Group Plc, maintains appropriate Directors Principal Duties and Officers liability insurance.
The Committees principal duties are to review draft annual and interim financial statements prior to being Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings submitted to the Board, reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, risk management Year to Board Remuneration Audit Nomination and the performance and cost effectiveness of the 28 January 2017 Meetings Committee Committee Committee external auditor.
Total number 9 2 2 1 of meetings Main Activities During the Year P Cowgill 9 2 1 2 1 1 The Committees activities included: B Small 9 - 2 1 - Reviewing the Groups draft financial statements and interim results statement prior to Board approval A Leslie 9 2 2 1 and reviewing the external auditors detailed reports M Davies 9 2 2 1 thereon including internal controls.
H Jackson 9 2 2 1 Reviewing regularly the potential impact on the A Rubin 9 - - - Groups financial statements of certain matters such as impairments of fixed asset values and proposed Notes: International Accounting Standards.
P Cowgill and B Small attended the Remuneration Reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit Committee meetings and or the Audit Committee meetings of the Groups financial statements, key risks of at the invitation of the members of those Committees.
misstatement in the financial statements, confirmations of auditor independence, audit fee and Conflicts of Interest terms of engagement of the auditor.
The Companys Articles of Association permit the Reviewing the independence and effectiveness of Board to consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise the Groups external auditor.
situations where a Director has an interest that conflicts, or possibly could conflict, with the interests of the Reviewing the arrangements in place for employees Company.
The Board considers that the procedures it to be able to raise matters of possible impropriety in has in place for reporting and considering conflicts of confidence to ensure they remain appropriate.
Reviewing the Companys risk register and internal controls.
Board Committees Consideration of whether an internal audit function There are three principal Board Committees to which should be established.
the Board has delegated certain of its responsibilities.
The terms of reference for all three Committees are Financial Statements and Significant Accounting Matters available for inspection on request and are available on The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups the Companys corporate website www.
draft financial statements and interim results statement prior to Board approval.
As part of such review, the Committee considers whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and whether appropriate judgements have been made by management.
The Committee also reviews reports by the external auditor on the full year and half year results.
81 81 81 Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Corporate Governance Report continued The following are material areas in which significant External Auditor judgements have been applied and have been A breakdown of the audit and non-audit related considered by the Committee during the year: fees are set out in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 114.
Non-audit work was comprised Impairment of Goodwill and Fascia Names mainly of tax and other project work and was The Committee considered the assumptions underlying undertaken by the external auditor due to their the calculation of the value in use of the cash generating knowledge and understanding of the Groups units being tested for impairment, primarily the business and in the interests of efficiency.
Larger pieces achievement of the short term business plan, the of non-audit work were awarded following a tender assumptions on discount rates and long term growth process.
The Company regularly instructs other firms rates.
The Committee reviewed the budgets and to provide non-audit services from time to time.
The business plans that support the impairment reviews Committee is satisfied that the level and scope of nonand challenged the key assumptions used audit services performed by the external auditor does and are comfortable that they represent managements not impact their independence.
best estimate at the time.
In light of the recent audit reforms, the Committee The external auditor provides to the Committee has revised its policy on the provision of non-audit detailed explanations of the results of their review services by the external auditor.
The objective of the of the estimate of the value in use, including their new policy is to ensure the external auditors challenge of managements underlying cash flow independence is maintained and to establish projections, the key growth assumptions and appropriate approval levels prior to non-audit work discount rates.
The Committee has also reviewed being undertaken by the external auditor, in compliance the disclosures in the financial statements.
with the new FRC Audit Committee Guidance on nonaudit services.
Under the policy, any non-audit services Valuation of Inventories to be undertaken by the auditor which are not The Committee considered the assumptions used prohibited or potentially prohibited under the audit in the inventory obsolescence provision models reforms require advance authorisation in accordance across the Group.
The valuation of inventories is a with the following: key focus for the Group as its retail businesses are For individual pieces of work below 20,000 - highly seasonal.
The Committee reviews the provision Chief Financial Officer approval required.
models and challenges management on the key Work in excess of 20,000 Committee approval judgements made over aged stock and the level required.
of proceeds for aged stock.
If it is proposed that any potentially prohibited nonThe external auditor reports to the Committee on audit work is carried out by the auditor, this will require the work they have completed and how their audit Committee approval.
work is concentrated on this area.
KPMG have acted as auditor to the Company since its Valuation of Intangible Assets Recognised as Part flotation in 1996 and no tender exercise has been of the Acquisition of Go Outdoors Topco Limited conducted to date.
The lead partner is subject to The Committee has reviewed the acquisition accounting rotation every five years to safeguard independence, in relation to the purchase of Go Outdoors Topco with a new lead partner having been appointed to lead Limited and has considered the assumptions used in the audit during the 2014 15 financial year.
The Audit the intangibles valuation models: primarily the budgets Committee confirms that the Company complied and forecasts, discount rates and royalty rates used.
throughout the financial year under review with The Furthermore, an external party was engaged to review Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market the methodology applied and provide other analysis Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender where relevant.
Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
The Audit Committee does not necessarily The external auditor provides to the Committee intend to recommend to the Board that it carries out a detailed explanations of the results of their review of competitive tender programme for audit services the acquisition accounting, including their challenge within the next financial year, however, the Committee of managements key assumptions and discount rates.
regularly reviews whether such a tender programme The Committee has also reviewed the disclosures in the would be in the best interests of the Companys financial statements.
shareholders and, accordingly, this process will be completed at the appropriate time and in any event, in advance of the deadline for completing a mandatory competitive tender process in order that a new auditor is appointed for the financial year commencing February 2024.
Governance Corporate Governance Report continued The Committee keeps under review the relationship Board Composition and Diversity between the Group and external auditor and, having Whilst the Board is mindful of the recommendations of considered the external auditors performance during the Davies Review and of the Hampton-Alexander their period in office and being satisfied that the Review, the Boards overriding aim is to ensure that external auditor continues to be independent, Board membership is based on merit and that any new recommends their reappointment.
appointments to the Board are measured against objective criteria.
The Board is encouraged by the Internal Audit gender balance within the Companys senior The Company does not currently have an internal audit management team.
The Committee considers on a regular basis whether an internal auditor should be recruited and at Internal Control the current time has determined that this is not There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating necessary, despite overseas expansion, due to the and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
centralised nature of the Groups core operations and This process has been in place for the year under review.
the Groups experienced Profit Protection team who play an effective role in limiting shrinkage, theft and The Board, in conjunction with the Audit Committee, has fraud as well as in stock and cash audits.
The Profit full responsibility for the Groups system of internal Protection Director reports to the Board on a quarterly controls and monitoring their effectiveness.
such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, Remuneration Committee and can only provide reasonable and not absolute The Remuneration Committee currently comprises assurance against material misstatement.
The Board has three independent Non-Executive Directors: Andrew established a well-defined organisation structure with Leslie, Martin Davies and Heather Jackson.
Andrew clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility, Leslie is the chair of the Remuneration Committee.
delegated authority to executive management and a comprehensive financial reporting process.
The Committees principal duties are to determine overall Group remuneration policy, remuneration Key features of the Groups system of internal control packages for Executive Directors and senior and risk management are: management, the terms of Executive Director service Identification and monitoring of the business risks contracts, the terms of any performance related facing the Group, with major risks identified and schemes operated by the Group and awards thereunder.
reported to the Audit Committee and the Board.
Detailed appraisal and authorisation procedures The Committee met twice during the year.
Details of for capital investment.
attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings are Prompt preparation of comprehensive monthly set out in the table on page 81. management accounts providing relevant, reliable and up-to-date information.
These allow for Further details about Directors remuneration are comparison with budget and previous years results.
set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages Significant variances from approved budgets are 85 to 95 investigated as appropriate.
Nomination Committee Preparation of comprehensive annual profit and The Nomination Committee currently comprises Peter cash flow budgets allowing management to monitor Cowgill, the Executive Chairman, and three independent business activities and major risks and the progress Non-Executive Directors, Andrew Leslie, Martin Davies towards financial objectives in the short and medium and Heather Jackson.
The Executive Chairman is the term.
chair of the Nominations Committee.
Monitoring of store procedures and the reporting and investigation of suspected fraudulent activities.
The Committees principal duties are to consider the Reconciliation and checking of all cash and stock size, structure and composition of the Board, ensure balances and investigation of any material differences.
appropriate succession plans are in place for the Board and senior management and, where necessary, consider In addition, the Audit Committee receives detailed new appointments to the Board and senior reports from the external auditor in relation to the management.
The Nominations Committee met once financial statements and the Groups system of internal during the financial year.
From time to time, the full Board performs some of the duties of the Nomination Committee, as was the case during the year under review.
In addition, regular informal discussions on Board structure, succession and performance take place between the NonExecutive Directors and the Executive Chairman.
83 83 83 Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Corporate Governance Report continued The Group has a formal whistleblowing policy in place Compliance with the Code enabling employees to raise concerns in relation to the The Directors consider that during the year under Groups activities on a confidential basis.
Information review and to the date of this report, the Company about whistleblowing channels is made available to all complied with the Code except in relation to the store and Head Office employees.
6.2 The Board did not conduct an It is the Groups policy to conduct all of its business in an externally facilitated evaluation exercise, as the ethical manner.
The Group takes a zero tolerance Board considered it most appropriate to carry out an approach to bribery and corruption, amongst its internal evaluation exercise this year.
The Board will employees, suppliers and any associated parties acting keep under consideration on an annual basis whether on the Groups behalf.
The Group has a detailed Antian externally facilitated exercise is appropriate and Bribery and Corruption Policy and is committed to acting would provide value for money.
professionally, fairly and with integrity in all its business Code provision C. 3.7 The audit has not been put dealings and relationships and to implementing effective out to tender within the last ten years.
In light of systems to counter bribery.
the Code, the Committee will keep under review the appropriate timing for a formal tender.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and believes this to be This report was approved by the Board and signed effective.
In establishing the system of internal control on its behalf by: the Directors have regard to the materiality of relevant risks, the likelihood of a loss being incurred and costs of control.
It follows, therefore, that the system of internal control can only provide a reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against the risk of material misstatement or loss.
The integration of recently acquired businesses into the Brian Small Groups system of internal controls is achieved as quickly Chief Financial Officer as possible.
10 April 2017 Shareholder Relations The Executive Directors maintain an active dialogue with the Companys major shareholders to enhance understanding of their respective objectives, attending meetings and investor roadshows on a regular basis.
The Executive Chairman provides feedback to the Board on issues raised by major shareholders.
This is supplemented by twice yearly formal feedback to the Board on meetings between management, analysts and investors which seeks to convey the financial markets perception of the Group.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which have not been resolved through dialogue with the Executive Directors, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Major shareholders may meet with the Non-Executive Directors upon request.
External brokers reports on the Group are circulated to the Board for consideration.
In addition, the NonExecutive Directors attend results presentations and analyst and institutional investor meetings whenever possible.
The AGM is attended by all Directors, and shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting and to meet with Directors after the formal proceedings have ended.
