Corporate Governance 48 Audit Committee Report Composition The Audit Committee comprises four non-executive directors: M. A. Griths, W. R. G. Barr, P. Powell and D. J. Ritchie.
The Audit Committee is chaired by M. A. Griths.
The Board is satisfied that M. A. Griths has recent and relevant financial experience as required by provision C. 3.1 of the Code.
The Board has determined that the current composition of the Audit Committee as a whole has competence relevant to the sector in which the Company operates.
Biographical details relating to each of the Committee members are shown on page 37.
Meetings The Audit Committee met four times during the year.
The meetings are attended by the Committee members and, by invitation, the Finance Director, the Central Financial Controller, the Company Secretary and representatives from the external and internal auditors.
The Audit Committee regularly meets with executive directors and management, as well as privately with the external and internal auditors.
Role and responsibilities The primary role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fullling its oversight responsibilities.
This includes: monitoring the integrity of the annual and interim financial statements and formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements and disclosures which they contain: if requested by the Board, providing advice on whether the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable: reporting to the Board on the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies and practices: reviewing and monitoring the eectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems: reviewing and monitoring the eectiveness of the internal audit function and managements responsiveness to any findings and recommendations: approving the appointment and removal of the internal auditor: reviewing and monitoring the appropriateness of the Groups whistle-blowing and anti-bribery procedures: making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment and removal of the external auditor and approving its remuneration and terms of engagement: reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the eectiveness of the audit process: reviewing the policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services: and reporting to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
Activities of the Audit Committee During the year the Audit Committee has: reviewed and discussed with the external auditor the key accounting considerations and judgements reected in the Groups results for the six month period ended 30 July 2016: reviewed and agreed the external auditors audit strategy memorandum in advance of its audit for the year ended 28 January 2017: discussed the report received from the external auditor regarding its audit in respect of the year ended 28 January 2017, which report included comments on its findings on internal control and on the disclosure of risks and a statement on its independence and objectivity: received and reviewed reports from management regarding their approach to key accounting considerations and judgements in the half year and full year financial statements: reviewed the half year and full year financial statements: received reports on the operation of the Groups Risk Committee: reviewed the Groups risk register and the Groups principal risks, together with the systems and processes for mitigating those risks: discussed and agreed the nature and scope of the work to be performed by the external and internal auditors: reviewed the results of this audit work and the response of management to matters raised: reviewed the eectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems including financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls : reviewed the appropriateness of the Groups whistle-blowing procedures: reviewed the eectiveness of the Groups anti-bribery systems and controls: received reports from internal audit covering various aspects of the Groups operations, controls and processes: reviewed the Groups delegated authority limits: approved the reappointment of the internal auditor: conducted a competitive tender process for the external audit for 2017 18 onwards, made recommendations to the Board on the appointment and remuneration of the external auditor and monitored the performance of the incumbent auditor: monitored and reviewed the performance of the internal auditor and the eectiveness of the Groups internal audit activities: reviewed its policies on the supply of non-audit services by the external auditor and on the employment of former employees of the Groups external auditor: A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts 49 reviewed the non-audit services provided to the Group by the external auditor and monitored and assessed the independence of both the external and internal auditors: and reviewed the performance of the Audit Committee and its terms of reference.
At the request of the Board, the Audit Committee also considered whether the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 28 January 2017, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Following review of managements processes in this regard and consideration of the draft Annual Report and Accounts, the Audit Committee recommended to the Board that it could make the required disclosure as set out in the Directors Responsibilities Statement on page 77. significant areas The significant matters and key accounting judgements considered by the Audit Committee during the year were: The carrying value of brand support accruals: judgement is required when ascertaining the level of accrual required in relation to promotions and brand support campaigns that span the year end, or where settlement has not been fully and nally settled by the year end, or which relate to prior years.
During the year the Audit Committee received a report from the management team on the commercial investment process.
It also received and considered reports from management on the level of accruals at the half year and at the year end.
The Audit Committee was content that there were no issues arising.
The valuation of inventory: the valuation of inventory is judgemental due to the volatile nature of raw material commodity prices and, as the Group uses standard costing, changes in production levels can lead to purchase price variances which require to be accounted for correctly.
During the year the Audit Committee considered and was satisfied with reports from the internal auditor and management regarding the controls operating in relation to inventory management at the Milton Keynes site.
The Audit Committee discussed and challenged managements judgements in relation to inventory valuation and considered reports from the external auditor on this area and were satisfied that inventory valuations were reasonable.
Other areas Other matters considered by the Audit Committee during the year were: Exceptional items: the Audit Committee considered reports received from management in relation to the classication and presentation of certain items as exceptional and was satisfied with the treatment and presentation of various items which arose during the year as exceptional, the majority of which related to the closure of the dened benefit pension scheme to future accrual and the Company-wide reorganisation.
Dened benefit pension scheme: during the year the Audit Committee considered and was satisfied with reports received from the Groups external auditor and management relating to the accounting for the closure of the dened benefit pension scheme to future accrual.
The presentation of adjusted performance measures.
Accounting for the Funkin acquisition: during the year the Audit Committee considered and was satisfied with the Companys approach to accounting for the Funkin acquisition.
The Audit Committee receives regular presentations from members of the senior management team.
During the year, the Audit Committee has considered presentations from representatives of the management team on the Companys franchise arrangements, the purchase to pay process and the Finance Service Centre.
External audit The Groups external auditor is KPMG LLP.
The Audit Committee reviews the external auditors performance, independence and objectivity annually.
The Audit Committee ensures that procedures are in place to safeguard the external auditors independence and objectivity.
The external auditor reports regularly to the Audit Committee on the actions that it has taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and current best practice in order to maintain its independence and objectivity.
The Group has a policy in place which ensures that the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor does not impair the auditors independence or objectivity.
Where fees for any non-audit project are expected to exceed 50,000, the prior approval of the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Finance Director is required.
Where fees for non-audit projects are in aggregate expected to exceed 150,000, the prior approval of the Audit Committee is required.
This policy was complied with during the year.
The Audit Committee has reviewed and amended this policy in preparation for the new EU regulation on non-audit services.
The revised policy states that the external auditor should not be engaged in respect of services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard 2016.
Any other non-trivial non-audit services provided must be pre-approved by the Audit Committee, unless the engagement is urgent, in which case the Finance Director can agree the work with the Chairman of the Audit Committee and report to the next Audit Committee meeting.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate Governance 50 Audit Committee Report continued Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor during the year for audit and non-audit services are set out in note 3 to the financial statements.
The ratio of fees for non-audit services to those for audit services for the year was 2.6:1.
The Audit Committee considered the nature and level of non-audit services provided and was satisfied that the objectivity and independence of the external auditor were not aected by the non-audit work undertaken.
A significant proportion of the non-audit fees during the year were for pension advisory services, and the remainder related to the provision of tax advisory, tax compliance and corporate finance transaction services.
The level of fees for non-audit services was considered by KPMG who concluded that they did not present a threat to KPMGs independence.
KPMG Audit Plc was appointed as the Groups external auditor in May 2009 following a competitive tender process.
A resolution proposing the appointment of KPMG LLP, KPMG Audit Plcs parent entity, as the Groups external auditor was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
There are no contractual obligations which restrict the Audit Committees choice of external auditor.
The senior statutory auditor rotates every five years to ensure independence: an audit partner rotation took place at the end of the 2013 14 financial year and the Audit Committee took steps to ensure that a new appropriately qualied and independent senior statutory auditor became responsible for the audit of the Groups financial statements with eect from 2014 15.
The Audit Committee acknowledges the requirement under the Code to tender the external audit contract at least every ten years.
Following the introduction of the new EU regulation on non-audit services, the Audit Committee has taken the opportunity to re-assess the role of various providers of such services to ensure full compliance with the new regulation in relation to the provision of such services going forward.
As a consequence, during the year, the Audit Committee conducted a competitive tender process for the audit for 2017 18 onwards.
Three audit rms not including the incumbent auditor KPMG LLP were invited to tender by the Audit Committee.
Each rm prepared a formal written proposal which was considered by the Audit Committee.
The proposed audit partners and key members of the audit teams of each of the tendering rms attended a meeting with the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Finance Director and certain members of senior management where they presented their proposals and answered questions thereon.
The Audit Committee considered the proposals and recommended the appointment of Deloitte LLP.
The Board approved the Audit Committees preferred rm for recommendation to shareholders.
The Company will seek shareholder approval of the appointment of Deloitte LLP at the Companys 2017 AGM.
The Company confirms that it has complied with the provisions of the Competition and Markets Authoritys Statutory Audit Services Order in respect of the financial year under review.
The Audit Committee carried out a review of the eectiveness of the external audit process during the year.
This review included an externally facilitated detailed and comprehensive evaluation of the Groups external auditor by means of a written survey questionnaire completed by Audit Committee members and certain members of senior management, including the executive directors.
The results of the evaluation were shared with the Groups external auditor.
The Audit Committee reviewed comprehensive papers from both management and the Groups external auditor, which set out the planning and execution of the conduct of the audit.
The Audit Committee held a meeting with the Groups external auditor in the absence of management to discuss further.
Following this review, the Audit Committee was satisfied with KPMG LLPs performance during the year, that it was objective and independent, and that the external audit process was eective.
Internal audit At the beginning of each year, an internal control plan is developed by the internal auditor following meetings with directors and senior managers within the business and with reference to the significant risks contained within the Groups risk register and identied controls.
The Audit Committee receives updates on progress against the internal control plan throughout the year.
Martin A. Griths Chairman of the Audit Committee 28 March 2017 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017
