Corporate Governance Chairmans Introduction Over the long term, NEXT has grown its business and created shareholder value against the backdrop of a challenging and changing external environment.
This is the ultimate measure of our success and reflects our strong corporate governance structure and the effective management team we have in place.
We remain committed to the robust approach to governance which has served the business well.
As Chairman, my role is to manage the Board, ensuring it operates effectively and contains the right balance of skills and experience, promoting a healthy culture of challenge and scrutiny.
The Board is collectively responsible for the long term success of the Company and for setting and executing the business strategy.
In particular, the Board is responsible for monitoring financial performance together with setting and monitoring our risk framework and risk appetite.
Through working closely with our business areas, our directors and senior management promote NEXTs culture and standards and help to provide a strong corporate governance framework.
I firmly believe that this culture will continue to be a key contributor to delivering sustainable long term value for stakeholders.
John Barton Chairman 23 March 2017 responsible for the Groups system of risk management Compliance with UK and internal control and for monitoring implementation of its policies by the Chief Executive.
The system of internal Corporate Governance control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide Code reasonable and not absolute assurance against material The Group complied throughout the year under review with misstatement or loss.
the provisions set out in the 2014 UK Corporate Governance The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for it and Code the Code which is the version of the Code that holds regular meetings where it approves major decisions, applies to its 2016 17 financial year.
The sections below including investments, treasury and dividend policies detail how the Company has complied with the Code, which and significant items of capital expenditure.
The Board is is available from the Financial Reporting Council website responsible for approving semi-annual Group budgets.
These disclosures are ordered into the Performance against budget is reported to the Board monthly sections as they appear in the Code.
Disclosures required and any substantial variances are explained.
Forecasts for by the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR each half year are revised and reviewed monthly.
6, with regard to share capital are presented in the Share other important matters are subject to weekly or monthly capital and major shareholders and Additional information reporting to the Board or Board Committee, including sales, sections of the Directors Report on pages 45 and 46. treasury operations and capital expenditure programmes.
Directors biographies and Board Committees membership Board papers including reports from the Chief Executive and are set out on pages 40 and 41. other executive directors are circulated in advance of each Board meeting.
Leadership In addition, our executive directors drive forward operational business strategies by way of attendance at key trading A.
1 Role of the Board meetings and working closely with our business areas.
The Board is responsible for providing effective leadership This style of management serves to align with our risk whilst delegating more detailed matters to its committees management framework and facilitates senior management and officers including the Chief Executive.
The Board sets setting the tone from the top.
strategic priorities and oversees their delivery in a way that enables sustainable long term growth.
co. uk slugline Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Management delegation Nomination Committee The Chief Executive has delegated authority for the day to The Committee consists of the Chairman and all the day management of the business to operational management independent non-executive directors including the senior drawn from executive directors and other senior management independent director.
The Committee meets whenever who have responsibility for their respective areas.
The most necessary to consider succession planning for directors and important management meetings are the weekly NEXT other senior executives and to ensure that requisite skills Brand trading and capital expenditure meetings which and expertise are available to the Board to address future consider the performance and development of the NEXT challenges and opportunities.
The Nomination Committee Brand through its different distribution channels.
These and Report on page 53 describes the Board appointments other senior management meetings cover risk management process and its approach to diversity.
of all business areas in respect of the NEXT Brand, including A.
2 Division of responsibilities product, sales, property, warehousing, systems and personnel.
Key performance indicators are monitored daily, There is a clear division of responsibilities between the offices weekly and monthly.
of Chairman and Chief Executive, which is set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman manages the Board Attendance at Board and Committee meetings to ensure that the Group has appropriate objectives and an The Board held eleven formal meetings during the year, the effective strategy: that there is a high calibre Chief Executive Audit Committee held four meetings, the Remuneration with a team of executive directors able to implement the Committee held seven meetings and the Nomination strategy: that there are procedures in place to inform the Committee held three meetings.
All meetings were fully Board of performance against objectives: and that the Group attended other than two Nomination Committee meetings is operating in accordance with a high standard of corporate which John Barton did not attend as his succession as governance.
Chairman was considered at these meetings.
The Board sets objectives and annual targets for the Chief The Board has appointed committees to carry out certain of Executive to achieve.
The Board is responsible for general its duties, three of which are detailed below.
Each of these policy on how these objectives are achieved and delegates is chaired by a different director and has written terms of the implementation of that policy to the Chief Executive.
The reference which are available on the Companys website or Chief Executive is required to report at each Board meeting on request.
all material matters affecting the Group and its performance.
3 The Chairman The Committee consists of all the independent nonThe Chairman, John Barton, became a member of the Board executive directors including the senior independent nonin 2002 and was an independent non-executive director executive director and at least one member Steve Barber, of the Company prior to his appointment as Chairman on the Committee Chairman with recent and relevant financial 17 May 2006.
His other significant commitments are noted experience.
The Audit Committee Report on page 54 on page 40, and the Board considers that these are not a describes the role and activities of the Committee.
constraint on his agreed time commitment to the Company.
4 Non-executive directors The Committee consists of the Chairman and all the Francis Salway is our Senior Independent Director.
Meetings independent non-executive directors and is chaired of the non-executive directors without the executive by Caroline Goodall.
The Committee determines the directors being present are held at least annually, both with remuneration of the executive directors in accordance with and without the Chairman.
the Remuneration Policy and reviews the remuneration of senior management.
Page 58 of the Remuneration Report summarises the role and activities of the Committee.
n e x t p l c. c o. u k 49 slugline Corporate Governance B.
Effectiveness On joining the Board, new members receive a personalised B.
1 Composition of the Board induction, tailored to their experience, background and understanding of the Groups operations.
Individual training The Board currently includes five independent non-executive and development needs are reviewed as part of the annual directors and the Chairman who bring considerable Board evaluation process and training is provided where a knowledge, judgement and experience to the Group.
The need is identified or requested.
All directors receive frequent Board has a good record of recruiting new non-executive updates on a variety of issues relevant to the Groups directors at regular intervals to achieve appropriate rotation business, including legal, regulatory and governance issues, and continuity.
with visits to stores and warehouse operations organised As is best practice, we continually assess and refresh the periodically to assist with directors understanding of the Board to ensure we maintain an appropriate balance of operational aspects of the business.
Jonathan Bewes joined the Board on 3 October 2016 as a non-executive director and brings with B.
5 Information and support him a great deal of banking and financial experience.
The There is a regular flow of written and oral information between Board also appointed Michael Roney on 14 February 2017 all directors irrespective of the timing of Board meetings.
as a non-executive director, Deputy Chairman and Chairman The Company Secretary attends all Board meetings and is Designate.
Michael will succeed John Barton as Chairman responsible for advising the Board on corporate governance when he steps down from the Board on 1 August 2017. matters and facilitating the flow of information within the Further details about these appointments are provided in Board.
the Nomination Committee Report on page 53.
Should directors judge it necessary to seek independent Steve Barber is our longest serving non-executive director, advice about the performance of their duties with the having first been elected at the 2008 AGM.
Steve will stand Company, they are entitled to do so at the Companys down from the Board at the end of the 2017 AGM.
Details of professional assistance in relation to Bewes will succeed him as Chair of the Audit Committee at Remuneration Policy matters are shown on page 84. that time.
After giving thorough consideration to the matter, the B.
6 Evaluation Board considers that all of its non-executive directors This year an internal evaluation of the Board and Committees are independent in character and judgement, and their was completed with the process being facilitated by the knowledge, diversity of experience and other business Company Secretary.
The review covered all aspects of the interests continue to enable them to contribute significantly effectiveness of the Board and its Committees including to the work of the Board.
composition, experience, dynamics, the Chairmans leadership, and the Boards role and responsibilities with B.
2 Appointments to the Board particular regard to strategy, oversight of risk and succession For information on the procedure for appointment of new planning.
All directors continue to be of the opinion that the directors to the Board, and the role of the Nomination Board and its Committees were functioning effectively and Committee in this process, refer to the Nomination that the processes underpinning the Boards effectiveness Committee Report on page 53. remained appropriate.
An externally facilitated review was carried out in the B.
3 Commitment 2015 16 financial year by Independent Audit Limited.
This Following the Board evaluation process, detailed further review highlighted that the Board dynamics were positive below, the Board is satisfied that each of the directors is able and constructive, with a strong focus on shareholder to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their interests and the non-executives have a broad range of responsibilities effectively.
No executive director holds any skills and experience and a good degree of commitment.
non-executive directorships outside the Group.
Areas for possible attention highlighted by the evaluation Contracts and letters of appointment of directors are made were incorporated into existing plans and reassessed as part available at the AGM, and are available for inspection at the of the internal evaluation carried out during the 2016 17 Companys registered office during normal business hours or financial year.
co. uk slugline Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The senior independent non-executive director leads the C. 2 Risk management and appraisal of the performance of the Chairman through internal control discussions with all the directors individually and, together with the Chairman, appraises the performance of the Chief The Board is responsible for the Groups risk Executive.
The performance of the executive directors is management process and has delegated responsibility monitored throughout the year by the Chief Executive and for its implementation to the Chief Executive and senior the Chairman.
The Chairman also monitors the performance management best qualified in each area of the business.
The Board sets guidance on the general level of risk which is acceptable and has a considered approach to evaluating risk B.
7 Re-election and reward and promoting a risk aware culture throughout the business.
The Companys Articles of Association require directors to submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at least The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the once every three years.
However, the Board has determined principal risks facing the Company and has also conducted that all directors will stand for re-election or election at each an annual review of the effectiveness of the systems of AGM in accordance with the Code, with the exception of internal control during the year.
Please refer to page 30 in the Steve Barber, who will be stepping down after serving ten Strategic Report for further information.
Risk management years as a non-executive director.
and internal control is a continuous process and has been considered by the Board on a regular basis throughout the C. Accountability year.
This includes identifying and evaluating principal risks, determining control strategies and considering how they C. 1 Financial and business reporting may impact on the achievement of the business objectives.
The Board promotes the development of a strong control Please refer to: culture within the business.
The Audit Committee regularly page 47 for the Boards statement on the annual report reviews strategic and operational risk, and has reviewed and accounts being fair, balanced and understandable: the principal risks described on pages 31 to 34 and the page 93 for details of the Independent Auditors associated controls and mitigating factors.
responsibilities: and The Board considers that the Groups management structure pages 26 and 27 of the Strategic Report for an explanation and continuous monitoring of key performance indicators of the Companys business model and strategy for provide the ability to identify promptly any material areas delivering the objectives of the Company.
Business continuity plans, procedures manuals and codes of conduct are maintained in respect of specific Going concern and viability assessment major risk areas and business processes.
Through these measures the management of business risk is an integral part The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely of Group policy and the Board will continue to develop risk to affect its future development, performance and position management and internal controls where necessary.
are set out in the Strategic Report, which also describes the Groups financial position, cash flows and borrowing The use of a Group accounting manual and prescribed facilities.
Further information on these areas is detailed in reporting requirements for finance teams throughout the the financial statements.
Information on the Groups financial Group ensures that the Groups accounting policies are management objectives, and how derivative instruments are clearly established and consistently applied.
Information used to hedge its capital, credit and liquidity risks is provided is appropriately reviewed and reconciled as part of the in Note 24 of the financial statements.
reporting process and the use of a standard reporting package by all entities in the Group ensures that information The directors report that, having reviewed current is presented consistently to facilitate the production of the performance and forecasts, they have a reasonable consolidated financial statements.
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue its operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The directors have also assessed the prospects of the Company over a three year period.
Further details of the viability assessment are provided on page 35. n e x t p l c. c o. u k 51 slugline Corporate Governance C. 3 Audit Committee and auditors E. 2 Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting For further information on the Companys compliance with the Code provision relating to the Audit Committee and All shareholders have an opportunity to ask questions or auditors, please refer to the Audit Committee Report on represent their views formally to the Board at the AGM, or pages 54 to 57. informally with directors after the meeting.
D. Remuneration Other disclosures For further information on the Companys compliance with the Code provision relating to remuneration, please refer to Directors conflicts of interest the Remuneration Report on page 84.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, the Board has a formal system in place for directors to declare E. Relations with shareholders situational conflicts to be considered for authorisation by those directors who have no interest in the matter being E. 1 Dialogue with shareholders considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a situational The Company actively engages with investors and the Chief conflict, the non-conflicted directors consider the situation in Executive and Group Finance Director are involved in regular conjunction with their general duties under the Companies one-to-one meetings, roadshows and conferences with Act 2006.
They may impose limits or conditions when giving institutional investors.
There is also regular communication an authorisation or subsequently if considered appropriate.
with institutional investors on key business issues.
Any situational conflicts considered by the Board, and any authorisations given, are recorded in the Board minutes and in The Board communicates with its shareholders in respect a register of conflicts which is reviewed annually by the Board.
of the Groups business activities through its Annual Report, yearly and half yearly announcements and other regular trading statements.
Full year and other public announcements are presented in a consistent format with a particular focus on making the presentations as meaningful, understandable and comparable as possible.
This information is also made publicly available via the Companys website www.
The Companys largest shareholders are invited to the annual and half year results presentations, at which executive and non-executive directors are present.
Non-executive directors attend other meetings with shareholders if requested.
Our shareholder views are also communicated to the Board through regular reports of shareholder feedback and statements made by representative associations.
Whilst the Board recognises that it is primarily accountable to the Companys shareholders, the views of other providers of capital are also considered.
The Board takes care not to disseminate information of a share price sensitive nature which is not available to the market as a whole.
