Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Nomination Committee Report These candidates met with Francis Salway and Lord Wolfson, Board appointments process and two shortlisted candidates were then interviewed by the The Committee adopts a formal and transparent procedure Nomination Committee members.
Following consideration for the appointment of new directors to the Board.
of interview feedback it became clear that Michael Roney was the most suitable candidate to succeed John Barton External consultants may be used to assist in identifying as Chairman.
Michael Roney then met with the three suitable external Board candidates, based on a written executive directors who subsequently also confirmed that specification for each appointment.
The Chairman is his experience and attributes made Michael an excellent responsible for providing a shortlist of candidates for candidate.
consideration by the Nomination Committee which then makes its recommendation for final approval by the Board.
The Board approved the appointment of Michael and he The Nomination Committee is led by the Senior Independent joined the Board as non-executive director, Deputy Chairman Director when dealing with the appointment of a successor and Chairman Designate with effect from 14 February 2017. to the Board chairmanship.
Michael will succeed John Barton as Chairman on 1 August 2017, subject to reappointment by shareholders at the AGM New Board appointments in May 2017.
Michael met the independence requirements set out in the UK Corporate Code on appointment and has In anticipation of Steve Barbers intended retirement at the confirmed he is able to dedicate the requisite time to the 2017 AGM, a description of the role and required capabilities role.
A number of larger shareholders were contacted by was prepared for a replacement non-executive director.
The Francis Salway just prior to the announcement to make them Committee was advised of the availability of Jonathan Bewes aware of this decision.
to act in this capacity and considered his suitability for the role and his other commitments in light of the existing skills Diversity and knowledge of the Board as a whole.
It was concluded that his broad range of skills and experience, particularly in Appointments to the Board, as with other positions finance and in the financial services sector, would assist the within the Group, are made on merit according to the Board and enable him to make a valuable contribution to balance of skills and experience offered by prospective the Group and as the successor to Steve Barber, as Audit candidates.
Whilst acknowledging the benefits of diversity, Committee Chairman.
The Board as a whole determined individual appointments are made irrespective of personal it unlikely that external searches would identify other characteristics such as race, religion or gender and the candidates who would improve on the specific knowledge Committee will always seek to appoint the candidate with the and expertise that Jonathan offered.
Accordingly, Jonathan most appropriate skills and experience.
The Board had 36% was appointed to the Board with effect from 3 October 2016. female representation at the date of approval of this report and, following the retirement of Steve Barber May 2017 Once John Barton indicated his intention to step down and John Barton August 2017, this will increase to 44%.
as Chairman, the Nomination Committee, led by Francis The number of directors, senior managers and employees by Salway Senior Independent Director commenced its search gender is given in the Strategic Report on page 36. for a suitable successor.
An external search firm, JCA Group JCA, was engaged to assist and advise the Committee on the search and appointment process.
In consultation with the Committee and Lord Wolfson Chief Executive, JCA designed a specification for the desired candidate.
Candidate profiles were prepared by JCA for consideration by the Committee to agree a list of the strongest candidates.
