Audit Committee Report Chairmans Introduction During the year the Audit Committee has continued to assist the Board in discharging its responsibilities with regard to financial reporting, controls, internal audit and external audit.
It has continued to review and challenge management on the robustness and effectiveness of internal controls and risk management systems, and this year has also managed the external audit tender process.
Following changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code and EU Regulation which require auditor tendering and rotation, the Committee led a robust external audit tender process during the year leading to the Boards recommendation at the 2017 AGM to appoint  LLP PwC as auditor for the 2017 18 financial year.
Further details of the audit tender are provided below.
I would like to record my thanks to our outgoing auditor Ernst & Young LLP EY and their partners and staff for their many years of excellent service to the shareholders of NEXT.
I have enjoyed working with them and have valued their challenge and robust approach to the audit, as well as the professionalism they have brought to the Audit Committee meetings.
This is my final report to shareholders as Audit Committee Chairman as I retire from the Board immediately after the 2017 AGM.
At that time, Jonathan Bewes, our recently appointed non-executive director, will become Audit Committee Chairman.
Jonathan is a Chartered Accountant, and possesses recent and relevant financial experience and the skills necessary to effectively chair the Committee.
I would like to thank NEXTs management and the members of the Audit Committee for their counsel and support during my time as a non-executive director at NEXT.
Steve Barber Chairman of the Audit Committee 23 March 2017 Membership and meetings Committee activities The composition of the Committee is described on page 49.
The Committees roles and responsibilities are covered in The Committees wide range of financial and commercial skills its Terms of Reference, which were last reviewed in January and experience serves to provide the necessary expertise 2017.
A copy of the Terms of Reference is available on our and knowledge required for the efficient and robust working Companys website www.
The Committee holds regular, structured meetings and consults with external auditors and senior management, including internal audit, where appropriate.
The Committee frequently requests that executive directors and senior managers attend meetings in order to reinforce a strong culture of risk management and to keep the Committee up to date with events in the business.
The Group Finance Director and the Group Chairman attended all of this years meetings.
co. uk slugline Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Committees main activities during the financial year The Committee discussed the systems and processes in were as follows: relation to the valuation and accounting treatment of such contracts with management and the external auditor.
In Review of financial statements addition, the Board reviewed and renewed the detailed operating authority framework and limits in place for The Committee reviews the financial statements of the Group execution of such arrangements.
and assesses whether suitable accounting policies have been adopted and whether management has made appropriate d. Inventory valuation.
The Committee reviewed and agreed estimates and judgements.
The Committee is satisfied that the methodology for calculating the net realisable values the judgements made by management are reasonable, and of inventories, which has been applied consistently.
that suitable accounting policies have been adopted and e. Other accounting estimates.
The Committee reviewed appropriate disclosures have been made in the accounts.
reports on the reasonableness and consistency of The Committees review of the half year and full year financial other accounts estimates such as product return rates statements focused on the following areas of significance, and property provisions.
Through discussions with all of which were discussed and addressed with our external management and the external auditor, the Committee is auditor throughout the full year external audit process.
There satisfied that they remain appropriate and reasonable.
were no significant differences between management and external auditor conclusions.
New accounting standards a. Directory receivables and related provisions for doubtful During the year the Committee considered the potential debts.
These, at 1.0bn, represent the largest asset impact on the Groups financial statements of three new class on the Groups balance sheet and have increased accounting standards: significantly during the year, principally as a result of a. IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers will reduction in the monthly minimum payments now be effective for the year ending January 2019 onwards, required to be made by customers.
and is not expected to have a significant impact on the Based on detailed reports and through discussions with Groups revenues.
The majority of the Groups sales are management and the external auditor, the Committee for standalone products made direct to customers at reviewed and assessed the basis and level of provisions standard prices either in store or through the Directory.
and their sensitivity and is satisfied that the judgements Estimates are already made of anticipated returns and made were reasonable, consistent with the prior year and sales awaiting delivery to the customer.
b. IFRS 9 Financial instruments will be effective for the b.
Pension scheme funding, accounting and actuarial reports.
year ending January 2019 onwards, the main impact Prepared in accordance with International Accounting being the impairment assessment methodology used Standards, the Groups balance sheet shows a net surplus to value our Directory receivables.
An assessment of the of 62.9m, comprised of 873.8m assets and 810.9m full impact of this standard is in progress.
This compares with a net surplus of 46.0m in modelling amendments will be implemented in line with the previous year.
The Committee reviewed the actuarial assumptions c. IFRS 16 Leases will be effective for the year ending underlying the calculations and was satisfied that they are January 2020 onwards and the impact on the financial reasonable.
They are highly sensitive to small changes, statements will be significant.
IFRS 16 requires lessees to particularly in respect of discount rates and inflation, recognise a lease liability reflecting future lease payments and are not intended to reflect the full cost of a fully and a right-of-use asset for all lease contracts.
Therefore, funded pension buyout refer to Note 18 of the financial the substantial majority of the Groups operating lease statements.
commitments some 2bn on an undiscounted basis, as shown in Note 29 of the financial statements would be c. Hedge accounting.
Forward contracts and options brought on balance sheet and amortised and depreciated are used to manage the Sterling cost of future product separately.
There will be no impact on cash flows although purchases: this provides certainty to the cost of purchases the presentation of the cash flow statement will change and therefore enables selling prices and gross margins significantly.
Management are currently working on to be set.
Interest rate swap arrangements are used to the new processes and systems that will be required to reduce the Groups exposure to changes in interest rates.
comply with this accounting standard.
n e x t p l c. c o. u k 55 slugline Audit Committee Report the Groups IT systems and during the year an independent Viability statement and going cyber security review was undertaken.
Please refer to more concern detail provided on page 30 of the principal risks section of the Strategic report.
The Committee performed a detailed review of the Groups projected cash flows, facilities and covenants which covered Other activities a three year period our viability assessment period.
The During the year the Committee received reports and proposed approach was discussed and agreed by the presentations from senior management on other significant Committee in October 2016 and followed up more recently activities of the Group, including Directory marketing, by reviewing the Groups financial position and performance, social media and e-commerce, regulatory compliance and budgets for 2017 18 and three year cash projections which developments, property, corporate responsibility, suppliers were stress tested for different scenarios having regard to and Code of Practice ethical and responsible sourcing.
the principal risks faced by the business.
The Committee The Groups internal controls in areas such as finance, IT, reported to the Board that, in its view, the going concern and product are also regularly reviewed by the Committee.
In addition, as regards Frequent updates are received on health and safety, risk the Groups viability assessment, the directors confirmed management, business continuity, whistleblowing and that they have reasonable expectation that the Group will corporate governance.
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year review period.
Further details of this Whistleblowing review are on page 35.
The Companys whistleblowing procedures ensure that Risk management and internal arrangements are in place to enable employees and suppliers to raise concerns about possible improprieties on control a confidential basis.
Any significant issues are reported to the The Committee regularly reviews the effectiveness of risk Audit Committee.
management, and during the year has reviewed the key risks together with the associated controls and mitigating External auditor factors.
Further details regarding the risk framework and approach, together with details of NEXTs principal risks and Effectiveness risk assessment are on pages 30 to 34.
The Committee had discussions with the external auditor on audit planning, fees, accounting policies, audit findings Internal audit and internal control.
The external auditor attended all of this The Committee reviewed the level of internal audit resource, years Committee meetings.
The Committee assessed the experience and expertise, and believes that it is adequate effectiveness of the external audit through the review of audit for the size, structure and business risks of the Group and plans, reports and conclusions and through discussions with is supplemented with appropriate external resources where management both with and without the external auditor needed.
The Committee reviews and approves the scope present and the external auditor both with and without of the internal audit work plan and ensures it is aligned to management present.
The Committee was satisfied that the the key risks of the business.
The Head of Internal Audit audit was effective.
is invited to all Audit Committee meetings and provides In addition, the Chairman of the Audit Committee regularly regular reports and updates.
The Head of Internal Audit has meets with the Audit Partner outside formal meetings.
The direct access to all Committee members and is given the Committee is satisfied that EY continued to possess the skills opportunity to meet with them separately.
and experience required to fulfil its duties effectively and efficiently during the financial year.
IT systems The operations of the Group are highly reliant on its IT Independence and objectivity systems.
The Committee receives regular updates from EY has reported to the Committee that, in its professional the IT and operations teams covering various aspects of judgement, it is independent within the meaning of regulatory IT and cyber security.
In this rapidly moving area, there is and professional requirements and the objectivity of the inevitably a risk that a systems failure or cyber attack could audit engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
Substantial resources The Audit Committee has assessed the independence of the are therefore devoted to the development and security of auditor, and concurs with this statement.
co. uk slugline Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information process is time and resource consuming for all of the parties Non-audit work carried out by the external involved, and was therefore determined to have a concise, auditor yet efficient and thorough process.
They were also keen to In order to ensure the continued independence and ensure equivalent access to management and information objectivity of the Groups external auditor, the Board has for each firm.
strict policies regarding the provision of non-audit services The Committee commenced the initial selection process in by the external auditor.
January 2016 by agreeing the selection criteria and considered The Committees approval is required in advance for five firms.
EY was not invited to tender because regulation the provision of any non-audit services if the fee exceeds would limit its future tenure to no more than three years as 100,000 for an individual assignment, or if the aggregate a result of the long period during which they have acted as non-audit fees for the year exceed 150,000 or 20% of the the Companys external auditor.
One firm was conflicted and audit fee.
another was not in a position to provide the local service required, therefore three firms, PwC, KPMG and Deloitte were The Committee reviews audit and non-audit fees twice invited to tender.
Our largest shareholders were invited to a year.
Proposed assignments of non-audit services with comment on the process and no issues were raised.
anticipated fees in excess of 50,000 are generally subject to competitive tender and decisions on the award of work Participating firms were granted access to key members of are made on the basis of competence, cost-effectiveness management and the Audit Committee, as well as access to and legislation.
A tender process may not be undertaken a wealth of information about the Group.
They also attended where existing knowledge of the Group enables the auditor a full days briefing in April 2016 which included group to provide the relevant services more cost-effectively than meetings with all firms, comprising a series of presentations other parties.
The Groups external auditor is prohibited from from key senior managers explaining the NEXT business.
providing any services that would conflict with their statutory Following these meetings, the firms submitted formal audit responsibilities or which would otherwise compromise their proposal documents covering predetermined areas of focus, objectivity or independence.
During the year, EYs audit fee including audit quality, audit approach, independence, amounted to 0.6m and EYs non-audit fees were 0.2m risk identification and audit scope.
In June 2016, each firm in total.
In line with the above policy, appropriate advance presented to the Audit Committee, at which certain members approval was obtained from the Committee.
Further details of NEXTs management were also present.
are provided in Note 3 of the financial statements.
Subsequent to the presentations, the Audit Committee In line with the new EU audit reform regulations which come met and concluded that they would propose two firms to into force for NEXT for the first time for the financial year the Board, PwC and KPMG, both of which met the pre- 2017 18, the Audit Committee has set in place procedures agreed selection and assessment criteria, albeit that they to ensure only permitted non-audit services are provided by indicated a preference for PwC.
The Board reviewed the the auditor and these are in line with the above policy.
These Audit Committees proposal and approved the appointment procedures will also ensure that the new cap on permitted of PwC for the 2017 18 financial year.
A resolution to this non-audit services of 70% of the average Group audit fee paid effect will be submitted to shareholders for approval at the on a rolling three year basis is not exceeded, even though this 2017 Annual General Meeting.
will not apply to NEXT until the financial year 2020 21.
External audit tender CMA Order 2014 Statement The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board the appointment, re-appointment and removal of of Compliance the external auditor.
EY, or its predecessor firms, have been NEXT confirms that it was in compliance with the provisions the Groups auditor for over 20 years and there has been of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies regular partner rotation, most recently in 2012.
Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender As disclosed in last years Audit Committee Report, and Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order following changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 during the financial year ended 28 January 2017. and EU Regulation requiring auditor tendering and rotation, during 2016 the Committee led a process to select a new external auditor for the financial year ending January 2018.
The Committee was conscious that the audit tender n e x t p l c. c o. u k 57 slugline
