GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 LEADERSHIP BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors is responsible for the effective stewardship of the Companys activities in order to ensure the long-term success of the Company in the interest of shareholders.
Ian Reeves Clive Spears ACIB, MCISI David Pirouet FCA CBE, CCMI, FCInstCES, FRSA, FINSTD Deputy Chairman Audit & Risk committee Chairman Chairman Clive Spears, a Jersey resident, is a career qualified David Pirouet, a Jersey resident, is a qualified Ian Reeves CBE, a UK resident, is an entrepreneur, corporate banker with 32 years experience with accountant.
He was an audit and assurance partner international businessman and adviser.
He is the Royal Bank of Scotland Group of which the last for 20 years with PwC CI LLP until he retired in Senior Partner of Synaps Partners LLP and 18 years were spent in Jersey until retirement in June 2009.
He specialised in the financialservices visiting Professor of Infrastructure Investment 2003.
Relevant experience has spanned corporate sector, in particular in the alternative investment andConstruction at Alliance Manchester Business finance, treasury products, global custody and management area.
Since retiring from PwCCILLP, School, the University of Manchester.
He was trust & fund administration.
Listed company David serves on the board of a number of privately madea Commander of the Most Excellent appointments include Invesco Perpetual Enhanced held investment entities and served on the Order ofthe British Empire CBE in 2003 for Income Fund and AIM listed ESO plc.
Clive also has board of a former AIM listed company, Ludgate hisservicesto business and charity.
Ian has wide coverage in the private equity sector across a Environmental Fund Limited.
David has served as servedasa Director since 15 June 2010. number of Nordic Capital and Intermediate Capital aDirector since 15 June 2010.
He is currently also a director of Jersey Finance Limited, the promotional body for the finance sector in Jersey.
Clive has served as aDirector since 7 February 2014.
38 Governance GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 Julia Chapman Paul fide Gruchy Michael Gray FCIBS, AMCT, DIP IoD Nonexecutive Director Nonexecutive Director Nonexecutive Director Julia Chapman, a Jersey resident, is a solicitor Paul fide Gruchy, a UK resident since August2016, Michael Gray, a Jersey resident, is a qualified qualified in England & Wales and Jersey with is a qualified Jersey Advocate with 20years corporate banker and corporate treasurer.
over 25 years experience in the investment fund experience in financial services law.
Mr DeGruchy Michaelwas most recently the Regional Managing and capital markets sector.
Having trainedwith was previously the Head of Legal for BNPParibas Director, Corporate Banking for RBS International, Simmons & Simmons in London, Julia moved Jersey within the UK offshore area.
He has based in Jersey but with responsibility for to Jersey to work for Mourant du Feu & Jeune extensive experience in the financial services TheRoyal Bank of Scotlands Corporate Banking now Mourant Ozannes and became a partner sector, in particular in the area of offshore funds.
Business in the Crown Dependencies and British in 1999.
Julia was then appointed general He has held senior positions at the Jersey Overseas Territories.
counsel to Mourant International Finance Economic Development Department where Administration the firms fund administration he was the Director responsible for finance In a career spanning 31 years with The Royal Bank division with responsibility for legal, risk and industry development and the Jersey Financial of Scotland Group plc, Michael has undertaken compliance oversight of third party administration Services Commission the regulator of the avariety of roles including that of an auditor services to alternative investment funds.
Paulis a graduate of Queens College, andhas extensive general management and serves on the board of two main market listed Cambridge.
Paul has served as a Director since lending experience across a number of industries.
companies, Henderson Far East Income Limited 7February2014.
He is also a non-executive director ofJersey and BHGlobalLimited.
Julia was appointed as Finance Limited, the promotional body for the aDirector on 1 October 2015. finance sector in Jersey.
Michael was appointed asa Director on 1 October 2015.
39 GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 LEADERSHIP THE INVESTMENT ADVISER The Board of Directors has appointed Gravis Capital Management Limited to provide day-to-day investment management services to the Group.
Stephen Ellis Rollo Wright Phillip Kent Dion Di Miceli Director, founder Director, founder Director Head of Investment Companies Stephen Ellis co-founded the Rollo Wright is a director and Phillip Kent is a director of the Investment Adviser in 2008 and co-founder of the Investment Investment Adviser, focusing on Dion Di Miceli is a director of the is the lead fund manager for Adviser.
He is a lead fund manager the origination and execution of Investment Adviser.
As its Head GCPInfrastructure Investments for GCPInfrastructure Investments project finance and asset backed ofInvestment Companies, he Limited.
assistswith the oversight of the Investment Adviser's managed funds After a short service commission Rollo was in the audit and advisory Phil joined the Investment Adviser as well as providing transaction in the British Army, Stephen spent division of Arthur Andersen and from Foresight Group where he advisory services and support for 16years in investment banking in the Deloittes, working with a broad was responsible for investments corporate actions.
City focused on securitisation and range of financial markets clients.
in the waste and renewable tax-based financing.
On leaving the He worked in the capital markets sectors, including large waste Dion qualified as a chartered City, he became head of structured division of Commerzbank Securities wood combustion projects and accountant with Arthur Andersen finance at DTZ Corporate Finance before moving to DTZ Corporate a pipeline ofanaerobic digestion in 2002 and subsequently spent where he was primarily involved in Finance, where he specialised in projects across the UK.
Phil has four years in the investment funds the UK infrastructure and student structuring tax and accounting driven been involvedin the energy sector practice at Ernst & Young.
infrastructure and property debt for over ten years, working initially as the investment companies team at transactions.
a consultant within PA Consultings Cenkos Securities in 2007.
Here, Stephen has an MA in Modern History Energy practice, focusing on energy as a senior corporate adviser, he from Oxford University.
Rollo graduated with a degree in markets and energy asset valuations.
worked with investment company Mathematics from Oxford University In 2008, he moved to Gazprom boards and their managers advising and qualified as a chartered Marketing and Trading, working in on and structuring a broad range accountant.
risk management across a number of transactions covering IPOs, ofcommodities before moving into secondary issuance, mergers and the clean energy team.
Phil graduated with a degree in Dion graduated with a degree in Geography from Oxford University.
Business Administration from the University of Bath.
He is a qualified accountant and qualified as a Member of the Chartered Institute forSecurities & Investment.
40 Governance GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 Saira Johnston Chloe Marlow Ben Perkins Gabriel Oke Chief Financial Officer Head of Fund Associate Director Head of Portfolio Financial Control Management Saira Johnston is the Chief Financial Ben Perkins is an associate director Officer ofthe Investment Adviser.
Chloe Marlow is Head of Fund at the Investment Adviser.
He forms Gabriel Oke is Head of Financial Control for the Investment a key part of the GCP Infrastructure PortfolioManagement at the Saira joined from Moorfield Group Adviser and is responsiblefor Investments Limited advisory team, Investment Adviser.
Limited, a UK real estate fund accounting and financial reporting specialising in social housing, PFI manager, where she was financial Gabriel joined the Barclays Bank across the Investment Adviser's and renewable energy investments.
controller, responsible for reporting graduate scheme, with rotations threelisted investment funds.
and financial aspects of transactions, Ben joined John Laing as a graduate across structured finance, client debt financing and fund raising.
Chloe has over 15 years experience trainee before moving into the relationship management and Prior to Moorfield, Saira spent six in the financial services sector.
years with CBRE Global Investors started her career at Lloyds Banking His responsibilities included asset He graduated from the University where she worked across a range Group prior to moving into fund valuations, value enhancement ofNottingham with a degree of fund vehicles on both reporting administration with Capita Sinclair initiatives and associated M&A in Finance, Management and and transactional aspects.
Before Henderson Limited where shewas activity across John Laing plc, Accounting.
He has passed the that, she spent time with Morgan responsible for the accounting and the John Laing Pension Trust and firsttwo levels of the CFA Program.
Stanley, and trained as a chartered financial reporting for a portfolio JLIF.
Ben then moved to Hadrians accountant with KPMG.
Wall Capital where he worked as Shejoined the Investment Adviser part of a team focused on creating Saira graduated from Imperial in2013.
credit enhancement products for College with a degree in Maths infrastructure debt transactions.
She Chloe is a qualified chartered is a chartered accountant, and management accountant Ben graduated from the University has completed her Investment and holdsthe Investment of Warwick in 2007 with a degree Management Certificate.
in Manufacturing and Mechanical onthe BPF Finance committee.
He has passed all three levels of the CFA Program.
41 GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 LEADERSHIP THE INVESTMENT ADVISER CONTINUED The Investment Adviser has advised extensively ondebt structures in a wide variety of infrastructure sectors.
Investment Adviser At 30 September 2017, the Investment Adviser The Investment Adviser will generally seek to Gravis Capital Management Limited is the hadassets under management of approximately charge the arrangement fee to borrowers rather appointed Investment Adviser and AIFM 2.1 billion, including three closed-ended than the Company where possible but, in any event, to the Company.
The Investment Adviser investment companies admitted to the Premium any such fee payable to the Investment Adviser was incorporated in England and Wales on Listing segment of the Official List and traded on willnot exceed and has not to date exceeded 1%.
9November2016 registered number 10471852 the London Stock Exchanges main market for To the extent any arrangement fee negotiated by and is authorised and regulated by the FCA listed securities, the Company, GCP Student Living the Investment Adviser with a borrower exceeds 1% registration number 770680.
The Investment plc and GCP Asset Backed Income Fund Limited the benefit of any such excess shall be paid to the Adviser was appointed upon the Companys and further, its provides investment advice in Company.
No performance fee is charged.
The Investment Adviser receives a fee of 60,000 The Investment Adviser has advised extensively Investment Advisory Agreement per annum for acting as AIFM.
ondebt structures in a wide variety of The Company is party to an Investment Advisory On 20 April 2017, the Company approved the infrastructure sectors, including a variety of Agreement dated 28 June 2010, as amended and novation of its Investment Advisory Agreement renewable energy sectors, healthcare, education, restated on 20 March 2013, 31 January 2014, from Gravis Capital Partners LLP to Gravis Capital court buildings, specialised offices, registered 11November 2015 and 13 December 2017, under Management Limited, as part of the transfer social landlord accommodation and transport.
which the Investment Adviser provides advisory of the Investment Advisers fund management Theofficers and employees of the Investment services relating to the Companys assets on a and advisory business from a limited liability Adviser have a long track record of working day-to-day basis in accordance with the investment partnership to a newly-incorporated limited within the UK infrastructure market, particularly objectivesand policies agreed by the Company company under substantially the same ownership.
with regard to debt advisory work and have andunder the overall supervision and direction On 13 December 2017, the Investment Advisory established close relationships with many of the ofthe Board of Directors.
Agreement was amended such that it may be key participants in the UK infrastructure market, Under the terms of the Investment Advisory terminated by the Company or the Investment including equity investors and lenders.
The Agreement, the Investment Adviser receives an Adviser by giving 24 months' written notice, Investment Adviser and its seniormanagement investment advisory fee from the Company equal with such notice to not be given prior to team have extensive specialistexpertise and to 0.9% per annum of the NAV of the Company 29February2020.
a demonstrable track record of originating, net of cash holdings.
This fee is calculated structuring and managing infrastructure debt and payable quarterly in arrears.
The personnel primarily responsible Adviser is also entitled to an arrangement fee of up for delivering investment advice to the Company to 1% at the discretion ofthe Investment Adviser on behalf of the InvestmentAdviser are detailed of the cost ofeach asset acquired by the Company.
42 Governance GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 Provision of advice The approval of asset origination and The Directors believe that the Companys The Investment Adviser provides advice which investmentdecisions are made by the investment objectives, and the pipeline of enables the Directors of the Company to identify Investmentcommittee of the Board on the opportunities available to it, will not be adversely potential investments, monitor the performance of adviceof the Investment Adviser.
affected, and that the right of first refusal existing assets and the financial and infrastructure agreement protects the Companys interests in Potential conflicts of interest markets generally.
The scope of services provided theevent of any conflict.
Under the Investment Advisory Agreement, by the Investment Adviser includes, inter alia: the Companys prior consent is required for making investment recommendations to the the Investment Adviser to act as the adviser, Investment committee of the Board in line with manageror sponsor of any fund or entity that may the Companys investment policy and strategy: invest in assets within the scope of the Companys investments or engage in any activity which may identifying potential investments and make compete in the same or substantially similar recommendations to the Company in respect investment area as the Company.
of the acquisition, sourcing of financing, assets management and disposal of assets: The Company has given its consent for the Investment Adviser to act as the investment performing due diligence, including but not manager to GCP Asset Backed Income Fund limited to legal, financial, technical and market Limited, a closed-ended investment company projections: listedon the London Stock Exchanges main monitoring and reporting to the Board marketfor listed securities.
GCP Asset Backed the performance of the Company and its Income Fund Limited is focused predominantly on investments: debt investments secured against physical assets and or contractedcash flows.
The Company has regularly reviewing the Companys given its consent on the basis that where the investment policy and strategy and providing Investment Adviser identifies an investment which, recommendations to the Board: in its opinion acting reasonably and in good faith, overseeing and arranging borrowings for the falls within the Companys remit, the Company will Company within such limits set out in the have a right of first refusal.
prospectus: advising the Company in relation to dividends toshareholders: and co-operating with third party service providers such as administrators, valuers, tax legal advisers etc.
43 GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 LEADERSHIP CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT I am pleased to present the Companys corporate governance statement for the yearended 30 September 2017.
The Board considers that reporting against the Executive Directors remuneration principles and recommendations of the AIC As the Board has no executive Directors, it is Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide, which not required to comply with the principles of incorporates the UK Code, will provide better the AIC Code in respect of executive Directors information to shareholders.
The Board recognises the importance of a Remuneration committee strong corporate governance culture that meets The Board fulfils the role of the Remuneration the requirements of the Listing Rules of the committee as it was agreed that the size UKLA.
TheBoard has put in place a framework and nature the Board does not warrant the for corporate governance which it believes establishment of a separate committee.
Afull is appropriate for the Company.
All Directors Directors' remuneration report is included on contribute to Board discussions and debates.
TheBoard believes in providing as much Internal audit function transparency for shareholders as is reasonably The Company delegates the majority of its possible.
It should be noted that most of the operations to some of its third parties and Companys day-to-day responsibilities are has no employees.
The majority of these third delegated to third parties, the Company has no parties have their own internal audit function employees and the Directors are non-executive.
and the Board has therefore determined that The Company has complied with the there is no need for the Company to have its recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant own internal audit function but this is reviewed provisions of the UK Code, except as set out below: on an annual basis.
The Directors consider Ian Reeves CBE semi-annually the principal risks relating to Chairman The role of the Chief Executive the operations of the Company.
Such a review For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, includes the consideration of whether the and as explained in the UK Code, the Board Companys third parties have adequate internal considers that the post of Chief Executive controls in place.
The AIC Code of Corporate Governance is not relevant for the Company, being an The Disclosure Rules of the UKLA require certain externally managed investment company.
The Chairman of the Company listed companies to disclose how they have applied Ian Reeves CBE is also a member of the The appointment of a Senior Independent the principles and complied with the provisions of Audit & Risk committee.
The Board believes Director SID the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code it is appropriate for Ian Reeves CBE to be a The Nomination committee has discussed to which the issuer is subject.
As a member of the member of the committee as he is considered whether it would be in the best interests of AIC, the Company has been reporting against the to be independent and there are no conflicts the Company to recommend to the Board principles and recommendations of the AIC Code ofinterest.
the appointment of a SID and following and the accompanying AIC Corporate Governance a recent recommendation following the For the reasons set out in the AIC Code, the Board Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
Board effectiveness review carried out by considers that the full provisions of the UK Code The Board has considered the principles and Trust Associates, it has been agreed that are not relevant to the position of the Company, recommendations of the AIC Code by reference the appointment of a SID will be put to a being an externally managed investment company.
The AIC Code, as explained by shareholders vote at the forthcoming annual In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out general meeting of the Company.
management and administrative functions are in the UK Code, as well as setting out additional outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the principles and recommendations on issues that Company has no executive directors, employees or areof specific relevance to the Company.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
44 Governance GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 ROLE OF THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES The Board is responsible for the effective stewardship of the Companys affairs, including corporate strategy, corporate governance, risk assessment and overall investment policy.
THE BOARD PURPOSE: It provides overall leadership, sets the Responsible for the long-term strategic aims of the Company and success of the Company.
ensures that the necessary resources are in place forthe Company to meet its objectives and fulfil its obligations to shareholders within a framework of high standards of corporate governance and effective internal controls.
COMPOSITION: Chair: Ian Reeves CBE Clive Spears David Pirouet Julia Chapman Paul fide Gruchy Michael Gray BOARD COMMITTEES Audit & Risk Investment Management Engagement Nomination committee committee committee committee PURPOSE: PURPOSE: PURPOSE: PURPOSE: Ensures that the Companys financial Approves the acquisition, Reviews the performance and Considers appointments to the performance is properly monitored, monitoring and disposal continuing appointments of the Board and its individual committees controlledand reported and reviews ofinvestments.
Investment Manager and other and makes recommendations in and monitors the Companys risks service providers.
regard to changes to maintain a and internal controls.
COMPOSITION: COMPOSITION: COMPOSITION: COMPOSITION: Chair: David Pirouet Chair: Clive Spears Chair: Clive Spears Chair: Ian Reeves Ian Reeves Paul fide Gruchy Ian Reeves Clive Spears Michael Gray Julia Chapman David Pirouet David Pirouet Paul fide Gruchy See Audit & Risk committee report Julia Chapman See Nomination committee report onpages52and 53. onpage 54.
Michael Gray 45 GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 LEADERSHIP CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Market Abuse Regulation Non-mainstream pooled investments The Boards responsibilities and processes Following the implementation of the EU Market The Board notes the rules of the UK FCA on the The Board is responsible to shareholders for the Abuse Regulation MAR on 3 July 2016, the promotion of non-mainstream pooled investments, overall management of the Company, and may Board formally adopted revised procedures in effective from 1 January 2014.
The Board confirms exercise all the powers of the Company subject relation to the management, identification and that it conducts the Companys affairs, and intends to the relevant statutes, the Companys Articles disclosure of inside information and share dealing to continue to conduct its affairs, so that the ofAssociation and any directions given by special in accordance with MAR.
The Board is responsible Companys shares will be excluded securities resolution of the shareholders.
The Articles of for taking all proper steps to ensure compliance under the FCAs rules.
This is on the basis that the Association empower the Board to offer, allot, with MAR by the Directors.
Company, which is resident outside the EEA, would grantoptions over or otherwise deal with or qualify for the approval as an investment trust by dispose of the Companys shares as the Board Statement on modern slavery the Commissioners for HM Revenue and Customs maydecide.
The Law authorises the Company In October 2015, the UK Government introduced under Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation tomake market purchases of its own shares if the the 2015 Modern Slavery Act.
The Act requires Tax Act 2010 if resident and listed in the United purchase has first been authorised by a resolution companies operating in the UK, with a Group Kingdom.
Therefore, the Companys shares will not of the Company.
turnover of more than 36 million per year to amount to non-mainstream pooled investments.
publish a statement setting out the steps that they At the Annual General Meeting on Accordingly, promotion of the Companys shares have taken during that financial year to ensure that 10February2017, the shareholders renewed will not be subject to the FCAs restriction on the slavery and human trafficking are not taking place: theBoards authority to allot ordinary shares and promotion of non-mainstream pooled investments.
to repurchase ordinary shares on behalf of the anywhere in their supply chains: and or Greenhouse gas emissions reporting Company subject to certain limits.
Details of the in any part of their own business.
The Company funds renewable energy projects authorities which the Board will be seeking at the which are seeking to reduce the United Kingdoms forthcoming 2018 Annual General Meeting are set The Board is responsible for matters of corporate greenhouse gas emissions.
The Company has no out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
responsibility, including the issues of modern employees or property, and it does not purchase slavery and human trafficking.
The Board and its At each quarterly meeting of the Board, the electricity, heat, steam or cooling for its own use.
committees review the Company's policies and Directors follow a formal agenda which includes practices and address any issues which arise.
The Company outsources all services on a fee a review of the Companys investments and The Company will not tolerate human trafficking, basis and as such, it is not practical to attempt to associated matters such as gearing, asset slavery or forced labour of any type and recognise measure or quantify emissions in respect of any allocation, principal risks, marketing and investor its responsibilities to society in relation to the outsourced energy use, therefore the Directors relations and economic and industrial issues.
Company's supply chain the projects companies believe the Company has no reportable emissions TheBoard is also active in ensuring any regulatory in which the Company invests and engages with for the year ended 30 September 2017. developments which may affect the operations suppliers to ensure that they share the Companys of the Company are considered.
The Board Anti-bribery and tax evasion values and comply with relevant legislation.
regularly considers the Companys investment With the enactment of the UK Bribery Act2010, The Board will continue to monitor the supply chain objectives and strategy.
In July 2017, a strategy theCompany has developed appropriate and investment portfolio in relation to slavery and day was heldand attended by five of the Directors.
The Company human trafficking through regular reviews.
Thediscussions focused on general market has a zero-tolerance policy towards bribery and is conditions and future investment opportunities committed to carry out its business fairly, honestly AIFMD forthe Company.
The Company is classed as an externally-managed In order to enable the Directors to discharge their AIF under the Directive.
The Board appointed the The Criminal Finances Act Commencement responsibilities effectively, they have full and timely Investment Adviser as the authorised AIFM to the No.
1 Regulations 2017 SI 2017 739 brought access to all relevant information.
Company and Link Corporate Services Jersey Part 3 of the CFA, the corporate offences of Limited as the Companys Depositary under the failure to prevent facilitation of tax evasion, into Matters reserved for the Board Directive on 22 July 2014. force on 30September 2017.
The Company does The Board has approved a formal schedule of not tolerate tax evasion in any of its forms in its matters reserved for the Board.
The schedule is AIFM remuneration business.
The Company complies with the relevant available upon request from the Company Secretary.
With effect from 22 July 2014, the Companys UK law and regulation in relation to the prevention Investment Adviser was authorised as an of facilitation of tax evasion and support efforts to AIFMbythe FCA under the AIFMD regulations.
eliminate the facilitation of tax evasion worldwide, TheCompany has provided disclosures on its and works to make sure its business partners website, incorporating the requirements of the share this commitment.
The total annual fee paid to the Investment Adviser by the Company is disclosed in note 19 to the financial statements.
46 Governance GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 Composition of the Board The principal matters considered by the Board 18times during the year.
The committee is also The Board consists of six Directors, all of during the year in addition to matters formally responsible for ensuring key conditions precedents whomarenon-executive and are considered reserved to the Board included: arecomplied with for each deal and for sign off on tobeindependent.
the Companys strategic model, related KPIs Each of the Directors has signed letters of and performance: Management Engagement committee appointment which set out the terms and The Management Engagement committee regular reports from the Boards committees: conditions of their appointment.
These letters comprises all Directors of the Company in view the annual report and financial statements and are available for inspection at the Companys of the wide remit of the committee.
The Board half-yearly report: registered office.
No Director has any contract or has agreed terms of reference for the committee, arrangement in place between themselves and which meets at least once a year to consider the Companys dividend policy: and the Company.
Further details as to the terms of the performance of the Investment Adviser and organisational capability and succession appointment of the Directors are set out in the other third party service providers: the terms of planning.
Directors' remuneration report on pages 55 to 57. their engagement and to consider their continued Committees appointment.
The committee met once during the Overview of Board and employees The structure includes an Audit & Risk committee, last financial year for an interrogative workshop Appointments to the Board continue to be based an Investment committee, a Management and follow-up session.
Following the committees on merit, regardless of gender, ethnic group or Engagement committee and a Nomination assessment of the Investment Adviser, and background.
The Board comprises five male committee.
The terms of reference for each of the based on the performance of the Investment Directors and one female Director.
The Company committees are available on the Companys website Adviser, it was recommended that Gravis Capital has no other employees.
or upon request from the Company Secretary.
Management Limited be retained as Investment Diversity is an important consideration in ensuring Adviser.
In addition, the continued engagement Audit & Risk committee that the Board and its committees have the right of the third party service providers whom the The membership and activities of the Audit & Risk balance of skills, experience, independence committee independently evaluates is also committee are described in its report on pages and knowledge necessary to discharge their recommended.
The right blend of perspectives Nomination committee Investment committee is critical to ensuring an effective Board and a The Nomination committee comprises Mr Ian At 30 September 2017, the Investment committee successful Company.
Reeves CBE, Mr Clive Spears and Mr David Pirouet.
comprised three Directors, namely Mr Clive Board operation Spears Chairman, Mr Paul fide Gruchy and Further details relating to the function of the The Board holds formal meetings on a quarterly MsJulia Chapman.
committee can be found on page 54. basis and additional ad-hoc meetings are held The Board has agreed terms of reference for the when necessary.
Attendance at the quarterly Board The Company does not have a Remuneration committee which includes meeting to consider and committee meetings is displayed in the table committee: the Board fulfils the role of the each new investment proposal received from below under the heading Meetings.
Remuneration committee as it was agreed that the Investment Adviser and advisory reports the size and nature the Board does not warrant the and recommendations.
The committee met establishment of a separate committee.
Meetings Management Engagement Quarterly Board meetings Audit & Risk committee Investment committee committee Nomination committee Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Number of meetings attended of meetings attended of meetings attended of meetings attended of meetings attended Ian Reeves 4 4 3 3 1 1 2 2 Clive Spears 4 4 18 17 1 1 2 2 David Pirouet 4 4 3 3 1 1 2 2 Paul fide Gruchy 4 4 18 16 1 1 Julia Chapman 4 3 18 17 1 1 Michael Gray 4 4 3 2 1 1 18 additional Board meetings were held during the year.
These meetings were predominantly in respect of share issuances, capital raisings and investment sector meetings.
47 GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 LEADERSHIP CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED In the year ended 30 September 2017, the Board approved two capital raises, the advance of 15 loans andan increase of the Companys revolving credit facility.
December 2016 February 2017 October 2016 Approval of the Companys annual report.
Approval of an investment commitment of up to 60 million Publication of supplementary Prospectus General meeting to approve insocial housing infrastructure.
November 2016 January 2017 2016 Approval of the issuance of Approval of borrowing arrangements 72,874,494 ordinary shares, raising withRBSI to increase the Companys gross proceeds of90 million for existing 50million secured debt facility theCompany.
by a further 25million and to enter into a new 75 million facility.
For further details on the Companys borrowing arrangements refer to note15 tothe financial statements.
48 Governance GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 April 2017 Approval of a conditional, binding commitment with an entity owned by Macquarie Group to subscribe for a series of loan notes, subject to regulatory approval of the acquisition of the GIB by Macquarie Group.
July 2017 Additional investment commitment of up to Approval of the issuance of 56,451,613 40 million in social housing infrastructure.
ordinary shares, raising gross proceeds Approval of the novation of the Companys of 70 million for the Company.
Investment Advisory Agreement from Gravis Annual strategy meeting.
Capital PartnersLLP to Gravis Capital Management Limited, as part of the transfer Completion of an external Board of the Investment Advisers fund management evaluation by Trust Associates.
Further September 2017 andadvisory business from a limited information on the Board evaluation Review and updating of the Companys liabilitypartnership.
process is set out on page 50. Business Risk Assessment.
March 2017 May 2017 August 2017 2017 Approval and publication of a Approval of the Companys Approval to subscribe for a series of Prospectus in respect of the half-yearly report.
loan notes with a value of c. 140million 2017 Placing Programme.
over a c. two year period for the financing of the purchase of, and ongoing commitments related to, investments secured against 23 UK based projects across multiple sectors including waste to energy, onshore wind, hydro, landfill gas and building retrofit schemes.
Review and approval of the audit plan fortheyear ended 30 September 2017.
