Redefine International P. L. C. 74 Annual Report 2017 Directors report Accountability Audit and Risk Committee the Committee The terms of reference under which the Audit and Risk Committee operates, were updated and approved by the Board in July 2017.
These take account of the changes incorporated in the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, theFRC guidance and the revised ethical standards.
Audit and Risk Committee events during the year Date Matters discussed Attendees Report from management The Committee October 2016 Consideration and review of the Financial Results for year ended CEO 31August 2016 Deputy CEO Presentation from Strutt & Parker, valuers of the UK shopping centres CFO Presentations from management, explaining the procedures Financial Controller undertaken to ensure applicability of annual attestations and to confirm that the results were fair, balanced and understandable External Auditor Presentation by internal auditor on the results of the reviews Internal Auditor performed Valuers Presentation by external auditor on the results of the audit for the year ended 31 August 2016 Review of external auditor effectiveness and consideration for reappointment Consideration of viability and going concern statements Consideration of dividend Presentation of interim review plan by external auditor The Committee January 2017 Consideration and approval of external audit fee CFO Gavin Tipper Financial Controller External Auditor Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee Report from management The Committee April 2017 Consideration and review of the Interim Results for the six months CEO ended 28 February 2017 CFO Presentation by Savills, valuers of the German Shopping centre Appointed Meetings External Auditor portfolio Gavin Tipper MBA, CA, Bcom, BAcc 28 06 2012 4 4 Internal Auditor Presentations from management, internal and external auditors Michael Farrow FCIS, MSc 23 08 2011 4 4 Review of governance matters and applicable policies Valuers Sue Ford ACA, BSc Hons 30 01 2014 4 4 Update of finance information technology developments Consideration of dividend The Audit and Risk Committee operates within Report from management The Committee July terms of reference, a copy ofwhich is available 2017 External auditor presentation of strategy and plan for the year-end audit CEO at the website: www.
com Review of key areas of judgement and uncertainty CFO Presentation of findings from risk review process Financial Controller Internal controls review External Auditor Consideration of the effectiveness of internal audit Internal Auditor Approval of 2018 internal audit plan Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2017 75 The Committee comprises three independent an effective risk management process in place.
Monitoring Non-executive Directors, who are considered Details of the principal risks facing the Group REIT compliance: to have the necessary skills, knowledge and are set out on pages 16 and 17 and in note 34 the level of non-audit services provided by professional qualifications to understand to the financial statements.
the external auditor: the financial complexities of the Companys The Committee held four meetings during cyber risk and security: business, the applicable accounting standards the financial year, aligned to the Companys reports from the JSE addressed to Audit and regulatory framework and who, as a financial reporting and risk management cycle.
Committee chairs: and whole, have experience of working in the Committee packs are sent out seven days property sector in which the Group operates.
compliance with statutory and listing in advance of meetings to allow members obligations.
Gavin Tipper is a Chartered Accountant time to properly consider the matters to with over 25 years financial experience in be discussed.
Independent external advice Assurances listed and unlisted companies, including may be taken by the Committee if required, met with independent property valuers property companies: although none was sought this year.
Time is to discuss the valuation processes provided during the year for the Committee Sue Ford is also a Chartered Accountant applicable to selected property portfolios to meet privately with both the external and with over 30 years of financial experience and considered the appropriateness of internal auditors, without the executives or and was a co-founder and, until 2013, the assumptions underlying the property management being present, to discuss any the finance director of Metric Property valuations: and potential issues or concerns.
Investments, a UK-REIT focused on the received and reviewed reports from retail sector of commercial real estate: and All meetings were attended by the Committee the Groups Chief Financial Officer and Michael Farrow is a Chartered Secretary members, the Chief Financial Officer and Financial Controller relating to the various representatives of the auditors.
Valuers with 30 years experience who has worked assurances provided by the committee.
in a number of listed and private property attended two meetings to discuss the processes undertaken in determining the companies.
Recommendations to the Board market values of selected portfolios at each the dividend: The terms of reference under which the Audit reporting date.
The valuers for the UK and and Risk Committee operates were updated the Annual Report as a fair, balanced and German shopping centre portfolio were and approved by the Board in July 2017.
These understandable assessment of the Groups invited to attend this year.
take account of the changes incorporated in financial position and results for the the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, During the year the Committee reported financial year: against which the Company is reporting this to the Board at each Board meeting on its the interim and annual financial year, and the FRC guidance and revised ethical responsibilities: statements, the accounting policies used, standards published earlier this year.
and the appropriateness of the related Audit plans judgements and estimates: The terms of reference outline the role of the Committee met with the external the Audit and Risk Committee relating to the Groups viability statement, including auditor at the audit planning and reporting the interests of shareholders regarding the appropriateness of the underlying stages to consider and discuss the audit financial reporting, internal controls and risk methodology, assumptions and stress tests strategy and plan, the results of the audit management.
The Committee also seeks to applied refer to page 17 : work undertaken and areas of significant provide the Board with assurance regarding the appropriateness of the application complexity, judgement or uncertainty: and the efficacy and reliability of the financial ofthe going concern concept refer to the Committee approved the internal information used by the Directors in the page92 : and auditors risk based audit plan for the discharge of their duties, and to comment on the re-appointment of the external auditor.
financial year and the related audit fee.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring Reviewing effectiveness the effectiveness of internal controls, the of the external and internal auditors: internal and external auditors, the provision of internal controls, particularly financial of non-audit services and the independence controls, and confirmed to the Board that of the external auditor.
It is also responsible they remained appropriate: for reviewing and assessing the integrity of of the systems of risk management: and the risk control systems, for ensuring that risk of the Groups whistleblowing and policies and strategies exist and that there is anti-bribery policies.
Redefine International P. L. C. 76 Annual Report 2017 Directors report Accountability Audit and Risk Committee continued Significant areas of judgement Fair value of restructured liabilities Risk management review In recommending the financial statements New borrowings or existing borrowings A Risk Register has been established which to the Board, the Committee assessed which have been substantially modified are aggregates the Groups significant risks from whether suitable accounting policies had been recognised at fair value.
The determination its various divisions and corporate functions.
adopted and whether management had made of fair value involves the application of The threshold for a risk to be determined as appropriate estimates and judgements.
The judgement with the key judgement involving significant was established as being either Committee considered areas of judgement an assessment of whether the transaction a risk carrying a potential impact of five per when assessing classification, provisioning price equates to fair value, and if not, what the cent or greater of the Groups distributable and the appropriateness of inputs used in market price should be.
During the year the earnings: or a risk with the potential to expose arriving at fair value.
The following matters are Group refinanced its Aviva UK shopping centre the Group to reputational damage.
The risks examples of the complex areas of estimation facility and it was determined that a significant as reflected in the risk register were reviewed, and judgement considered by the Committee modification had occurred.
Judgement was challenged and analysed to highlight any during the year.
applied to determine whether the contractual significant shifts in the Groups risk profile.
rate on the refinanced debt represented Incomparison to last year key changes were: Valuation of investment property a market rate and if not, what observable political and economic uncertainty resulting Investment property valuations are the most market rate should apply having regard to from Brexit, leading to potential volatility in significant judgement in the Groups balance the term, duration and security arrangements share prices and valuations: sheet and changes to valuations can impact in place.
The Committee concluded that higher expectations on inflation and a materially on financial performance.
Property the approach taken by management was consequential impact on interest rates: valuations require significant judgements reasonable and that the transaction price and estimates and are based on assumptions changing consumer behaviour and the was not a market price and that sufficient impact on rental income, tenant default, including estimated rental values, future rental observable inputs were available.
income, anticipated maintenance costs and and valuation on the retail portfolio: Taxation future development costs and market yields.
development risk due to delays and the The Committee satisfies itself as to the resultant impact on returns: The conclusion of the Committee was that: judgements applied in the calculation the type of cladding and insulation the valuation processes, which included of any provisions for taxation where materials in place, following the Grenfell the use of external valuers, appeared to be final determination of the amounts was disaster: thorough and meticulous: outstanding.
tax risk arising from enquiries or changing the assets were valued on a highest legislation BEPS and new tax evasion and best use basis, consistent with legislation : priorperiods: key person and key supplier risk: the assets were valued using reasonable potential terrorist action: and estimates and professional judgements: and an improvement in the outlook for Europe, reducing the risk of adverse foreign the assets were valued on a basis which currency fluctuations.
took account of comparable market transactions.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2017 77 In assessing the effectiveness and level Report on internal controls and of service from the external auditor, the effectiveness of internal audit Committee considered KPMGs knowledge The internal auditor reported to the of the market and Group, the depth of Committee at each of its meetings, with the understanding of the key accounting and audit main areas of focus during the year being judgements, the extent to which the audit liquidity forecasting, risk management, plan was carried out, input from management capital expenditure, human resources and and the content of the auditors reports to the compliance.
The Committee was satisfied with With the appointment of a dedicated in-house the effectiveness of the external audit.
resource and the appointment of Grant The Committee monitored the ratio of audit Thornton as internal auditor last year, the to non-audit services, and related fees and the internal audit framework within the Company level of non-audit services and fees incurred has improved.
during the year was compliant with the The internal auditor tracks the issues to be Companys policy in that regard.
resolved, and ensures that they are suitably The Committee is satisfied that KPMG addressed within an agreed timeframe.
is independent, and recommends the re-appointment of KPMG at the Companys Effectiveness, independence and AGM on 25 January 2018. appointment of the external auditor KPMG was appointed via a tender process Audit fees in 2010 and has expressed their willingness The following fees were paid to KPMG during to remain in office.
The Committee intends the year, and are included in net operating to put the audit out to tender during 2018, income in the Group income statement: which aligns with the scheduled rotation of theauditpartner.
Year ended Year ended The Committee has undertaken its annual 31 August 31 August 2017 2016 review, with the auditor, of any threats to m m itsindependence and has concluded that Audit fees 0.4 0.4 theauditor may continue to be considered Total 0.4 0.4 asindependent.
Non-audit fees In this regard KPMG has informed the Reporting accountant Committee of all significant facts and 1 under Listing Rules 0.3 matters, including those related to the Total 0.4 0.7 provision of non-audit services, and the 1 safeguards it has in place to maintain its Required for the AUK acquisition and related capital raise.
independence, which it considers may impacton its independence, and the Gavin Tipper objectivity of the main audit partner on the Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee team.
KPMG undergoes regular reviews of the composition of the audit team, 26 October 2017 includingrotation in accordance with relevantregulations.
