Redefine International P. L. C. 66 Annual Report 2017 Directors report Governance The Board is collectively Leadership responsible for the long term success structure oftheCompany.
The Board Led by the Chairman, the Board is collectively responsible for the long term success of the Company and operates under a formal quarterlyschedule of matters reserved for the Board.
This ensures that the Companys strategy and objectives, risks, Group operations, internal controls, policies and debt providers are all reviewed throughout the year.
To assist in the effectiveness of its operations, certainmatters are delegated to committees whose roles and duties are outlined in terms of reference set by the Board.
The committee chairs provide a summary of the committee activities at each Board meeting, advising of any issues or recommendations.
Day-to-day management of the Company is overseen by the CEO and the executives, who carry out the strategy established by the Board, within the confine of policies and delegated authorities set by the Board.
Each year, four scheduled Board meetings are held, aligned to the financial calendar, and there are four scheduled update calls.
Four meetings, four update telephone calls page 69 Committee of the Board Independent Committee of the Board Approves ad hoc matters between Board meetings To review any related Subject to authority levels party transactions or matters where a conflict may arise Directors any two Independent Nonexecutive Directors Any three Independent Directors at least one Eight meetings page 69 Two meetings page 69 Audit and Risk Nominations Remuneration Corporate Social Committee Committee Committee Responsibility Committee Determines the remuneration Safeguards the interests Ensures that the Groups Considers the composition, skills financial reporting and risk and succession planning ofthe Executive Directors ofstakeholders of theBoard within the approved management is properly monitored, controlled remuneration policy and monitors employee pay andreported Independent Independent Independent Executive Directors Nonexecutive Directors Nonexecutive Directors Nonexecutive Directors Mike Watters chair Gavin Tipper chair Greg Clarke chair Michael Farrow chair Donald Grant Sue Ford Sue Ford Sue Ford Adrian Horsburgh Michael Farrow Gavin Tipper Robert Orr Four meetings page 74 Three meetings page 70 Two meetings page 78 Three meetings page 48 Investment Committee Executive Committee Assesses investment proposals as to whether Day-to-day management of the Company they should progress to the Board Independent Executive Directors Nonexecutive Director Mike Watters chair CEO Robert Orr chair Stephen Oakenfull Deputy CEO Donald Grant Chief Financial Officer Nonindependent Adrian Horsburgh Property Director Directors Marc Wainer Mike Watters The Investment Committee operates in an informal manner to discuss all The Executive Committee meets informally on a weekly basis to discuss majoracquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure.
Its recommendations acquisitionsand disposals, finance, asset management activities and operational areforwarded to the Board for final consideration.
matters, and to consider the status of any potential inside information.
