Redefine International P. L. C. 70 Annual Report 2017 Directors report Governance Nominations Committee The evaluation has identified a strong Board with the necessary cohesion to serve our shareholders.
Nominations Committee events during the year Date Matters discussed Attendees CEO succession All members January 2017 Progress of internal candidates Board size and mix May Job specification drawn up for new independent Non-executive Director All members 2017 and Robert Orr Quote from recruitment agencies ZRG Partners LLC present diverse pool of 50 candidates All members July and Robert Orr 2017 Shortlist of four selected Candidates are interviewed Chairman September 2017 A shortlist of two candidates are selected All members, ZRG October and Robert Orr 2017 October Further interviews of the candidates are undertaken and a CEO 2017 recommendation is made to the Board All members and all independent Directors Greg Clarke Chair of the Nominations Committee Redefine International is an income focused for the Nominations Committee to be led by diversified UK-REIT, listed in the UK and the Chairman, GregClarke.
Two independent South Africa, with properties in the UK and Non-executive Directors, from the UK and SA, Germany.
For such a diversified company, complete the committee, and all members Appointed Meetings it is essential that the Board has the right have significant experience as Directors of Greg Clarke MBA, BA Hons 25 10 2011 3 3 balance, knowledge and skills appropriate for listed companies and are aware of the skills Gavin Tipper MBA, CA, Bcom, BAcc 30 07 2014 3 3 overseeing the business and, as the Chairman necessary for the operation of a dual listed Sue Ford ACA, BSc Hons 30 01 2014 3 3 is responsible for the leadership and diversified company.
effectiveness of the Board, it is appropriate The Nominations Committee operates within terms of reference, a copy of which is available at the website: www.
com Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2017 71 The two best candidates were interviewed by The Board has agreed that any Director may, Board composition the CEO, and separately by the Nominations if necessary in the furtherance of their duties, The Nominations Committee started the year Committee.
As well as assessing skills and take independent professional advice at the by reviewing the size and mix of the Board.
experience, it was important that the new Companys expense, subject to having first Since 2015 the Board has comprised 11 Director fit into the Board chemistry, as notified the Company Secretary.
Any such Directors: the Chairman, four executives, the current Board works well as a team.
payment by the Company would, of course, be four independent non-executives and two TheBoardroom culture is good natured subject to any restriction under company law.
This composition is not and constructive and relationships between The Company has liability insurance which compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Executive and Non-executive Directors are covers Directors and officers of the Company Code, and although the Board works well, the good, although Non-executive Directors are and any subsidiary company of Redefine Nominations Committee was mindful that not afraid to challenge executives during International.
there was not enough independent oversight meetings.
The Chairman and CEO set a on the Board, and was intent on improving the tone ofopenness and thoroughness which Conflict of interest policy level of independence.
However, in 2016 due is upheld by the Board, and Directors hold Directors are not, without the consent of to the pending requirement for a prospectus themselves to a high standard of integrity.
the Board, to accept any other appointment in February 2016 to support the capital raise, or enter into any arrangement which might Following an in-depth discussion between forwhich a new Director would have taken full reasonably be expected to lead to a conflict the Nominations Committee and all the responsibility, it was considered in everyones ofinterest arising.
independent Non-executive Directors to best interests that the matter be put on hold.
consider the merits of each candidate, a The Nominations Committee was keen to Furthermore, Directors must not hold any final recommendation will be made to the address this matter again in 2017. directorships of any company other than the Board in the near future.
It is hoped that an Company or a subsidiary of the Company of Before commencing the search for a new announcement will be made to shareholders which any Director of the Company or any independent Non-executive Director, the before the end of the year.
of its subsidiaries or of the property adviser Nominations Committee reviewed the mix or property manager to the Company or The appointment of an additional of the Board to identify any potential area of any shareholder of such entities is also a independent Non-executive Director will weakness, to ensure that the Board was fully Director without the prior written approval improve the level of independent oversight, equipped to deal with the current strategy of the Board.
Any possible appointments are and will provide an opportunity to review and any potential challenges ahead.
The discussed with the Chairman to ensure that and possibly refresh membership of the Committee agreed with the conclusions of last there are no conflicts of interest or that a Committees.
Diversity on the Board will also years external evaluation that the Board had Directors independence is not compromised.
be improved, and the Company is confident a good balance of skills with a strong industry it will be able to meet its target of one third focus and deep financial expertise with Directors induction female membership by 2020. sufficient knowledge of the European markets, An induction afternoon is provided by the and no major skill gaps.
Appointment terms executive team, which includes an overview Diversity was considered.
The Directors of the historical activities of the Group, All new Non-executive Directors are provided number ten male and one female, aged from funding options and providers and property with a letter of appointment detailing the 38 to 74, with a range of different educational details.
Further information is provided on the terms of their appointment and their expected backgrounds from the UK, South Africa and Companys key business and risks along with commitment to the role.
Although the Nominations the latest financial information for the Group.
Directors are not appointed for a specified Committee considered there to be a diversity The Company Secretary provides a list of term, but until the Director is either i not reof thought, the Board is committed to having matters reserved for the Board, the corporate appointed followingretirement, ii removed an appropriate level of diversity which calendar and an overview of the Directors or vacates office, iii resigns or does not offer reflects the nature of the Groups operations.
obligations for an Isle of Man company with himself for re-election, or iv terminates his The Committee acknowledged that gender a dual listing.
Further information is provided appointment on three months notice.
diversity and ethnicity was poor.
tailored to the needs of each Director.
All Directors are expected to attend the ZRG Partners LLC, which has no prior Meetings with key advisers are set up, as quarterly Board meetings, quarterly update connection with the Company, was appointed required, and tours of the properties are calls, any committees of which they are to assist with the search for an independent undertaken to provide a full overview of the a member and shareholders meetings.
Non-executive Director and instructed to Companys activities.
Non-executive Directors are expected to make encourage a wide pool of candidates with themselves available for a minimum of eight Directors are also provided with details of the experience of Board membership, evidence days per year in the discharge of their duties.
Board evaluation undertaken at the end of and understanding of business strategy and thefinancial year.
shareholder value creation with property or property finance expertise.
A long list of 50 diverse candidates was drawn up, 14 were interviewed and four were recommended tobe shortlisted.
Those shortlisted were discussed at length by the Nominations Committee assisted by Robert Orr, an independent Non-executive Director withadepth of property experience.
Redefine International P. L. C. 72 Annual Report 2017 Directors report Governance Nominations Committee continued Board evaluation Directors reelection The 2017 evaluation was performed using an online questionnaire which allowed each Director All Directors will be standing for re-election to anonymously evaluate the performance of the Chairman, the individual Board members, the atthe AGM on 25 January 2018.
The Chairman Board operations and its committees.
considers that each of the Directors continue to be effective members of the Board, that The main strengths of the Board identified were: collectively they hold the requisite range the diversity of expertise: of skills to enable the Board to operate the level of experience: successfully, and the Directors function well together as a team.
the robust debate: and It is noted that Michael Farrow and the agility of the Board to respond to situations.
GavinTipper have both been on the Board All Directors enjoyed Board meetings, which is a key characteristic of a motivated and successful forsix years.
Michael Farrow and Gavin Tipper team.
However, with the uncertainty of Brexit and the UK economy, Directors highlighted were evaluated by the rest of the Board as that, for the year ahead, more focus and time should be spent on the points listed below.
being either good or outstanding Directors Disappointingly, these are broadly the same points as raised at last years external evaluation, and were considered to spend sufficient time, although action hasalready been taken to address many of these points: and were committed to their roles as Directors of the Board and as chairs of committees.
Long term decision making is to be addressed with strategy days planned for next year.
Long term strategic The Chairman therefore recommends all decision Directors for re-election at the AGM on making 25January 2018.
Risk governance has been a strong focus for the Audit and Risk Committee meetings during Thorough Reelection of independent Directors the year.
Full details of their review and findings were presented at the October Board meeting risk analysis and will continue to be presented to the Board on a six month basis going forward to ensure The interests of each of the independent that the Board, as well as the Audit and Risk Committee, have a full overview of risks.
Directors are monitored to ensure that their position is not compromised and are The work of the CSR Committee is now finding momentum and, as it becomes embedded into Shareholders checkedeach year against the requirements everyday operations, will improve and increase importance in 2018, the road map for which and of the Code, to ensure their independence is can be found on page 59 of the Annual Report.
Board composition will be improved with the appointment of a new Independent Board The Chairman is satisfied that Michael Farrow, Non-executive Director enhancing independence and diversity on the Board.
Composition will composition Gavin Tipper, Sue Ford and Robert Orr continue to be reviewed.
remainindependent in both character and The Nominations Committee has been primarily focused on succession planning for the CEO.
Succession judgement and adhere to the independence Mike Watters was CEO of the management company from 2008 and, following internalisation criteria of the Code.
of management, became the CEO of Redefine International in 2013.
The possible retirement or departure of such a long standing employee obviously is a large risk to the Company and Their biographical details can be found on the Chairman has been personally managing the development of the Deputy CEO, Stephen pages 62 to 65 and are contained in the AGM Oakenfull, involving mentoring, arranging external residential management development Notice of Meeting.
programmes and increased external networking.
A succession plan of internal candidates has been drawn up by management, and a Greg Clarke presentation by the pipeline candidates will be given to the Non-executives next year so they Chair of the Nominations Committee are able to meet and question the potential successors to the executives.
26 October 2017 Directors training As part of the evaluation, each Director was assessed by the rest of the Board.
TheChairman discussed the results with each Director.
Any training and development needs were identified and Directors were encouraged to update their skills, knowledge and familiarity with the Company to fulfil their roles on the Board.
Advisers and managers may be asked to present at meetings to provide Directors with detailed information relating to the Company.
Property tours are undertaken to enable Directors to view the Companys assets and discuss matters directly with the responsible asset manager.
At each Board meeting, Directors are kept abreast of changes to regulatory rules and corporate governance matters and any concerns or developments regarding, inter alia, insurance, health and safety, sustainability, bribery and whistleblowing, cyber security and the Modern Slavery Act.
