Board of Directors Leadership and effectiveness A diverse and effective leadership team The primary role of the Board is to provide effective and entrepreneurial leadership necessary to enable the Groups business objectives to be met and to review the overall strategic development of the Group as a whole.
6 10 4 11 1 2 7 3 9 5 8 Appointments and other Board and Committee members Each Board member listed here served throughout the financial year ended 31 July 2017 Throughout the financial year ended 31 July 2017, Dave Keltner served as Interim with the exceptions of Mike Powell, Kevin Murphy and Nadia Shouraboura.
Mr Powell was Group Chief Financial Officer and as a member of the Disclosure, Executive, Major appointed Group Chief Financial Officer with effect from 1 June 2017 and Ms Shouraboura Announcements and Treasury Committees.
During the year, Mr Keltner also served as was appointed Non Executive Director with effect from 1 July 2017.
Mr Murphy succeeded Chairman of the Disclosure and Treasury Committees until the appointment of MrPowell Frank Roach as Chief Executive Officer, USA and was appointed on 1 August 2017. on 1 June 2017.
Mr Keltner was not a Director but attended all Board meetings in his capacity as Interim Chief Financial Officer.
Frank Roach was a Director and a member of the Executive Committee throughout the financial year ended 31 July 2017.
In addition to the members of the Major Announcements Committee identied on pages 52 and 53, Richard Shoylekov, Group General Counsel, and Mark Fearon, Group Director Ian Meakins served as Group Chief Executive, Chair of the Executive Committee and ofCommunications and Investor Relations, are members of that Committee.
a member of the Disclosure, Major Announcements and Treasury Committees for one month during the financial year ended 31 July 2017, from the beginning of the year until hisretirement on 31 August 2016.
1 2 3 Gareth Davis John Martin Mike Powell Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer M N D E M T D E M T Year of appointment Year of appointment Year of Appointment 2011 appointed Chairman 2016 appointed Group Chief Executive 2017 2003 appointed to the Board as a Non Executive Director 2010 appointed to the Board as Group Chief Key strengths and experience Financial Officer Key strengths and experience Considerable financial management and operational Extensive international board and general management Key strengths and experience experience.
Experience of running multi-national experience, having served on various company boards Extensive operational and financial management businesses with significant USA operations.
Mr Powell, a for many years.
Mr Davis spent 38 years in the tobacco experience of running large international businesses.
chartered management accountant, joined the Company industry and was Chief Executive of Imperial Tobacco Mr Martin has strong leadership capabilities and significant on 1 June 2017 as Group Chief Financial Officer.
From July Group plc from its incorporation in 1996 until May 2010. experience in strategic development and driving 2014 until his appointment at Ferguson Mr Powell was improvements in operational performance.
He joined Group Finance Director of BBA Aviation plc, one of the Other principal appointments the Company as Chief Financial Officer and assumed worlds leading providers of aviation support services.
Chairman of William Hill PLC and DS Smith Plc.
management responsibility for the Groups Canadian Before joining BBA he served as CFO of AZ Electronic business between 2013 and 2016.
Previously he was a Materials plc and CFO of Nippon Sheet Glass, based in partner at Alchemy Partners, the private equity group, and Tokyo.
Prior to that he spent 15 years at Pilkington plc prior to that was Chief Financial Officer of Travelex Group, inavariety of operational and finance roles.
the international payments business and Hays Plc.
Other principal appointments Other principal appointments Non Executive Director of Low & Bonar plc.
52 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information 4 7 10 Kevin Murphy Pilar Lpez Nadia Shouraboura Chief Executive Officer, USA Independent Non Executive Director Independent Non Executive Director EM A N R A N R Year of Appointment Year of Appointment Year of Appointment 2017 2013 2017 Key strengths and experience Key strengths and experience Key strengths and experience Strong financial and international experience within Strong leadership skills and deep industry knowledge.
Considerable expertise in running complex logistics global businesses.
Ms Lpez was Chief Financial Mr Murphy has a strong track record of driving sustainable and supply chain activities, with insight in cutting edge Officer for Telefnica Europe from 2007 to 2014 and profitable growth.
In our business he is responsible technology and deep knowledge of e-commerce.
Global Simplication Director for Telefnica S. A from for all of the Groups businesses based in the USA.
Ms Shouraboura was a Vice President at Amazon.
com, 2014 until taking up her current position at Microsoft From 2007 until his appointment as Chief Executive Inc. where she served on the senior leadership team.
She was also Supervisory Board of Ferguson Enterprises on 1 August 2017, Mr Murphy After eight years at Amazon, she founded Hointer Inc. a member of Telefnica Czech Republic AS and Vice was Chief Operating Officer of Ferguson Enterprises consultancy that helps retailers create innovative in-store Chair of Telefnica Deutschland Holding AG.
She joined and a member of its senior leadership team.
Prior to her time at Amazon Ms Shouraboura Telefnica in 1999, working in a number of finance Ferguson Enterprises as an Operations Manager in 1999 was Head of System Development for Trading at Exelon and strategy positions across the European and Latin and subsequently held several leadership positions Power Team, Senior Principal at Diamond Management American businesses.
Prior to this she worked in a variety including three years as Vice President of the USA and Technology and Co-founder and Vice President, IT of roles at J. P. Morgan, in Madrid, London and New York Waterworks division.
at Starlight Multimedia Inc. in addition to other technology where she became a Vice President.
Other principal appointments Other principal appointments Other principal appointments None.
Country Manager for Microsoft Spain.
Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Hointer Inc. and aNon Executive Director of Cimpress NV.
5 Tessa Bamford Al 8 an Murray Independent Non Executive Director Independent Non Executive Director 11 Jacky Simmonds A N R Independent Non Executive Director A M N R S Year of Appointment A N R Year of Appointment 2011 2013 Year of Appointment Key strengths and experience Key strengths and experience 2014 Extensive boardroom and City experience.
Ms Bamford Considerable international operational experience Key strengths and experience has broad business experience having held senior and extensive executive management experience Extensive executive remuneration and human resources advisory roles in both the UK and USA across a range within global businesses.
Mr Murray was, from 2010 experience within large international businesses.
She was formerly a founder and Director until August 2017, a Member of the Supervisory Board Ms Simmonds was Group HR Director of TUI Travel plc of Cantos Communications, an online corporate of HeidelbergCement AG and was previously a Non from 2010 until 2015.
She was also a member of the communications service provider 2001 to 2011.
Executive Director of International Power plc 2007 Supervisory Board of TUI Deutschland, GmbH and Previously, she was a Director of J Henry Schroder & Co, to 2011.
Prior to that, he spent 19 years at Hanson plc a Director of PEAK Adventure Travel Group Limited.
where she worked for 12 years in a number of roles and, and was Group Chief Executive between 2002 and She was previously a divisional HR Director of First Choice prior to that, worked in corporate finance for Barclays fide 2007.
From 2007 until 2008, he was a member of the Holidays PLC until the business was merged with Tui AG in Zoete Wedd.
Management Board of HeidelbergCement AG.
Mr Murray 2007 to form TUI Travel PLC.
From 2007 to 2010, she was is a qualied chartered management accountant.
Other principal appointments HR Director for TUI UK.
Consultant at Spencer Stuart and a Non Executive Other principal appointments Other principal appointments Director of Barratt Developments plc.
Non Executive Director of Owens-Illinois, Inc. Group People Director of easyJet plc.
9 6 Darren Shapland John Daly Graham Middlemiss Independent Non Executive Director Independent Non Executive Director Company Secretary A N R A N R Graham was appointed Company Secretary of Ferguson plc on 1 August 2015.
He is Secretary to the Board and all Year of Appointment Year of Appointment of the Committees of the Board.
Graham, a solicitor, joined 2014 2014 the Group in August 2004 as the General Counsel of its UK business and was Group Deputy Company Secretary Key strengths and experience Key strengths and experience from November 2012 to July 2015.
Considerable commercial, operational, financial Considerable international business and executive management and broad public company experience management experience in a variety of senior leadership in major retail businesses.
Until September roles within major international public companies.
Mr Daly 2016 MrShapland was Chairman of Poundland Group undertook various executive leadership positions plc.
He was a Non Executive Director of Ladbrokes plc during a 20-year career at British American Tobacco Plc Key to Board and Committee Membership and was Chairman of its Audit Committee until 2015.
BAT, running large international businesses.
Mr Daly Between 2012 and 2013, he was Chief Executive Officer recently stepped down as a Non Executive Director of A Audit S Senior Independent of Carpetright plc.
From 2005 to 2010, Mr Shapland Reynolds American Inc. a BAT associate company in the Director was Chief Financial Officer of J Sainsbury plc and from USA.
Prior to his time with BAT, Mr Daly was Managing D Disclosure 2010 to 2011, Group Development Director.
He was also Director of Rothmans Internationals Japan and South Committee Chairman E Chairman of Sainsburys Bank.
Prior to that, Mr Shapland Executive Korea businesses.
held a variety of senior finance and operational positions Other principal appointments N Nominations at Carpetright plc, Superdrug Stores plc, the Burton Group Chairman of Britvic plc and a Non Executive Director of and Arcadia.
Other principal appointments R Remuneration Chairman of Maplin Electronics Limited, MOO Print Limited, Notonthehighstreet.
T Treasury Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 53
