Leadership and effectiveness Evaluating the performance of the Board of Directors The Board undertakes a formal review of its performance and that of its Committees each year, with an external evaluation every three years.
Following the external evaluation conducted in 2015, in accordance with the Code, the next  effectiveness review will be conducted during the year ending 31 July 2018.
Progress against the actions identied following the internal review undertaken in 2016, is outlined below: Action point Responsibility Outcome Keep under review the range of Board and Nominations During the year, the Board dealt with major succession issues with the skills and experience required at Committee appointment of a new Group CFO and a new CEO, USA.
The opportunity Board level as the Groups strategy was taken to supplement and complement the skills and experiences of the is implemented and its businesses Boardthrough the appointment of an additional Non Executive Director.
develop in the future Continue to focus on succession Board and Nominations Board and Executive succession planning was reviewed in detail by the Board planning at Board and Executive level Committee and Nominations Committee further information is provided on page 64.
Develop further opportunities Board Management presentations made to the Board on regional business for Board members to continue performance and progress with strategic initiatives.
to deepen their understanding Board members met with, and received presentations from, local of and engagement with the managementduring their visit to the USA for the July Board meeting.
Groups businesses More detail on the Boards visit to the USA is provided on page 55. opportunity to enhance Board expertise with further digital expertise and Board and Committee effectiveness review USA operational experience was identied as an important aspect of Board This year, the Board and Committee effectiveness review was facilitated development.
The atmosphere at Board meetings was commented on internally using an online survey.
The survey included questions tailored to favourably and seen as encouraging equal contribution, candid discussion address the activities and particular concerns of the Board and the Audit, and critical thinking.
The support and challenge of management by Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
The questions encouraged NonExecutive Directors was rated highly.
The review concluded that the comment and qualitative evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board Boards testing and development of strategy was strong and the Boards and each Committee, the individual members and the support received oversight of the subsequent implementation of strategic objectives was from management and advisers.
Questions used in the previous year rated highly.
Performance of the Board Committees was rated very highly.
were included, enabling the Board to monitor and evaluate progress.
Feedback from the reviewers was reported to and discussed by the Areas identied in order to improve overall effectiveness, are Boardand by each relevant Committee.
In addition, the Chairman spoke summarised below: with each Non Executive Director to discuss the results of the reviews.
Actions All All Directors, from the time of appointment, are aware of the time Develop further opportunities for the Board to meet with USA commitment expected in order to discharge their responsibilities management and further their understanding of the Groups USA effectively.
The Chairman maintains frequent contact with all Directors operations and market environment and constantly monitors whether they are able to devote sufficient time to their respective roles, and he is satisfied that each Director has been Continue to focus on succession planning at Board and Executive level able to do so.
The Chairman also has regular meetings, outside of Board and Committee meetings, with the CEO and other executives to keep up As at the date of this report, the Board has already begun to incorporate to date with material developments in the business and discussed Board these action points into its processes and procedures.
An opportunity composition and succession planning at his meetings with shareholders.
to further enhance the skills and expertise of the Board identied During the financial year, each Director attended all scheduled Board in the review has been taken with the appointment of an additional meetings.
The Board continues to consider each of the Directors to be NonExecutive Director.
For further commentary please see page 64. effective and to demonstrate commitment to his or her role.
In addition to the actions arising from the effectiveness review, the Board During the year, the Non Executive Directors, led by the Senior priorities for 2017 18 are set out in the table below Independent Director, undertook the performance evaluation of the Chairman.
The evaluation concluded that the Chairman performed strongly and is highly effective in his role.
Board meetings were considered Board priorities for 2017 18 All to be well chaired.
The Chairman continued to devote sufficient time and attention to his role and had made himself available to Directors whenever Regularly review and monitor the Groups progress against the drivers necessary outside of Board meetings.
of profitable growth set out on page 17 Ensuring continued focus on matters of succession, diversity and Key findings, improvement actions and priorities talent development Overall, the key findings of the internal evaluation were positive.
The review Support the new Group Chief Financial Officer and Chief Executive concluded that the Board was very effective and worked well together Officer, USA enabling the individual Directors to discharge their respective roles effectively.
Although the composition of the Board was rated highly, the 58 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
