Key resources and relationships How we serve our customers Ferguson is a specialist distributor adding value through its scale, bespoke logistics network and its peoples expertise.
We bridge the gap between our suppliers and our customers, providing our suppliers a cost effective route to market and customers specialist advice and a wide range of products where and when they are required.
Talent development The goal of the programme is to increase the speed of impact for new hires.
This year we will welcome 400 college Various metrics will be used to measure graduates to our business in the USA.
the participants added value to the Our investment in targeted talent Our people business including sales, their potential management and development is a and retention prospects.
keyfeature of our business and we are 33,000 adopting an internal university approach Whilst we are committed to recruiting associates to train associates.
and growing early career talent, we also Sharing success and best practice is a acquire talent with specic skills midOur associates are fundamental to our staple of our thriving culture.
Four years career to enhance our ability to bring success.
They deliver excellent customer ago, the HVAC business unit in the USA new services to the market and improve service, develop strong relationships, implemented a centralised university our capabilities.
Great examples of hiring maximise operational efficiencies training model where associates relocate people with capabilities developed and accelerate the adoption of new to a specic branch and follow a set outside our sector have enabled us to operating models.
One of our core curriculum combining instructor-led accelerate the growth of our business.
values relates to our people and six classroom, virtual instruction and on-theFor example, our new National Sales ofour material sustainability issues are job training.
Its success prompted the Centre Director in the USA, Josh Smith, focused on our talented teams.
Industrial and Facilities Supply business brings expertise from over 20years Page 36 units to launch individual universities in professional customer service where graduates are trained in the centre management.
Leadership specics of that business unit.
You can Rewarding performance Reshaping and focusing our strategy to read more about the Industrial Groups create an even more successful business We celebrate success and our reward university on page 9. is dependent on the effectiveness programmes are important in reinforcing Today, this training model is being used of our leaders and their teams.
Over the past throughout the USA with the recent This year has been a year of significant year new incentive programmes have addition of The College of Ferguson.
change in the Executive leadership been re-developed in each business for In July 2017, the five-month programme of the Group, please see the Board branch and sales associates to ensure was launched in seven Blended changes in the Chairmans statement.
that high performance is well rewarded.
Branches nationwide and 88 recent Additionally, we have seen a number We adjust measures to the type of role college graduates participated, learning of internal succession appointments or team, but typically incentivise based the skills needed to prepare them for within the USA to leadership positions.
on combinations of trading profit, gross aninside sales position.
These appointments have been margin, gross profit, average cash-toenhanced by the use of rigorous cash days and net promoter score.
assessment techniques, structured transition and personal development processes the same processes that now apply to all senior level hiring across 7,000 the Group.
current Pages 13 and 18 associates have higher education degrees, about 28 per cent of the workforce inthe USA 22 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Signature recognition programmes in our One initiative which demonstrates Our present recruitment practices factor practical care for our associates is business in the USA include Presidents inunder-represented groups and we Club, recognising the performance of Ferguson Fit.
Ferguson Fit was originally insist on balanced candidate lists when set up to focus on physical health given top outside sales associates: Presidents using executive search rms.
In the Circle, recognising sales associates and rising medical insurance costs in the UK, the government requires certain USA and to promote the benets of sales managers who are top performers businesses to declare their gender pay in the marketplace: and Presidents ahealthy workforce.
The UKbusiness has a 2.38 per cent grown to encompass an all-around Gallery, honouring showroom sales gap in basepay compared to the UK Case study associates who meet key corporate approach to healthy living.
We provide average 18.1 per cent.
Nevertheless, 24 7 online and telephone medical, showroom initiatives and demonstrate during 2017 18 we will put in place a Kates journey exceptional leadership.
health and lifestyle advice and guidance diversity plan in each business, building Kate Bailey, Director for all associates.
Across the Group, on our present practices where, like many of Showrooms USA, The pinnacle sales award, the Bob is a great testament our associate assistance programmes businesses, we continue to identify and Wells Leadership Award, is presented of how hard work and provide support, counselling and advice remove any potential for unconscious to a remarkable sales associate who dedication, combined on a range of issues for associates and bias in our employment and promotion with the opportunities consistently demonstrates exceptional their families to help our people with practices.
Much external research Ferguson provides, sales leadership and performance.
makes for an awardapositive work-life balance.
in improving diversity highlights the winning career.
New innovative long-term incentive importance of role models, who inspire In our UK business, where significant programmes have been introduced In 12 years, Kate others and create adifferent level of change is underway, associate worked her way up toeach business to reward sustained expectation of the type ofcareer that engagement survey scores have from trainee at a or improved trading profit performance is possible.
branch to a highly remained constant whilst participation inour different businesses.
For example, visible role in the has risen to over 70 per cent.
A new Health and safety over a three-year cycle critical staff USA headquarters, associate forum has been established Caring for our peoples safety and where she oversees in the USA can see their initial grants to help drive the transformation process wellbeing is at the heart of the Groups the strategic direction multiply by five times for exceptional for Fergusons across the branch network and to help values.
Board and Executive Committee performance.
Our investment in 275 showrooms shape parts of the programme itself.
meetings of the Group always start with this programme is overseen by the nationwide.
Kate was Formal consultation processes have our Health and Safety report because recently recognised Remuneration Committee.
run in parallel, ensuring all our affected we want to ensure that our people return by Supply House Associate engagement associates can be reassured that Times as one of home safely each day and thrive in the top women when changes affect them they will be Our teams in sales, branches, contact, the workplace.
in Industry for managed openly and fairly.
logistics and distribution centres are her achievements.
The main causes of injury within our thelocal face of our business.
Their Our new Canadian President, Kevin business are manual handling leading relationships with both large and small Fancey, is taking a ground up approach to sprains and strains, slips, trips and customers are critical to our success and to his introduction to the Company and falls, the use of mechanical handling their expert knowledge means they are in his first two months in the role he ran equipment such as forklift trucks and a key part of our customers workday.
engagement sessions at 25 sites with being struck by unsecured products It isimportant that our associates feel 500 associates.
Our health and theyhave a voice and that their views and safety management framework and Diversity and inclusion opinions are listened to.
All businesses controls are structured to address inthe Group measure engagement and We want access to the best talent all health and safety risks and irrespective of gender, race, orientation take action to identify improvements compliance requirements.
The Board is now a 50:50 balance of male and females in our Non winning teams depend on it.
We are disappointed to report a Executive Directors and, whilst our sector deterioration of our Group injury rate In the USA we continue to measure remains male dominated, we are starting and Group lost workday rate in 2016 17 engagement regularly and the team is to see greater female participation at each primarily as a result of a deterioration proud of the degree to which current level in our business.
Each of our associates would recommend Ferguson businesses has plans in place to reverse as a place to work to a good friend.
Our diversity policy statement can be these trends.
The Group collision Over the past five years our scores seen on page 65.
In the UK business, rate improved in 2016 17 following an have consistently exceeded 75 per cent where we have made some significant in-depth driver risk assessment and which is well above industry averages.
changes in the Leadership team, four controlimprovements.
Our levels of associate engagement in 40 per cent executive positions are the USA remain strong although lower occupied by women.
So whilst we have than last year.
work to do there are some promising signs of progress.
Pages 36 and 65 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 23 Key resources and relationships continued Leadership of Health and Safety is key and the CEO chaired calls with a group of highly skilled eld-based health and safety specialists from each Our customers Our suppliers of our businesses in May and July 2017 to discuss the health and safety development across the Group and 1 million 44,000 to understand how we can improve.
customers suppliers Whilst we benchmark as average for To be successful, our customers depend We have 44,000 reputable suppliers ourindustry sector we intend to become on us for high levels of availability on manufacturing over one million products leaders.
The observations made over a broad range of products, ready for around the world.
This gives us access recent months are being worked on by collection or delivery on the same or to a diverse and broad range of quality all leadership teams across the Group next day or an agreed time.
Our leading market positions toensure we leverage the expertise customers also value high quality and enable our central sourcing teams in ofour associates in this area.
efficient service from our knowledgeable each region to leverage our scale and One immediate action has been to people, local relationships, competitive negotiate competitive prices in return for increase the number of Health and pricing and billing and order accuracy.
access to our one million customers.
Safety professionals and we have They also want exibility in choosing the We work with our suppliers to ensure begun the process to appoint a most convenient way to do business that they are reliable and ethical and specialist leader in the USA to drive with us, whether in a branch, by phone that their products are fully compliant ourimprovement agenda.
We aim to deliver all of these with the laws and regulations of the things through a best-in-industry Pages 25 and 36 countries in which they and we operate.
service offering across all channels so Each business assesses its suppliers our customers keep coming back.
Ethical behaviour and humanrights against set criteria to provide protection We are committed to comply with the We operate our business responsibly to both us and our customers in the law and to operate under high ethical 22 so that our customers can feel confident event of a product failure or breach of standards.
This is simply the right thing that we are looking after our associates, regulation in the supply chain.
On the Distribution to do and it protects us from business providing safe and high-quality products, rare occasion that a product is faulty, centres disruption: it also strengthens our operating efficiently and actively customers have the confidence of reputation with customers, suppliers contributing to the communities in knowing that we will support them.
Our Code of which we operate.
We consult with key We conduct third party background Conduct is dedicated to helping each customers each year to understand checks on our suppliers for unethical of our associates to live our values their business needs and their or illegal behaviour see case study on a daily basis in all decisions and sustainability priorities so that we can Working with responsible suppliers interactions.
Our Code of Conduct in the continually evolve our business to meet onpage 36.
USA was renewed during 2016 17 and their expectations.
Pages 36 and 37 features Q&A sections to provide real life Where the market demand exists, we examples of our values in action.
promote sustainable products and All of our businesses provide training for provide training and advice to customers relevant associates on anti-corruption, to support growth in these new product anti-trust and modern slavery matters.
com in Channels to market This is typically provided through online the USA can lter their product search training material and face-to-face training to view products with recognised is also provided.
Training is provided for national environmental labels.
Our Dutch 2,310 new associates on induction.
and UK businesses have built large branches dedicated sustainable buildings or Our Human Rights policy statement can Our customers increasingly expect a energy-efficiency centres that act as be seen on page 36.
For information on 24 7 multi-channel approach dealing with showrooms for the latest products ethical behaviour in our supply chain, us through a combination of branches, and serve as training facilities for our please refer to page 36. showrooms, online, call centres and customers.
The UK business provides Page 36 an outside sales force.
The majority of aseries of innovative customer services our business is still conducted through that support the UK-wide campaign our branches and our extensive branch to establish a ourishing renewables network means our customers typically market including a free system design travel fewer than 20 miles to buy from us service and dedicated regional and visit several times a week.
channel approach allows our customers Page 37 to access products and advice 24 hours a day, seven days a week, whenever it is required.
24 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Our estate is carefully managed to ensure management to back-office human To keep our distribution network running the health and safety of our associates, resources and financial management efficiently with minimal impact on the customers, suppliers and any other and reporting systems.
environment, each of our businesses visitors.
Regular health and safety risk has targets to reduce carbon and the As many of our competitors are small assessments and branch audits ensure associated costs for transport, relative local distributors this is a major source of that we maintain our equipment and to revenue.
We are focused product racking, safely store and move improvements in 2016 17 which have on staying ahead of the competition by products and provide for any potential positively impacted our environmental looking at every opportunity in this space emergency incident.
Our insurers also performance include eet upgrades and while defending against any new threats support these efforts, undertaking their the installation of a telematics system that may enter the market.
own safety assessments at selected key in the commercial eet in the USA see sites each year.
Our branches also use the distribution network to support 45 per cent of the Group carbon footprint their waste management efforts, sending is generated in our buildings.
This includes recyclable packaging waste back to the electricity and fuels consumed for heating Distribution network distribution centres for sorting, baling or cooling.
Each of our businesses and recycling.
has targets to reduce carbon and the 6,100 associated costs from buildings, relative Where possible, we work with our eet vehicles to revenue.
Building improvements during suppliers to reduce their environmental 2016 17 include the installation of LEDs and impacts.
For example, we help our Our extensive distribution network heat curtains in some of our sites.
We have suppliers to avoid unnecessary travel and large eet enable us to ensure partnered with energy brokers in the USA by backhauling product from their same or next day availability of a wide and UK and are developing consumption factories when our trucks are returning basket of products to our customers.
dashboards to allow us to better target our empty to our distribution centres.
Our customers rely upon us for prompt efforts on energy efficiency from 2017 18.
In 2016 17, we saved our suppliers in the and exible delivery options to meet USA and UK from travelling 4.2 million Case study their own needs.
Our online sales channels, available miles.
This equates to 5,946 tonnes through any device, allow our customers Improving driver Suppliers deliver in bulk to our of avoided carbon emissions the to reduce their environmental impact as behaviours distribution centres, our branches equivalent of taking 1,256 passenger travel to our branches for product advice A new telematics or directly to our customers.
vehicles off the road for a year.
system has been or product collection is reduced.
We predominantly distribute from www.
gov installed in the distribution centres, ship hubs and For information about our environmental goods eet of our For information about our environmental branches to customers.
efficiency efforts see page 37. efficiency efforts see page 37.
The system allows The safety of our drivers is taken very Page 37 for monitoring of Page 37 seriously and during 2016 17 an indriver behaviours to mitigate For information about our health and depth risk assessment was conducted speeding, excessive For information about our health and safety programme see pages 23 and 36. into driver safety by our health and idling and harsh safety programme see pages 23 and 36. safety experts.
The assessment acceleration or Pages 23 and 36 took into account vehicle condition, braking.
Besides Pages 23 and 36 supporting more road hazards, loading and unloading efficient driving risks, physical health risks and driver behaviours and training.
Existing controls have been optimising fuel strengthened and new controls consumption this also serves to increase Technology introduced to best protect our drivers.
the safety of our We monitor our collision rate monthly driver population.
for both our goods eet and company 3 billion car eet.
Each business has targets revenue from e-commerce activities to reduce their collision rate and performance is reported to the Executive We are continually investing in Committee each month and to the Board technology to improve our business, every other month.
win new customers and retain existing customers.
E-commerce accounts for Approximately 55 per cent of our carbon 3 billion 20 per cent of the Groups footprint is generated by transport revenue and our customer facing including commercial vehicles, company channels to market are mentioned cars and business travel by road, rail on page 24.
Additional technology or air and 43 per cent of this is from investments are aimed at improving commercial vehicles, whether our own execution and efficiency in all areas of or that of third party hauliers that we our business from warehousing, eet, partner with.
inventory and customer relationship Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 25
