Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Relations with shareholders Engagement Investor relations programme The Board is fully committed to engaging with shareholders.
During the The allocation of time spent in the UK, continental Europe and North year, active dialogue was maintained with our shareholders through America reects the distribution of our shareholders.
planned communications and annual investor relations programmes.
Shareholder meetings during the year ended 31 July 2017, there were The Group Director of Communications and Investor Relations who a total of 277 meetings.
John Martin and Dave Keltner, Interim Group Chief reports to the Group Chief Financial Officer and Group Chief Executive Financial Officer together with the Investor Relations team attended has day-to-day responsibility for all investor relations matters and 108 meetings, Gareth Davis together with the Investor Relations team for contact with all shareholders, financial analysts and the media.
attended five meetings, members of the USA senior management team In interactions with shareholders, the Company ensures: represented by various combinations of Frank Roach, Kevin Murphy a professional approach: and Bill Brundage, the USA business Chief Financial Officer attended provision of accurate data: 10 meetings and the Investor Relations team met with institutions through timely disclosure of information to the market: and afurther 154 meetings, conferences and calls.
accessibility to both current and potential shareholders.
The Chairman regularly meets with the larger institutional shareholders and ensures that the Board as a whole has an appropriate understanding Communications programme of shareholder feedback.
Regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and financial analysts The Group Director of Communications and Investor Relations regularly based in Europe and North America is maintained through: provides the Board with details of feedback received from institutional meetings and conversations involving the Group Chief Executive, shareholders and any key issues raised.
GroupChief Financial Officer and Investor Relations team: release of updates on the financial performance of the Group AGM incorporating revenue, profitability by region, net debt and appropriate The AGM is held in Switzerland with an audio-visual link to London so that commentary on key business trends: and shareholders in London are able to participate and can question the Board the Chairman regularly engaging with larger institutional shareholders during the meeting.
All Directors attended the 2016 AGM.
During the to discuss matters including the Board, strategy, remuneration and AGM, the Board answered a wide range of questions from shareholders.
Details of the 2017 AGM are contained in the Notice of AGM and are available on www.
The Company engages with private shareholders in the following ways: Additionally, in response to feedback from individual shareholders at last periodic meetings are held with the UK Shareholders Association: years AGM, the Group Chief Executive and Director of Communications responding to communications from individual shareholders: and Investor Relations will make themselves available to answer questions all documents presented at investor events are available on from individual shareholders in advance of the AGM at a meeting www.
com: and hosted by the UK Shareholders Association at the offices of Bank of there is a Shareholder information section on www.
com America Merrill Lynch, 2 King Edward St, London EC1A 1HQ on Thursday and on pages 142 to 144 of this report.
Plans for engagement in 2017 18 A similar investor relations programme will be run during the 2017 18 financial year.
Geographical breakdown ofinstitutional shareholder base Investor concentration 17.5% 23.1% 47.7% Others Top 5 United Kingdom investors 37.4% North America 10.8% Shareholders Europe 21.0% 3.8% Rest of top Asia 100 investors 38.4% 0.3% Rest of top Rest of World 30 investors Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 59
