Nominations Committee Leadership and effectiveness As part of the Committees succession planning process for the role ofCEO, USA external candidates were considered in addition to Kevin Murphy, who was then Chief Operating Officer of our USA business.
The criteria for the selection of a successor to Frank Roach as CEO, USA included strategic development and execution capabilities, significant executive experience in the relevant sector, core functional capabilities Gareth Davis and a proven organisational leadership ability.
Nominations Committee Chairman After a careful and thorough review, the Committee agreed that Kevin Murphy was the most appropriate successor as CEO, USA and Dear Shareholder recommended his appointment to the Board.
Kevin joined the USA Board and senior leadership succession planning is of paramount business in 1999 and held several leadership positions before being importance to Fergusons continued success.
It continues to be a major appointed Chief Operating Officer in 2007.
Kevin has played a vital priority for the Board and is something the Nominations Committee keeps part in our USA business success, and his skills, expertise and deep under continuous review.
As I mentioned in my Chairmans statement understanding of the business make him the ideal person to drive future on page 13, during the year, we announced three changes to the Board: growth in the USA.
I am delighted that a candidate identied by the FrankRoachs retirement and the appointment of Kevin Murphy as our new Board some time ago as having significant potential, and subsequently Chief Executive Officer, USA CEO, USA : the appointment of Mike Powell developed by the Company as part of the succession planning process for as our new Group Chief Financial Officer CFO : and the appointment of senior leadership positions, has been selected to lead the Groups largest Nadia Shouraboura as a Non Executive Director.
Id like to take this opportunity to thank Frank Roach for his immense Recruitment contribution to the business and for his distinguished service.
Frank has In accordance with our procedure for selecting and recruiting Directors, been an outstanding Chief Executive of our USA business.
Under his the Committee identied the key skills and experience required for the leadership, the business has developed into the leading specialist new appointments.
The Committee retained external search advisers to distribution business in the USA, whilst maintaining an enviable track assist in the process of identifying potential candidates for nomination record of delivering superior service to customers and creating significant to the Board.
The Company does not use open advertising to search shareholder value.
I wish Frank well in his retirement.
for suitable candidates for Director positions, as we believe that the optimal way of recruiting for these positions is to use targeted recruitment Non Executive Director appointment based on the skills and experience required.
Both internal and external candidates were considered for Executive Director positions as part of During the Board and Committee effectiveness review process, an arigorous process involving interviews and assessments.
opportunity was identied to enhance the skill set of the Board through the recruitment of an additional Non Executive Director.
The criteria identied by the Committee for the Non Executive Director recruitment Executive Director succession process included a proven track record as a senior leader of a USA During the year, we undertook a process to identify a successor for the business, deep understanding of the evolving digital environment and role of CFO.
The criteria identied by the Committee for the CFO selection first-hand experience of disruptive business models.
Following a thorough process included strategic development abilities, functional capabilities, recruitment process the Committee agreed that Nadia Shouraboura was the relevant sector and international experience, and the ability to work most suitable candidate and recommended her appointment to the Board.
effectively in and to build high performing teams.
I am delighted to welcome Nadia to the Board.
Her considerable expertise Following an extensive recruitment process the Committee agreed in running complex logistics and supply chain activities will be invaluable that Mike Powell was the strongest candidate for the CFO role and to us.
E-commerce remains a significant opportunity for the Group with recommended his appointment to the Board.
Mikes international almost 3 billion of revenue generated from online activities last year and background, financial skills, familiarity with the USA and operational growing this channel remains an important part of our strategy.
experience of running multi-site businesses will be important attributes aswe continue to develop the Ferguson business.
External search advisers At the same time as announcing Mikes appointment the Company also External search advisers Russell Reynolds Associates and JCA Group announced that Dave Keltner, who has served as Interim Group CFO since assisted the Nominations Committee during the year with the CFO September 2016 would step down from the role at the end of 2016 17 recruitment process.
Russell Reynolds Associates also assisted the following an orderly transition.
I would like to thank Dave for the invaluable Nominations Committee with the CEO, USA succession process.
support and leadership he has provided whilst standing in as Interim Russell Reynolds Associates and JCA Group have no other connections Group CFO, allowing the Board ample time to enable a smooth handover to the Company.
Korn Ferry, an external search adviser, assisted the to a successor of the highest calibre.
He has given outstanding service Nominations Committee with the Non Executive Director recruitment tothe Group over 23 years and I wish him well in his retirement.
Korn Ferry has no other connections with the Company except In March 2017, the Company announced the retirement of Frank Roach inrelation to other senior executive search mandates.
asCEO, USA and the appointment of Kevin Murphy as his successor.
64 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Ferguson takes diversity seriously.
We met the gender diversity targets set Board composition and succession planning out in Lord Davies report well ahead of schedule and the Committee has As at 31 July 2017, the Board comprises the Chairman, three Executive noted the recommendations made by the Hampton-Alexander Review on Directors and seven Non Executive Directors.
The biographies of all the gender diversity of FTSE 100 Executive Committee members and their members of the Board, which outline the skills and experience they bring direct reports as well as the Parker Review Reports recommendations for to their roles, are set out on pages 52 and 53. increasing the ethnic diversity of boards.
The Committee has also noted It has been a busy year for the Committee in terms of succession planning the recommendations made by the McGregor-Smith Review of race in the and during the year, in addition to the three appointments, the Committee workplace and the governments response to those recommendations.
considered the composition, skills and experience of, and the succession Ferguson remains absolutely committed to equality in our employment, plans for, the Groups senior leaders.
Succession for the Board and senior promotion and pay practices and the Committee will continue to executives will continue to be a crucial area of focus of the Committee in the monitor and review the Companys progress as it continues to deliver coming year and beyond to ensure that, as the Group develops, the business improvements in workforce diversity.
has the appropriate mix of skills and experience at Board and senior levels.
Effectiveness Diversity The annual review of the effectiveness of the Committee was carried One of the core values of Ferguson is that we value our people.
The review concluded that the Committee was well run We believe that well trained, highly engaged associates deliver better and that, overall, Committee members were satisfied with the quality customer service.
This is one of the Groups drivers of profitable growth, of the succession planning process for Board and Executive positions.
set out in the CEOs review on page 17, and there are examples throughout The review also highlighted areas for continued improvement and we have the report of what the Company is doing in support of this.
incorporated these into our priorities for 2017 18 as set out in the table below.
We aim to recruit, retain and develop a high quality, diverse workforce.
To achieve our objectives we will always appoint or hire the best candidates Nominations Committee priorities for 2017 18 available from the widest range of knowledge, skills and experience.
The diversity of our people whether in terms of gender, race and ethnicity, Continue to monitor Board and senior leadership succession religious or political beliefs, marital status, sexual orientation, age, disability, culture, background or any other measure strengthens our diversity of Continue to monitor progress on diversity at Board level and below thought, which is vital to the growth and success of our business.
We are committed to providing our employees with an inclusive work environment in which diversity is valued, discrimination in any form is not tolerated, and in which all our people feel empowered to reach their full potential.
Details of our current gender diversity statistics are set out on page 36 and further information on diversity is detailed on page 23.
Gareth Davis on behalf of the Nominations Committee We remain supportive of the voluntary approach as an effective way to encourage companies to improve gender diversity in boardrooms.
For the last four years we have met the gender diversity recommendations setout in Lord Davies original report, Women on Boards, and this year 36percent of your Board are women.
Gender diversity Board tenure 1 9 years 3 03 years 36% 2 Female 69 years Board Gender tenure of Board 64% Male 5 36 years Gareth Davis was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2003.
Mr Davis was appointed as Chairman on 20 January 2011 and was considered to be independent within the denition asset out in the Code on appointment.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 65
