Audit Committee Accountability relating toindependence, financial experience and sectoral competence.
The key strengths and experience of each member of the Committee are summarised on pages 52 and 53.
In addition to the members of the Committee, the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Interim Group Chief Financial Officer and the Head of Internal Audit, together with senior representatives of Deloitte LLP Deloitte, Darren Shapland Audit Committee Chairman the Companys external auditors, attended and received papers for each meeting.
Following his appointment as Group Chief Financial Officer on 1 June 2017, Mike Powell also attended and received papers for the July Dear Shareholder Committee meeting.
The Committee meets periodically with the Group I am pleased to present the report of the Audit Committee for 2016 17.
Chief Financial Officer and also meets separately with Deloitte and the This report provides an insight into the activities of the Committee during Head of Internal Audit without the presence of Executive Directors.
The the year and how the Committee plays a key oversight role for the Committee has a programme where the Finance Directors of the Groups Board.
I will be available at the 2017 AGM, to respond to any questions major businesses attend and present updates on items such as regional shareholders have on this report or any of the Committees activities.
finance team development, finance transformation and financial systems As at 2 October 2017, the Committee was made up of seven Non architecture and the base financial controls environment.
Other senior Executive Directors as set out in the table on page 54.
During the year, executives are also invited to attend and provide updates to the Committee, Nadia Shouraboura joined the Committee following her appointment as for example the Chief Information Officer regularly attends meetings to aNon Executive Director on 1 July 2017. report on the Groups information security programme and IT controls.
How the Committee operates Principal areas of focus The Audit Committee met on four occasions during the financial year.
During the year, the Committee has continued to focus on maintaining the Meetings are scheduled to coincide with key dates in the financial quality and integrity of our financial reporting, and monitoring and ensuring reporting cycle.
Attendance at these meetings is set out on page 54. the appropriateness of the Companys risk management systems and internal control environment.
In line with the assessment of the Groups The Board considers that several members of the Committee have recent principal risks detailed on pages 42 to 49, and mindful of external events and relevant financial experience and that each member of the Committee which have highlighted its importance, the Committee has increased its is independent within the denition set out in the Code.
Members of the scrutiny of information security during the year and has reported on its activity Committee between them possess significant international, commercial, to the Board.
The Committee has also continued to monitor the interaction retail, financial and human resource skills and expertise which are relevant between the internal audit function and the external auditors, to monitor to an international specialist distribution company.
In addition to me, Alan and review the effectiveness of the external audit process and to ensure Murray and Pilar Lpez have served as Chief Financial Officers of large that the Groups governance standards are maintained.
Further details of businesses during their career.
This provides the Board with assurance the Committees activities during the year are set out opposite.
that the Audit Committee meets the relevant regulatory requirements Audit Committee key achievements 2016 17 An overview of the Committees 2016 17 objectives and how the Committee has achieved them is set out below: 2016 17 objectives Achievements The effective and efficient transition Smooth handover of responsibilities to the Interim Group CFO of responsibilities to the Companys Interim Group Chief Financial Officer Continue to review and monitor the Reviews undertaken in March and September of key risks and their management approach to risk management and the The Groups principal risks and the adequacy of the mitigating controls in place were considered in detail level of risk driven through changes to the operating model, industry changes Feedback provided to management as part of this review process and any material changes highlighted and technological developments Continue to monitor and The Committee has continued to monitor information security, and has increased its focus in this area review theGroups approach Information security programme updates were presented to the Committee at six-monthly intervals  and two external information security audits were conducted during the year Monitored preparation for the implementation of the EU General Data Protection Regulation Continue to monitor finance systems Reports received from management and reviewed by the Committee as well as internal and external audit transformation Monitor and ensure that the external The external and internal auditors reported to the Committee on the ways in which they had auditors and internal auditors continue continued to co-ordinate their activities effectively All the recommendations made in last years external effectiveness review have been implemented.
to co-ordinate their activities effectively In particular, Deloitte identied ways in which controls processes could be further improved and the and that the internal audit effectiveness internal audit team worked effectively to make appropriate improvements review actions are completed 60 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information What the Committee has done during the year The Committee has a rolling programme of agenda items to ensure that relevant matters are properly considered.
The list below summarises the key items considered by the Committee during the year.
Control environment Governance Internal audit report Effectiveness review of the Committee Annual plan for internal audit External auditor effectiveness review Fraud and whistleblowing reports Internal audit effectiveness review Risk management report Consideration of non-audit engagements Anti-bribery and corruption compliance programme Updates on accounting and corporate governance developments Internal controls review Terms of reference review External audit plan Review of external auditors fees and engagement letter Financial results Review items Full Year results and associated announcements Updates from regional Finance Directors Auditors Full Year report to the Committee Finance team succession planning Review of the Annual Report and Accounts Information security updates Half Year results and associated announcements IT controls reports Auditors Half Year report to the Committee Financial reporting and significant financial judgements The Committee considered the issues summarised below as significant in the context of the 2016 17 financial statements.
These were discussed and reviewed with management and the external auditors and the Committee challenged judgements and sought clarification where necessary.
The Committee received a report from the external auditors on the work they had performed to arrive at their conclusions and discussed in detail allmaterial findings contained within the report.
Carrying value Audit Committee review Conclusions ofgoodwill and The Committee reviewed the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets for The Committee agreed with intangible assets impairment, including a detailed review of the assumptions underlying the value in use managements assessment that recurring item calculations for businesses identied as cash generating units.
The key assumptions an impairment charge had arisen underlying the calculations are primarily the achievability of the long-term business plan, relating to the Swedish business, country specic discount rates, anticipated revenue growth in the short-term and long-term Beijer, due to signicantly growth assumptions.
For further information please see notes 12 and 13 of the consolidated financial statements onpages 100 and 101.
Completeness of Audit Committee review Conclusions supplier rebates The Committee reviewed the recognition of supplier rebates which are significant to the As a result of the review process, recurring item Group and are an area of inherent risk due to the number and complexity of the arrangements.
which included consideration In addition, the majority of the supplier rebate arrangements cover a calendar year and of the external audit findings, therefore do not end at the same time as the Groups accounting year-end.
Where the rebate the Committee concluded that arrangements are calculated at a at rate there is limited judgement.
However, for tiered the level of rebate income and rebates, judgements are required to forecast the expected level of volumes purchased to rebate receivable as at 31 July determine the appropriate rate at which a rebate is earned.
This review covered the processes 2017 was properly reected in the and controls in place during the year and the level of adherence to the Groups accounting consolidated financial statements.
For further information please see note 1 of the consolidated financial statements on page 90.
Inventory Audit Committee review Conclusions valuation Judgement is applied in determining the appropriate values for slow-moving or obsolete Following their review, which recurring item inventory.
The provisions are predominantly system-generated calculations, comparing included consideration of the inventory on hand against expected future sales using historic experience as the basis for external audit findings, the provisioning, along with the results of physical stock-counts.
The Committee considered the Committee concluded that level of provisions and ensured the policy was consistently applied across the Group in the provisions for obsolete and current and previous financial periods.
The Committee also sought the views of the auditors.
slow moving inventory are fairly stated in the consolidated For further information please see note 1 of the consolidated financial statements on page 90. financial statements.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 61 Audit Committee continued Accountability Deloitte are expected to report to the Committee any material departures Audit Committee effectiveness review from Group accounting policies and procedures that are identied during An internally facilitated review of the Committees effectiveness was the course of their audit work.
Deloittes 2016 17 external audit plan has carried out in July 2017.
The review concluded that the Committee been successfully completed at the date of this report.
No material items continued to be effective and well run and the composition of the Audit were found or reported in the financial year.
The review found that the work of the Effectiveness of the audit process internal and external auditors was well co-ordinated and that their work Following the issue of the Companys Annual Report, the Committee continued to be effectively reviewed and assessed by the Committee.
conducts an annual review of the effectiveness of the external audit.
The Committees monitoring and review of the status of IT controls and A survey of all the Groups finance teams is conducted.
Each team is information security systems was identied as an evolving area which asked to rate the performance of the external auditor against a range of had seen improvements implemented during the year.
The review also measures, including relating to the adequacy of planning, sufficiency of highlighted several areas for improvement and these either have been resource, thoroughness of review and testing, adequacy and application incorporated into our priorities for 2017 18, or for more minor areas will of knowledge of the Group, usefulness of feedback and the quality of be addressed during the year.
The Committee was satisfied that Deloitte provided an effective audit service in 2015 16.
A review of the effectiveness of the audit for the year ended 31 July 2017 will be conducted.
Audit Committee priorities for 2017 18 Auditor independence and objectivity The Company has policies and procedures in place to ensure that the Continue to review and monitor the approach to risk management independence and objectivity of the external auditor are not impaired.
and the level of risk driven through changes to the operating model, These include restrictions on the types of services which the external industry changes and technological developments auditor can provide, in line with the Audit Practices Board Ethical Standards Continued increase in focus on the Groups approach to on Auditing.
Details of the services that the external auditors cannot be information security engaged to perform are provided at www.
Continue to monitor finance systems transformation to ensure that the Deloitte also provides specic assurance to the Committee on the associated projects are effectively completed arrangements and safeguards it has in place to maintain its independence and objectivity, including an internal process to preapprove provision Review and assess the continued effectiveness of the Groups control of non-audit services and the use of separate teams where non-audit framework and base financial controls including their continued effective services are being provided to the Group.
The Committee continues to be operation following the transfer of certain functions from the UK to satisfied with the independence and objectivity of Deloitte.
the USA When considering the award of non-audit work to the external auditor, an assessment is made to consider if it is more effective for the work to External audit be carried out by the external auditor who has existing knowledge of Auditor reappointment the Company and all appointments are made on a case-by-case basis.
Following an external tender process, Deloitte were first appointed as the The prior consent of the Chairman of the Committee is required before Companys external auditor for the 2015 16 audit and have served as the the Companys external auditor is appointed to undertake non-audit work.
Companys auditor for two years.
Deloittes reappointment was approved The external auditor will not be appointed to provide non-audit services by shareholders at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Ian Waller has where the Committee considers it might impair their independence or served as lead audit partner since Deloittes appointment.
In line with the objectivity in carrying out the audit.
At each meeting the Committee Audit Practices Board Ethical Standard 3 the lead audit partner is due to be reviews any new non-audit engagement of the Companys external rotated following the 2019 20 audit.
auditor and reviews the level of fees for all non-audit work.
During the year, Deloitte was appointed to undertake non-audit work, the details of which The Committee reviews the external auditor appointment and the need to are provided below.
The Company confirms that it complied with the provisions of the Code and the Competition and Markets Authority Order for Audit and non-audit fees the financial year under review.
For the financial year ending 31 July 2018, the Fees for non-audit work performed by Deloitte as a percentage of Committee has recommended to the Board that Deloitte be reappointed as audit fees for the year ended 31 July 2017 were 24 per cent 2016: 7 per the external auditor and the Directors will be proposing the reappointment of cent.
Further disclosure of the non-audit fees incurred during the year Deloitte at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The Committee confirms that ended 31 July 2017, can be found in note 4 to the consolidated financial the Company complied with the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services statements on page 95.
Order 2014 during the financial year ended 31 July 2017.
Non-audit services related mainly to services provided to Tobler as part of External audit processes the merger with Walter Meier AG and services related to the disposal of the During the year, the Group audit partner, together with other relevant and Nordic businesses and the change of presentational currency for the Group appropriate Deloitte partners, attended all the Audit Committee meetings.
In each instance it was considered to be in the best interests They provided the Committee with information and advice including of the Group to use Deloitte due to efficiencies gained from their existing detailed reports on the financial statements and internal controls.
Their continued objectivity and independence was unaffected due to the nature and scale of the work undertaken.
In January 2017, the Committee reviewed and approved the terms, areas of responsibility and scope of the 2016 17 audit.
During the year, Deloitte provided external audit services for regulatory and statutory reporting.
62 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information assure itself that the Companys systems comply with the requirements Internal audit of the Code.
The Committee can confirm that the Companys systems The scope of activity of internal audit is monitored and reviewed at each have been in place for the full financial year and up to the date on which Committee meeting.
An annual plan was agreed by the Committee in the financial statements were approved, that they are effective and that July 2017 which covers the activities to July 2018.
During the year, the they are regularly reviewed by the Committee on behalf of the Board.
Head of Internal Audit attended all Committee meetings and provided The Committee is of the view that the Company has a well-designed the Committee with a detailed report on internal audit activities which the system of internal control.
These systems can only provide reasonable, Committee reviewed and discussed in detail.
The Committee considered butno absolute, assurance that risks are managed to an acceptable level.
the matters raised and the adequacy of managements response to them, including the time taken to resolve any such matters.
In relation to the financial reporting process, at the business level, line management are required to implement base financial and other controls In July 2017, the Committee conducted the annual review of the effectiveness in line with a clear set of detailed policies relating to financial reporting and of the Groups Internal Audit function, including its terms of reference, audit other accounting matters and act in accordance with the Group Code of planning process, general performance and relationship with the external Conduct.
At Group level, the Group finance function oversees through auditors.
The review identied opportunities to enhance the resourcing of setting the policies, requiring a self-certication from the businesses the function through co-sourcing and maintaining the rigour of following and a bi-annual assessment of implementation by the businesses.
up the implementation of audit recommendations.
Steps have already At afurtherlevel, assurance functions Internal and External Audits been taken to implement these suggested improvements.
The review was testvarious aspects of the processes and report to the Committee.
undertaken using guidance issued by the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors.
As part of this review the Committee was satisfied that all the The Chairman of the Committee reports any matters arising from the opportunities for improvement in the functions operations which had been Committees review to the Board following each meeting.
This update identied by external consultants in last years effectiveness review had been covers the way in which the risk management and internal control implemented.
Based on its review the Committee was satisfied with the processes are applied and any significant failings or weaknesses in, effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function.
There were no significant failings or weaknesses identied.
These processes have been in place throughout the year ended 31 July 2017 and have continued to the date of this report.
Risk Risk management Further information on the Companys risk management systems is set out Risk management reports prepared by the Group Head of Risk and in the section on Principal risks and their management on pages 42 to 49.
Compliance were submitted to the Committee in March and September Whistleblowing and fraud 2017.
These reports summarise submissions from all areas of the business The Groups whistleblowing policy, which supports the Group-wide Code which the Executive Committee and senior management have reviewed.
of Conduct, is monitored by the Committee.
A copy of the Groups Code of Risks relating to material joint ventures and associates are considered as Conduct is available at www.
The Committee received part of this process.
The six-monthly reports identify the significant risks to reports at each Committee meeting providing details of matters reported the Group, the controls in place and highlight the tolerance levels that the through the Groups international condential telephone reporting lines and Executive Committee and, ultimately, the Board are prepared to accept.
secure website reporting facility, which are operated on its behalf by an The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys overall independent third party.
All matters reported are investigated by the relevant risk management framework, including the generic procedures for risk operating company and reported to the Committee, together with details identication, assessment, mitigation, monitoring and reporting and was of any corrective action taken.
The Committee also received reports at satisfied with their effectiveness.
Committee meetings providing details of fraud losses on a half yearly basis.
Viability Statement The Committee also reviewed managements work in conducting a robust Fair, balanced and understandable assessment assessment of those risks which would threaten the future performance At the request of the Board, the Committee assessed whether the content or liquidity of the Company, including its resilience to the threats of of the 2016 17 Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and viability posed by certain of those risks in severe but plausible scenarios.
In order to make this declaration, a formal process is This assessment included the stress testing of cash ow projections followed to ensure the Committee has access to all relevant information to evaluate the impact of an unlikely, but realistic, worst-case scenario.
including a paper from management detailing the approach taken in the The Companys Viability Statement can be found on page 43. preparation of the Annual Report and Financial Statements and explaining why management believes the Annual Report is, taken as a whole, fair, Internal controls balanced and understandable.
The Committee and all Board members During the year, the Committee monitored and reviewed the effectiveness receive drafts of the Annual Report and Financial Statements in sufficient of the Groups internal control systems, accounting policies and practices, time to allow challenge of the disclosures where necessary.
The Committee standards of risk management and risk management procedures and advised the Board it was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the 2016 17 Annual compliance controls, as well as the Companys statements on internal Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and provides controls, before they were agreed by the Board for this Annual Report.
the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Companys The Groups internal control systems are designed to manage rather position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors than eliminate business risk.
Such systems are necessary to safeguard responsibilities statement can be found on page 68. shareholders investment and the Companys assets and depend on regular evaluation of the extent of the risks to which the Company is exposed.
The Committee receives regular reports throughout the year, including from the Finance Directors of the Groups major businesses, to Darren Shapland on behalf of the Audit Committee Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 63
