Audit and Risk Committees Report The Audit and Risk Committee is chaired by Russell Edey and has formally delegated duties and responsibilities with written terms of reference, which are available on the Funds website.
The Board has established an Audit and Risk Committee whose responsibilities are, inter alia: To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Fund, including its annual and half-yearly reports and any other formal announcement relating to its financial performance: To review the Funds accounting policies and any significant financial reporting judgements: To monitor and review the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal financial control and risk management systems on which the Fund is reliant: To review and approve statements to be included in the Annual Financial Report concerning controls and risk management: To report to the Board that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the company: To provide advice to the Board on whether they consider the Annual Financial Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable: To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of external auditors: To monitor the independence and objectivity of external auditors: and To review the audit fees, terms of engagement and provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
The Audit and Risk Committee usually meets three times a year to review the Annual and Half Year Financial Reports, audit timetable and other risk management and governance matters.
It may meet more often if deemed necessary, or if required by the Funds auditors.
Significant accounting matters th During the review of the Funds financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2017, the Audit and Risk Committee considered the following matters to be significant issues, both of which were satisfactorily addressed: Issue considered How the issue was addressed Valuation of the 98.8% of the investment portfolio was valued using quoted prices or investment portfolio prices that were observable.
The Administrators weekly valuation of these securities was checked by the Manager to independent price sources.
1.2% of the investment portfolio was invested in other funds Investee Funds which were valued using the most recently available valuation statements from their respective administrator, updated to include subsequent cashflows.
The Managers monthly Valuation Committee monitors the fair value of all securities and ensures the appropriateness and accuracy of the methodologies used and their effective implementation.
The Manager regularly provides information to the Directors on any stale, unquoted and illiquid securities contained within the investment portfolio for their review and comment.
com Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited | 25 Issue considered How the issue was addressed Loss of assets and All securities are held by an independent Custodian and the Manager custody risk reconciles the Custodians investment portfolio records on a weekly basis.
The Manager monitors the Custodians service levels throughout the year with a formal performance review conducted annually.
The latest annual review was in June 2017.
Auditor independence and assessment The Funds external Independent Auditors,  CI LLP PwC, have acted in this role for more than ten years and although no tender for the audit of the Fund has taken place since their appointment, rotation of the Audit Partner has regularly taken place, most recently in 2013.
The Audit and Risk Committee monitors the European and U. K. legislation regarding mandatory audit firm rotation and tendering to ensure compliance.
An external tender was conducted during 2017 prior to the completion of the existing Audit Partners permitted service term.
Following a robust evaluation of the responses to and presentations involved in the audit tender process, KPMG Channel Islands Limited has been engaged by the Board to act as the Funds auditor from the 2018 financial year.
Resolutions appointing them and authorising the Directors to agree their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
PwC have undertaken the audit of the Funds accounts for the financial year.
As part of its review of the continuing appointment of the Auditors, the Audit and Risk Committee considered the independence of the Auditor along with the effectiveness of the audit.
The Auditors were asked to attest that PwC and the audit team members were independent of the Fund.
PwC also confirmed that they had not been engaged in the provision of any non-audit services to the Fund during the year.
Audit effectiveness was assessed by means of the Auditors direct engagement with the Board at Audit and Risk Committee meetings and also by reference to feedback from the Manager.
The Audit and Risk Committee reviewed the Auditors risk assessment and audit approach at the planning stage and were briefed on the fulfilment of that plan at the completion stage.
The Board concluded, on the recommendation of the Audit and Risk Committee, that the Auditors continue to be independent of the Fund.
th The fees paid to PwC in respect of audit services for the year ended 30 June 2017 were $61,000 2016: $52,000.
PwC did not provide any non-audit services during the year 2016: None.
Internal Controls The Board is responsible for the Funds system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
As there is delegation of daily operational activity, described below, there is no requirement for a direct internal audit function.
The internal control systems are designed to meet the Funds particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and by their nature can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against misstatement and loss.
The services provided to the Fund by the Administrator, such as administration services, accounting services and company secretarial duties reflect the system of financial and operating controls operating at the Administrator.
The control regime for other services, such as the Manager, Investment Adviser, Custodian and Registrar, reflect the internal controls operated by these respective service providers.
The Administrator provides semi-annual and annual financial statements based on the requirements of the Fund.
The financial statements are based on data from the Administrators accounting system including the trial balance, net asset valuation, purchase and sales report and other investment schedules.
All statements are reconciled and reviewed by the Administrator using pre-defined checklists and reviewed by the Manager prior to distribution.
26 | Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited www.
com In order for the Directors to review their effectiveness for the Funds business, an annual review of all out-sourced functions has taken place.
Their performance was monitored against obligations specified in the relevant contracts and was found to be in order.
Service providers report annually on the design and effectiveness of internal controls operating over the functions provided.
Reports are reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee and any material findings are considered by the Board of Directors as a whole.
The Audit and Risk Committee has carried out its annual assessment of the internal controls of the Funds th service providers for the year ended 30 June 2017 and considered the internal control procedures to be adequate based on the findings of their respective ISAE 3402 or SSAE 16 reports.
Russell Edey Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee th 28 September 2017 www.
com Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited | 27
