Nomination Committees Report All Directors form the Nomination Committee, chaired by Hlne Ploix.
The Nomination Committee terms of reference are available on the Funds website.
Board appointments and re-election All members of the Board consider new Board appointments.
The Chairman, Manager or other appropriate persons provide new appointees to the Board with a preliminary briefing on the workings of the Fund.
When appointing a new Director, the Board takes care to ensure that the new Director enhances the balance of skills and experience appropriate to the requirements of the Fund and that a new Director has enough time available to properly fulfil their duties.
The Directors also have access, where necessary in the furtherance of their duties, to independent professional advice at the Funds expense.
During the current financial year, TM Partenaires was engaged to act in the search for a new director.
Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual General Meeting when, under the Funds Articles of Incorporation, it is required that they be elected by shareholders.
Katherine Tsang th was appointed as a Director from 19 July 2017, and will be subject to election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board is now composed of six members, diversified by nationality and gender.
Katherine Tsang Katherine Tsang Canadian spent 22 years with Standard Chartered Bank, latterly in the role of Chairperson of Greater China, before retiring in 2014.
Following her retirement, Katherine founded Max Giant Capital, an asset management group focusing on direct investments in the financial industry in Asia, particularly in China.
Katherine is currently an independent Non-Executive Director of the Board of Gap Inc. and of the Board of China CITIC Bank International Limited.
She also serves as a member of the Advisory Council for China of the City of London, and is an honorary Board member of Shanghai Jiao Tong University.
She has previously served as an independent NonExecutive Director of Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. Limited, a member of the World Economic Forums Global Agenda Council on China, and a member of Sothebys Advisory Board.
Evaluation of the Board All the Directors are retiring in accordance with the AIC Code and will offer themselves for re-election.
As each Director has maintained their effectiveness and commitment to the Fund, the Board endorses them and commends their re-election to the shareholders.
The Board evaluates its performance on an annual basis, and considers that the blend of skills, experience, age, gender and length of service is appropriate.
In accordance with the AIC Code, an independent evaluation of the Boards performance takes place every three years, the last being carried out in April 2016 by Stephenson & Co.
The findings of the review were considered by the Directors and actions, where appropriate, have been taken.
The Board is aware of the requirements of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code and regularly reviews its succession plan.
Hlne Ploix Chairman of the Nomination Committee th 28 September 2017 28 | Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited www.
