Report of the Audit Committee We present below the Audit Committees the Committee reviews these but also pays particular attention to any valuations Report for the year, setting out the Committees structure, which are based on the Investment Managers own valuation.
duties and evaluations during the year.
As in the previous year, Within the life science portfolio, the Committee reviews the the Committee has reviewed the Companys financial reporting, valuation basis and methodology for the Companys underlying the independence of the Independent Auditor and effectiveness investments and pays particular attention to the valuations of of the audit process and the internal control and risk management the most significant interests.
systems of the service providers.
Details of the Committees formal duties and responsibilities Structure of the Committee are set out in the Committees terms of reference which can The Committees members are Nicholas Moss Chairman and be obtained from the Companys Administrator.
Both Committee members are independent Directors.
Independent Auditor The Committee must comprise at least two members, who are The independence and objectivity of the Independent Auditor is appointed by the Board.
Appointments to the Committee shall be reviewed by the Committee which also reviews the terms under for a period of up to three full years, extendable for two further which the Independent Auditor is appointed to perform non-audit three year periods.
The Chairman and the members of the services.
The outsourcing of any non-audit services to the Committee are serving their third year of the first three year term.
Independent Auditor will require prior Committee approval where The members of the Audit Committee consider that they have fees for the services are in excess of 25,000. the requisite skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities of the As a general policy, the Company does not utilise the Independent Committee.
Further details on the experience and qualifications Auditor for internal audit purposes, secondments or valuation of members of the Committee can be found on pages 50 and 51. advice.
Services which are in the nature of audit such as tax The Board is satisfied that the Committee has recent and relevant compliance, tax structuring, accounting advice, quarterly reviews financial experience.
and disclosure advice are normally permitted but should be The Committee conducts formal meetings at least three times pre-approved where fees in a year are likely to be above 25,000. a year.
The table on page 54 sets out the number of meetings The audit and non-audit fees proposed by the Independent held during the year and the number of meetings attended by Auditor each year are reviewed by the Committee taking into each of the members.
Other Directors who are not members account the Companys structure, operations and other of the Committee may also be invited to the meetings.
The requirements during the year and, having considered these Independent Auditor is invited to attend those meetings at which proposals, the Committee makes recommendations to the Board.
the annual and interim reports as well as the planning report are considered.
The Independent Auditor and the Committee also The recent revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code meet together without representatives of either the Administrator, introduced a recommendation that the independent audit of FTSE Investment Manager or Investment Advisor being present if 350 companies be put out to tender every 10 years.
The Audit either considers this to be necessary.
Committee has noted this recommendation and will develop a plan for tendering at the appropriate time.
With the expansion of the Companys investment policy and associated transactions, the frequency of the Audit Committee Deloitte LLP Deloitte has been the Independent Auditor from meetings is expected to increase to five.
the date of the initial listing on the LSE.
David Becker is the lead audit partner and opinion signatory, and has been the lead audit Duties of the Committee partner for four financial years.
At the Groups Annual General The role of the Committee includes, but is not limited to: Meeting on 6 September 2016, Deloitte was re-appointed as monitoring the integrity of the Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor for the ensuing year.
and interim reports: Key evaluations during the year reviewing the valuation methodology and any significant issues As a result of the adoption of IFRS 10: Investment Entities and judgements made in the preparation of the Consolidated Amendment the Group has two investments, both of which Financial Statements and other financial information and are valued at respective Net Asset Values.
reporting them to the Board: monitoring changes in accounting practices: The Company makes its funds investments through Syncona responsibility for and oversight of the Companys risk Investments LP Incorporated the Partnership, in which the management framework and monitoring and reviewing the Company is the sole limited partner.
The general partner of the relevant internal control and risk management systems: Partnership is Syncona GP Limited the General Partner, a monitoring and reviewing the quality and effectiveness of the wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.
The Partnership also Independent Auditor, their independence and audit process: and invests in Syncona Discovery Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary considering and making recommendations to the Board on the of the Partnership.
appointment, reappointment, replacement and remuneration of The Company makes its life science investments through the Companys Independent Auditor.
Syncona Holdings Limited the Holding Company incorporated The Committee also reviews, considers and, if thought appropriate, 24November 2016 and Syncona Portfolio Limited incorporated recommends for the purposes of the Companys Consolidated 24 November 2016.
Syncona Portfolio Limited is a wholly-owned Financial Statements valuations prepared by the Investment subsidiary of the Holding Company.
These valuations are the most critical element in the The following significant matters considered during the year by Companys Consolidated Financial Statements and the Audit the Audit Committee form a key part of the valuation of the Committee questions them carefully.
Within the funds portfolio, Companys investments.
most valuations are based directly on the statements received from the underlying funds independent administrators.
The Committee Syncona Limited 56 Annual report and accounts 2017 Governance 1.
Significant Financial Statement matters The LP acts as the investment vehicle through which the Group a. IFRS 10 Investment Entity Exception to Consolidation holds its portfolio of fund investments.
As described in note 3 In the year, the Group expanded its investment policy, acquired to the financial statements, the LP meets the definition of an Syncona Partners LLP and recruited Syncona Partners investment entity under IFRS 10, and as such is held at fair value investment team.
through profit or loss rather than being consolidated.
Given the expansion of the investment policy and associated The fair value of the investment portfolio of the LP at year transactions, there was a requirement to re-assess the status of end is 604.2 million 2016: 460.4 million and represents Syncona Limited as an investment entity as defined under IFRS 10 87.5 per cent 2016: 97.5 per cent of the fair value of the Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 10, and the Groups investment in the LP with the remainder held in cash.
requirement to consolidate underlying subsidiaries.
Details of the investments balances are disclosed in notes 8, 14, The accounting policies related to this risk can be found in note 1 and 23 and the accounting policies relating to them are disclosed of the financial statements.
There is a key judgement as to whether the Group has an exit The risk exists that the pricing methodology applied by the LP strategy and therefore meets the definition of an investment does not reflect the actual exit price of those investments at the entity under IFRS 10.
Where a company meets the definition year-end in accordance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement of an investment entity, this standard requires investments in IFRS 13 and International Private Equity and Venture Capital subsidiaries themselves meeting these criteria to be held at IPEVC valuation guidelines.
The Audit Committee considered fair value rather than consolidated.
the valuation of these investments to be reasonable from discussions with the Investment Manager, Administrator and The Audit Committee has considered the requirements of Custodian.
The valuation of the funds portfolio is undertaken in IFRS 10 as they apply to the Company as set out in note 3 accordance with the accounting policies disclosed in note 2 and of the financial statements and conclude that IFRS 10 is is reviewed regularly by the Investment Manager and the Board.
appropriate accounting for the Group.
Effectiveness of the external audit b. Valuation of life science portfolio The Committee held formal and informal meetings with Deloitte In the year the Group acquired a sizeable portfolio of life science during the course of the year: 1 before the start of the annual audit investments and increased its limited partner interest in the CRT to discuss formal planning, discuss any potential issues and to Pioneer Fund.
In total the Group holds a life science portfolio with agree the scope that would be covered: 2 after the annual audit a fair value of 204.8 million through Syncona Holdings Limited work was concluded to discuss any significant issues: and 3 to the HoldCo and its subsidiary, and 21.8 million through consider and discuss the interim condensed consolidated financial Syncona Discovery Limited.
The Committee performed the following in relation to These investments are valued at fair value through profit and loss its review of the effectiveness and independence of the in accordance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IFRS 13 Independent Auditor.
and International Private Equity and Venture Capital IPEVC Reviewed the audit plan presented to the Committee guidelines.
In accordance with the accounting policy in note 2, before the start of the audit: investments are generally valued either at cost, Price of Recent Reviewed the audit findings report: Investment PRI or through Discounted Cash Flow DCF models.
Monitored changes to audit personnel: Details of the life science portfolio balance are disclosed in notes Discussed with the Investment Manager, Investment Advisor 8, 14, and 23 and the accounting policies relating to them are and the Administrator any feedback on the audit process: disclosed in note 2.
Reviewed and approved the terms of engagement during the year, including review of the scope and related fees: and The Group fair values its interests in Syncona Holdings Limited and Reviewed and discussed Deloittes own internal procedures Syncona Discovery Limited which are themselves based on the and conclusion on its independence.
fair value of underlying investments and other assets and liabilities.
The risk exists that the pricing methodology applied to the Further to the above, the Committee performs a specific underlying investments in the life science portfolio does not reflect evaluation of the performance of the Independent Auditor.
This an exit price in accordance with IFRS 13 and IPEVC guidelines.
is supported by the results of questionnaires completed by the Committee covering areas such as the quality of the audit team, The Audit Committee considers the valuation of these investments business understanding, audit approach and management.
to be reasonable from discussions with the Investment Manager, Investment Advisor and independent valuation expert.
The valuation There were no significant adverse findings from the evaluation this of the life science portfolio is undertaken in accordance with the year and the Committee is satisfied that the audit process is effective.
accounting policies disclosed in note 2 and is reviewed regularly by the Investment Manager, Investment Advisor and the Board.
c. Valuation of the funds portfolio The most significant financial asset at fair value through profit or loss recognised by the Group at the year end is represented by a controlling capital interest in Syncona Investments LP Incorporated the LP, which is valued at 690.7 million 2016: 472.3 million inthe Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 57 Report of the Audit Committee continued 3.
Audit fees and safeguards of non-audit services 5.
Risk management The table below summarises the remuneration paid by the Group The Audit Committee continued to consider the process for to Deloitte for audit and non-audit services provided: managing the risk of the Group and its service providers.
Risk management procedures for the Group, as detailed in the Groups 31 March 31 March risk assessment matrix, were reviewed and approved by the 2017 2016 Audit Committee.
During the year, the Company expanded its 000 000 investment policy to include investment in early-stage life science Audit services companies.
Accordingly, the principal risks and uncertainties have Audit services 87 30 been updated to reflect new risks associated with the financing of Audit fee for wholly owned Group companies 30 24 and investment in early-stage companies.
Further details can be found on pages 41 to 45.
1 Reporting Accountant Services 105 Conclusion and recommendation After reviewing various reports such as performance reports from Non-audit services the Investment Manager and Investment Advisor, compliance Interim review 14 14 reports from the Administrator, engaging where necessary with Tax Services 7 5 Deloitte, and assessing the significant Financial Statement matters UK Corporate tax return for Syncona listed on page 57, the Committee is satisfied that the Consolidated Discovery Limited 2 Financial Statements appropriately address the critical judgements 1 Accounting services in connection with the December 2016 transaction.
and key estimates in respect to the amounts reported and the disclosures.
The Committee is also satisfied that the significant The annual budget for both the audit and non-audit related assumptions used for determining the value of assets and services was presented to the Committee for consideration liabilities have been appropriately scrutinised, challenged and and recommendation to the Board.
The Committee further concludes that the Consolidated Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are The Committee does not consider that the provision of these fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information non-audit services is a threat to the objectivity and independence necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, of the audit.
Where non-audit services were performed, the fees business model and strategy.
were insignificant to the Group as a whole and when required a separate team was utilised.
Further, the Committee has obtained The Independent Auditor reported to the Committee that no Deloittes confirmation that the other services provided do not material misstatements were found in the course of its work.
Furthermore, the Investment Manager, Investment Advisor and the Administrator confirmed to the Committee that they were not 4.
Internal control aware of any material misstatements including matters relating The Committee has examined the need for an internal audit to the presentation of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Committee considered that the systems and The Committee confirms that it is satisfied that the Independent procedures employed by the Investment Manager, Investment Auditor has fulfilled its responsibilities with diligence and has acted Advisor and the Administrator, including any internal audit independently on the work undertaken on behalf of the Group.
functions, provided sufficient assurance that a sound system The Committee has further recommended that Deloitte be of internal control, which safeguards the Companys assets, reappointed for the next financial year.
An internal audit function specific to the Company is therefore considered unnecessary.
A member of the Committee attends each Annual General Meeting to respond to any questions on matters not addressed The Committee received an externally prepared assessment of in the foregoing.
the control environment in place at the Administrator who provided a Service Organisation Control SOC1 report.
In addition, the Committee and the Board have received presentations from the Investment Manager and Investment Advisor regarding their operations and controls.
With the expansion of the Companys investment policy during the year, the parameters within which Nicholas Moss the funds portfolio operates have changed.
Accordingly, the Audit Committee Chairman investment processes for the funds portfolio were reviewed and 5 July 2017 updated to reflect the changed parameters, where necessary.
Syncona Limited 58 Annual report and accounts 2017
