Corporate governance statement The Board is committed to high standards of corporate The Company will be establishing a Remuneration Committee governance and has implemented a framework for corporate in the current financial year, further details of which are governance which it considers to be appropriate for the Company.
This framework is reviewed on an annual basis as part of the Due to the Companys premium listing on the London Stock Board evaluation process and will be reviewed again in the current Exchange, the Company is required to disclose its Environmental financial year in light of the expansion of the Companys investment Policy.
Further information on the Companys social, environment policy, acquisition of Syncona Partners LLP and recruitment of the and bioethics policies can be found in the Corporate Social Syncona Partners investment management team.
Responsibility section on pages 46 to 49.
The Company seeks to express its social concerns principally through its charitable To comply with the UK Listing Regime, the Company must comply donations and its support of The Institute of Cancer Research.
with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2014 the UK Code issued by the Financial Details of compliance are noted in the succeeding pages.
Reporting Council or explain any departures therefrom.
The There have been no other instances of non-compliance.
Company is also required to comply with the Code of Corporate Governance issued by the Guernsey Financial Services Internal control Commission the GFSC Code.
The Companys system of internal control aims to ensure that assets of the Company are safeguarded, proper accounting The Company is also subject to the Alternative Investment Fund records are maintained and the financial information for publication Managers Directive AIFMD and has a management agreement is reliable, including financial operational, compliance and risk with BACIT UK Limited dated 28 November 2016.
It is prepared and maintained by the Audit Guernsey Limited acts as its depositary, in accordance with the Committee, which considers the relevant risks facing the requirements of the AIFMD.
Company and then collectively assesses the likelihood of each Compliance statement risk, the impact of those risks and the strength of the controls The Board considers that reporting against the principles operating over each risk.
The controls are implemented on an and recommendations of the UK Code provides appropriate ongoing basis by the Companys Investment Manager, Investment information to shareholders.
Companies reporting against Advisor and Administrator and reviewed by the Audit Committee the UK Code are deemed to comply with the GFSC Code.
The Companys system of internal control is designed to manage rather than to eliminate the risk of failure to The Company has complied with the relevant provisions achieve the objectives set out above and by its nature can only of the UK Code, except for the following: provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against Senior Independent Director: misstatement andloss.
the role of the Chief Executive: The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, Executive Directors remuneration: evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the the need for an internal audit function: Company, further details of which are set out on pages 41 to 45. whistle-blowing policy: and Remuneration Committee.
The UK Code requires the Board to conduct at least annually a review of the Companys system of internal control, covering The Companys Senior Independent Director, Colin Maltby, all controls, including financial, operational, compliance and risk stepped down from the Board in July 2016.
The Board has evaluated the systems of internal in the Chairmans statement on page 2, the Company expects control of the Company.
In particular, it has prepared a process to appoint two new Non-Executive Directors to the Board in for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the due course.
The Board will nominate a new Senior Independent Company and the policies by which these risks are managed.
Director as part of that process.
The Board has delegated the execution of the Companys The Company has no executive directors, employees or internal investment policy, the administration, corporate secretarial and operations.
For the reasons set out in the UK Code, the Board registrar functions including the independent calculation of the considers the remaining provisions above not relevant to the Companys net asset value and the production of the Annual position of the Company.
The Company does not have an internal Report and Financial Statements, to the Investment Manager, audit function.
All of the Companys management functions Investment Advisor and Administrator.
The Annual Report and are delegated to the Investment Manager, Investment Advisor, Financial Statements are independently audited.
Whilst the Board Administrator and Company Secretary and Registrar which delegates these functions, it remains responsible for the functions have their own internal audit and risk assessment functions, it delegates and for the systems of internal control.
The Companys key service providers all have contractual agreements have been put in place between the whistle-blowing policies in place and the Board is satisfied that any Company and providers of these services.
Board reports are issues can be properly considered by the Board.
The Company provided at each quarterly Board meeting from the Investment has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
Manager, Investment Advisor, Administrator and Company Secretary and Registrar.
During the year, the Audit Committee met with several of the Companys service providers to review systems and controls.
Syncona Limited 52 Annual report and accounts 2017 Governance A report is tabled and discussed at each Audit Committee Company Secretary meeting, and reviewed once a year by the Board, setting out The Directors have access to the advice and services of a Company the Companys risk exposure and the effectiveness of its risk Secretary, Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services management and internal control systems.
The Board believes Guernsey Limited, who are responsible to the Board, inter alia, for that the Company has adequate and effective systems in place ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable to identify, mitigate and manage the risks to which it is exposed.
rules and regulations are complied with.
Tenure Further reports are received from the Administrator in respect The Board does not believe that length of service, by itself, of compliance, London Stock Exchange continuing obligations impacts on independence.
The independence of Non-Executive and other matters.
The reports have been reviewed by the Board.
Directors will continue to be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
No material adverse findings were identified in these reports.
Role of the Board At each Annual General Meeting of the Company, all the Directors The Board determines and monitors the Companys investment at the date of the notice convening the Annual General Meeting objectives and policy and considers the future strategic direction of shall retire from office and each Director may offer himself or the Company.
The Board is responsible for determining the nature herself for election or re-election by the shareholders.
In and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving accordance with the Articles, no person shall be or become its strategic objectives.
The Board is responsible for presenting incapable of being appointed a Director, and no Director shall fair, balanced and understandable information necessary for be required to vacate that office, by reason only of the fact that shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business such Director has attained the age of 70 years or any other age.
model and strategy in annual and half-yearly reports and other Performance evaluation, induction and training forms of public reporting.
The Board is responsible for the The Board, Audit Committee and Nominations Committee appointment of all service providers to the Company.
In addition, undertake an evaluation of their own performance and that of the Board monitors the shareholder base of the Company, and individual Directors on an annual basis.
This includes succession reviews shareholder engagement and communication strategies, planning and a formal process of self-appraisal together with the and evaluates the performance of all service providers, with input Chairman reviewing each members performance, contribution from its Committees where appropriate.
and commitment to the Company.
The Chairman also has The business of the Company is managed by the Board, which responsibility for assessing the individual Board members may exercise all the powers of the Company including those induction and training requirements.
powers relating to the issuing or buying back of shares.
Further The Board is satisfied that it has a good balance of skills and details of the authorities to be sought at the Annual General experience, and that no individual or group of individuals is or Meeting with respect to issuing or buying back shares can has been in a position to dominate decision-making.
be found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting sent to shareholders separately.
A procedure for Directors, in the As further described in the Chairmans statement, with the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional expansion of the Companys investment policy, the composition advice at the expense of the Company has been agreed.
and the balance of skills and experience required on the Board is evolving.
The Board has engaged the executive search consultant Composition and independence Odgers Berndtson to assist in the appointment of two new The Board currently consists of six Non-Executive Directors, Directors, with appropriate life science and financial expertise, four of whom are independent.
to the Board in due course.
Further details of the Companys The Chairman of the Board is Jeremy Tigue.
In considering the recruitment principles can be found on page 61. independence of the Chairman, the Board has taken note of the Information flows provisions of the UK Code relating to the independence of Directors The Board receives written reports from its advisers on at least and has determined that Mr Tigue is an Independent Director.
a quarterly basis and as appropriate on specific matters.
The Under the UK Code, Mr Henderson is not considered to be Chairman ensures that Directors are provided, on a regular basis, independent because of his significant shareholding and his with key information on the Companys policies, regulatory role within the Investment Manager.
In addition, Nigel Keen is requirements, and the Companys risk management and control Chairman of the Investment Advisor, and therefore is also not results.
The Board receives and considers reports regularly from considered independent under the UK Code.
its advisers and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as required.
Colin Maltby resigned as a Director on 31 July 2016.
On 19December 2016, Arabella Cecil resigned as a Director and Nigel Insurance and indemnities Keen and Ellen Strahlman were appointed as Directors on that date.
During the year, the Company maintained cover for its Directors and Officers under a directors and officers liability insurance policy.
Peter Hames will be stepping down as a Director of the Company at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Conflicts of interest The Directors are required to disclose all actual and potential Profiles of each of the Directors, including length of service, conflicts of interest to the Board as they arise for consideration may be found on pages 50 and 51. and approval.
A review of Board composition and balance, including succession These are considered carefully, taking into account the planning for appointments to the Board, is included as part of the circumstances around them, and if considered appropriate, annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of which may are approved.
The Board may impose restrictions or refuse be found below.
to authorise such conflicts if deemed appropriate.
Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 53 Corporate governance statement continued Committees Meetings The Board has delegated certain responsibilities and functions The Board holds quarterly Board meetings whilst the Audit to the Audit Committee and Nominations Committee.
Details of Committee and Nominations Committee generally meet at least membership of the Committees at 31 March 2017 may be found three times a year and once a year, respectively.
In addition, during on pages 50 and 51 and information regarding attendance at the year there were 10 ad hoc meetings to discuss and agree the Committee meetings during the year under review may be terms of the expansion of the Companys investment policy and found below.
Audit Committee Attendance at the Board and Committee meetings during the year The Companys Audit Committee conducts formal meetings at was as follows: least three times a year.
With the expansion of the Companys Scheduled Audit Nominations investment policy and associated transactions, the frequency of Ad hoc Board Committee Committee the Audit Committee meetings is expected to increase to five per meetings meetings meetings meetings annum.
Full details of its structure, duties and assessments during Number of the year are presented in the Report of the Audit Committee on meetings held 10 3 3 pages 56 to 58.
Jeremy Tigue Chairman 10 3 Nominations Committee 1 Arabella Cecil 7 3 The Company has established a Nominations Committee with the Peter Hames 10 3 3 primary purpose of filling vacancies on the Board.
The Nominations Thomas Henderson 8 3 Committee reviews the Board structure, size and composition, 2 Nigel Keen 2 to make recommendations to the Board concerning any matters Nicholas Moss 9 3 3 relating to the continuation in office of any Director at any time, 2 Ellen Strahlman 1 including the suspension or termination of service of that Director, 3 and to make a statement in the Annual Report about its activities.
Colin Maltby 1 1 The Nominations Committee chairman reports formally to the 1 Resigned from the Board on 19 December 2016.
Board on its proceedings after each meeting on all matters within 2 Appointed to the Board on 19 December 2016. its duties and responsibilities and reviews its own performance at 3 Resigned from the Board on 31 July 2016. least once a year, reviews composition and terms of reference and The appointments of Nigel Keen and Ellen Strahlman in December recommends any changes it considers necessary to the Board 2016 were discussed and agreed by the Board as a whole.
The Nominations Committee generally meets at Accordingly, the Nominations Committee did not meet separately least once a year and otherwise as required.
The Nominations during the year ended 31 March 2017.
Committee is appointed by the Board and is made up of at least three members.
At the Board meetings the Directors review the management of the Companys assets and all other significant matters so as to Management Committee ensure that the Directors maintain overall control and supervision The Board has not deemed it necessary to appoint a of the Companys affairs.
management committee as a result of being comprised wholly of Non-Executive Directors.
The Independent members of the The Board is satisfied that each of the Chairman and the other Board are responsible for the review of the performance of Non-Executive Directors commit sufficient time to the affairs of the Investment Manager and Investment Advisor in relation the Company to fulfil their duties as Directors.
In the event that to the performance of the investment portfolio.
a Director does not attend a Board meeting, the Chairman will contact him or her prior to and following the meeting to keep Remuneration Committee him or her apprised and seek views on the matters discussed With the expansion of the Companys investment policy and or to be discussed.
associated transactions, the Company will be establishing a Remuneration Committee to, inter alia, decide on the level Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy of fees paid to Non-Executive Directors and review the operation The Board has adopted a formal Anti-bribery and Corruption of and approve awards made under the Syncona Long Term Policy.
The policy applies to the Company and to each of its Incentive Plan.
Furthermore, the policy is shared with each of the Companys main service providers.
Non-Executive Directors remuneration is considered on an annual basis.
The Boards collective fees shall not exceed 500,000 in Relations with shareholders any financial year.
The Board may grant reasonable additional The Net Asset Value figures are published monthly via a regulatory remuneration to any Director who performs any special or extra news service and are also available on the Companys website, services to, or at the request of, the Company.
The Directors receive regular feedback, Directors shall be paid all reasonable travelling, hotel and other with assistance from the Companys brokers, from shareholders, expenses properly incurred by them in and about the performance which is reported to the Board and the Chairman.
Further information can be found in the Directors who wish to communicate with the Board should contact the Remuneration Report on page 59.
Administrator in the first instance, whose contact details can be found on page 104.
In addition, Board members will be available to respond to shareholders questions at the Annual General Meeting.
Syncona Limited 54 Annual report and accounts 2017 Governance Viability statement In accordance with provision C2.2 of the UK Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company, considering its ability to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 March 2020.
The period selected was considered appropriate as it covers a period over which a majority of current uncalled commitments are expected to be called.
In considering the viability of the Company over the three year period, the Directors have assessed the principal risks and the procedures adopted to mitigate those risks.
These are more fully described on pages 41 to 45.
The Companys investment performance depends upon the performance of the underlying investments in its funds and life science portfolios, details of which can be found on pages 74 to 75.
The Directors, in assessing the viability of the Company, paid particular attention to the risks facing the Investment Manager and Investment Advisor.
Both the Investment Manager and Investment Advisor operate a risk management framework which is intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and, where appropriate, mitigate key risks identified in respect of the Companys investments.
The Companys assets exceed its liabilities by a considerable margin where total assets and total liabilities, including uncalled commitments to underlying investments and funds, amounted to 901.3 million and 114.1 million respectively.
The Company maintains detailed financial and capital allocation models which stem from reasonable expectations around liquidity management and the investment pipeline.
The review considers the relevant principal risks faced by the Company, which are described in greater detail on pages 41 to 45 and in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements, and the analysis allows for a delay in the timing of redemptions from the funds portfolio, plus a diminution in the value of the Companys investment portfolio.
Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its obligations as they fall due over the three year period of assessment.
Going concern The Company has an indefinite life.
The Companys assets currently consist mainly of securities and cash amounting to 895.2 million 31 March 2016: 472.8 million of which 43.1 per cent 31March 2016: 37.3 per cent are readily realisable in three months in normal market conditions and the Company has liabilities including uncalled commitments to underlying investments and funds amounting to 114.1 million 31 March 2016: 47.9 million.
Accordingly, the Company has adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for 12 months following the approval of the financial statements.
Hence the Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 55
