Board of Directors An experienced and dedicated Board.
Jeremy Tigue Ellen Strahlman Nicholas Moss Chairman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Biography Biography Biography Jeremy Tigue has been Chairman of the Ellen has been the Executive Vice Nicholas Moss was appointed to the Board Board since BACIT inception in 2012.
President, Research & Development of BACIT Limited in 2012.
He is an English He has over 30 years experience of global and Chief Medical Officer for BD Becton, qualified chartered accountant FCA and investing and was the fund manager of Dickinson and Company, a leading global has nearly 30 years experience in the Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust, one medical technology company, since 2013. financial services sector, focused primarily of the largest investment companies, from She served as the Senior Vice President on the structuring, advising and 1997 to 2014.
He is also Chairman of ICG and Chief Medical Officer CMO at administration of the overall wealth of ultra Enterprise Trust plc, Senior Independent GlaxoSmithKline, as well as senior high net worth private clients.
Nicholas was Director of Standard Life Equity Income executive leadership roles in leading a founder of the Virtus Trust, an international Trust PLC, a Director and Chairman of the pharmaceutical and medical technology fiduciary business which he sold to Equiom Audit Committee of The Monks Investment companies including Pfizer, Novartis, group in 2017.
Prior to Virtus Nicholas was Trust PLC and a Director of The Mercantile Bausch & Lomb and Merck.
a Managing Director within NM Rothschilds Investment Trust plc.
He was a Director of private wealth group.
Experience the Association of Investment Companies Ellen has over 25 years of experience Experience from 2003 to 2013 and Deputy Chairman in global product development and Nicholas has extensive experience as an between 2006 and 2010.
Jeremy was also commercialisation in a wide range of areas independent director and audit committee Chairman of the Institutional shareholder such as biopharmaceuticals, medical member of listed closed ended investment Committee from 2006 to 2008.
He was devices, vaccines, consumer products companies including Brevan Howard and an Investment Advisor to the BP and British and international health.
He is a highly Steel Pension Funds from 1998 to 2014 experienced fiduciary and investment and 1999 to 2014 respectively.
She is a graduate of Harvard University practitioner, advising family offices and Biochemical Sciences : obtained her Experience private clients in many jurisdictions.
Nicholas medical degree from the Johns Hopkins Jeremy brings extensive experience is Chairman of the Audit Committee of the School of Medicine: and earned a Masters of investments, private equity, investor Company and is resident in Guernsey.
Degree in Health Sciences from the relations and governance.
He has broad Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public and deep knowledge of all aspects of Health as a Carnegie-Mellon Physician investment company management, Public Health Fellow.
She has medical governance and regulation.
qualifications in general surgery Johns Hopkins and ophthalmology the Wilmer Institute, Johns Hopkins.
Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment 14 August 2012 19 December 2016 17 August 2012 Committee membership Committee membership Nominations Committee Audit Committee Chair Syncona Limited 50 Annual report and accounts 2017
