Governance|Board of directors Board of directors Don Robert 58 Brian Cassin 49 Lloyd Pitchford 45 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Appointed to the Board on 6 July 2006, and as Appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2014.
Officer on 30 April 2012, and as Chief Executive Key other roles: Lloyd is a non-executive Officer on 16 July 2014.
Key other roles: Member of Court at the director and chairs the Audit Committee of Bank of England, and a non-executive director Key other roles: Brian is a non-executive Bunzl plc.
and Senior Independent Director at Compass director of J Sainsbury plc.
Skills and experience: Lloyd is a qualified Skills and experience: Brian brings strong accountant holding an MBA, and has deep Skills and experience: Prior to appointment as leadership, a clear view of strategic objectives financial knowledge and experience, built up Chairman, Don was Experians Chief Executive and decisive management skills to this role.
through a career working in complex, changeOfficer and previously Chief Executive Officer He also has strong financial and commercial oriented, multinational organisations.
Before of Experian North America, giving him a deep acumen, and a broad range of operational joining Experian, Lloyd held a wide portfolio insight into the Experian business.
Brian was previously the Chief of finance and operational responsibilities, extensive international business expertise, Financial Officer of Experian and, before including as Chief Financial Officer of Intertek as well as more recent regulatory knowledge that, Managing Director at Greenhill & Co.
He Group plc, senior finance positions including gained with his Bank of England role, and he has also held various senior roles at Baring Group Financial Controller at BG Group plc, ensures that the Experian Board culture is one Brothers International and at the London and financial and commercial roles at Mobil Oil.
of robust debate, openness and transparency.
He previously held senior roles at The First American Corporation and was President of Credco, Inc. former chairman of the US Consumer Data Industry Association, trustee of Sage Hill School, California and a director and trustee of the National Education and Employer Partnership Taskforce.
Kerry Williams 55 Roger Davis 60 Caroline Donahue 56 Chief Operating Officer Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed to the Board on 16 July 2014.
Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2017.
Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2007.
Key other roles: A Board member at Skills and experience: Caroline brings Key other roles: Roger is Chairman of our Pacific LifeCorp, and the US Institute for extensive international markets and technology Remuneration Committee, and the nonIntergovernmental Research.
experience and knowledge of consumer sales executive Chairman of Experian Limited, and marketing, innovation and consumerthe Groups regulated UK subsidiary.
He is Skills and experience: Kerry holds an MBA centricity.
The Board also benefits from her also Chairman of Gem Diamonds Limited, qualification and has built up a significant and insight and extensive experience in massSainsburys Bank, Global RadioData deep knowledge of Experians global business market, digital, multi-channel and  and Future for Heroes, and operations, through the leadership roles he consumer distribution, marketing, and brand and a non-executive director at Bupa.
has held, including as deputy Chief Operating and sales management.
Caroline previously Officer, President of Credit Services, President Skills and experience: Roger spent over 20 held roles at Intuit Executive Vice President, of Experian Latin America, and Group President years leading and managing change at large Chief Marketing and Sales Officer: Senior Vice of Credit Services and Decision Analytics, global businesses, including as Chief Executive President, Sales and Channel Marketing: Vice Experian North America.
Kerry also brings to Officer of Barclays UK banking operation.
President and Director of Sales and sales Experian and the Board a wide range of skills Roger was also a Board member of Barclays and channel management roles at Knowledge from his broad background in the financial plc and Chairman of Cabot Credit Management, Adventure, NeXT Computer and Apple, Inc. services industry, including as President at and the Experian Board benefits greatly from ERisk Holdings Incorporated, Senior Vice this experience.
Before Barclays, Roger spent President General Manager at Bank of America a number of years in investment banking in and senior management positions at Wells London and Asia with Flemings and BZW.
64 Governance|Board of directors Luiz Fleury 60 Deirdre Mahlan 54 George Rose 65 Non-executive director Non-executive director Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director Appointed to the Board on 8 September 2015.
Appointed to the Board on 1 September 2012.
Appointed to the Board on 1 September Key other roles: Luiz is a Board member of Key other roles: Deirdre chairs our Audit 2012 and as Deputy Chairman and Senior FHMV Holdings Ltda.
Committee, and is President of Diageo Independent Director on 16 July 2014.
Skills and experience: Luiz has spent the Key other roles: George is Chairman of majority of his career in financial services, and Skills and experience: Deirdre is a qualified the Nomination and Corporate Governance has extensive insight and deep local knowledge accountant with an MBA, with many years Committee.
He is also Senior Independent of the Brazilian financial market.
He has held experience in senior finance roles such as Chief Director and Audit Committee Chairman of Chief Executive roles at Cetip S. A. Banco Ibi Financial Officer, Deputy Chief Financial Officer, Genel Energy plc, and a non-executive director and Redecard, together with senior finance and Head of Tax and Treasury at Diageo plc, Senior of EXPO 2020 LLC.
investment positions at Banco Citibank S. A.
Vice President, Chief Financial Officer at Diageo Banco Marka S. A. and C&A Brennkinkmeyer North America, and Vice President of Finance at Skills and experience: George is a qualified Brasil.
Luiz was President and a member of Diageo Guinness USA, as well as various senior accountant, whose career has included the Executive Board at Cetip S. A. and a Board finance roles in Joseph Seagram and Sons, Inc. high-level finance positions such as Group member of Grupo Sequia fide Logstica, Eneva and .
This financial Finance Director, and Director of Finance and S. A.
Discount Malls do Brasil and Banco Ibi, expertise and experience ensures effective Treasury, at BAE Systems plc where he was a and this considerable boardroom experience leadership of our Audit Committee.
Deirdre Board member, and senior finance positions adds to the strength, depth and effectiveness also brings her previous Board experience at Leyland DAF plc and Rover Group.
with Diageo plc to Experian.
to the collective strength of the Board from the numerous non-executive positions he has held with leading companies such as National Grid plc, SAAB AB, Orange plc and Laing ORourke plc where he also chaired the Audit Committee.
He has also been a member of the UK Industrial Development Advisory Board.
Paul Walker 59 Non-executive director Appointed to the Board on 1 June 2010.
Key other roles: Paul is the non-executive Chairman of Perform Group plc and Halma plc.
He is also Chair of the Newcastle Science City Partnership, and a director of Sophos Ltd.
Audit Committee Skills and experience: Paul spent 16 years Remuneration Committee as Chief Executive Officer of The Sage Group Nomination and Corporate plc, giving him a great understanding of the Governance Committee challenges of running a global business.
He is an economics graduate and qualified accountant, with a strong financial background Company Secretary: and high-level non-executive experience, which Charles Brown FCIS adds to the Boards strength.
Pauls roles at Sage included Chief Executive Officer, Finance Director and Financial Controller.
He has also been non-executive Chairman of WANdisco plc, Independent Auditor: and a non-executive director at Diageo plc and KPMG LLP, MyTravel Group plc.
Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditor 65
