Governance|Corporate governance report Corporate governance report Governance framework Board Group Operating Committee Delegated authority flow committees The Committee comprises the most senior executives from the Group.
Its remit includes Nomination Board identifying, debating and achieving consensus and Corporate on issues involving strategy, growth, people See Board section Governance and culture, and operational efficiency.
Committee focuses on ensuring strong communication and co-operative working relationships among the top See Nomination and team.
Its meetings tend to be issues oriented and Corporate Governance focus on selected Group issues worthy of debate.
Principal subsidiaries Strategic project committees These are Group companies p76 global and regional to which the Board has delegated certain decisionThese committees comprise the most senior making powers, for example global and regional executives.
Their remit is to Audit Committee implementing decisions oversee a process to ensure that all strategic agreed in principle by the See Audit projects are appropriately resourced, risk Board: executive management Committee report.
assessed and commercially, financially and of the operations of the technically appraised.
Depending on the outcome Group within the strategy of the discussions, the committees conclusions and budget approved by are then considered by the board of the relevant the Board: acquisitions Group company for approval.
and disposals with a value up to US$20m, and capital Risk management committees expenditure projects.
p78 executive and regional The Executive Risk Management Committee 'ERMC' comprises senior Group executives, Remuneration including the executive directors and the Company Secretary.
Its primary responsibility is to oversee Committee Executive the management of global risks.
The regional risk management team See Remuneration management committees oversee the management Committee report.
of regional risks, consistent with Experians risk appetite, strategies and objectives, and are comprised of senior regional leaders.
The Security & Continuity Steering Committee Operating businesses 'SCSC' is a sub-committee of the ERMC.
The SCSCs p84 primary responsibility is to oversee management of global information security, physical security, and business continuity risks, consistent with Experians risk appetite, strategies and objectives.
The Assurance Steering Committee 'ASC' is also a sub-committee of the ERMC and oversees the Global Delegated Authorities Matrix development and implementation of Experians risk management framework.
This key document comprises the schedule of matters reserved to the Board, the Board committees terms of reference and the authority levels for the Groups principal subsidiaries, directors and senior executives.
For matters Internal Audit not reserved to the Board, the matrix prescribes the cascade of authorities Internal Audit conducts a range of independent delegated throughout the Group by respective Group companies, together audit reviews throughout the Group during the with their monetary limits.
The matrix is reviewed and refreshed regularly year and is represented at each Audit Committee and the Board monitors the exercise of delegations to the Groups principal meeting.
Internal Audits plans, results and key subsidiaries, which are reported to it at each Board meeting.
Regional findings are presented to and discussed with the matrices are also in place.
The internal audit programme and methodology are aligned to the risk categories and risk assessment parameters established by the global risk management function.
Internal Audit also makes use of risk assessment information at a business level, in planning and conducting its audits.
66 Governance|Corporate governance report procedures and delegated authorities.
Approval of certain Group policies Board In addition, the Board has reserved including, for example, an AntiComposition certain key activities to itself for Corruption Policy, a Share Dealing Policy, The Board currently comprises the decision, including: a Gifts and Hospitality Policy, a Global Chairman, three executive directors and Code of Conduct, a Global Compliance six independent non-executive directors, Strategy and management approving Policy and a Tax Policy.
The and overseeing Experians long-term directors biographical details are objectives and commercial strategy, Board meetings set out earlier.
ensuring that we have the financial and The Board meets regularly and has human resources to meet our objectives.
Role Each scheduled meeting is normally The Boards principal role is to lead Management oversight reviewing held over two or three days, with the Company and oversee its conduct operating, financial and risk performance.
Board committee meetings also taking and affairs, to create sustainable value place during this time.
This structure for our stakeholders.
The Board has Regulatory and statutory activity enhances the effectiveness of the Board collective responsibility for setting the including approving the Groups and itscommittees.
Groups strategy and ensuring we have results, key stakeholder documents the necessary financial and human and dividends.
The Board met overseas twice this year, resources to achieve our goals.
In which allowed management across Finance and treasury approving January each year, senior management the Group to present to the Board and the framework for the Groups presents the proposed strategy for the to meet the directors informally.
In finance, banking and capital structure following financial year to the Board.
This September 2016, the Board spent three arrangements.
takes place over two days and allows the days in Washington DC, and held Board Board to critically review the proposed and committee meetings during the visit.
Appointments approving appointments strategy with management, before In March 2017, the Board spent time in to the Board, on the recommendation considering it for approval.
The budget Singapore and Kuala Lumpur for site of the Nomination and Corporate discussions in March ensure that we have visits and business presentations, as well Governance Committee.
the right resources to deliver the agreed as Board and committee meetings.
The discussions also include detailed focus on both regional and global Attendance at Board and principal committee meetings business budgets.
Nomination The Board also monitors management and Corporate and financial performance against the Governance Remuneration Audit Board Committee Committee Committee Groups objectives.
To enable it to do Current directors this, the Board receives operational and financial updates at every scheduled Don Robert 6 6 100% 1 6 6 100% n a n a Board meeting, as well as between Brian Cassin 6 6 100% 1 n a n a n a meetings.
The Board also conducts Lloyd Pitchford 6 6 100% 1 n a n a n a post-investment reviews, on an agreed Kerry Williams 6 6 100% 1 n a n a n a timeline, for any acquisitions it has Roger Davis 6 6 100% 6 6 100% 4 4 100% 3 4 75% previously approved.
To achieve this, the Board has put Past directors in place a framework of controls and Judith Sprieser 2 2 100% 2 2 100% 1 1 100% n a delegated authorities, which enables to 20 July 2016 the Group to appraise and manage risk Includes, in brackets, attendance at one ad-hoc Board meeting held during the year.
Percentage effectively, through clear and robust calculations do not include attendance at the ad-hoc Board meeting.
67 Board time usage for year ended 31 March 2017 Governance|Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued What did the Board do during the year?
The Boards key activities during the year are set out below.
These include activities related to the Groups strategy, which the Board decided on in light of its risk appetite and risk management processes.
Operational and financial Corporate development Other performance, including monitoring Approved the acquisition of the US company CSIdentity Corporation and Reviewed operational and financial its UK subsidiary.
updates from the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Officer and the Chief Reviewed and discussed the Financial Officer at each scheduled Board corporatedevelopment pipeline meeting and received brand updates.
Reviewed monthly reports, including Reviewed and considered the details of performance against budget divestment of CCM.
and the Groups financial position.
Conducted post-investment reviews on Approved the Groups Annual Report the 2014 acquisitions of HD Decisions and fulland half-year financial results, Limited and X88 Software Limited.
and made recommendations regarding dividend payments.
Approved the entry into an additional Governance and risk bilateral borrowing facility.
Reviewed and discussed regulatory Considered and approved a new matters with the Group General Counsel, Viability statement for inclusion including updates on material matters, in the Annual Report.
Discussed and approved the Groups Reviewed risk reports, the budget presentation for 2018 and appropriateness of preparing the received updates on Group insurance financial statements on the going and pension arrangements.
concern basis and the Audit Committees advice on making a fair, balanced and understandable statement in the Annual Report.
Investor relations Reviewed and approved risk appetite Received an investor relations and media statements for the Group.
update at each Board meeting.
Received regular updates on corporate Reviewed and discussed draft fulland responsibility issues, the annual half-year financial results presentations, Strategy environmental and health and safety for analysts and institutional updates and briefings on the EU Market Reviewed and discussed presentations shareholders.
at the annual two-day strategy sessions, Through the Remuneration Committee, including a review of the Groups financial Reviewed Board evaluation findings and engaged with shareholders on proposed framework and capital allocation, agreed areas of focus, authorised Board remuneration arrangements for 2017: DataLabs, Operations, Productivity and members potential conflicts of interest and in respect of the approval of the Technology, Decision Analytics and Fraud, and approved the annual election reGroup's remuneration policy, scheduled Consumer Services, CSIdentity and Health.
Approved the Groups strategy for 2018.
Received details of Board members external appointments and sharedealings.
68 Governance|Corporate governance report Board, committee and director effectiveness review The Code provides that the Board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors, and that the Board evaluation should be externally facilitated at least every three years.
This year was the first in the Boards three-year review cycle, which is as follows: Year 1 a full external evaluation: Year 2 an internal review, against the detailed Year 1 review: and Year 3 a questionnaire-based internal evaluation.
Year 1 2017 Year 2 2018 Year 3 2019 Evaluation by Internal review against Questionnaire-based, external facilitator detailed Year 1 review internal evaluation The external evaluation was carried out by Condign Board Consulting 'Condign' who have no other connection with the Group to provide the Board with greater insights into its performance and to identify opportunities to further increase and improve its overall effectiveness.
All Board members and the Company Secretary were sent a discussion guide in advance of individual meetings with Condign.
The principal of Condign also attended a Board meeting and an Audit Committee meeting during the year, to provide further insight.
An evaluation report was prepared and presented to the Board at its February 2017 meeting, and was discussed by the Board.
The report included an analysis of the key themes which had emerged in the individual meetings or were observed at the Board Audit Committee meetings, and suggested recommendations for areas to focus on in the coming year.
The Board and the Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee then agreed the particular areas of focus for the coming year.
The evaluation process also included a review of the focus areas from the prior year.
Overall, the Condign review found that the Board operates in a fully functional way which is effective, purposeful and challenging, on behalf of shareholders.
The key Board defaults, its response to challenging events, and commitment to act on previous areas of focus, were all judged to be good.
In particular, in relation to the Boards use of time and focus, the balance of controls oversight and more entrepreneurial leadership was judged to have been appropriate to the needs of the business in the last year.
Overall, the Board was considered to have acted to do what it said it would do since its last evaluation.
Specific progress against the agreed 2016 areas of focus can be summarised as follows: Area Specific focus Progress during the year Competition Further development of the Boards understanding The Boards knowledge and coverage of competitive issues of the Groups performance relative to its main has improved this year through regular reporting, as has competitors and the potential impact of new entrants, its engagement with management in this area during Board ensuring that competitive considerations continue to meetings and business reviews.
be appropriately included in strategic thinking.
Risk Building on the development of risk appetite Risk reporting has become more concise and focused, while statements, ensure that the risk reporting to the aspects such as regulation, which previously were dealt Board and Audit Committee remains appropriate with separately, have now been brought together in a more to enable them to continue to maintain effective holisticway.
oversight of the Groups principal risks.
Board Continue to review Board structure and composition, The Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee keeps composition ensuring critical skills and experience are Board structure and composition under continuous review, and appropriately refreshed.
a further in-depth review was held in March 2017.
This process helps to identify the key skills and experience required, and the recent appointment of Caroline Donahue was made in this context.
Remuneration Committee Chairman succession and other rotation points continue to be progressed.
Board Continue an effective programme of Board education A focus remains the development of sources of external development and understanding of topics important to the input for the Board to draw upon and, as noted in the p71 ongoing development of the business, including from Induction and training section, the Board received focused internal and external subject matter experts.
updates from external speakers during the year.
69 Governance|Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued The Board has agreed the following areas of focus for the coming year: Area Focus Board succession The Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee will execute the forward plan for Board and committee succession, to ensure orderly succession to key posts, effective recruitment and smooth onboarding of new Board members including any required transition.
Board discussions Continued focus on strategic priorities and deep dives into certain areas, as well as tackling more general topics, through additional time at or adjacent to Board meetings, as appropriate.
Boards use of time, To assist in agenda formation and appropriate focus and challenge in the right areas, the standing and agenda formation forward agenda planner will be used as a prompt for thought on wider issues, in particular by the non-executive directors in their private meetings.
Board engagement The Board will receive progress updates, at appropriate points in the year, on key strategic objectives with strategy to provide opportunities for feedback on progress, and to solicit its ongoing input into the annual strategic planning process.
Risk and assurance The Board will continue to monitor, and seek to further enhance, the risk and assurance processes in the Group, in the context of the structure and culture of the Group.
In addition to the external evaluation, during February March 2017 each director except Caroline Donahue, who had just been appointed met with the Chairman in relation to his her individual performance, and to consider training requirements.
Condign provided input from the external evaluation process which helped to frame these discussions.
The Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director evaluated the performance of the Chairman, taking account of input from the Chief Executive Officer and other directors.
Each principal Board committee also evaluated its own performance, by setting aside time on their agendas during the year to discuss performance and any areas of improvement.
To assist the committees in their performance evaluation, the Group Corporate Secretariat reviewed the duties and responsibilities of each committee contained in its terms of reference, and prepared an analysis of the way in which the activity of each committee supported those duties and responsibilities.
Each of the principal Board committees concluded that it was operating effectively.
Board support The Group Corporate Secretariat, under the leadership of Charles Brown, the Company Secretary, provides administrative and logistical support to the Board.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for: corporate governance, statutory and listing, prospectus and disclosure guidance and transparency rules compliance and reporting: shareholder services: and corporate responsibility.
He is secretary to the Board, its principal committees and the Global Strategic Projects Committee, and is a member and secretary of the Group Operating Committee.
All directors receive financial and operational information each month, to help them discharge their duties.
Board papers are circulated at least a week ahead of each Board meeting, to ensure directors have time to review them before meetings.
Directors have access to independent professional advice at the Companys expense, if they consider it appropriate.
No director obtained any such advice during the year ended 31 March 2017.
70 Governance|Corporate governance report Induction and training There is an induction programme for all new non-executive directors.
Caroline Donahues induction programme comprised the following corporate and business operational sessions: Corporate this included briefings on: strategy and organisation: a financial overview, budget and capital strategy: strategic planning, corporate development and competition: technology and information security: and people, talent and culture.
Business operations this included a global sales overview: a customer service briefing: a North America financial overview: and Credit Services, Decision Analytics, Consumer Services and Health overviews and product demonstrations.
The Board also received the following training and business updates during the year: Washington DC alongside the Board and committee meetings in September 2016, the Board received a comprehensive update on the Groups North America businesses from senior leaders and received updates from external subject matter experts on a number of important areas, including: the changing competitive environment for Experian in the USA: risk and regulatory issues facing the Group: and customer needs and expectations, including updates on regulation.
Singapore and Kuala Lumpur in March 2017, the Board visited our Singapore office and received a business update, a deep dive on strategy and a presentation on employee engagement in the Asia Pacific region.
The Board then travelled to our Global Finance Shared Services Centre in Kuala Lumpur, and also received comprehensive updates on Experians technology services and the evolution of the Global Decision Analytics business.
Conflicts of interest The Companys articles of association allow the Board to authorise actual or potential conflicts of interest.
The authorisation procedure involves Group Corporate Secretariat issuing guidance and a questionnaire each August, asking directors to identify any conflicts or potential conflicts, which the Board then considers at its September meeting.
In addition, directors are expected to advise the Company Secretary of any actual or potential conflicts as soon as they arise, so the Board can consider them at the next available opportunity.
In the Boards view, this procedure operated effectively during the year under review.
Balance of executive and non-executive directors Length of tenure of directors at 31 March 2017 at 31 March 2017 Chairman 05 years Executive Over 5 years Non-executive 71 Governance|Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued Chairman and Chief Executive Officer There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
These responsibilities, which we have formalised in writing, can be found on the Companys website, www.
com, and are summarised below.
The Chairman, Don Robert, is primarily responsible for the Boards leadership and governance, ensuring its effectiveness, setting agendas, ensuring that directors receive accurate, timely and clear information, and that there is effective communication with shareholders.
He facilitates the non-executive directors effective contribution to the Board, and ensures constructive relationships between the executive and non-executive directors.
The Chief Executive Officer, Brian Cassin, is responsible for the Groups day-to-day business, in line with the strategy, risk profile, objectives and policies set by the Board and its committees.
He is accountable to the Board for the Groups development and its operations.
Chairmans responsibilities include: Chief Executive Officers responsibilities include: Running the Board effectively and ensuring that the Running the Groups business and developing the Groups Board as a whole plays a full and constructive part in strategy and overall commercial objectives.
developing and determining the Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives.
Promoting the highest standards of integrity, probity Implementing, with the executive team, the decisions of and corporate governance throughout the Group and the Board, its committees and the principal subsidiaries.
Ensuring that the Board receives accurate, timely and Maintaining a dialogue with the Chairman on the important clear information on the Groups performance and its and strategic issues facing the Group, and alerting issues, challenges and opportunities.
the Chairman to forthcoming complex, contentious or sensitive issues.
Ensuring effective communication with the Companys Leading the communication programme with shareholders.
shareholders, including by the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and other executive management, and ensuring that members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of the Companys major investors.
directors at the end of each scheduled Senior Independent Director Non-executive directors Board meeting.
The non-executive The Deputy Chairman, George Rose, is Appointment directors met a number of times this year also the Senior Independent Director.
Non-executive directors are initially with the Deputy Chairman, and without the He is responsible for providing support appointed for three years which may, Chairman present, and discussed matters and guidance to the Chairman and for subject to satisfactory performance including the Chairmans performance.
serving as a trusted intermediary for the and election or re-election by the other directors.
He is available to meet shareholders, be extended by mutual Independence shareholders who have concerns that agreement.
They normally serve for a The Board considers each of the noncannot be resolved through discussion maximum of nine years, through three executive directors to be independent in with the Chairman, the Chief Executive terms of three years each.
character and judgment and that there Officer or the Chief Financial Officer, or are no relationships or circumstances Meetings of non-executive directors where such contact is inappropriate.
that are likely to affect or could appear In addition to attending Board and to affect each directors judgment.
committee meetings, the non-executive directors meet without the executive 72 Governance|Corporate governance report Relations with shareholders and others Set out below are some of the ways in which the Company interacts with investors and others, and keeps abreast of their views: Board an investor relations and media report is circulated before every Board meeting and contains a commentary on the investment communitys perception of the Company, media reports, share price performance and analysis.
Engagement with investors this year, Roger Davis, as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, consulted major investors and governance bodies in relation to changes to our executive pay arrangements and the Groups remuneration policy.
Investors and analysts the executive team has an ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings with institutional investors and analysts, at which they discuss a wide range of issues including strategy, performance, management and governance, within the constraints of information already made public.
The announcements of the fulland half-year results and trading updates provide opportunities for the Company to answer questions from analysts, covering a wide range of topics.
Investor roadshows took place during the year in Dublin, London, Edinburgh, San Francisco, Paris and NewYork.
Annual General Meeting the AGM provides a valuable opportunity for the Board to communicate with shareholders and to meet them informally before the main business of the meeting.
All directors attended the 2016 AGM, including the Audit, Remuneration, and Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee chairpersons.
The 2017 AGM will take place on Thursday 20 July 2017 in Dublin.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend and to use the opportunity to ask questions.
However, if it is not practical for shareholders to attend, we encourage them to use proxy voting on the resolutions put forward, all of which with the exception of procedural resolutions are taken by a poll.
In 2016, voting levels at the AGM were 72% of the Companys issued share capital, compared with 69% in 2015.
Private shareholders the Company Secretary, Charles Brown, oversees communication with private shareholders, and ensures direct responses as appropriate in respect of any matters raised by shareholders.
The Company issues a Shareholder Questions card each year with the AGM documentation.
Mr Brown ensures that the Company responds to shareholders directly, as appropriate, either at or following the meeting.
Website our website is an important channel for communicating with shareholders.
All material information reported to the regulatory news services is published there, together with copies of fulland half-year results announcements and trading updates.
Investor relations app this contains information on our financial performance, together with reports, presentations and news of upcoming events.
Experian website The Experian website www.
com contains additional information on our corporate governance, including: The schedule of matters reserved to the Board Terms of reference of the principal Board committees The Companys memorandum and articles of association Details of AGM proxy voting by shareholders, including votes withheld 73 Governance|Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued Risk management and internal control The Board is responsible for establishing, maintaining and reviewing sound risk management and internal control systems.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks we face.
This process was in place for the financial year and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
Full details of our risk management and internal control systems and processes can be found in the Principal risks section of the Annual Report.
The specific processes underlying the elements of the Group's risk framework are set out below.
Identify Assess the potential effect of each strategic, operational and financial risk on the achievement of our business objectives, and the Groups corresponding risk appetite Identify and escalate new, emerging or changing risks, significant incidents, significant control gaps and riskacceptance Consider external factors arising from our operating environment and internal risks arising from the nature of our business, our controls and processes, and our management decisions Analyse Produce Boardand Group-level finance reports, including financial summaries, results, forecasts and revenuetrends, investor relations analysis and detailed business trading summaries Conduct regional-level detailed performance reviews Report to regional risk committees, the Executive Risk Management Committee and the Audit Committee on the status of principal and emerging risks, the progress of strategic projects and acquisitions, and escalation ofsignificant accepted risks Report to the Audit Committee by Group Internal Audit on assurance testing and confidential helpline investigation results Report to the Audit Committee by Group Compliance on fraud management Evaluate Evaluate compliance with policies and standards addressing risk management, compliance, accounting, treasury management, fraud, information security and business continuity Follow formal review and approval procedures for major transactions, capital expenditure and revenueexpenditure Monitor budgetary and performance reviews tied to KPIs and achievement of objectives Apply a risk scoring system, based on our assessment of the probability of a risk materialising, and the impact including speed if it does Require executive management confirmations of compliance with our corporate governance process Mitigate Apply active risk remediation strategies, including internal controls, formal exception processes, insurance andspecialised treasury instruments Use formal review and approval procedures for significant accepted risks Monitor Maintain comprehensive risk registers representing the current risk and control environment, using a softwaresolution to provide enhanced monitoring Review of controls and follow-ups by management, Group Internal Audit and third parties Use Group Internal Audit to independently assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal controls Report on risk to the Audit Committee, addressing material and emerging risks, material litigation, information security, business continuity and regulatory compliance Utilise the Audit Committee to monitor the Groups risk management and internal control systems Review by the Audit Committee of the effectiveness of our systems of risk management and internal control: receive an annual report on the controls over relevant risks: and ongoing review of principal risks identified by the Groups risk assessment processes Risk management is an essential element of running a global, innovation-driven business like Experian.
It helps to create longterm shareholder value and to protect our business, people, assets, capital and reputation.
It operates at all levels throughout the organisation, across regions, business activities and operational support functions.
Our approach to risk management encourages clear decisions about which risks we take and how we manage them, based on an understanding of their potential strategic, commercial, financial, compliance, legal and reputational implications.
74 Governance|Corporate governance report As risk management and internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, they can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
For certain joint arrangements, the Board relies on the systems of internal control operating within the partners infrastructure and the obligations of the partners boards relating to the effectiveness of their own systems.
The UK Corporate Governance Code the 'Code' requires companies to review the effectiveness of their risk management and internal control systems on an ongoing basis.
As shown below, the Audit Committee performs this review under delegated authority from the Board.
Following the review, the Board considers that the information enabled it to review the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in accordance with the UK Financial Reporting Council's Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting, and that the system has no significant failings or weaknesses.
In addition, and in line with the Code, the Audit Committee monitors our risk management and internal control systems and robustly assesses the principal risks identified by our risk assessment processes including those that would threaten our business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, and monitors actions taken, where possible, to mitigate them.
Group Internal Audit reports Group Internal Audit confidential helpline reports External auditors report Independent Corporate responsibility independent assurance report assessment Review by relevant regulatory bodies e. g. US Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Evaluation of external auditor Evaluation of Group Internal Audit Through a combination Annual executive certification of compliance with UK Financial of ongoing and annual Reporting Council guidance and control adequacy reviews, the Board Risk management reports, including material litigation is able to review the Compliance reports Management ongoing effectiveness Information security reports assurance of the Groups risk Impairment, going concern and viability reviews management and Annual Report and half-yearly financial report review internal control Management representation letters systems Annual Group Internal Audit plan External auditors engagement letter External auditors annual audit plan Board Audit Treasury policy review Committee Tax policy review approved Compliance policy review Global Delegated Authorities Matrix, which defines internal approval procedures Additional financial reporting internal controls We have detailed policies and procedures to ensure the accuracy and reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of Group financial statements.
This includes our comprehensive Group Accounting Manual 'GAM', which contains the detailed requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards 'IFRS'.
The Groups finance team owns the GAM and we have rolled it out across the Group, obliging all of our companies to follow its requirements.
The GAMs aims are to: guide on accounting issues: enable consistent and well-defined information for IFRS reporting: provide uniform quantitative and qualitative measures of Group performance: and increase the efficiency of the Groups reporting process.
75 Governance|Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee report George Rose, Chairman Current members Im pleased to present the Committees report for the year George Rose Chairman ended 31 March 2017, and outline how the Committee Don Robert discharged its duties during the year.
Roger Davis Caroline Donahue The Committees key role is to monitor the Boards balance of skills, knowledge, Luiz Fleury experience and diversity, and recommend any required changes to the Board.
We Deirdre Mahlan spent time during the year considering the recruitment of a new non-executive Paul Walker director, and the key attributes that the Board would require, considering Experians current opportunities and challenges.
Given the importance of our vision to place consumers at the centre of what we do, we were delighted to recommend to the Board the appointment of Caroline Donahue as an independent non-executive The Committees terms of reference can be found at director, and as a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination and www.
com about-us Corporate Governance Committees.
The Committee also continued to focus on the executive talent pool and our senior management succession plans, reflecting the Boards responsibility to ensure appropriate plans are in place.
In March 2017, the Committee received a comprehensive executive succession and talent management update from the Group Human Resources Director and the Global Talent Director.
We met six times during the year ended 31 March 2017.
Of the seven Committee members, the Board considers six including me as Committee Chairman to be independent non-executive directors, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Group Human Resources Director and the Chief Communications Officer are invited to attend certain meetings, as is the Chief Executive Officer, Brian Cassin, who provides valuable contributions.
76 Governance|Corporate governance report Reviewed the proposed areas of Committees key roles The Boards diversity policy focus from this years external and responsibilities This policy is unchanged.
The Board strongly believes that good believe that diversity throughout the Group Considered an AGM briefing from the governance and strong, responsible, and at Board level is a driver of business Company Secretary, including voting balanced leadership by the Board are success.
We respect, value and welcome results and shareholder feedback.
critical to business success and creating diversity, including gender diversity, and long-term shareholder value.
As a seek to reflect the diversity of our client, Recommended to the Board that all Committee, our responsibilities include: investor and general employee bases directors retire and be considered in our Board.
We recruit talented and for election or re-election at the Ensuring we have appropriate diverse Board members, who have the 2017AGM.
procedures for nominating, selecting, appropriate mix of skills, capabilities and Considered the re-appointment training and evaluating directors, and market knowledge to ensure the Board of Roger Davis as an independent that adequate succession plans are is effective.
When recruiting, we look non-executive director, with any in place.
across all sectors and non-traditional continued appointment to be Reviewing the Boards structure, size, talent pools, and we require diversity of reviewed annually.
As part of its composition and succession needs, candidates on our shortlists.
considerations, the Committee considering the balance of membership reviewed a comprehensive briefing Process for Board appointments and the Boards required balance paper regarding independence of skills, experience, independence, When making Board appointments, the requirements, potential knowledge and diversity.
the Committee reviews and approves concerns and factors that support an outline brief and role specification Identifying and nominating, for a determination of independence, and appoints a search agent for the the Boards approval, suitable including the ability to provide assignment.
We disclose the name of the candidates to fill vacancies for nonobjective criticism and impartiality.
search agent and any other connection executive directors and, with the Having reflected on the briefing and with Experian in the next Annual Report.
Chief Executive Officers assistance, discussed the re-appointment, the executive directors.
Board Committee recommended Mr Davis The Committee then meets the search appointments are made on merit and re-appointment to the Board as an agent, to discuss the specification and against objective criteria, to ensure independent non-executive director.
the search, following which the agent the Board maintains its balance of Commenced the search process in prepares an initial longlist of candidates.
skills, experience, independence, respect of the appointment of a new The Committee then considers a shortlist knowledge and diversity.
independent non-executive director to and holds interviews.
Ultimately, the Reviewing legislative, regulatory and succeed Roger Davis as Chairman of Committee makes a recommendation to corporate governance developments the Remuneration Committee.
the Board for its consideration.
Following and making recommendations to Board approval, the appointment is Reviewed and discussed an update the Board, and ensuring that the announced in line with the requirements on the global executive succession Company observes the standards and of the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys and talent management programme, disclosures recommended by the Code.
Listing Rules and, in due course, comprising an update on executive a tailored induction programme is succession plans, progress against Committee activities during developed for the new director.
the Groups talent and diversity the year and inclusion plans, and future During the year ended 31 March 2017, We used Russell Reynolds as the focusareas.
the Committee: specialist search company involved Reviewed the Committees with the search for the appointment Reviewed Board effectiveness, performance against its terms of of Caroline Donahue during the year.
Board governance and non-executive reference, as outlined earlier.
Russell Reynolds also provides other director succession.
Considered the annual company executive search services to the Group.
Deliberated on the appointment of law and governance update from a new non-executive director and the Company Secretary, and other recommended Caroline Donahues updates on the UK Corporate appointment to the Board, and also Governance Code, corporate considered the structure, size and culture, a green paper on corporate composition of the Board and each governance reform, and gender principal committee.
77 Governance|Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued Audit Committee report Deirdre Mahlan, Chairman Current members As Chairman of the Audit Committee, Im pleased to present Deirdre Mahlan Chairman our report on how the Committee has undertaken its roles Roger Davis in the past year.
Caroline Donahue Luiz Fleury The Committees principal roles are to: monitor the integrity of, and review, the George Rose Groups financial reporting, ensuring that any judgments made are appropriate: Paul Walker ensure the external auditor is independent and effective in its role, and recommend the appointment of the external auditor: and ensure that the Group has an effective internal control framework, including the risk management system.
The Committee All Committee members are considered members collective international and financial experience enables them to act to be appropriately experienced, but effectively in these areas.
Deirdre Mahlan and George Rose are considered to have significant, recent This report also contains details of the significant issues we considered in relation and relevant financial experience, in line with the UK Corporate to the financial statements and how these were addressed, and our process for Governance Code.
concluding that this Annual Report was fair, balanced and understandable.
The Committees terms The Committee was in place throughout the year ended 31 March 2017.
We met of reference can be found at four times during the year, with each meeting timed to coincide with key dates in www.
com about-us corporate-governance the Groups financial reporting and audit cycle.
The list of Committee members board-committees.
appears above, and the Board considers all of them to be independent nonexecutive directors, in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In addition to the Committee members, the Chairman and other Board members also attend Committee meetings by invitation.
The Group General Counsel, Head of Group Internal Audit and representatives from the external auditor also attend Committee meetings.
We also meet, as a Committee, with the external auditor and the Head of Group Internal Audit without management present.
78 Governance|Corporate governance report Overseeing the transition to the new Reviewing the effectiveness of the Committees key roles external auditor, KPMG LLP 'KPMG', Groups system of risk management and responsibilities and receiving regular updates from and internal control, including Monitoring the integrity of the KPMG and management on the financial, operational, compliance financial statements and reviewing progress of the transition.
significant financial reporting Discussing the 2017 audit plan Reviewing reports on risk judgments contained in them.
with KPMG, and concluding on it.
management including details Reviewing internal financial controls The plan included the external of material litigation, information and the Groups internal control and auditors response to developments security and business continuity risk management systems.
in the business during the year, at every scheduled meeting.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the developments in the audit process, Reviewing fraud and confidential audit process and the independence the Groups risk assessment and the helpline updates, in September 2016 and objectivity of the external auditor.
scope and coverage of the audit.
Monitoring and reviewing the Considering updates from KPMG on Debating and approving the Groups effectiveness of the internal the audit process, namely details of treasury policy, tax policy, an update auditfunction.
the audits status, key matters arising to the Groups non-audit fee policy and Developing and implementing policy from the audit and assessments updated terms of reference for the on engaging the external auditor to of managements judgments on Groups compliance function.
supply non-audit services, taking into them, reviewing the content of Approving the Committees annual account relevant guidance.
the independence letter and the meeting schedule and reviewing the Approving the external auditors management representation letter, as Committees performance against its remuneration and terms of well as engagement terms.
terms of reference, as outlined earlier: engagement, and making Reviewing and discussing an update and reviewing updates to the Code and recommendations about its from the Head of Group Internal the UK Financial Reporting Council's re-appointment.
Audit at each Committee meeting, Guidance on Audit Committees.
including progress on any overdue Committee activities audit actions.
The Committee received The Committees key activities during the details of the internal audit strategy, year ended 31 March 2017 included: and reviewed and approved the annual internal audit plan.
Reviewing the preliminary and half-year Evaluating the performance of the results announcements and the Annual Group Internal Audit function.
The Report: year-end accounting papers: evaluation operates on a four-year papers supporting the preparation cycle, with a full external quality of financial statements on the going assessment every four years, and concern basis: and papers supporting follow-up interim external quality the making of a viability statement assessments and internal reviews in recommendation to the Board.
EY conducted more information on the matters an interim assessment this year, considered in relation to the going which comprised interviews with key concern assessment, please see note 2 stakeholders, meetings with the Group to the Group financial statements.
Internal Audit team, documentation Reviewing the Annual Report to review, review of recent audit ensure it was fair, balanced and reports and a high-level capability understandable and provided assessment.
The Committee observed information necessary to assess the good progress made against Experians position and performance, recommendations made by EY in its business model and strategy.
79 Governance|Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued Significant issues The table below summarises the significant matters considered by the Committee in relation to the Group and Company financial statements and the manner in which they were concluded.
These matters, together with any other significant considerations of the Committee, are reported to the Board.
The minutes of each Audit Committee meeting are also circulated to all members of the Board.
Matter considered Conclusion Tax The Committee received a regular update from management The Committee agreed that the assessment of the uncertain on the adequacy of provisions in respect of significant open tax tax positions was appropriate and that the judgment taken matters.
The review included details of ongoing correspondence in respect of the year-end provision in the Group financial with tax authorities in the UK, the USA and Brazil and the statements was reasonable.
principal areas of tax challenge.
The Committee noted the evolving and complex tax laws that applied to the Group, and the uncertainty that these might bring.
It concluded that the Group tax risk disclosures were appropriate.
Litigation and regulatory matters The Committee received an analysis of the open litigation and The Committee concluded that these matters had been regulatory matters affecting the Group, including the North appropriately provided for at 31 March 2017.
America contractual dispute, and the associated financial The Committee considered and concurred with the proposed reporting considerations.
contingent liability disclosures included in the notes to the Group financial statements.
Impairment review - goodwill and other intangible assets A summary of the impairment analysis and underlying process The Committee concurred with managements conclusion was provided to the Committee.
The Committee scrutinised the that no impairment of goodwill was required.
The analysis indicated The Committee noted the headroom and the sensitivity to that the estimated recoverable amounts of the assets of all changes in assumptions and concurred with the proposed segments continued to sufficiently exceed their carrying disclosure of these in note 20 to the Group financial statements.
amounts, with the excess the 'headroom' in respect of the Asia Pacific cash generating unit 'CGU' having increased during the year, whilst that in respect of EMEA had decreased.
CCM disposal The Committee received an update on reporting aspects of the The Committee agreed that treatment as a discontinued disposal agreed during the year.
The business will be reported operation, a business held-for-sale, and the recommended as a discontinued operation for the purposes of IFRS 5, and its disclosures were appropriate.
assets and liabilities reclassified as held-for-sale.
Alternative performance measures A summary of the latest guidance was shared with the The Committee agreed with the updates and proposed Committee including proposals to update the Groups reporting.
80 Governance|Corporate governance report Fair, balanced and understandable what did we do?
Each year, the Committee is asked to An internal FBU committee then The key areas to focus on include consider, in line with the UK Corporate considered the Annual Report.
A wide ensuring that: Governance Code and the Audit range of functions are represented on The overall message of the narrative Committees terms of reference, whether, this committee, including executives reporting is consistent with the in its opinion, the Annual Report is fair, from finance, communications, primary financial statements.
balanced and understandable FBU investor relations, legal and corporate The overall message of the narrative and whether it provides the information secretariat.
The external auditor also reporting is appropriate, in the context necessary for shareholders to assess supports the committee.
of the industry as a whole and the the Groups position and performance, In advance of its May 2017 meeting, wider economic environment.
There is the Committee received a near-final an established process to support the The Annual Report is consistent with draft of the Annual Report, together Committee in making this assessment, messages already communicated with a reminder of the areas to focus and we use a similar process for the to investors, analysts and other on.
The FBU committees observations Groups half-yearly financial report.
and conclusions were also relayed to The main elements of the process the Committee.
The Annual Report taken as a whole are set out below: is fair, balanced and understandable.
Following its review this year, the Audit Committee concluded that it was The Chairman and ChiefExecutive A list of key areas to focus on see appropriate to confirm to the Board Officers statements include a below has been circulated to the that the Annual Report 2017 was fair, balanced view of the Groups management team, who were asked to balanced and understandable, and performance and prospects, and of consider these areas in their drafting.
provided the information necessary the industry and market as a whole.
Ahead of its March 2017 meeting, for shareholders to assess the the Committee received: drafts of a Any summaries or highlights Groups position and performance, large number of the Strategic report capture the big picture of the business model and strategy.
The components of the Annual Report: Group appropriately.
FBU statement appears in the draft governance material: papers Case studies or examples are of Directorsreport.
on the appropriateness of accounting strategic importance and do not policies and impairment reviews: and over-emphasise immaterial matters.
a paper from the external auditor.
81 Governance|Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued The Committee reviews the effectiveness External auditor Non-audit services of the external auditor at its September KPMG provides other services to Tenure and tendering meeting.
Given the recent transition Experian.
To ensure auditor objectivity As previously disclosed, in the prior to the new external auditor who had and independence, we have a policy financial year we put the external audit not yet concluded the audit, it was not relating to providing such services.
The out to tender, in line with UK competition appropriate to perform that evaluation policy includes financial limits above regulation and the UK Corporate in this financial year.
We intend to return which any proposed non-audit services Governance Code's recommendations.
to the normal evaluation cycle in the must be pre-approved, depending on the The tender process concluded when comingyear.
amount proposed to be spent.
shareholders approved KPMGs appointment as the new external auditor Independence is an important element The Committee receives half-yearly at the AGM in July 2016.
As such, KPMGs of the external audit.
To ensure auditor reports detailing non-audit assignments tenure as at the date of the Annual Report objectivity and independence, the carried out by the external auditor, is less than one year.
Committee reviews potential threats together with the related fees.
Under to independence and the associated the policy, non-audit fees paid to There are currently no contractual safeguards.
The safeguards that KPMG are capped at 50% of the fees obligations restricting our choice of KPMG had in place during the year for audit services excluding external auditor, and we confirm that we to maintain independence included audit-related assurance services, have complied on a voluntary basis as annual confirmation by KPMG staff of except in exceptional circumstances.
a non UK-incorporated company with compliance with ethics and independence Pre-approval by the Audit Committee or the provisions of the UK Competition and policies and procedures.
KPMG also Audit Committee Chairman is required in Markets Authority Order Mandatory Use has in place underlying safeguards to that situation.
An analysis of fees paid to of Competitive Tender Processes and maintain independence through instilling the external auditor for the year ended Audit Committee responsibilities for professional values: communications: 31March2017 is set out in note 13 to the the financial year under review.
internal accountability: risk management, Group financial statements.
Effectiveness, independence and independent reviews.
It also ensures and appointment that there is appropriate pre-approval At its September 2016 meeting, the Audit for non-audit services, which are only Committee reviewed and discussed provided if permissible under relevant KPMGs audit strategy for the year ethical standards.
Then, in March concluded that KPMG had maintained its and May 2017, the Committee received independence throughout the year.
detailed updates on the audits progress, which included details of KPMG's actions, such as the audit procedures undertaken, the audits coverage, the segregation of duties and the status of any significant findings.
These updates give the Committee an insight into the auditprocess.
82 Governance|Corporate governance report Provision of non-audit services Background The Audit Committee reviews the policy on the provision of non-audit services annually and the latest review took place in March 2017.
The policy recognises the importance of the external auditors independence and objectivity.
Policy The external auditor may provide services, provided that decisions to award work are taken on the basis of demonstrable competence and cost effectiveness.
However, the external auditor is specifically prohibited from the following areas of work: Tax services Services that involve playing any part in management or decision making Work relating to accounting records and financial statements Payroll services Design of and implementing internal control and risk management procedures and design of andimplementing financialsystems Valuation services Legal services general counsel, negotiations and advocacy Internal audit services Services linked to financing, capital structure and investment strategy unless audit-related assurance in nature Promoting, dealing in, or underwriting shares in the audited entity Human resources services for hiring or reference checking key management and finance resource, organisational design and cost control Immaterial services in some of the above areas may be acceptable, if written permission is obtained in advance from the Chairman of the Audit Committee via the Group Financial Controller.
The appointment of the external auditor for any non-audit work up to US$50,000 must be approved by the Group Financial Controller.
The appointment of the external auditor for any non-audit work where the expected fees are over US$50,000 and up to US$100,000 requires the approval, in advance, of the Group Chief Financial Officer.
Where the expected fees are over US$100,000, the approval of the Chairman of the Audit Committee is required in advance.
Where cumulative annual fees exceed the 50% annual limit, all expenditure must be approved by the Chairman of the Audit Committee via the Group Financial Controller, up to 55%.
Where cumulative annual fees exceed the 55% annual limit, all expenditure has to be approved by the Audit Committee.
All expenditure is subject to a tender process, unless express permission is provided by the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Chief Financial Officer or the Group Financial Controller based on the above approval limits.
Any expenditure below US$100,000 not subject to a tender will be notified to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Commercial agreements where Experian provides services to the auditor must be approved by the Group Financial Controller and not exceed the lower of 5% of the local Experian entitys total revenue and US$250,000, and all transactions should be undertaken on an arms length basis.
Transactions in excess of this limit require approval of the Chairman of the Audit Committee in advance.
The Committee will receive half-yearly reports providing details of assignments and related fees carried out by the external auditor in addition to their normal work.
