Governance and accounts Leadership Further details on the key responsibilities and areas of Overview focus of the Board and its Committees, as well as details 3i Infrastructure has no employees, and its investment on attendance at full Board meetings, are set out on and portfolio monitoring activities are carried out pages 57 to 70. by 3i Investments plc, its Investment Adviser, under the Investment Advisory Agreement.
It is the Boards Changes to the Board of Directors responsibility to ensure that the Company has a clear On 31 December 2016, Philip Austin stepped down as strategy and that its Investment Adviser has the resources a Director of the Company after 10 years service on and structures to support the delivery of this strategy.
Paul Masterton was appointed as Senior The Board also has direct access to the Companys Independent Director in his stead, effective from external advisers, including the Companys corporate 1 January 2017. brokers, financial adviser and legal advisers.
The Board receives advice on a range of subjects but particularly on The Boards responsibilities and processes the infrastructure market, UK and Jersey legal matters The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall and equity market issues.
It determines matters including financial strategy and planning and takes all Board of Directors and Committees investment and divestment decisions, taking into account The Board is assisted in its activities by a number of the advice it receives from the Investment Adviser who standing committees of the Board and, in undertaking its provides reports and papers that are circulated to the duties, it delegates certain authorities and decisions to Directors in a timely manner in preparation for Board and these Committees.
The Board reviews the membership committee meetings.
These papers are supplemented by of these Committees on a regular basis.
The Board information specically requested by the Directors from committee structure, together with a summary of the time to time.
roles and composition of the Committees, is outlined in The Board has put in place an organisational structure to the table below.
ensure the efficient performance of its responsibilities.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of This is further described under the heading Internal the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
He is also control on page 61. responsible for organising the business of the Board and setting its agenda.
In addition to the Chairman, there are currently four independent, non-executive Directors and one 3i Group plc nominee, who is not considered to be independent.
The Committees have terms of reference, which are available on www.
com 3i Infrastructure plc BoardCommittees Audit and Risk Management Investment Remuneration Nomination Committee Engagement Committee Committee Committee Committee Financial reporting, Monitoring of the Acquisition, Director Board appointments risk and internal performance of the monitoring remuneration and size, balance controls Investment Adviser and disposal and composition of investments of the Board Steven Wilderspin Richard Laing All Directors Paul Masterton Richard Laing Chair Chair Chair Chair Doug Bannister Doug Bannister Doug Bannister Wendy Dorman Wendy Dorman Wendy Dorman Wendy Dorman Paul Masterton Paul Masterton Paul Masterton Richard Laing Steven Wilderspin Steven Wilderspin page 64 page 68 page 57 page 69 page 67 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 55 Governance and accounts Leadership Board of Directors continued Richard Laing Doug Bannister Non-executive Chairman Non-executive Director Richard Laing was Chief Executive of CDC Group plc, from 2004 to Doug has over 25 years of experience in the transportation sector, 2011, having joined the organisation in 2000 as Finance Director.
having led businesses trading around the world for P&O Nedlloyd Prior to CDC, he spent 15 years at fide La Rue, where he held a and Maersk Line.
He became Group CEO of the Ports of Jersey number of positions, in the UK and internationally, latterly as Airport & Harbours in 2011, with responsibility for the Islands the Group Finance Director.
He also worked in agribusiness and strategic aviation and maritime assets.
Skilled in turnaround, at  and Marks & Spencer.
His current restructuring and transformation of capital intense transportation non-executive appointments include JPMorgan Emerging Markets businesses, he has been responsible for business improvements in Investment Trust plc and Perpetual Income and Growth Investment a wide variety of transport and logistics activities in both the freight Trust plc: Miro Forestry, which operates in Ghana and Sierra Leone and passenger segments.
In 2016 Doug was awarded the Institute and which he chairs: Leeds Castle: and Plan UK, the international of Directors Jersey Director of the Year for large businesses.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered member since 1 January 2015, resident in Jersey.
Accountants in England and Wales FCA.
Board member since 1 January 2016, resident in the UK.
Chairman of the Nominations Committee and Management Engagement Committee.
Wendy Dorman Ian Lobley Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Wendy is a chartered accountant who began her career as an Ian joined 3i in 1987, became a Partner in 1994 and has been auditor and went on to specialise in financial services taxation.
an active investor and board member across Europe, Asia and In2001, she moved from London to Jersey and she led the Channel the USA.
In his role as Managing Partner Asset Management, Islands tax practice of PwC until June 2015.
Wendy has over Ian has responsibility for investments in companies across a 25 years experience in taxation gained both in the UK and the variety of sectors and is an experienced board member across offshore environment, working both in practice and in industry.
He is a member of the 3i Group Investment Wendy was Chairman of the Jersey branch of the Institute of Committee and is a member of the BVCA UK and European Capital Directors from 2014 to 2016 and a former President of the Society Committee.
Board member since 6 May 2014, resident in the UK.
She is a non-executive director of Jersey Electricity plc and Jersey Finance Limited and Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee of CQS New City High Yield Fund Limited.
Board member since 1 March 2015, resident in Jersey.
56 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Governance and accounts Meetings of the Board A calendar of seven scheduled main Board meetings was agreed at the start of the year.
Due to the nature of the Boards close involvement in the operation of the Company and in making investment-related decisions, a number of further meetings are arranged from time to time at shorter notice.
During the year, there were seven main meetings of the Board of Directors.
Inaddition to these meetings, there were Paul Masterton 11full Board meetings arranged at short Non-executive Director, notice and two meetings of a specically Senior Independent Director formed committee to execute decisions arising from full Board meetings.
The Paul spent most of his career in the printing and communications Directors attendance at main Board industry, holding various appointments in the UK, the US and Asia.
meetings is set out in the table below From 2008 to 2013, Paul was the chief executive of the Durrell and these include Investment committee Wildlife Conservation Trust, an international wildlife charity.
Paul meetings to which all Board members are has a number of directorships in finance, insurance and property development and, in 2012, was appointed as the founding invited to attend.
chairman for Digital Jersey, a partnership between the Government of Jersey and the digital sector to represent and promote the Number of Directors attendance meetings while industry.
Board member since 4 April 2013, resident in Jersey.
year to 31 March 2017 a Director Attendance Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Richard Laing 7 7 1 Philip Austin 55 Doug Bannister 7 6 Wendy Dorman 7 7 Ian Lobley 7 7 Paul Masterton 7 7 Steven Wilderspin 7 7 1 Served until 31 December 2016.
Steven Wilderspin Non-executive Director Steven has been the Principal of Wilderspin Independent Governance, which provides independent directorship services, since April 2007.
He was previously a director of fund administrator, Maples Finance Jersey Limited.
He has served on a number of private equity, property and hedge fund boards as well as the boards of special purpose companies engaged in structured finance transactions.
Before that, from 1997, he acted as Head of Accounting at Perpetual Fund Management Jersey Limited.
He also sits on the boards of two of 3i Infrastructure plcs Luxembourg subsidiaries, 3i Infrastructure Luxembourg Holdings S. a r. l. and 3i Infrastructure Luxembourg S. a r. l. He is a qualied Chartered Accountant.
Board member since 20 September 2007, resident in Jersey.
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 57 Governance and accounts Leadership continued approval of the dividend target for FY17 of 7.55 pence The Boards responsibilities are set out on page per share, as announced with the Companys full-year 55.
The principal matters considered by the Board results to 31 March 2016: during the year in relation to those responsibilities regular reviews of portfolio asset performance, included the following: including the underlying performance of assets within the India Fund and review of the expected future Matters reserved for the Board returns from the portfolio: The Board has approved a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and the Audit and Risk Committee for review of the recommendations of the Investment decision.
The matters reserved for the Board include: Adviser on the valuation of portfolio investments, including the benchmarking of those valuations in the approval of the Companys overall strategy, plans and context of prevailing market conditions and the timing annual operating budget: of completion of regulatory review processes: and approval of the Companys half-yearly and annual regular reviews of feedback from shareholders financial statements and changes in the Companys following key strategic and financial announcements.
accounting policies or practices: approval of changes relating to the capital structure Manage relations with the Investment Adviser ofthe Company or its regulated status: a review with the Investment Adviser of its origination and asset management capabilities: and approval of the appointment and removal of the Investment Adviser and annual review and continued formal evaluation of the performance of the Investment approval of key agreements with service providers, Adviser.
including the Investment Advisory Agreement with 3iInvestments plc: and Financial management approval of major changes in the nature of business management of the Companys liquidity and review operations or investment policy.
ofthe Companys liquidity policy: approval for the Company to raise up to 350 million Investment activity in new equity through an Open Offer, Placing and approval of new investment decisions, including the Intermediaries Offer, and subsequent approval to decision to invest in Innis, TCR, Wireless Infrastructure increase the capital raise to 385 million: Group, Valorem, Hart van Zuid and A27 A1: review of the Companys existing RCF, and approval review of regular reports from the Investment Adviser in April 2016 to increase the size of the RCF by a relating to the infrastructure market and early stage further 200 million to December 2016 subsequently work-in-progress investment opportunities: and cancelled in July 2016 and extend the maturity by an additional year.
Approval in April 2017 to increase ongoing review of market opportunities in a number again the size of the RCF by 200 million to March 2018 ofEuropean and target geographies.
and extend the maturity by a further year: Strategy and returns ongoing review of foreign exchange hedging: An explanation of the business model and strategy for review and ongoing monitoring of the OECDs Action delivering the objectives of the Company is set out on Plan on Base Erosion and profit Shifting: pages 6 to 9. approval of the Companys annual budget for the year The Board conducted a review of the Companys strategy to 31 March 2018: and through a series of Board meetings, taking advice from the Investment Adviser, the Companys Corporate assessment of the Companys viability through Brokers and Financial Adviser.
These meetings involved consideration of scenario and stress testing.
the following: Other matters considered by the Board included: review of the infrastructure market segments in which succession planning: the Company operates, and of competitors activity and the returns available from investing in those the impact of changes to the UK Corporate markets: Governance Code and the impact of the introduction of the EU Market Abuse Regulations in July 2016: approval to maintain the Companys target total return the Board received updates to UK and Jersey law at 810% over the medium term: and regulations and considered their impact on the approval to maintain the dividend policy targeting Company: and aprogressive annual dividend per share: the Board considered the market practice for offering ascrip dividend alternative to shareholders.
58 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017
