GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT A COMPANY COMMITTED TO HIGH STANDARDS OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairmans statement on corporate governance Wizz Air is a company which continues to grow at a market-leading rate.
Wizz Airs Directors recognise the trust that investors have placed in the Companys business and continue to ensure high standards of corporate governance.
Continuing the Boards development to reflect the Companys standing as a FTSE 250 company, I was delighted to welcome Wioletta Rosoowska as an additional Non-Executive Director shortly before the Companys annual general meeting, with effect from 1 June 2016.
Wioletta brings to the Board extremely relevant, extensive Central and Eastern European consumer and marketing experience gained during her ongoing, successful executive career.
As I reported in last years annual report, the Directors participated in a performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors and a number of actions were implemented as a result.
For example, Directors were given the opportunity to spend a number of days visiting the Companys office in Budapest as well as its base in Warsaw to speak with management and employees, as well as experience a number of areas of the Companys business from crew training to ramp handling.
The Board also has a renewed focus on the Companys strategy, essential as the business continues to grow rapidly, with the existing aircraft orders projecting an airline of at least 150 aircraft by the end of 2024.
The Board will repeat the performance evaluation with reference to the financial year ended 31 March 2017 through an internally facilitated process to ensure that actions arising from the previous evaluation were implemented appropriately and to ensure that processes continue to develop to support the Companys growth in the future.
One key example of the continuous review and development of processes is the development of a more structured enterprise risk management system, which has now been completed and the results presented to the Board.
The Companys Audit Committee and management worked with Ernst & Young to implement this enterprise risk management system, with the participation of a newly created Risk Council involving the Companys Chief Executive Officer, all other officers and a number of heads of functions.
The enterprise risk management system has been embedded in the Companys culture through comprehensive training at all management levels and ongoing training will ensure that the principles continue to be applied in the Companys risk management processes and as the Company encounters and deals with new issues in the future.
Trading in the Companys shares over the financial year ended 31 March 2017 resulted in a number of changes in the Companys shareholders.
Following an increase in the shareholdings of a number of shareholders who were not Qualifying Nationals, as defined in the Companys Articles of Association, the Board took certain measures to ensure that the aggregate of those shareholdings did not exceed the Permitted Maximum, also as defined in the Companys Articles of Association.
Those measures have now been removed, although the Company continues to monitor closely such shareholdings on a regular basis.
This demonstrates that, where required, the Board is prepared to take decisive action to ensure the protection of the Companys interests and ongoing compliance with regulatory requirements.
The Board thanks each and every one of our investors for the faith they have shown in the Companys business and, also, recognises the trust that the Shareholders have placed in the Board and senior management.
Over the course of the last year, a large number of meetings with investors were organised by senior management and, in addition, I have also spoken to a number of Shareholders myself.
Any concerns or comments raised were fed back to the Board.
Once again, I would stress that the trust that both investors and other stakeholders have placed in the Board is not taken for granted.
We will continue to develop our processes to ensure that our policy of ensuring high standards of governance appropriate for the Company is maintained in the future and in a manner which is appropriate for the Companys continued fast rate of growth.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 32
