04 RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT ESG 4.2 Responsible Investment Environmental, Social & Governance Considerations Implementing RI ESG policies Health and Safety s The Group has active oversight of the underlying The Health and Safety performance of each investment is investments.
In almost all cases, it is entitled to appoint at monitored and each year a number of Health and Safety least one director to the Board of each portfolio company audits are carried out by external Health and Safety and Board meetings are not quorate without the Groups consultants to ensure appropriate procedures and policies nominated director being present.
are in place and being adhered to.
s For alignment of interests and transparency, all directors Information on Health and Safety is reported to the Board on fees paid by the portfolio companies are for the benefit of a quarterly basis via the Risk Committee.
On a typical routine the Group, and not the Investment Adviser.
reporting basis, this takes the form of a RIDDOR report, which relates to the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and s Portfolio company Boards typically meet at least quarterly Dangerous Occurrences Regulations and the duties it to review performance.
It is normal that RI ESG is tabled imposes.
If incidents occur, follow-up actions are taken to on Board agendas and issues including anti-bribery and learn any lessons and when appropriate, this is disseminated health and safety are reported via the Board packs.
to portfolio companies to ensure maximum benefit.
s As part of its RI ESG annual review, the Investment Adviser seeks to ensure that each portfolio company has appropriate RI ESG policies in place and that these are observed in the delivery of the services.
s The Investment Adviser has developed 26 Key Performance Indicators to measure RI ESG for 2016 and evaluated questionnaire responses against these.
95% of portfolio companies responded to the questionnaire and were ranked.
Rankings are assessed on a star system ranging from one star to five stars.
In 2016 over 65% of the Groups projects were awarded four and five star ratings.
s The Investment Adviser has an RI ESG policy and guidelines which have been adopted by the majority of the portfolio companies in order to enhance RI ESG performance and improve monitoring on project-level activities.
Over the year, this has been rolled out via a workshop programme, with specific teach-in guidance relevant to the needs of the portfolio companies.
The Investment Adviser has an RI ESG steering committee to promote RI ESG activities at the Investment Adviser level, with the intention of ensuring best practice is widely adopted.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 73 04 RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL & GOVERNANCE 4.3 Review of the Year The Investment Adviser has reviewed its Environmental Many of the Groups portfolio companies have undertaken performance and the performance of initiatives to reduce water and energy consumption.
The the Groups service providers over the Home Office see Case Study 4.4 has been exemplary, reducing energy and water consumption by 25% in 2016 via last 12 months and can confirm such measures as installing LED lighting systems, motioncompliance with the Companys RI ESG detecting light switches, introducing demand-controlled policies.
On the basis of the Investment ventilation to the main office ventilation plant on the roof, rooftop solar panels and installing water meters to monitor Advisers recommendations, the water consumption.
Directors have considered the existing Such initiatives can also be seen across the portfolio.
RI ESG policies as good relative to For example, at Central Middlesex Hospital, through the industry practices, as supported by the installation of dimmable motion-activated stairwell lighting, Investment Advisers 2016 A rating for incorporating a fully modulating burner in a gas boiler and variable speed drives on large pumps, the aim is to avoid over Infrastructure assessed by PRI.
250 tonnes of CO emissions per year.
Many projects 2 including Addiewell Prison, Cork School of Music, Blackburn Hospital, the Irish Grouped Schools, Glasgow Hospital and the Health and Safety Laboratory have installed energyefficient LED lightbulbs.
More assets are starting to monitor their water usage as well as energy, for example, Conwy Schools, Bangor Schools, Central Manchester Hospital, Falkirk Schools, Fife Schools and Cork School of Music.
Projects including Kent Schools and Hinchingbrooke Hospital are installing lavatories with dual flush features to decrease water wastage.
Ecological considerations have been an important theme this year, especially among the Groups transport projects.
Initiatives include the construction of animal underpasses on the A92 and A249.
During the construction of the RD901 there was the potential for the natural habitat of the local bat population to be disturbed.
The contractor, supported by its engineering consultant, decided to install an overhanging line designed to guide the bats across the construction site.
In addition, the population of bats was regularly monitored.
The line will be maintained until trees are replanted later this year.
Monitoring shows that the bat population has been maintained.
The project received an environmental award for this initiative from the IDRRIM French Institute for Roads, Streets and Mobility Infrastructure.
74 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 04 RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT ESG Social Governance At hospitals, common social initiatives are to improve and On a Company level, the Board recognises the importance optimise the building and grounds to make it as pleasant as of a culture of corporate governance that meets the possible for patients, visitors and staff.
Examples across the requirements of the UK Listing Authority as well as other Groups portfolio include planting gardens, installing artwork regulatory bodies.
However, a sense of corporate social and small but appreciated considerations such as donating responsibility is also reflected across the Companys whole Christmas trees at Blackburn Hospital.
operational structure down to project company level.
The Investment Adviser endeavours to promote an appropriate Often the Companys sub-contractors help young people ethos of stewardship, responsibility and accountability develop employability skills.
A good example of this is the through interaction with key stakeholders and by appointing apprenticeship schemes at the Royal School of Military at least one director from its in-house Asset Management Engineering see Case Study 4.4.
Both phases of Bradford team to the Board of each project.
With the Investment Building Schools for the Future took part in Bradfords Make Advisers influence and Board representation, the projects are the Grade programme working with local business volunteers able to benefit from its management expertise and key from the Bradford region to help raise the aspirations of corporate governance initiatives.
children and help them navigate their future career paths.
Initiatives included mentoring, workplace visits, careers panels The Investment Adviser is committed to working with all of its and interview practice.
Over 3,400 young people were project company management teams to identify and adopt supported by the programme in an area suffering from high appropriate cyber security practices and procedures.
In the case of school projects, pupils often has been a concerted effort to recognise and manage benefit from work experience programmes offered by the potential cyber risks to protect the assets, and in doing so facilities management providers, examples include the demonstrate good governance consistent with the Investment Highland Schools, Kent Schools and Edinburgh Schools Adviser and the Companys broader RI ESG commitments.
Non-education projects often provide work experience During the year ended 31 March 2017, the Investment programmes too but to children in the local community, as is Adviser developed a Cyber Security Policy with the case at Hinchingbrooke Hospital, Central Middlesex recommendations for each portfolio company management Hospital and Oxford Nuffield Hospital.
team to ensure appropriate defence mechanisms are in place against potential cyber attacks.
With the enactment of the UK Bribery Act 2010 and the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, the Investment Adviser has developed appropriate polices and ensures that these are adopted by the Company as well as portfolio companies in which the Group has invested.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 75 04 RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL & GOVERNANCE 4.4 Case Study: Responsible Investment in Action Each individual project is responsible for developing environmental and social projects that match with the community needs of the client, the users and wider community that benefits from the projects facilities.
As a result there is a wide range of initiatives across the portfolio.
The activities are promoted within a project by the Groups nominated director typically a member of the Investment Advisers Asset Management team and the initiatives include not only activities delivered or sponsored directly by the project company, but also by the whole supply chain linked with the relevant project, and are often carried out in conjunction with the client.
Set out on the following pages are examples of assets carrying out activities that address Environmental, Social or Governance issues.
76 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 04 RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT ESG 110,000 Approximately 110,000 pupils attend schools in the Groups portfolio 10m Approximately 10 million patients treated per annum at hospitals in the Groups portfolio Royal School Of Military Engineering, UK HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 77 04 RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL & GOVERNANCE 4.4 Case Study: Responsible Investment in Action Continued THE ROYAL SCHOOL OF MILITARY ENGINEERING The Royal School of Military Engineering is a PPP project in which the Group has an investment.
It is a concession to finance, construct and operate the buildings and training areas in three UK location for the Royal Engineers on behalf of the UK Ministry of Defence.
Supporting the visit of HRH The Queen which was attended by local school children and facilities of the Royal Engineers and Civil Servants.
The visit was part of a community engagement initiative and was attended by local school children and families of the Royal Engineers and Civil Servants.
Provided materials and worked alongside the Royal Engineers to construct art installations designed by artist 1.
Mark Humphries as part of the Remembrance Art Trail Project installed throughout Canary Wharf.
Created a programme to train apprentices selected from the local area in bricklaying and carpentry.
Managing the habitats of protected newts and other endangered species.
This includes the construction of two 2.
3. dormice bridges to connect their habitat across a track.
Recycling of materials used in the training courses.
For example, using cement alternatives allowing the reuse of bricks.
Moving from paper to mobile device-led training in the field to reduce wastage.
Installation of LED lighting to reduce energy usage.
Improving insulation to reduce energy usage, including by replacing roofs where necessary.
Use of drones to reduce the need to work at height and the requirement for machinery to support scaffolding.
Replacing electric lighting with solar sun pipes in certain 6.
7. buildings, introducing natural light into the facilities and reducing energy consumption.
78 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 04 RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT ESG THE HOME OFFICE The Home Office Accommodation project is a 29 year concession commissioned by the UK Home Office to finance, construct, operate, and maintain a new headquarters building to replace its existing office accommodation with purposebuilt serviced offices in Westminster, London.
The Government set a target to reduce energy consumption across the government estate by 25%.
Methods employed to reduce energy consumption included the installation of LED lighting systems in the main office lighting, introducing demand controlled ventilation, installing 30kW of solar panels on the roof of one of the buildings and installing additional water meters so all water consumption is monitored.
The image shows the Home Offices participation in the World Wildlife Fund Earth Hour where prominent buildings and monuments across the world switch their lights off to raise awareness about climate change and energy consumption.
Planting more plants to encourage insects and birds to the site.
Introducing compostable takeaway boxes for hot and cold food.
Installing bird boxes to help redress the problem of falling house sparrow numbers in the area.
Continued participation in public art provision in participation with the Government Art Collection.
Introducing new carbon neutral, fair trade vending machines.
Installation of flushing devices in over 300 toilets to encourage less water usage upon flushing.
This has reduced water consumption by 30%.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 79 04 RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL & GOVERNANCE 4.4 Case Study: Responsible Investment in Action Continued SOUTHMEAD HOSPITAL Southmead Hospital PFI project is a 35 year concession to finance, construct, operate, and maintain an 800-bed acute hospital on a single site at Southmead in North Bristol, on behalf of the North Bristol NHS Trust.
Automated Guided Vehicles have been introduced to move essential equipment around the building as a Health and Safety measure to reduce the need for heavy lifting and associated injuries amongst staff.
Many cycle racks have been installed to encourage sustainable travel to Southmead Hospital by staff and visitors.
The project has achieved a 25% reduction in water 1. consumption through water efficiency savings, improved infrastructure and the inclusion of sustainable urban drainage.
Sustainable drainage has been an important part of the design and maintenance of the project, with the aim to enhance water quality, minimise vulnerability to flooding and maximising access to green space and biodiversity onsite.
The urban drainage system at Southmead won the NHS Sustainability Award in 2016.
Accessible artwork was a key feature incorporated into the design for the redevelopment to enhance the enjoy ability of the space for staff and hospital visitors.
A rooftop herb garden was installed.
The culinary herbs will be used by the catering department and make up part of a healthy eating campaign.
In addition, where possible free-range, locally sourced and organic foods 4.
80 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 04 RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT ESG Southmead Hospital, UK HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 81 05 BOARD & GOVERNANCE A249 Road, UK 82 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 05 Board & Governance Delivering Real Value.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 83 05 BOARD & GOVERNANCE 5.1 Operational Structure The Company is a Guernsey-registered At the year end, the Company owned indirectly a portfolio of 114 infrastructure investments.
It is seeking to protect and investment company with an enhance the value of the existing portfolio and to source independent Board of Directors.
appropriately-priced new investments using the expertise of its Investment Adviser, InfraRed Capital Partners Limited.
Its shares are listed on the London The Company has a 31 March year end and announces its Stock Exchange.
The Company full year results in May and interim results in November.
It also is a self-managed non-EEA publishes two Quarterly Update Statements formerly Interim Management Statements each year, normally in February Alternative Investment Fund under and July.
the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD.
Organisational Structure SERVICES EQUITY MANAGEMENT HICL Shareholders Independent Directors Investment Self managed non-EEA AIF Governance Company Secretary HICL Listed Company Oversight Aztec Financial Services Strategy Guernsey Limited Other Company Advisers and Service Providers HICL Infrastructure Company Limited Legal Investment Adviser A Guernsey Corporate Broking Investment Company Advice Public Relations Market briefings Strategy Investment recommendations Portfolio performance reporting HICLs Investor relations Special Purpose Vehicles Equity Portfolio and Asset Portfolio of underlying Management Management investments Services Provide oversight of Advice management for the portfolio companies Acquisition pipeline development Asset management Portfolio management 84 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 05 BOARD & GOVERNANCE Group Structure The Companys Board and the Committees The Company makes its investments via the Corporate The Board of the Company currently comprises six Subsidiaries, which comprise a group structure involving two independent, non-executive Directors details of whom Luxembourg-domiciled investment companies and an English can be found in Section 5.2 whose role is to manage the limited partnership.
The assets of the Company are therefore Company in the interests of shareholders and other held indirectly through the Corporate Subsidiaries and any stakeholders.
In particular, the Board approves and monitors subsidiaries wholly owned by the general partner of the adherence to the Investment Policy and Acquisition Strategy, English limited partnership on behalf of the English limited determines risk appetite, sets policies, agrees levels of partnership.
InfraRed Capital Partners Limited acts as the delegation to key service providers and monitors their Investment Adviser of the Company and as Operator of activities and performance including, specifically, that of the the Partnership.
Investment Adviser against agreed objectives.
The Board will take advice from the Investment Adviser, where appropriate The Group invests in infrastructure investments indirectly such as on matters concerning the market, the portfolio via the Corporate Subsidiaries: and new acquisition opportunities.
s The Company invests in equity and debt of Luxco 1, The Board meets regularly at least five times a year, each a socit responsabilit limite established in time for two consecutive days for formal Board and Luxembourg, which in turn invests in equity and debt Committee meetings.
One of these Board meetings is of a similar entity, Luxco 2.
Both of the Luxcos are wholly devoted to considering the strategy of the Group, both in owned subsidiaries of the Company.
terms of potential acquisitions and the management of the current portfolio.
There are also a number of ad hoc meetings s Luxco 2 is the sole limited partner in the Partnership, an dependent upon business needs.
In addition the Board has English limited partnership which has a special purpose formed six committees which manage risk and governance of vehicle, the General Partner, as its general partner.
General Partner is a wholly owned indirect subsidiary of InfraRed Partners LLP.
The General Partner, on behalf of Management of the portfolio, as well as investment decisions the Partnership, has appointed the Operator as operator within agreed parameters, is delegated to InfraRed as the of the Partnership.
Luxco 2 invests the contributions it Investment Adviser, which reports regularly to the Board.
At receives from Luxco 1 in capital contributions and partner the quarterly Board and committee meetings, the operating loans to the Partnership, which acquires and holds the and financial performance of the portfolio, its valuation and infrastructure investments.
the appropriateness of the risk and controls are reviewed.
The two Luxembourg entities Luxco1 and Luxco2 have independent Boards, on which a Company director sits, and take advice on administration matters from RSM Tax & Accounting Luxembourg.
Aztec Financial Services Guernsey Limited is the Administrator to the Company and also provides company secretarial services and a registered office to the Company.
The Groups infrastructure investments are registered in the name of the General Partner, the Partnership or wholly owned subsidiaries of the Partnership.
Each of the underlying investments is made by a special purpose vehicle not shown in the structure diagram to ensure no  of the liabilities being, principally, the debt repayment obligations.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 85 05 BOARD & GOVERNANCE 5.2 Board of Directors Mr Ian Russell Mrs Sally-Ann Farnon Chairman of the Board Chair of the Audit Committee Chairman of Nomination Committee Background and experience Background and experience Ian Russell CBE British, resident in the UK, is a qualified Sally-Ann Farnon known as Susie British, resident in Guernsey, accountant.
Ian worked for Scottish Power plc between 1994 is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and 2006, initially as Finance Director and, from 2001, as its and Wales, having qualified as an accountant in 1983.
Prior to this he spent eight years as Finance Director at non-executive director of a number of property and investment HSBC Asset Management in Hong Kong and London.
Susie was a Banking and Finance Partner with chairman of Scottish Futures Trust and a director of Aberdeen KPMG Channel Islands from 1990 until 2001 and Head of Audit Diversified Income and Growth Trust and the Mercantile KPMG Channel Islands from 1999.
She has served as President Investment Trust.
of the Guernsey Society of Chartered and Certified Accountants and as a member of The States of Guernsey Audit Date of appointment Commission and Vice-Chairman of the GFSC.
Appointed to the Board on 1 May 2013.
Date of appointment Other public company directorships Appointed to the Board on 1 May 2013. listed in London unless noted otherwise : Aberdeen Diversified Income and Growth Trust Other public company directorships The Mercantile Investment Trust plc listed in London unless noted otherwise : Apax Global Alpha Limited Breedon Aggregates Limited listed on AIM Ravenscroft Limited listed on TISE Standard Life Investments Property and Income Trust Limited Threadneedle UK Select Trust Limited Mrs Sarah Evans Mr Simon Holden Chair of the Risk Committee Background and experience Background and experience Sarah Evans British, resident in Guernsey, is a Chartered Simon Holden British, resident in Guernsey, has more than Accountant and a non-executive director of several other 15 years of experience in private equity investment and listed investment funds.
She is a director of the UK Investment portfolio company operations roles.
Working initially with Companies trade body, the AIC.
She spent over six years with Candover Investments and latterly Terra Firma Capital the Barclays Bank plc group from 1994 to 2001.
During that Partners since 2008, he has completed a number of time she was a treasury director and, from 1996 to 1998, she successful buy-outs and held a number of Board-level was Finance Director of Barclays Mercantile, where she was operational roles alongside the executive teams of portfolio responsible for all aspects of financial control and operational companies.
He left Terra Firma in late 2015 to take up a risk management.
Previously, Sarah ran her own consultancy limited number of independent directorships of alternative business advising financial institutions on all aspects of investment funds, and fiduciary and trading company clients securitisation.
From 1982 to 1988 she was with Kleinwort including Permiras global buy-out funds.
Simon graduated Benson, latterly as Head of Group Finance.
from the University of Cambridge with an MEng and MA Cantab in Manufacturing Engineering, holds the IMC and is Date of appointment a member of the States of Guernseys GIFA, NED Forum and Appointed to the Board 9 June 2008, retired on 31 March 2017.
Other public company directorships as at 31 March 2017 Date of appointment listed in London unless noted otherwise : Appointed to the Board 1 July 2016.
Apax Global Alpha Limited Crystal Amber Fund Limited listed on AIM Other public company directorships NB Distressed Debt Investment Fund Limited listed on listed in London unless noted otherwise : SFS London None.
Real Estate Credit Investments PCC Limited Ruffer Investment Company Limited 86 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 05 BOARD & GOVERNANCE Mr Frank Nelson Mr Chris Russell Senior Independent Director Chair of Remuneration and Chair of Management Committee Engagement Committee Background and experience Background and experience Frank Nelson British, resident in the UK, is a qualified accountant.
Chris Russell British, is a Guernsey resident non-executive He has over 25 years of experience in the construction, director of investment and financial companies in the UK, Hong housebuilding and energy sectors.
He was previously Finance Kong and Guernsey.
He is Chairman of the Guernsey domiciled Director of construction and housebuilding group Galliford Try plc and London listed F&C Commercial Property Trust Ltd and from 2000 until 2012 and, prior to that, was Finance Director of Macau Property Opportunities Fund Ltd and is a non-executive Try Group plc from 1987, leading the company through its IPO in director of Ruffer Investment Company Ltd and Schroders 1989 and the subsequent merger with Galliford.
After Galliford C. I. Ltd. Chris was formerly a director of Gartmore Investment Try, he took on the role of interim CFO of Lamprell plc in the UAE.
Management plc, where he was Head of Gartmores businesses Following his return from the Middle East, Frank was appointed in the US and Japan.
Before that he was a holding board as the Senior Independent Director of McCarthy & Stone, Telford director of the Jardine Fleming Group in Asia.
He is a Fellow of and Eurocell.
the UK Society of Investment Professionals and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Date of appointment Appointed to the Board 1 June 2014.
Date of appointment Appointed to the Board on 1 June 2010.
Other public company directorships listed in London unless noted otherwise : Other public company directorships McCarthy & Stone plc listed in London unless noted otherwise : Eurocell plc F&C Commercial Property Trust Ltd Telford Homes plc Macau Property Opportunities Fund Limited Ruffer Investment Company Ltd Mr Kenneth D Reid Background and experience Kenneth D. Reid British, resident in Singapore, has more than 30 years of international experience in the sectors of construction, development and infrastructure investment.
Working initially with Kier Group, and then from 1990 with Bilfinger Berger AG, he has been a project leader and senior management executive responsible for businesses and projects across all continents.
From 2007 to 2010, Ken served as a member of the Group Executive Board of Bilfinger Berger AG.
He graduated in Civil Engineering from Heriot-Watt University with First Class Honours BSc, and subsequently from Edinburgh Business School with an MBA.
Ken is a Chartered Engineer, a non-executive director of Sicon Limited, and a member of the Singapore Institute of Directors.
Date of appointment Appointed to the Board 1 September 2016.
Other public company directorships listed in London unless noted otherwise : None.
Certain of the Directors maintain additional directorships that are also listed but not actively traded on various exchanges.
Details may be obtained from the Company Secretary.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 87 05 BOARD & GOVERNANCE 5.3 The Investment Adviser InfraRed Capital Partners was appointed as the Investment Under the terms of the Investment Advisory Agreement, Adviser to the Company at the Companys launch in March InfraRed is entitled to a fixed advisory fee of 100,000 per 2006.
In addition it was appointed as the operator of the annum, together with all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses.
Partnership by the General Partner, on behalf of the Partnership.
The Investment Adviser, in its capacity as Operator, and the Under the terms of the Limited Partnership Agreement, the General Partner are together entitled to annual fees calculated Operator has full discretion to acquire, dispose of or manage on the following basis and in the following order: the assets of the Partnership, subject to investment guidelines set out by the Board.
of the proportion of the Adjusted Gross Asset Value of the Groups investments which have a value of up InfraRed Capital Partners is part of the InfraRed Group, to and including 750m in aggregate: a privately owned dedicated property and infrastructure investment business, managing a range of infrastructure and ii 1.0 per cent.
of the proportion of the Adjusted Gross Asset property funds and investments.
The Infrastructure Investment Value of the Groups investments that is not accounted team has a strong record of delivering attractive returns for its for under i which, together with the investments under i investors, which include pension funds, insurance companies, above, have an Adjusted Gross Asset Value of up to and funds of funds, asset managers and high net worth investors including 1.5bn in aggregate: domiciled in the UK, Europe, North America, Middle East iii 0.9 per cent.
of the proportion of the Adjusted Gross Asset and Asia.
Value of the Groups investments not accounted for under Since 1990, the InfraRed Group including predecessor i or ii above which, together with investments under i organisations has launched 17 investment funds investing and ii above have an Adjusted Gross Asset Value of up in infrastructure and property, including the Company.
to and including 2.25bn: and iv 0.8 per cent.
of the proportion of the Adjusted Gross Asset Value of the Group The InfraRed Group currently manages six infrastructure funds that is not accounted for under i, ii and iii above.
including the Group and five real estate funds.
The InfraRed Group currently has a staff of around 120 employees and These fees are calculated and payable six monthly in arrears, partners, based mainly in offices in London and with smaller and are based on the Adjusted Gross Asset Value of the Groups offices in Hong Kong, New York, Seoul and Sydney.
Its assets at the beginning of the period concerned, adjusted on infrastructure team comprises 60 professional staff who have, a time basis for acquisitions and disposals during the period.
on average, 13 years of relevant industry experience.
InfraRed is also entitled to receive an amount equal to 1.0 Within the infrastructure team, there are: per cent.
of the value of new investments made by the Group that are not sourced from entities, funds or holdings managed s a Management team with overall responsibility for the by InfraRed or an affiliate of InfraRed.
This amount is payable activities provided to the Group: on completion of the acquisition of the relevant investment.
s an Origination and Transaction team responsible for The agreements with InfraRed can be terminated with business development and sourcing new investments: 12 months notice.
s an Asset Management team responsible for managing the portfolio of investments: and s a Portfolio Management team responsible for financial reporting, cash flow management, debt, foreign exchange hedging and tax.
Six senior members of the InfraRed team make up InfraReds investment committee on behalf of the Company.
They have over 130 combined years experience of making and managing infrastructure investments.
Further details on the InfraRed Group can be found at www.
88 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 05 BOARD & GOVERNANCE 5.4 Corporate Governance Statement Introduction The AIC Code of Corporate Governance The Board recognises the importance of a strong corporate As a member of the AIC, the Company has been reporting governance culture that meets the requirements of the UK against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code Governance framework, including the UK Listing Authority as and the accompanying AIC Corporate Governance Guide for well as other relevant bodies such as the Guernsey Financial Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
Services Commission the Commission and the Association The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of Investment Companies AIC of which the Company is a of the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Guide.
The Board has put in place a framework for corporate as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set governance which it believes is appropriate for an investment out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, as well as setting company.
All Directors contribute to the Board discussions and out additional principles and recommendations on issues that debates.
The Board believes in providing as much transparency are of specific relevance to the Company.
for investors and other stakeholders as is reasonably possible within the boundaries of client and commercial confidentiality.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the Guernsey Regulatory Environment AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance The Commission has issued the GFSC Finance Sector Code Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
of Corporate Governance The Guernsey Code.
The Guernsey Code comprises principles and guidance, and provides a The Company has complied with the recommendations of formal expression of good corporate practice against which the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate shareholders, boards and the Commission can better assess Governance Code, except as set out below.
the governance exercised over companies in Guernseys The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions finance sector.
relating to the role of the chief executive, executive directors The Commission recognises that the different nature, scale and remuneration, and the need for an internal audit function.
complexity of specific businesses will lead to differing approaches For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and based on the to meeting the Guernsey Code.
Companies which report UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers these against the UK Corporate Governance Code or the AIC Code provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, of Corporate Governance the AIC Code are also deemed being an externally-managed investment company.
In particular, to meet this code.
The Directors have determined that the all of the Companys day-to-day management and administrative Company will continue as an Authorised Closed-Ended functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Investment Scheme.
Company has no executive directors, employees or internal AIFM Directive operations.
The Company has therefore not reported further The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive seeks in respect of these provisions.
to regulate alternative investment fund managers AIFM and The remainder of this Corporate Governance Statement imposes obligations on Managers who manage alternative addresses each of the 21 principles of the AIC Code in turn investment funds AIF in the EU or who market shares in under the three main areas of The Board: Board Meetings and such funds to EU investors.
The Company is categorised as Relationship with the Manager: and Shareholder Communications.
a self-managed non-EEA AIF for the purposes of the AIFM Directive.
In order to maintain compliance with the AIFM The Board Directive, the Company needs to comply with various Principle 1.
The Chairman should be independent.
organisational, operational and transparency obligations, The Chairman, since 1 March 2016, is Mr I Russell, who met including the pre-investment disclosure information required the independence criteria upon appointment and has continued by Article 23 of AIFM Directive.
to meet this condition throughout his term of service.
Non-Mainstream Pooled Investments Although not a requirement of the AIC Code, in accordance with On 1 January 2014, certain changes to the FCA rules relating guidance in Principle 1, the Board has a Senior Independent to restrictions on the retail distribution of unregulated collective Director SID, Mr F Nelson, who was appointed as SID on investment schemes and close substitutes came into effect.
In his role as the SID, Mr F Nelson takes the lead in the annual evaluation of the Chairman at which the Chairmans As previously announced, the Board confirms that it conducts performance and continuing independence is discussed.
the Companys affairs such that the Company would qualify for approval as an investment trust if it were resident in the Principle 2.
A majority of the board should be independent United Kingdom.
It is the Boards intention that the Company of the manager.
will continue to conduct its affairs in such a manner and that At 31 March 2017, the Board consisted of seven nonIndependent Financial Advisers should therefore be able to executive Directors, all of whom are independent of the recommend its Ordinary Shares to ordinary retail investors in Investment Adviser.
None of the Directors sit on Boards of accordance with the FCAs rules relating to non-mainstream other entities managed by the Investment Adviser.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 89 05 BOARD & GOVERNANCE 5.4 Corporate Governance Statement Continued The independence of each Director is considered during the The Directors are kept fully informed of investment and annual self-evaluation of the Board.
Additionally, each Director financial controls, and other matters that are relevant to the is required to inform the Board of any potential or actual business of the Company that should be brought to the conflicts of interest prior to any Board discussion.
The Directors also have access, where necessary in the furtherance of their duties, to independent Principle 3.
Directors should offer themselves for reprofessional advice at the expense of the Company.
Nomination for re-election should not be assumed but be based on disclosed The Board meets at least five times a year including for the procedures and continued satisfactory performance.
annual strategy review referred to below.
During the year, The Directors are not subject to automatic re-appointment.
a further 20 ad hoc Board Committee meetings were held to As a general policy, all Directors retire, and, if appropriate and deal with other matters, principally of an administrative nature, willing to act, off themselves for re-election by shareholders at and these were attended by those Directors available.
meetings there is regular contact with the Investment Adviser, the Secretary and the Companys Broker, as necessary.
Mr G Picken and Mr J Hallam retired from the Board on 30 June 2016, and Mrs S Evans retired on 31 March 2017.
The primary focus at Board meetings is a review of investment The remaining six Directors will retire and offer themselves performance and associated matters such as marketing for re-election at the forthcoming AGM on 17 July 2017. investor relations, risk management, gearing, general The Board is supportive of the re-election of each of the administration and compliance, peer group information and Directors for the new financial year.
The Acquisition Strategy and the Investment Policy are also reviewed regularly with the Investment Adviser.
The board should have a policy on tenure, which is disclosed in the annual report.
As well as regular Board meetings, the following committees The Company was formed in 2006.
Two Directors having, met during the course of the year as set out in the table served in office for ten years, retired on 30 June 2016.
Two below : Audit, Management Engagement, Market Disclosure, new Directors, Mr S Holden and Mr K Reid, joined the Board Nomination, Remuneration and Risk.
Terms of reference for as part of succession planning in July and September 2016 each Committee have been approved by the Board and are on the Companys website.
The Board believes that long serving Directors should not automatically be prevented from forming part of an independent The Chairman and members of each committee as at majority of the Board upon reaching nine years service.
As 31 March 2017 were as follows: a general rule, if a Director has served more than nine years, For efficiency and as all Directors are non-executive, all the Board will consider the issue of independence carefully committees apart from the Audit Committee comprise on an annual basis as part of the Board self-evaluation and all the Directors of the Board.
will disclose its conclusions in the Report of the Directors.
The respective reports of the Remuneration Committee, the Principle 5.
There should be full disclosure of information Risk Committee and the Audit Committee are set out in about the board.
Sections 5.6, 3.7 and 5.5, respectively, of this Annual Report.
The biographies of the Directors, including length of service, are set out in Section 5.2 Board of Directors and Section 5.7 The Nomination Committee and the Management Report of the Directors, together with a list of other public Engagement Committee are discussed in Principle 9 company directorships for each Director.
No Director has a and Principle 15, respectively.
shareholding in any company in which the Company also has an investment.
Management Audit Engagement Market Nomination Remuneration Risk Committee Committee Disclosure Committee Committee Committee Chairman Mrs S Evans Mr F Nelson Mr I Russell Mr I Russell Mr C Russell Mrs S Farnon Members Mrs S Farnon Mrs S Evans Mrs S Evans Mrs S Evans Mrs S Evans Mrs S Evans Mr S Holden Mrs S Farnon Mrs S Farnon Mrs S Farnon Mrs S Farnon Mr S Holden Mr F Nelson Mr S Holden Mr S Holden Mr S Holden Mr S Holden Mr F Nelson Mr K Reid Mr K Reid Mr F Nelson Mr F Nelson Mr F Nelson Mr K Reid Mr C Russell Mr C Russell Mr K Reid Mr K Reid Mr K Reid Mr C Russell Mr I Russell Mr C Russell Mr C Russell Mr I Russell Mr I Russell Mrs Evans retired on 31 March 2017 and the Board agreed to appoint Mrs Farnon as chair of the Audit Committee and Mr Holden of chair of the Risk Committee from 1 April 2017.
90 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 05 BOARD & GOVERNANCE The attendance record of Directors for the year to 31 March 2017 is set out below: Formal Management Market Board Audit Engagement Disclosure Nomination Remuneration Risk Meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 5 4 1 1 3 3 4 Mr I Russell 5 n a 1 3 3 4 Mr F Nelson 5 4 1 3 3 4 Mrs S Evans 5 4 1 1 3 3 4 Mrs S Farnon 5 4 1 1 3 3 4 Mr J Hallam 1 1 1 1 1 Mr G Picken 1 1 1 1 1 Mr S Holden 4 3 1 2 2 3 Mr C Russell 5 4 1 3 3 4 Mr K Reid 3 2 1 1 2 2 Mr J Hallam and Mr G Picken retired on 30 June 2016.
Mr S Holden and Mr K Reid joined on 1 July 2016 and 1 September 2016 respectively.
Mrs S Evans retired on 31 March 2017.
The formal terms of reference for each of the Committees of Principle 7.
The board should undertake a formal and the Board are available to view in the Investor Relations rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and section of the Companys website.
that of its committees and individual directors.
The Board believes that the composition of the Board and its A statement of the Directors responsibilities is set out in Committees reflects a suitable mix of skills and experience and Section 5.8. that the Board, as a whole, and its Committees functioned effectively during the last 12 months.
The board should aim to have a balance of skills, experience, length of service and knowledge of the company.
An external review was last commissioned in 2015 and will be The Board believes that its composition with respect to the commissioned again later this year.
balance of skills, gender, experience and knowledge, coupled with the mixed length of service, provides for a sound base In the year to 31 March 2017, the Board conducted its own from which the interests of investors will be served to a internal evaluation, considering the performance, tenure and high standard.
This annual self-evaluation was undertaken using an online questionnaire system, and was During the year succession plans were implemented with completed by the Chairman by way of one-to-one interviews the planned retirement of the Mr G Picken and Mr J Hallam, with each Director holding office in the year.
The Chairman and the appointment of Mr S Holden and Mr K Reid.
presented a summary of the conclusions to the Board.
Feedback on the Chairman was collated by the Senior With the retirement of Mrs S Evans on 31 March 2017, the Board Independent Director who then briefed the Chairman.
is currently considering the recruitment of a further Director to balance and strengthen the existing skills and knowledge.
Director remuneration should reflect their duties, responsibilities and the value of their time spent.
The Board has chosen not to adopt a definitive policy with The remuneration of the Directors and the Directors quantitative targets for Board diversity.
However, gender, remuneration policy are set out in the Directors Remuneration knowledge, skills, experience, residency and governance Report in Section 5.6. credentials are all considered by the Nomination Committee when recommending appointments to the Board and in Principle 9.
The independent directors should take the lead formulating succession plans.
in the appointment of new directors and the process should be disclosed in the annual report.
The Board has a Nomination Committee, the terms of reference of which are available from the Companys website.
It is composed of all seven Board Directors and at 31 March 2017 it was chaired by Mr I Russell who is also the Chairman of the Board.
The Nomination Committee had three meetings in the year to 31 March 2017, in relation to the successful recruitment of Mr S Holden and Mr K Reid to the Board, using a third party adviser, Trust Associates who are not connected to the Company.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 91 05 BOARD & GOVERNANCE 5.4 Corporate Governance Statement Continued Principle 10.
Directors should be offered relevant training the Companys Broker and Financial Public Relations Agent.
These are all standing agenda items.
Regular anti-bribery and anti-money laundering training is Papers are sent to Directors normally at least a week in undertaken.
The Investment Adviser also arranged for advance of the Board meetings by the Company Secretary.
Directors to visit a number of the Companys investments Board papers include: during the year.
Specialist advisers were invited to join the Board meetings to brief the Board on relevant topics.
s a review of the infrastructure market detailing key developments: Training and induction briefings were provided for the two new Directors in the year.
s investment activity in the period and the pipeline of potential new investment opportunities: Principle 11.
The chairman and the board should be brought into the process of structuring a new launch at an early stage.
s a review of portfolio performance in the period As the Company was listed in March 2006, the Board with material issues identified and discussed: does not believe that it is necessary to comment on s a review of any Health and Safety matters in the period: this principle.
s a detailed financial review, including detailed management Board Meetings and the Relationship with the Manager accounts, valuation, and treasury matters: Principle 12.
Boards and managers should operate in a supportive, co-operative and open environment.
s reports from the Broker and from the Financial PR company.
The Board has delegated the following areas of responsibility, within clearly defined frameworks.
Matters relating to Companys risk management and internal control systems including associated stress tests, are s The day-to-day administration of the Company has been considered by the Risk Committee which, in turn, reports delegated to Aztec Financial Services Guernsey Limited any significant matters findings to the Board and are set out in its capacity as Company Secretary and Administrator.
in more detail in Section 3.7 Risk Committee Report.
s The Investment Adviser has two roles Adviser to the The Board regularly request further information on topics of Company and Operator of the Groups limited partnership interest to allow informed decisions to be taken.
which owns the Groups underlying investments.
On a semi-annual basis, the Board, through the Audit The role of Adviser includes reporting on the performance of Committee, also considers the interim and annual reports the investment portfolio, preparing the semi-annual valuations, as well as the detailed valuation of the investment portfolio the statutory accounts, the management accounts, business prepared by the Investment Adviser and the third party expert plans, presenting results and information to shareholders, opinion on the proposed valuation.
On at least an annual co-ordinating all service providers to the Group and giving the basis, the Board considers more detailed analysis of the Board general advice and feedback.
Groups Budget and Business Plan for the prospective year.
The role of Operator includes managing the partnership and Principle 14.
Boards should give sufficient attention to taking direct responsibility, within parameters set by the Board, overall strategy.
for the decisions relating to the day-to-day management of the The Board considers formal strategy reports prepared by Groups investment portfolio, the Groups debt facilities, swap the Investment Adviser at a separate meeting at least once arrangements, and the sourcing of new investments.
In the year ended 31 March 2017, a two-day Board of the Investment Advisers Asset Management Team are meeting was held in October 2016, with the Investment appointed as directors of the Groups project companies and, Adviser and third parties with relevant infrastructure as part of their role in actively managing the portfolio, they knowledge, which was dedicated to reviewing and attend Board meetings and make appropriate decisions.
determining the overall strategy of the Group: in particular the scope and relevance of the current Acquisition Strategy.
The Representatives of the Investment Adviser, the Company exercise involved a fundamental analysis of certain market Secretary and Administrator attend all Board meetings and, segments to ensure they are complementary or additive to when requested by the respective Chairman, meetings of the the existing portfolio.
The Acquisition Strategy was reaffirmed Companys various committees.
subject to some small changes in emphasis which were Principle 13.
The primary focus at regular board meetings driven by market conditions.
should be a review of investment performance and In addition to the strategy day, adherence to the Acquisition associated matters such as gearing, asset allocation, Strategy is discussed regularly at Board meetings.
As well as marketing investor relations, peer group information and considering acquisitions, the Board also considers disposals, industry issues.
portfolio performance, levels of gearing and likely achievable In addition to the statutory matters discussed at each quarterly dividend growth.
Board meeting the principal focus is on the reports provided by the Investment Adviser, as well as those put forward by 92 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 05 BOARD & GOVERNANCE Principle 15.
The board should regularly review both the The Board and the Investment Adviser have agreed clearly performance of, and contractual arrangements with, the defined investment criteria, return targets, risk appetite, and manager or executives of a self-managed company.
Reports on these performance measures, The Management Engagement Committee MEC of the coupled with cash projections and investment valuations, are Board is responsible for reviewing all major service providers submitted to the Board and the relevant committees at each to the Group, which includes in particular the Investment quarterly meeting.
The terms of reference of this Committee are on Principle 17.
Boards should monitor the level of the share the Companys website.
price discount or premium if any and, if desirable, take The MEC met once in the year to 31 March 2017 to review action to reduce it.
the performance of the key service providers.
No material Through quarterly reports the Board monitors the Companys weaknesses were identified, some recommendations were share price, share register and discount premium to NAV per conveyed to certain providers and the recommendation to share.
Since April 2009 the share price has been trading at the Board was that the current arrangements are appropriate a premium to NAV per share due to strong and sustained and provide good quality services and advice to the Company demand from the investment community.
As a result of this and the Group.
demand the Board has encouraged the Investment Adviser to source new investments which meet the Companys Principle 16.
The board should agree policies with investment criteria.
Although initially funded by borrowings the manager covering key operational issues.
under the Groups revolving debt facility, these new investments The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal are typically refinanced within a matter of months by way of new control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
To help achieve this equity issuance.
The issuance of new shares is the principal end, the Board has a designated Risk Committee.
It follows tool available to the Board to manage the premium.
However, an ongoing process designed to meet the particular needs of as the Board is wary of the drag on returns that results from the Company in managing the risks to which it is exposed.
holding un-invested cash, new equity is only raised following an investment or when an investment is imminent.
The key findings and updates from the Risk Committee are, as with the other Committees, reported to the Board after the Should the Companys shares trade at a discount at some relevant meeting.
point in the future, the Boards authority to purchase shares for cancellation was renewed at the AGM on 19 July 2016.
At each Board meeting, the Board also monitors the Groups The Directors are proposing that it is tabled for renewal when investment performance in comparison to its stated objectives it otherwise expires at the forthcoming AGM on 17 July 2017. and it reviews the Groups activities since the last Board meeting to ensure adherence to approved investment guidelines.
The board should monitor and evaluate other pipeline of new potential opportunities is considered and the service providers.
prices paid for new or incremental investments during the As outlined in Principle 15, the Management Engagement quarter are also reviewed.
Committee MEC of the Board is responsible for reviewing all major service providers to the Group at least once a year.
The Investment Adviser prepares management accounts and updates business forecasts on a quarterly basis, which The MEC meeting for the financial year occurred in February allow the Board to assess the Companys activities and 2017, when a review of key service providers was undertaken.
Overall, the feedback on performance throughout the year was that service had been delivered to a very high standard The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function and the Committee resolved that the continued appointment and it has decided that the systems and procedures employed of all providers be recommended to the Board for approval, by the Investment Adviser and the Secretary, including their which was duly granted.
own internal review processes, and the work carried out by the Groups external auditors, provide sufficient assurance Shareholder Communications that a sound system of internal control, which safeguards the Principle 19.
The board should regularly monitor the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function shareholder profile of the company and put in place specific to the Group is therefore considered unnecessary a system for canvassing shareholder views and for albeit, from time to time, independent assurance assignments communicating the boards views to shareholders.
may be commissioned by the Board.
The Company welcomes the views of shareholders and places great importance on communication with its shareholders.
The Board recognises that these control systems can only be designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to Ahead of each quarterly Board meeting the Board commissions achieve business objectives, and to provide reasonable, but a specialist report which analyses the shareholdings, collating not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or them into holdings by investment group to determine the largest loss, and rely on the operating controls established by both shareholders on the register as well as by trading activity to the Company Administrator and the Investment Adviser.
identify the largest buyers or sellers in the previous quarter.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 93 05 BOARD & GOVERNANCE 5.4 Corporate Governance Statement Continued This analysis is discussed and, where appropriate, follow up The Companys website has further information on each actions are agreed.
The Companys Financial PR Agency provides investment and copies of all publications, together with the Board with a quarterly report on press and media coverage prospectuses and circulars.
The disclosure of key sensitivities of the Company and the sectors in which it invests.
All reports and risks has been developed by the Board working with the also reference the peer group for comparison purposes.
Investment Adviser and through dialogue with shareholders, the level and type of disclosure has been expanded and The Board makes every effort to engage with shareholders and refined in order to assist in a full and fair analysis of the other stakeholders in the Company.
The Company reports Company and its investments.
formally to shareholders twice a year and normally holds an AGM in Guernsey in July.
The Secretary and Registrar monitor Principle 21.
The board should ensure that shareholders the voting of the shareholders and proxy voting is taken into are provided with sufficient information for them to consideration when votes are cast at the AGM.
understand the risk:reward balance to which they are exposed by holding the shares.
The Investment Adviser produces a regular factsheet which The Board, in conjunction with the Investment Adviser, seeks is available on the Companys website and senior members to educate shareholders and prospective investors on the of the Investment Adviser make themselves available at all Companys business and the risks and rewards associated reasonable times to meet with principal shareholders and key with investing in the Companys shares.
sector analysts to assist them with their understanding of the sector and the Company in particular.
Feedback from these This is an ongoing process and the Board looks to provide meetings is provided to the Board on a regular basis.
as much disclosure and transparency as possible about the activities of the Company and the associated risks and rewards, Two Quarterly Update Statements formerly Interim albeit within the boundaries of commercial sensitivities and Management Statements are published each year and any client confidentiality.
material new information is published via a Regulatory News Release RNS announcement.
Section 3.6 Risk & Risk Management sets out the key risks, the mitigations in place and how these have been quantified During the year Mr I Russell and Mr F Nelson held individual using stress scenarios run on the current portfolio.
This work meetings with certain large institutional shareholders, is reviewed quarterly by the Risk Committee and the Risk facilitated by the Companys Broker.
It is the Boards intention Committee Report setting out its work is at Section 3.7. to continue to meet with shareholders periodically so that open two-way communication on the development of the The Board has hosted site visits and shareholder events Company is maintained.
to provide a deeper understanding of the Company and its investment portfolio.
Case studies and other materials, Shareholders may contact any of the Directors via the Company along with constitutional documents and Committee terms Secretary including any in his or her capacity as chairman of of reference, are all available from the Companys website.
one of the Companys committees, as appropriate whose contact details are on the Companys website.
As a regular issuer of further share capital, the Company has published a number of prospectuses with detailed information Principle 20.
The board should normally take responsibility on the investment portfolio and the potential risks.
The most for, and have a direct involvement in, the content of recent prospectus February 2017 is available from communications regarding major corporate issues even Companys website.
if the manager is asked to act as spokesman.
In line with its obligations under the Listing Rules, the Company The Companys website has further information on each publishes an RNS whenever there is a material development.
investment and copies of all publications, together with Directors review and discuss the draft before publication and prospectuses and circulars.
The disclosure of key sensitivities a Director approves the final RNS for release by the Secretary.
and risks has been developed by the Board working with the Investment Adviser and through dialogue with shareholders, All Company-related information is only published following the level and type of disclosure has been expanded and consultation with, and approval by, the Board.
refined in order to assist in a full and fair analysis of the Company and its investments.
The Board wishes to provide sufficient disclosure and reporting of the Companys performance and strategic intentions to inform shareholders of Company activities.
94 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 05 BOARD & GOVERNANCE 5.5 Audit Committee Report The following pages set out the Committees report on its The main duties of the Audit Committee are: activities in respect of the year ended 31 March 2017.
In s giving full consideration and recommending to the Board March 2017, I replaced Mrs Sarah Evans as chair of the Audit for approval the contents of the half yearly and annual Committee who, after nine years of service to the Company, financial statements and reviewing the external auditors retired from the Board in March 2017.
The Audit Committee report thereon: has been in operation throughout the year and operates within clearly defined terms of reference which are available s reviewing the scope, results, cost effectiveness, to view in the Investor Relations section of the Companys independence and objectivity of the external auditor: website.
It met formally four times in the year to 31 March s reviewing the valuation of the Companys investments 2017.
It comprises all the Directors except for Mr Ian Russell.
prepared by the Investment Adviser, receiving an The duties of the Audit Committee in discharging its independent review of the valuation from a third party responsibilities include reviewing the Annual Report and expert and making a recommendation to the Board on Interim Report, the valuation of the Companys investment the valuation of the Companys investments: portfolio, the system of internal controls, and the terms of s reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval appointment of the external auditor, KPMG Channel Islands the audit, audit related and non-audit fees payable to the Limited KPMG or the auditor together with their external auditor and the terms of their engagement: remuneration.
It is also the formal forum through which KPMG reports to the Board of Directors and meets at least s reviewing and approving the external auditors plan for the twice yearly.
The objectivity of the auditor is reviewed by the following financial year, including a review of appropriateness Audit Committee which also reviews the terms under which of proposed materiality levels: the auditor is appointed to perform non-audit services and the fees paid to them or their affiliated firms overseas.
s reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys accounting policies: and We have reviewed the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of KPMG and recommended to the Board that s ensuring the standards and adequacy of the internal KPMG be reappointed in respect of the coming financial year.
I, or another member of the Audit Committee, will continue to The external auditor and the third party valuation expert are be available at each AGM to respond to any questions from invited to attend the Audit Committee meetings at which shareholders regarding our activities.
the Annual Report and Interim Report are considered and at which they have the opportunity to meet with the Audit Committee without representatives of the Investment Adviser being present.
The Audit Committee has direct access to KPMG and to key senior staff of the Investment Adviser and it reports its findings and recommendations to the Board which retains the ultimate responsibility for the financial statements Susie Farnon of the Company.
Audit Committee Chairman 23 May 2017 Significant Issues and Other Matters Considered After discussions with both the Investment Adviser and KPMG, the Audit Committee determined that the key risks of material misstatement of the Companys financial statements related to the valuation of infrastructure investments, in particular the key forecast assumptions and valuation discount rates.
The Audit Committee also considered, and discussed with the Investment Adviser, the implications of amendments to IFRS 10 that were adopted by the EU in September 2016.
As a result, the Audit Committee recommended to the Board that the Company change its basis of consolidation by including all subsidiaries at fair value.
This was first adopted in the September 2016 Interim Report and consistently applied in this Annual Report.
The Audit Committee noted and discussed the reporting of Alternative Performance Measures.
It recognised the importance of such measures to the users of the Companys financial statements and took into account findings of the Financial Reporting Council on best practice reporting of such measures.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 95 05 BOARD & GOVERNANCE 5.5 Audit Committee Report Continued Valuation of Investments Valuation of Investments Discount rates As outlined in Note 13 to the Financial Statements the total The discount rates used to determine the valuation are selected carrying value of financial assets at fair value at 31 March 2017 and recommended by the Investment Adviser.
Market quotations are not available for these rate is applied to the expected future cash flows for each financial assets such that their valuation is undertaken using investments financial forecasts which are derived using the a discounted cash flow methodology.
This requires a series assumptions explained above to arrive at a valuation of material judgements to be made as further explained in discounted cash flow valuation.
The resulting valuation is Note 3 and Note 4 to the Financial Statements.
sensitive to the discount rate selected.
The Investment Adviser is experienced and active in the area of valuing these The Audit Committee discussed the valuation process and investments and adopts discount rates reflecting their current methodology with the Investment Adviser in July 2016 and and extensive experience of the market.
The Investment November 2016 as part of the review of the Interim Report Adviser sets out the discount rate assumptions and the and again in February 2017 and May 2017 as part of the sensitivity of the valuation of the investments to this discount review of the Annual Report.
The Investment Adviser carries rate in Section 3.2 Valuation of the Portfolio and Note 4 out a valuation semi-annually and provides a detailed of the Financial Statements.
valuation report to the Company.
The Audit Committee also receives a report and opinion on the half-year and year-end In particular the Audit Committee considered in detail the valuation from a third party valuation expert.
reduction of 0.1% in the average discount rate applied at 31 March 2017 compared with that applied in the 31 March The Audit Committee met with the auditor at the time at 2016 valuation.
The Investment Adviser explained this was which the Audit Committee reviewed and agreed the auditors principally as a consequence of increased competition in the audit plan in February 2017 and also at the conclusion of the secondary market for social and transportation infrastructure audit of the Financial Statements in May 2017 and in assets, which had been seen during bidding and general particular discussed the audit approach to the valuation.
This was also corroborated by the third party valuation expert.
Valuation of Investments Key Forecast Assumptions The Audit Committee considered in detail those economic The Audit Committee challenged the Investment Adviser on assumptions that are subject to judgement and that may have their material judgements and also compared this to feedback a material impact on the valuation.
The key assumptions are from the third party valuation expert.
The Audit Committee considered to be future inflation rates, deposit interest rates was satisfied that the range of discount rates was appropriate and tax rates.
These assumptions are set out and explained for the valuation carried out by the Investment Adviser.
in Section 3.2 Valuation of the Portfolio and Note 4 of the Financial Statements.
The auditor explained the results of their audit and that on the basis of their audit work there were no adjustments proposed The Audit Committee reviewed the Investment Advisers report, that were material in the context of the Financial Statements in conjunction with a report and opinion on the valuation from as a whole.
The Investment Adviser confirmed to the Audit Committee that the valuation assumptions were Investment Entity Accounting consistent with those used for acquisitions and the third party During the year the Audit Committee assessed the implications valuation expert confirmed that the valuation assumptions of a further amendment to IFRS 10.
Investment Entities: Applying were within a range of acceptable outcomes.
the Consolidation Exemption Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 was issued in December 2014 and adopted by The Investment Adviser provided sensitivities showing the the EU in September 2016.
The Audit Committee also impact of changing these assumptions and these have been received reports from the Investment Adviser regarding the considered by the Audit Committee and the auditor.
The auditor amendment and had discussions with the auditor.
considered the judgements on these assumptions using their own expertise and experience and comparisons to observable The Audit Committee concluded this required the Company market data.
On the basis of their audit work no adjustments to prepare IFRS Financial Statements which do not were proposed.
consolidate any subsidiaries that are themselves investment entities and as a result the Company is no longer The Audit Committee concluded that the Investment Advisers consolidating three fund level subsidiaries that were valuation process was robust, that a consistent valuation previously fully consolidated.
methodology had been applied throughout the year and that the key forecast assumptions applied were appropriate.
96 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 05 BOARD & GOVERNANCE Assessment of the Auditor Notwithstanding such non-audit services, the Audit Committee The objectivity of KPMG, is reviewed by the Audit Committee considers KPMG to be independent of the Company and that which also reviews the terms under which the auditor may be the provision of such non-audit services is not a threat to the appointed to perform non-audit services.
The Audit Committee objectivity and independence of the conduct of the audit.
KPMG reviews the scope and results of the audit, its effectiveness and confirmed their compliance with their standard independence the independence and objectivity of the auditor, with particular and objectivity procedures to the Audit Committee.
regard to any non-audit work that the auditor may undertake.
To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the In order to safeguard the independence and objectivity of the external auditor, the Audit Committee considered: auditor, the Audit Committee ensures that any non-audit services provided by the auditor do not conflict with their s changes in audit personnel in the audit plan for the statutory audit responsibilities.
current year: Non-audit services provided by KPMG or its member network s a report from the external auditor describing their firms generally consists only of reviews of interim Financial arrangements to identify, report and manage any Statements, tax compliance and reporting accountant in conflicts of interest: and relation to capital raising.
Any non-audit services conducted s the extent of non-audit services provided by the external by the auditor outside of these areas which are above auditor and its member network firms.
20,000 in aggregate in any year require the consent of the Audit Committee before being initiated.
The auditor may not To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the Audit undertake any work for the Company in respect of the following Committee reviewed: matters: preparation of the Financial Statements: valuations used in Financial Statements: provision of investment advice: s the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan taking management decisions: and advocacy work in and variations from it: adversarial situations.
s reports highlighting the major issues that arose during The Audit Committee noted and discussed the FRC Revised the course of the audit: Ethical Standard 2016 regarding non-audit services and audit s feedback from the Investment Adviser evaluating the related services.
In particular, the Audit Committee considered performance of the audit team: and the tax compliance work undertaken by other KPMG network firms and was of the view that this work was permissible s the Financial Reporting Councils annual report on audit under derogation within the FRC guidelines on the basis that quality inspections.
it is not expected to impact the Financial Statements of the Company.
The Audit Committee is of the opinion that this The Audit Committee is satisfied with KPMGs effectiveness should not impact KPMGs independence or objectivity in and independence as auditor having considered the their role as statutory auditor of the Company.
degree of diligence and professional scepticism demonstrated by them.
The Audit Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit, its effectiveness and the independence and objectivity The external audit was most recently tendered for the years of the auditor, with particular regard to the level of non-audit commencing after 31 March 2015.
In the year fees were: Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2015, KPMG was re-appointed as auditor at the completion of the tender March 2017 March 2016 process and currently it is expected that the audit will be m m tendered within the next eight years.
Audit of the Company and 0.3 0.2 intermediate holding entities Audit of the Companys project 0.3 0.3 subsidiaries Non-audit services 0.2 0.2 Total 0.8 0.7 Non-audit fees consisted of audit related assurance services for the Companys Interim Report, tax compliance and advisory services and reporting accountant services in relation to the issuing of a prospectus by the Company.
In total it represented 33% March 2016: 38% of total audit fees.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 97 05 BOARD & GOVERNANCE 5.6 Directors Remuneration Report I chair the Remuneration Committee, which operates within clearly defined terms of reference and comprises all the Directors including the Chairman of the Board, all of whom are independent and non-executive.
It met three times in the year to 31 March 2017.
The terms of reference of the Committee available from the Companys website are to determine and agree the Board policy for the remuneration of the Directors of the Company, including the approval of any ad-hoc payments in respect of additional corporate work required such as the issuance of new shares.
I, or another member of the Remuneration Committee, will be available at the AGM to respond to any questions from shareholders regarding our activities.
Chris Russell Remuneration Committee Chairman 23 May 2017 Directors Remuneration Policy Report The Remuneration Committee receives independent professional advice in respect of the Directors roles, responsibilities and fees as and when appropriate.
All Directors of the Company are non-executive and as such there are: s no service contracts with the Company: s no annual bonus or short-term incentives: s no long-term incentive schemes: s no pension rights: s no options or similar performance incentives: and s no expense allowance or other taxable benefits.
In accordance with Principle 8 of the AIC Code, the Remuneration Committee is tasked with ensuring that Directors remuneration: s reflects their duties, responsibility, experience, time commitment and position on the Board: s reflects the additional time commitment, responsibility and accountability for the positions of Chairman of the Board, the Senior Independent Director, the Chairman of the Risk Committee and Chairman of the Audit Committee: s includes remuneration for additional, specific corporate work which shall be carefully considered and only become due and payable on completion of that work: and s is reviewed by an independent professional consultant with experience of Investment Companies and their fee structures, at least every three years.
Statement of the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee As all Directors of the Company are non-executive they receive an annual fee appropriate for their responsibilities but no other incentive programmes or performance-related emoluments.
During the year, an external review of the Directors remuneration was undertaken.
An independent professional consultant, Trust Associates, was appointed and their recommendations were debated by the Remuneration Committee, were recommended to the Board which adopted them, and will be put to shareholders for approval at the forthcoming AGM in July 2017.
Trust Associates noted that the workload and time involved had increased since the last review driven both by the increasing size and complexity of the Company and its operations, and also by regulatory changes.
For routine business, Trust Associates recommendations were for the 2017-18 year: s Directors fees to be increased to 43,000 p. a. s The Chairman of the Audit Committees fee to increase to 54,000 p. a. s The Chairman of the Risk Committees fee to increase to 50,000 p. a.
98 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 05 BOARD & GOVERNANCE s The Senior Independent Directors fee to increase to 55,000 p. a. s The Chairman of the Boards fee to rise to increase to 72,000 p. a.
The applicable premium to the base Directors fee for each of the latter four roles is calibrated to recognise the additional responsibility involved in performance of the task.
In particular, as concerns the Chairman of the Board, the premium is in recognition not only of the considerable greater weight of responsibility but also his involvement in meetings with shareholders and the Investment Adviser each year.
In addition Trust Associates reviewed the fee paid to the Director who also acts as director of the two Luxembourg subsidiary company boards, and advise a small increase to an additional 6,000 annually for the role was appropriate.
They also recommended that the Chair of the Risk Committee should receive a one-off payment of 2,500 in recognition of the extra work in working with the Investment Adviser to develop and implement the new risk reporting tools resulting from the advice received from PWC.
In February 2017, the Company published a Prospectus as part of an equity capital raising.
For the additional work in relation to this and the associated EGM circular, each Director received a one-off payment of 10,000 for the additional work involved.
For comparative purposes the table below sets out the Directors regular i. e. excluding any approved one-off payments remuneration approved and paid for the year to 31 March 2017 as well as proposed for the year ending 31 March 2018.
As last year the fees approved proposed relate to the roles performed, and not to individuals per se.
In light of the changes in roles resulting from succession planning in the year, Directors accrued a blended entitlement to the fees attributable to the above roles, pro rated based on the time each Director performed in respect of each position, as set out below and includes the approved one-off payments : Total Remuneration paid due for year ended Director 31 March 2017 Mr I Russell 77,000 Mrs S Evans 57,667 Mrs S Farnon 57,500 Mr J Hallam 10,250 Mr S Holden 40,750 Mr F Nelson 55,000 Mr G Picken 10,250 Mr K Reid 33,917 Mr C Russell 51,000 Total 393,334 The total fees paid to Directors in the year were within the annual fee cap of 450,000, which was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 21 July 2015.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 99 05 BOARD & GOVERNANCE 5.6 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Statement of Implementation of Remuneration Policy in the Current Financial Year The Board has approved the proposed increase to the fees as recommended by the Remuneration Committee, and is seeking shareholder approval for the Directors Remuneration Policy at the AGM on 17 July 2017 with a view to implementing it back-dated to 1 April 2017.
Other Disclosures The Directors of the Company on 31 March 2017, and their interests in the shares of the Company, are shown in the table below.
of which 10,000 were held by his family.
All of the holdings of the Directors and their families are beneficial.
No changes to these holdings had been notified up to the date of this report.
At the last AGM held on 19 July 2016, the resolutions relating to the Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2017 and the Directors Aggregate Annual Remuneration Cap were approved.
Performance Graph In setting the Directors remuneration, consideration is given to the size and performance of the Company.
The graph below highlights the comparative total shareholder return share price and dividends TSR for an investment in the Company for the 11 year period from inception at the end of March 2006 until 31 March 2017 compared with an investment in the FTSE All-share Index over the same period.
During that period the TSR for the Company was 10.7% p. a. compared with the FTSE All-share Index which was 6.2% p. a.
350p 300p 250p 200p 150p 100p 50p 0p HICL TSR FTSE All-share TSR Source: Thomson Reuters Data 100 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Cumulative Total Return M03 M06 M09 M12 M03 M06 M09 M12 M03 M06 M09 M12 M03 M06 M09 M12 M03 M06 M09 M12 M03 M06 M09 M12 M03 M06 M09 M12 M03 M06 M09 M12 M03 M06 M09 M12 M03 M06 M09 M12 M03 05 BOARD & GOVERNANCE 5.7 Report of the Directors The Directors present their Annual Report and Financial Statements of the Company for the year to 31 March 2017.
Principal Activity The Company is an Authorised Closed-Ended investment company incorporated in Guernsey.
It is subject to certain ongoing obligations to the Guernsey Financial Services Commission as a result of its regulatory status as an Authorised Closed-Ended Investment Scheme.
Its shares have a premium listing on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and are traded on the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
Results The results for the year are summarised in Section 3.1 Operational and Financial Review and are set out in detail in the Financial Statements.
Distributions and Share Capital The Company declared four quarterly interim dividends, totalling 7.65p per share, for the year ended 31 March 2017 as follows: Amount Declared Record date Paid to be paid 1.91p 20 July 2016 26 August 2016 30 September 2016 1.91p 10 November 2016 25 November 2016 30 December 2016 1.91p 22 February 2017 3 March 2017 31 March 2017 1.92p 18 May 2017 26 May 2017 30 June 2017 The Company has one class of share capital, Ordinary Shares, of which there were 1,388,426,479 in issue as at 31 March 2016.
This number increased to 1,623,260,735 as at 31 March 2017 as a result of tap issuance, a Placing, Open Offer, Offer for Subscription and Intermediaries Offer in February 2017, and scrip dividends during the year.
A scrip dividend alternative is available in respect of the fourth quarterly interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2017 declared on 18 May 2017.
The Board is proposing to seek shareholder approval for renewal of the scrip authority at the AGM on 17 July 2017.
Directors The Directors who held office during the year to 31 March 2017 were: Director Date of Appointment Date Resigned Years of Service Mr I Russell 1 May 2013 3 years 11 months Mrs S Evans 9 June 2008 31 March 2017 Mrs S Farnon 1 May 2013 3 years 11 months Mr J Hallam 12 January 2006 30 June 2016 Mr F Nelson 1 June 2014 2 years 10 months Mr S Holden 1 July 2016 9 months Mr G Picken 12 January 2006 30 June 2016 Mr K Reid 1 September 2016 7 months Mr C Russell 1 June 2010 6 years 10 months Biographical details of each of the continuing Directors are shown in Section 5.2 Board of Directors.
Corporate Governance Section 5.4 Corporate Governance Statement sets out in detail the code of corporate governance against which the Company reports and its compliance, or otherwise with the individual principles.
It includes detail on the various committees of the Board, their composition and their terms of reference.
Investment Adviser and Operator InfraRed Capital Partners Limited the Investment Adviser or InfraRed acts as Investment Adviser to the Company and acts as Operator of the limited partnership which holds and manages the Groups investments.
A summary of the contract between the Company, its subsidiaries and InfraRed in respect of services provided is set out in Note 16 to the Financial Statements.
The Management Engagement Committee met in February 2017 to consider the performance of, and services provided by, InfraRed.
As with previous years, this took the form of a written paper in which the Investment Adviser explained its activities in the year and summarised its performance against agreed targets.
The Committee discussed the paper with the Investment Adviser, noted the internal assurance work it performs, and received feedback from other service providers, shareholders and advisers.
The fee arrangements between the Group and InfraRed are set out in Section 2.5.
The Investment Advisory Agreement can be terminated with 12 months notice.
After careful consideration of InfraReds performance, primarily in terms of advice, managing the portfolio, securing additional investments, and communicating effectively with all stakeholders, the Committee recommended to the Board that it would be in the best interests of the Company that IRCP continue on the same agreed contractual terms.
This was approved by the Board.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 101 05 BOARD & GOVERNANCE 5.7 Report of the Directors Continued Broker, Administrator and Company Secretary The Companys sole broker during the year was Canaccord Genuity Limited.
The Administrator and Company Secretary at the start of the year was Fidante Partners Guernsey Limited and the contract was novated to Aztec Financial Services Guernsey Limited in July 2016.
Substantial Interests in Share Capital As at 23 May 2017, the Company is aware of or has received notification in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5 of the following interests in 5% or more of the Companys shares to which voting rights are attached at the date of notification : Number of Shares Held Percentage Held Newton Investment Management Limited 162,028,063 9.98% Schroders plc, on behalf of its clients 140,799,445 8.67% Investec Wealth and Investment Limited 85,980,633 5.30% Donations The Company made no political donations during the year.
Payment of Suppliers It is the policy of the Company to settle all investment transactions in accordance with the terms and conditions of the relevant market in which it operates.
Although no specific code or standard is followed, suppliers of goods and services are generally paid within 30 days of the date of any invoice.
Going Concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in Section 3 Strategic Report Performance & Risk.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Section 3.1.
In addition, Notes 1 to 4 of the Financial Statements include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with long-term contracts with various public sector customers and suppliers across a range of infrastructure projects.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully given the current economic outlook.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for at least the next 12 months.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Financial Statements.
102 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 05 BOARD & GOVERNANCE Share Repurchases No shares have been bought back in the year.
The latest authority to purchase shares for cancellation was granted to the Directors on 19 July 2016 and expires on the date of the next AGM.
The Directors are proposing that their authority to buy back shares be renewed at the forthcoming AGM on 17 July 2017.
Treasury Shares Section 315 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 allows companies to hold shares acquired by market purchase as treasury shares, rather than having to cancel them.
Up to 10% of the issued shares may be held in treasury and may be subsequently cancelled or sold for cash in the market.
This gives the Company the ability to reissue shares quickly and cost efficiently, thereby improving liquidity and providing the Company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
While there are currently no shares held in treasury the Board would only authorise the resale of such shares from treasury at prices at or above the prevailing net asset value per share plus costs of the relevant sale.
If such a measure were to be implemented, this would result in a positive overall effect on the Companys net asset value.
In the interests of all shareholders the Board will keep the matter of treasury shares under review.
Website The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website, and for the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
Legislation in Guernsey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Auditor KPMG Channel Islands Limited have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be submitted at the AGM.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 103 05 BOARD & GOVERNANCE 5.8 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Report of the Directors and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU and applicable law.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for the reported financial year.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: s select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: s make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: s state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and s prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
They have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with company law and regulations.
Directors Responsibility Statement We confirm that to the best of our knowledge that: s the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: s the management report comprising the Chairmans Statement, the Strategic Report and Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces: and s the Annual Report and Financial Statements when taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
104 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 05 BOARD & GOVERNANCE Disclosure of Information to the Auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Report of the Directors confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
By order of the Board Authorised signatory Aztec Financial Services Guernsey Limited Company Secretary 23 May 2017 Registered Office: East Wing, Trafalgar Court, Les Banques St Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands GY1 3PP HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 105 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Exeter Crown Court, UK 106 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 06 Financial Statements Delivering Real Value.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 107 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.1 Independent Auditors Report Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1.
Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of HICL Infrastructure Company Limited the Company for the year ended 31 March 2017 which comprise the Income Statement, the Balance Sheet, the Statement of Changes in Shareholders Equity, the Cash Flow Statement and related notes, comprising significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
In our opinion the financial statements: - give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of its profit for the year then ended: - have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU: and - comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
108 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The risk of material misstatement detailed in this section of this report are those risks that we have deemed, in our professional judgement, to have had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in our audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Our audit procedures relating to these risks were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of these risks, and we do not express an opinion on these individual risks.
In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risk of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit was as follows: Investments at fair value through profit or loss 2,419.4 million: 2016: 1,973.7 million.
Refer to page 95 Audit Committee Report, note 2 c accounting policy and note 4 key sensitivities, valuation process & related financial disclosures The risk Our response Forecast based valuation Procedures to address this audit risk included those listed below: The Companys investment in its Controls evaluation immediate subsidiary is carried at fair We tested the effectiveness of controls in operation around updates to, and value through profit or loss and approval of, the valuation of infrastructure investments including represents a significant proportion of the reconciliation of changes to project cash flows.
The carrying amount is calculated by assessing the fair Cash flow forecasts value of the immediate subsidiary which - We compared the prior year cash flow forecasts to the current year reflects its net asset value incorporating actual receipts to evaluate the historical accuracy of forecasting: the fair value of the underlying - For a risk based selection of project entities we obtained responses, directly from the underlying project entities, to questionnaires infrastructure projects and holding companies.
designed to identify significant matters which could have a material impact on the project entity cash flows: 2,347.5m of the carrying amount - We held discussions with the Investment Adviser in relation to all comprises investments in underlying those project entities identified as having significant operational infrastructure project entities for which issues such as construction latent defects and passive fire protection there is no liquid market.
We performed follow up procedures, including a review of supporting documentation, to assess and challenge the impact of the The fair value of infrastructure specific issues, if any, on the cash flow forecasts: investments were determined using the - For a risk based selection of project entities, we challenged the income approach whereby the long term justification for and calculation of significant adjustments to cash flow forecasted cash flows of each individual forecasts.
infrastructure asset is discounted at a rate which reflects their risk profile.
In Benchmarking the valuation assumptions determining the discount rate, the We challenged, with support of our internal valuation specialist, the relevant long term government bond Companys discount rates and macro economic assumptions applied in the yields, specific infrastructure asset risks valuation by benchmarking these to independent market data, including and evidence of recent market recent market transactions, and using our specialists experience in valuing transactions are considered.
We further assessed the reasonableness of the inherent in these long term forecasted Companys assumptions by comparing these to the assumptions used by cash flows are key macro economic comparator companies.
assumptions such as inflation, tax and deposit rates.
Evaluation of the third party valuation expert We assessed the objectivity, capabilities and competence of the third party The valuation risk represents both a risk valuation expert engaged by the Company to challenge the reasonableness of fraud and error associated with of the Companys investment valuations.
We considered the methodology estimating the timing and amounts of applied by the valuation expert in performing their work.
We obtained and long term forecasted cash flows alongside assessed the valuation experts findings, held discussions with them and the selection and application of considered the impact, if any, on our audit work.
Changes to long term forecasted cash flows and or the Assessing transparency selection and application of different We reviewed the adequacy of the disclosures made in the financial assumptions may result in a materially statements.
We assessed whether the disclosures around the sensitivities to different valuation for the infrastructure changes in key assumptions reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of investments.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 109 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.1 Independent Auditors Report continued 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit 5.
We have nothing to report in respect of the Materiality for the financial statements as a whole matters on which we are required to report by exception was set at 24.0m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Gross Assets of 2,420.4m, of which it Under International Standards on Auditing ISAs represents 1% of Company gross asset value 2016: UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, 1% of Group gross asset value.
based on the knowledge we acquired during our We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected audit, we have identified other information in the or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding annual report that contains a material inconsistency 1.2m, in addition to other identified misstatements with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Our assessment of materiality has informed our identification of significant risks of material In particular, we are required to report to you if: misstatement and the associated audit procedures performed in those areas as detailed above.
Whilst - we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the audit process is designed to provide reasonable the directors statement that they consider that the assurance of identifying material misstatements or annual report and financial statements taken as a omissions it is not guaranteed to do so.
Rather we whole is fair, balanced and understandable and plan the audit to determine the extent of testing provides the information necessary for needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the shareholders to assess the Companys position and probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and performance, business model and strategy: or undetected misstatements does not exceed - the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
address matters communicated by us to the audit This testing requires us to conduct significant depth committee.
of work on a broad range of assets, liabilities, Under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, we are income and expense as well as devoting significant required to report to you if, in our opinion: time of the most experienced members of the audit team, in particular the Responsible Individual, to - The Company has not kept proper accounting subjective areas of the accounting and reporting records: or - The financial statements are not in agreement with process.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of - We have not received all the information and principal risks explanations, which to the best of our knowledge and beliefs are necessary for the purposes of our Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit.
audit, we have nothing material to add or draw Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the attention to in relation to: part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 89 to 94 relating to the Companys compliance with the - the directors viability statement on page 67, eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance concerning the principal risks, their Code specified for our review.
management, and, based on that, the directors assessment and expectations of the Companys We have nothing to report in respect of the above continuing in operation over the five years to responsibilities.
2022: or - the disclosures in note 2 of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
110 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Scope and responsibilities 7.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor 6.
The purpose of this report and restrictions on its use by persons other than the Companys As explained more fully in the Directors members as a body Responsibilities Statement set out on page 104, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the This report is made solely to the Companys financial statements and for being satisfied that they members, as a body, in accordance with section 262 give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 and, in audit, and express an opinion on, the financial respect of any further matters on which we have statements in accordance with applicable law and agreed to report, on terms we have agreed with the ISAs UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us Company.
Our audit work has been undertaken so to comply with the UK Ethical Standards for that we might state to the Companys members Auditors.
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the A description of the scope of an audit of financial fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or statements is provided on the Financial Reporting assume responsibility to anyone other than the Councils website at Company and the Companys members, as a body, www.
for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Dermot A. Dempsey for and on behalf of KPMG Channel Islands Limited Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors Glategny Court, Glategny Esplanade, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 1WR 23 May 2017 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 111 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.2 Financial Statements Income Statement For the year ended 31 March 2017 Year ended Year ended 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 Restated Total Total Note m m Investment income 6 178.6 158.8 Total income 178.6 158.8 Fund expenses 7 1.8 1.6 Profit before tax 176.8 157.2 Profit for the year 176.8 157.2 Earnings per share basic and diluted pence 10 12.4 11.9 Comparative information has been restated.
All results are derived from continuing operations.
There is no other comprehensive income or expense apart from those disclosed above and consequently a statement of comprehensive income has not been prepared.
112 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Balance Sheet As at 31 March 2017 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 Restated Note m m Non-current assets Investments at fair value through profit or loss 13 2,419.4 1,973.7 Total non-current assets 2,419.4 1,973.7 Current assets Trade and other receivables 0.1 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents 0.9 0.5 Total current assets 1.0 0.6 Total assets 2,420.4 1,974.3 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 1.0 0.4 Total current liabilities 1.0 0.4 Total liabilities 1.0 0.4 Net assets 2,419.4 1,973.9 Equity Ordinary Share capital 16 0.2 0.1 Share premium 16 1,753.3 1,376.5 Retained reserves 665.9 597.3 Total equity 2,419.4 1,973.9 Net assets per Ordinary Share pence 12 149.0 142.2 Comparative information has been restated.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.
The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 23 May 2017, and signed on its behalf by: S Farnon I Russell Director Director HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 113 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.2 Financial Statements Continued Statement of Changes in Shareholders Equity For the year ended 31 March 2017 Year ended 31 March 2017 Attributable to equity holders of the parent Total Share capital and Retained shareholders share premium reserves equity m m m Shareholders equity at 1 April 2016 1,376.6 597.3 1,973.9 Profit for the year 176.8 176.8 Distributions paid to Company shareholders in cash 100.6 100.6 Distributions paid to Company shareholders by scrip issue 7.6 7.6 Total distributions paid to Company shareholders in the year 108.2 108.2 Ordinary Shares issued for cash 373.3 373.3 Ordinary Shares issued for scrip dividend 7.6 7.6 Total Ordinary Shares issued in the year 380.9 380.9 Costs of issue of Ordinary Shares 4.0 4.0 Shareholders equity at 31 March 2017 1,753.5 665.9 2,419.4 Year ended 31 March 2016 Attributable to equity holders of the parent Total Share capital and Retained shareholders share premium reserves equity m m m Shareholders equity at 1 April 2015 1,194.3 538.6 1,732.9 Profit for the year 157.2 157.2 Distributions paid to Company shareholders in cash 93.0 93.0 Distributions paid to Company shareholders by scrip issue 5.5 5.5 Total distributions paid to Company shareholders in the year 98.5 98.5 Ordinary Shares issued for cash 178.2 178.2 Ordinary Shares issued for scrip dividend 5.5 5.5 Total Ordinary Shares issued in the year 183.7 183.7 Costs of issue of Ordinary Shares 1.4 1.4 Shareholders equity at 31 March 2016 1,376.6 597.3 1,973.9 114 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Cash Flow Statement For the year ended 31 March 2017 Year ended Year ended 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 Restated m m Cash flows from operating activities Profit before tax 176.8 157.2 Adjustments for: Investment income 178.6 158.8 Operating cash flow before changes in working capital 1.8 1.6 Changes in working capital: Increase in payables 0.6 Cash flow from operating activities 1.2 1.6 Interest received on investments 108.2 98.5 Net cash from operating activities 107.0 96.9 Cash flows from investing activities Purchases of investments 375.7 180.9 Net cash used in investing activities 375.7 180.9 Cash flow from financing activities Net proceeds from issue of share capital 369.7 176.8 Distributions paid to Company shareholders 100.6 93.0 Net cash from financing activities 269.1 83.8 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 0.4 0.2 m Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 0.5 0.7 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 0.9 0.5 Comparative information has been restated.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 115 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.3 Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
REPORTING ENTITY HICL Infrastructure Company Limited the Company is a company domiciled in Guernsey, Channel Islands, whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The financial statements of the Company as at and for the year ended 31 March 2017 comprise the Company only.
Up to and including 31 March 2016 the Company consolidated three subsidiaries HICL Infrastructure 1 S. a. r. l. HICL Infrastructure 2 S. a. r. l. and Infrastructure Investments Limited Partnership together the Corporate Subsidiaries and each a Corporate Subsidiary which are no longer consolidated due to a change in IFRS 10 see Note 2 b for details.
KEY ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Basis of preparation The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 23 May 2017.
The financial statements, which give a true and fair view, have been prepared in compliance with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU using the historical cost basis, except that the financial instruments classified at fair value through profit or loss are stated at their fair values.
The financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Companys functional currency.
The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with IFRS as adopted by the EU, requires the Directors and advisers to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expense.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that year or the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Note 3 shows critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions which have been applied in the preparation of these financial statements.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Company has all the typical characteristics of an investment entity and meets the three essential criteria as defined in IFRS 10 and therefore the Company continues to apply Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27.
The three essential investment entity criteria met by the Company are: 1.
It obtains funds from one or more investors for the purpose of providing these investors with professional investment management services: 2.
It commits to its investors that its business purpose is to invest its funds solely for returns from capital appreciation, investment income or both: and 3.
It measures and evaluates the performance of substantially all of its investments on a fair value basis.
b Change in accounting policy The Company has applied Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 and in these financial statements it has also applied Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exemption Amendment to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 this amendment was issued in December 2014 and adopted by the EU in September 2016, and first applied by the Company in its interim financial statements for September 2016.
The effect of applying the latest amendment is that the Company cannot consolidate subsidiaries that are themselves judged to be investment entities and as a result the Corporate Subsidiaries are no longer consolidated but instead included in Investments at fair value through profit or loss.
The change in accounting has not affected the Profit for the year or Net assets of the Company in this year or in comparative periods.
A reconciliation for the financial statements for the current year comparing the current IFRS basis with the previous basis, which is designated the Investment Basis, is shown in Section 3.1 Operational and Financial Review.
116 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
KEY ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Comparatives Below is a reconciliation for each of the Income Statement, Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Statement as reported originally for 31 March 2016 compared to the restated results for 31 March 2016 as well as a reconciliation for the Balance Sheet as reported originally for 31 March 2016 and 31 March 2015 compared to the restated results.
The movements shown in the adjustments column are all as a result of the adoption of Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exemption Amendment to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28.
The impact on the financial statements of adopting the current IFRS basis, as opposed to the Investments Basis, can be summarised as follows: Income Statement As discussed in Section 3.1 Operational and Financial Review of the Strategic Report, Fund expenses previously reported in the Consolidated Income Statement for 31 March 2016 included fees payable to the Investment Adviser see Note 17 for further details.
These expenses and various other costs are incurred by a Corporate Subsidiary whose results are no longer consolidated within the financial statements of the Company.
As a consequence, Investment income recognised by the Company is net of these expenses and hence the restated Investment income is 24.0m lower.
Balance Sheet The increase in the Investments at fair value on the Balance Sheet is a result of now including the fair value of the Corporate Subsidiaries within this amount, including cash and working capital balances at the year end.
The reduction in Cash and cash equivalents is due to the Corporate Subsidiaries no longer being consolidated within the results of the Company.
The Companys treasury function is undertaken by a Corporate Subsidiary, which receives distributions from the Companys underlying investment portfolio.
Cash Flow Statement The Net cash from operating activities for the Company is lower on the restated basis because the only funds distributed to the Company are those to enable the Company to pay dividends and meet its sundry expenses.
Restated Income Statement Original Adjustments Restated for the year ended 31 March 2016 m m m Investment income 182.8 24.0 158.8 Total income 182.8 24.0 158.8 Fund expenses 23.3 21.7 1.6 Profit before net finance costs and tax 159.5 2.3 157.2 Finance costs 2.2 2.2 Finance income 0.1 0.1 Profit before tax 157.4 0.2 157.2 Income tax expense 0.2 0.2 Profit for the period 157.2 157.2 Attributable to: Equity shareholders of the Company 157.2 157.2 157.2 157.2 Earnings per share basic and diluted pence 11.9 11.9 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 117 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.3 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 2.
KEY ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Restated Balance Sheet Original Adjustments Restated As at 31 March 2016 m m m Non-current assets Investments at fair value through profit or loss 1,932.9 40.8 1,973.7 Total non-current assets 1,932.9 40.8 1,973.7 Current assets Trade and other receivables 1.5 1.4 0.1 Other financial assets 0.2 0.2 Cash and cash equivalents 52.7 52.2 0.5 Total current assets 54.4 53.8 0.6 Total assets 1,987.3 13.0 1,974.3 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 11.3 10.9 0.4 Other current financial liabilities 2.1 2.1 Total current liabilities 13.4 13.0 0.4 Total liabilities 13.4 13.0 0.4 Net assets 1,973.9 1,973.9 Equity Ordinary Share capital 0.1 0.1 Share premium 1,376.5 1,376.5 Retained reserves 597.3 597.3 Total equity attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 1,973.9 1,973.9 Total equity 1,973.9 1,973.9 Net assets per Ordinary Share pence 142.2 142.2 118 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
KEY ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Restated Balance Sheet Original Adjustments Restated As at 1 April 2015 m m m Non-current assets Investments at fair value through profit or loss 1,709.7 22.7 1,732.4 Total non-current assets 1,709.7 22.7 1,732.4 Current assets Trade and other receivables 0.7 0.6 0.1 Other financial assets 1.9 1.9 Cash and cash equivalents 33.5 32.8 0.7 Total current assets 36.1 35.3 0.8 Total assets 1,745.8 12.6 1,733.2 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 12.3 12.0 0.3 Other current financial liabilities 0.6 0.6 Total current liabilities 12.9 12.6 0.3 Total liabilities 12.9 12.6 0.3 Net assets 1,732.9 1,732.9 Equity Ordinary Share capital 0.1 0.1 Share premium 1,194.2 1,194.2 Retained reserves 538.6 538.6 Total equity attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 1,732.9 1,732.9 Total equity 1,732.9 1,732.9 Net assets per Ordinary Share pence 136.7 136.7 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 119 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.3 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 2.
KEY ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Restated Cash Flow Statement Original Adjustments Restated for the year ended 31 March 2016 m m m Cash flows from operating activities Profit before tax 157.4 0.2 157.2 Adjustments for: Investment income 182.8 24.0 158.8 Finance costs 2.2 2.2 Finance income 0.1 0.1 Operator acquisition investment fees 1.5 1.5 Operating cash flow before changes in working capital 21.8 20.2 1.6 Changes in working capital: Decrease in receivables 0.8 0.8 Decrease in payables 1.0 1.0 Cash flow from operations 23.6 22.0 1.6 Interest received on bank deposits 0.1 0.1 Interest paid 1.7 1.7 Corporation tax 0.1 0.1 Interest received on investments 88.5 10.0 98.5 Dividends received 26.7 26.7 Fees and other operating income 7.8 7.8 Loanstock and equity repayments received 6.0 6.0 Net cash from operating activities 103.7 6.8 96.9 Cash flows from investing activities Proceeds from sale of investments 8.9 8.9 Purchases of investments 172.9 8.0 180.9 Net cash used in investing activities 164.0 16.9 180.9 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from issue of share capital 176.8 176.8 Proceeds from issue of loans and borrowings 61.1 61.1 Repayment of loans and borrowings 61.1 61.1 Distributions paid to Company shareholders 93.0 93.0 Net cash from used in financing activities 83.8 83.8 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 23.5 23.7 0.2 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 33.5 32.8 0.7 Exchange gains on cash 4.3 4.3 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 52.7 52.2 0.5 Going concern The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in Sections 2.2 and 2.3.
The financial position of the Company, its cash flows, and liquidity position are described in Sections 3.1 and 3.2.
In addition, Notes 1 to 4 of the financial statements include the Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Company through its Corporate Subsidiaries has considerable financial resources together with long-term contracts with various public sector customers and suppliers across a range of infrastructure projects.
The financing for these projects is non-recourse to the Company.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its business risks.
The Directors believe that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the next 12 months.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
120 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
KEY ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED New standards effective for the current year As per the above, the Company has applied Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exemption Amendment to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 for the first time.
Additional standards and amendments to standards that became effective during the period are listed below.
These have no material impact on the reported performance or financial statements of the Company.
s Annual improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 cycle effective date 1 January 2016. s Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of interest in Joint Operations 1 January 2016. s Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure initiative 1 January 2016.
Standards not yet applied The Company notes the following amended and improved published standards and interpretations which were in issue at the date of authorisation of these Financial Statements.
These are not expected to have a material impact on the reported performance or financial statements of the Company following endorsement.
s IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. s IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. s IFRS 16 Leases effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. c Financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Companys Balance Sheet when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets and liabilities are fide-recognised when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the instrument expire or the asset or liability is transferred and the transfer qualifies for fide-recognition in accordance with IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement.
i Non-derivative financial instruments Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity and debt securities, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings and trade and other payables.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value including directly attributable transaction costs, except for financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Subsequent to initial recognition, non-derivative financial instruments are measured as described below.
Investments in equity and debt securities Investments in the equity and loanstock of entities engaged in infrastructure activities which are not classified as subsidiaries of the Company or which are subsidiaries not consolidated in the Company, are designated at fair value through profit or loss since the Company manages these investments and makes purchase and sale decisions based on their fair value.
The initial difference between the transaction price and the fair value, derived from using the discounted cash flows methodology at the date of acquisition, is recognised only when observable market data indicates there is a change in a factor that market participants would consider in setting the price of that investment.
After initial recognition, Investments at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value with changes recognised in the Income Statement.
Other Other non-derivative financial instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, and in the case of financial assets, less any impairment losses.
ii Fair values Fair values are determined using the income approach, which discounts the expected cash flows attributable to each asset at an appropriate rate to arrive at fair values.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, regard is had to relevant long-term government bond yields, the specific risks of each investment and the evidence of recent transactions.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 121 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.3 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 2.
KEY ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED iii Investment income Income from investments is recognised in the Income Statement as it accrues on from the Companys direct subsidiary.
Gains on investments relates solely to the investments held at fair value.
d Share capital and share premium Ordinary Shares are classified as equity.
Costs associated with the establishment of the Company or directly attributable to the issue of new shares that would otherwise have been avoided are written-off against the balance of the share premium account.
e Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Cash equivalents, including demand deposits, are held for the purpose of meeting short-term cash commitments rather than for investment or other purposes.
f Income tax Under the current system of taxation in Guernsey, the Company itself is exempt from paying taxes on income, profits or capital gains.
The profits of each project company are subject to corporation tax in the country the project is located in.
Sensitivity of the Companys portfolio to changes in tax rates are provided in Note 4 and impacts are reflected in the fair value of underlying investments.
g Foreign exchange gains and losses Transactions entered into by the Company in a currency other than its functional currency are recorded at the rates ruling when the transactions occur.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on the re-translation of unsettled monetary assets and liabilities are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
h Segmental and geographical reporting The Chief Operating Decision Maker the CODM is of the opinion that the Company is engaged in a single segment of business, being investment in infrastructure which is currently predominately in private finance initiatives and public private partnership companies.
The Company does not derive revenue from Guernsey.
The Company has no single major customer.
The financial information used by the CODM to allocate resources, assess performance and manage the Company presents the business as a single segment comprising a homogeneous portfolio.
i Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
The Companys investment advisory and administration fees, finance costs and all other expenses are charged through the Income Statement.
j Dividends payable Dividends payable to the Companys shareholders are recognised when they become legally payable.
In the case of interim dividends, this is when they are paid.
In the case of final dividends, this is when they are approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
For scrip dividends, where the Company issues shares with an equal value to the cash dividend amount as an alternative to the cash dividend, a credit to equity is recognised when the shares are issued.
122 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS, ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect reported amounts.
The judgements, estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are outlined below.
Investments at fair value through profit or loss Judgements By virtue of the Companys status as an investment entity and the exemption provided by IAS 28 and IFRS 11 as well as the adoption of Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27, investments are designated upon initial recognition to be accounted for at fair value through profit or loss.
Estimates The Company recognises the investment in its single directly owned holding company at fair value which includes the fair value of each of the individual project companies and holding companies in which the Company holds an indirect investment.
Fair values for those investments for which a market quote is not available are determined using the income approach which discounts the expected cash flows at the appropriate rate.
In determining the discount rate, regard is had to relevant long-term government bond yields, specific risks and the evidence of recent transactions.
The Directors have satisfied themselves that PPP or similar investments share the same investment characteristics and as such constitute a single asset class for IFRS 7 disclosure purposes.
The weighted average discount rate applied in the March 2017 valuation was 7.4% 2016: 7.5%.
The discount rate is considered one of the most significant unobservable inputs through which an increase or decrease would have a material impact on the fair value of the Investments at fair value through profit or loss.
The other material impacts on the measurement of fair value are inflation rates, deposit rates and tax rates which are further discussed in Note 4 and include sensitivities to these key judgements.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Fair value estimation The following summarises the significant methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments: Financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
The Company uses the income approach which discounts the expected cash flows attributable to each asset at an appropriate rate to arrive at fair values.
In determining the discount rate, regard is had to relevant long-term government bond yields, the specific risks of each investment and the evidence of recent transactions.
Note 2 discloses the methods used in determining fair values on a specific asset or liability basis.
Where applicable, further information about the assumptions used in determining fair value is disclosed in the Notes specific to that asset or liability.
Classification of financial instruments 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 Restated m m Financial assets Investments designated at fair value through profit or loss 2,419.4 1,973.7 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 2,419.4 1,973.7 Trade and other receivables 0.1 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents 0.9 0.5 Financial assets loans and receivables 1.0 0.6 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 1.0 0.4 Financial liabilities payables 1.0 0.4 The Directors believe that the carrying values of all financial instruments are equal to their fair values.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 123 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.3 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 4.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Fair value hierarchy The fair value hierarchy is defined as follows: s Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities s Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices s Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
As at 31 March 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Investments at fair value through profit or loss Note 13 2,419.4 2,419.4 2,419.4 2,419.4 As at 31 March 2016 Restated Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Investments at fair value through profit or loss Note 13 1,973.7 1,973.7 1,973.7 1,973.7 There were no transfers between Level 1, 2 or 3 during the year 2016: none.
A reconciliation of the movement in Level 3 assets is disclosed in Note 13.
Level 3 Valuation methodology The Directors have satisfied themselves as to the methodology used, the discount rates and key assumptions applied, and the valuation.
All equity investments in PPP or similar projects are valued using a discounted cash flow methodology.
The A13 investment in listed senior bonds is valued based on the quoted market price at the balance sheet date.
The valuation techniques and methodologies have been applied consistently with those used in the prior year.
This valuation uses key assumptions which are benchmarked from a review of recent comparable market transactions in order to arrive at a fair market value.
Valuations are performed on a six monthly basis every September and March for all investments.
The Company records the fair value of the single directly owned top holding company by calculating and aggregating the fair value of each of the individual project companies and holding companies in which the Company holds an indirect investment.
For the valuation of investments, the Directors have also obtained an independent opinion from a third party with experience in valuing this type of investments, supporting the reasonableness of the valuation.
124 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Investments The key valuation assumptions and sensitivities for the valuation The following economic assumptions were used in the discounted cash flow valuations: 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 Inflation Rates UK RPI and RPIx 2.75% p. a.
Deposit Rates UK 1.0% p. a. to March 2021, 1.0% p. a. to March 2020, 2.0% p. a. thereafter 2.5% p. a. thereafter Eurozone 1.0% p. a. to March 2021, 1.0% p. a. to March 2020, 2.0% p. a. thereafter 2.5% p. a. thereafter Canada 1.0% p. a. to March 2021, 1.0% p. a. to March 2020, 2.0% p. a. thereafter 2.5% p. a. thereafter USA 1.0% p. a. with a gradual N A increase to 2.0% long-term Australia 2.6% p. a. with a gradual 2.6% p. a. with a gradual increase to 3.0% long-term increase to 3.0% long-term Foreign Exchange Rates CAD GBP 0.60 0.54 EUR GBP 0.85 0.79 USD GBP 0.80 N A AUD GBP 0.61 0.53 Tax Rates UK 19% p. a to March 2020, 20% to March 2017, 17% p. a thereafter 19% to March 2020, 18% thereafter Eurozone Various no change Various no change apart from French tax rate reducing from 33.3% p. a to 28% p. a by 2019 USA 35% p. a Federal & N A 4.6% p. a Colorado State Canada 26% and 27% p. a 26% and 27% Australia 30% p. a 30% GDP UK 2.0% p. a N A Eurozone 1.8% p. a N A USA 2.5% p. a N A Discount rates Judgement is used in arriving at the appropriate discount rate for each investment based on the Investment Advisers knowledge of the market, taking into account intelligence gained from bidding activities, discussions with financial advisers knowledgeable in these markets and publicly available information on relevant transactions.
The discount rates used for valuing each infrastructure investment vary on a project-by-project basis and take into account risks and opportunities associated with the project earnings e. g. predictability and covenant of the concession income, all of which may be differentiated by project phase, jurisdiction and market participants appetite for these risks.
The discount rates used for valuing the projects in the portfolio are as follows: Weighted Period ending Range average 31 March 2016 7.0% to 10.1% 7.5% 30 September 2016 6.5% to 9.9% 7.3% 31 March 2017 5.6% to 9.8% 7.4% HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 125 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.3 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 4.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED A change to the weighted average rate of 7.4% by plus or minus 0.5% has the following effect on the Investments at fair value through profit or loss and NAV per Ordinary Share.
Investments at fair value -0.5% through 0.5% Discount rate change profit or loss change 2 March 2016 Restated 101.5m 1,973.7m -93.7m March 2017 121.5m 2,419.4m -111.2m 1 Implied change in NAV per Ordinary Share 7.5 pence 149.0 pence -6.9 pence March 2017 March 2016 7.3 pence 142.2 pence -6.7 pence 1 NAV per Ordinary Share based on 1,623 million Ordinary Shares at 31 March 2017.
2 Comparative information has been restated.
Inflation rates All projects in the portfolio have contractual income streams with public sector clients, which are rebased every year for inflation.
UK projects tend to use either RPI Retail Price Index or RPIx RPI excluding mortgage payments, and revenues are either partially or totally indexed depending on the contract and the nature of the projects financing.
A change to the inflation rate by plus or minus 0.5% has the following effect on the Investments at fair value through profit or loss and NAV per Ordinary Share: Investments at fair value -0.5% p. a. through 0.5% p. a.
Inflation assumption change profit or loss change 3 March 2016 Restated -65.3m 1,973.7m 72.0m March 2017 -90.9m 2,419.4m 100.4m 1 2 Implied change in NAV per Ordinary Share -5.6 pence 149.0 pence 6.2 pence March 2017 March 2016 -4.7 pence 142.2 pence 5.2 pence 1 Analysis is based on the Companys 25 largest investments, pro-rata for the whole portfolio.
2 NAV per Ordinary Share based on 1,623 million Ordinary Shares at 31 March 2017.
3 Comparative information has been restated.
Deposit rates Each project in the portfolio has cash held in bank deposits, which is a requirement of their senior debt financing.
As at 31 March 2017 cash deposits for the portfolio were earning interest at a rate of 0.2% per annum on average.
Each projects interest costs are either inflation-linked or fixed rate.
This is achieved through fixed rate or inflation-linked bonds, or bank debt which is hedged with an interest rate swap.
A projects sensitivity to interest rates relates to the cash deposits required as part of the project funding.
A change to the deposit rate by plus or minus 0.5% has the following effect on the Investments at fair value through profit or loss and NAV per Ordinary Share: Investments at fair value -0.5% p. a. through 0.5% p. a.
Cash deposit rate change profit or loss change 3 March 2016 Restated -24.5m 1,973.7m 23.2m March 2017 -28.6m 2,419.4m 27.5m -1.8 pence 149.0 pence 1.7 pence 1 2 Implied change in NAV per Ordinary Share March 2017 March 2016 -1.8 pence 142.2 pence 1.7 pence 1 This analysis is based on the Companys 25 largest investments, pro-rata for the whole portfolio.
126 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Gross Domestic Product The portfolio has three projects 2016: nil where revenues are positively correlated to changes in Gross Domestic Product.
The projects are A63 Motorway, M1-A1 Road and Northwest Parkway which together comprise 9.8% of the Investments at fair value through profit or loss.
A change to the Gross Domestic Product by plus or minus 0.5% has the following effect on the Investments at fair value through profit or loss and NAV per Ordinary Share: Investments at fair value -0.5% p. a. through 0.5% p. a.
Gross Domestic Product GDP change profit or loss change 2 March 2016 Restated 0m 1,973.7m 0m March 2017 -49.5m 2,419.4m 46.5m -3.0 pence 149.0 pence 2.9 pence 1 Implied change in NAV per Ordinary Share March 2017 March 2016 0 pence 142.2 pence 0 pence 1 NAV per Ordinary Share based on 1,623 million Ordinary Shares at 31 March 2017.
Tax rates The profits of each project company are subject to corporation tax in the country the project is located in.
The UK Finance Act 2016 enacted a reduction to the corporation tax rate to 17% effective from April 2020, which is assumed in the valuation of the portfolio.
A change to the tax rate by plus or minus 1.0% has the following effect on the Investments at fair value through profit or loss and NAV per Ordinary Share: Investments at fair value -1% p. a. through 1% p. a.
1 Tax rate assumption change profit or loss change 3 March 2016 Restated 13.5m 1,973.7m -13.4m March 2017 14.8m 2,419.4m -14.3m 0.9 pence 149.0 pence -0.9 pence 2 Implied change in NAV per Ordinary Share March 2017 March 2016 1.0 pence 142.2 pence -1.0 pence 1 This analysis is based on the Companys 25 largest investments, pro-rata for the whole portfolio.
Risk management Market risk Returns from the Companys investments are affected by the price at which they are acquired.
The value of these investments will be a function of the discounted value of their expected future cash flows and as such will vary with, inter alia, movements in interest rates, market prices and the competition for such assets.
Financial risk management The objective of the Companys financial risk management is to manage and control the risk exposures of its investment portfolio.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for overseeing the management of risks, including financial risks: however the review and management of financial risks are delegated to the Investment Adviser and the Operator which has documented procedures designed to identify, monitor and manage the financial risks to which the Company is exposed.
This Note presents information about the Companys exposure to financial risks, its objectives, policies and processes for managing risk and the Companys management of its financial resources.
The Company owns a portfolio of investments predominantly in the subordinated loanstock and equity of project finance companies.
These companies are structured at the outset to minimise financial risks where possible, and the Investment Adviser and Operator primarily focus their risk management on the direct financial risks of acquiring and holding the portfolio but continue to monitor the indirect financial risks of the underlying projects through representation, where appropriate, on the boards of the project companies and the receipt of regular financial and operational performance reports.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 127 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.3 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 4.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Interest rate risk The Company invests indirectly in subordinated loanstock of infrastructure project companies, usually with fixed interest rate coupons.
Where floating rate debt is owned the primary risk is that the Companys cash flows will be subject to variation depending upon changes to base interest rates.
The portfolios cash flows are continually monitored and re-forecasted both over the near future five year time horizon and the long term over whole period of projects concessions to analyse the cash flow returns from investments.
The Company has made limited use of borrowings at Corporate Subsidiary level to finance the acquisition of investments and the forecasts are used to monitor the impact of changes in borrowing rates against cash flow returns from investments as increases in borrowing rates will reduce net interest margins.
The Companys policy is to ensure that interest rates are sufficiently hedged, when entering into material medium long-term borrowings, typically via a Corporate Subsidiary, to protect the Company and Corporate Subsidiarys net interest margins from significant fluctuations in interest rates.
This may include engaging in interest rate swaps or other interest rate derivative contracts.
The Company has an indirect exposure to changes in interest rates through its investment in infrastructure project companies, which are financed by senior debt.
Senior debt financing of project companies is generally either through floating rate debt, fixed rate bonds or index linked bonds.
Where senior debt is floating rate, the projects typically have concession length hedging arrangements in place, which are monitored by the project companies managers, finance parties and boards of directors.
Floating rate debt is hedged using fixed floating interest rate swaps.
Inflation risk The infrastructure project companies in which the Company invests are generally structured so that contractual income and costs are either wholly or partially linked to specific inflation where possible to minimise the risks of mismatch between income and costs due to movements in inflation indexes.
The Companys overall cash flows vary with inflation, although they are not directly correlated as not all flows are indexed.
The effects of these inflation changes do not always immediately flow through to the Companys cash flows, particularly where a projects loanstock debt carries a fixed coupon and the inflation changes flow through by way of changes to dividends in future periods.
The sensitivity of the portfolio valuation to inflation is also shown above within Note 4.
Currency risk The Company monitors its foreign exchange exposures using its near-term and long-term cash flow forecasts.
Its policy is to use foreign exchange hedging to provide protection against the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on the level of Sterling distributions that the Company expects to receive over the medium term, where considered appropriate.
This may involve the use of forward exchange and other currency hedging contracts at Corporate Subsidiary level, as well as the use of Euro, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, US dollar and other currency denominated borrowings via a Corporate Subsidiary.
The Company at 31 March 2017 hedged its currency exposure through Euro, Canadian dollar, US dollar and Australian dollar forward contracts.
This has reduced the volatility in the NAV from foreign exchange movements.
The hedging policy is designed to provide confidence in the near-term yield and to limit NAV per share sensitivity to no more than 1% for a 10% foreign exchange movement.
A change to foreign currency Sterling exchange by plus or minus 5.0% has the following effect on the Net Asset Value and NAV per Ordinary Share: 1 Foreign Exchange sensitivities -5% change Net Asset Value 5% change 3 March 2016 Restated -5.5m 1,973.9m 5.5m March 2017 -4.8m 2,419.4m 4.8m -0.3 pence 149.0 pence 0.3 pence 2 Implied change in NAV per Ordinary Share March 2017 March 2016 -0.4 pence 142.2 pence 0.4 pence 1 Sensitivities include effect of foreign exchange hedging contracts.
128 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty of the Company will be unable or unwilling to meet a commitment that it has entered into with the Company.
The Companys key direct counterparties are the project companies in which it makes investments.
The Companys near-term cash flow forecasts are used to monitor the timing of cash receipts from project counterparties.
Underlying the cash flow forecasts are project company cash flow models which are regularly updated by project companies and provided to the Operator, for the purposes of demonstrating the projects ability to pay interest and dividends based on a set of detailed assumptions.
Many of the Companys investment and subsidiary entities receive revenue from government departments and public sector or local authority clients.
Therefore a significant portion of the Companys investments revenue is with counterparties of good financial standing.
The Company is also reliant on each projects sub-contractors continuing to perform their service delivery obligations such that revenues to projects are not disrupted.
The Operator has a sub-contractor counterparty monitoring procedure in place.
The credit standing of sub-contractors is reviewed, and the risk of default estimated for each significant counterparty position.
Monitoring is ongoing and period end positions are reported to the Board on a quarterly basis.
The Companys largest credit risk exposure to a project at 31 March 2017 was to the Northwest Parkway project 6% of Investments at fair value and the largest sub-contractor counterparty risk exposure was to subsidiaries of the Carillion group which provided facilities management services in respect of 17% of the Investments at fair value.
The Company is subject to credit risk on its loans, receivables, cash and deposits.
The Companys cash and deposits are held with well-known banks.
The credit quality of loans and receivables within the investment portfolio is based on the financial performance of the individual portfolio companies.
For those assets that are not past due, it is believed that the risk of default is small and capital repayments and interest payments will be made in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions of the investment.
The Companys maximum exposure to credit risk over financial assets is the carrying value of those assets in the Balance Sheet.
The Company does not hold any collateral as security.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Companys approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient financial resources and liquidity to meets its liabilities when due.
The Company ensures it maintains adequate reserves and its Corporate Subsidiaries have sufficient banking facilities by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
The Company investments are predominantly funded by share capital.
The Companys investments are generally in private companies in which there is no listed market and therefore such investment would take time to realise and there is no assurance that the valuations placed on the investments would be achieved from any such sale process.
The Companys investments have third party borrowings which rank senior to the Companys own investments into the companies.
This senior debt is structured such that, under normal operating conditions, it will be repaid within the expected life of the projects.
Debt raised by the investment companies from third parties is without recourse to the Company.
The Companys investments may include obligations to make future investment amounts.
These obligations will typically be supported by standby letters of credit, issued by the Companys bankers in favour of the senior lenders to the investment companies.
Such investment obligations are met from the Companys cash resources when they fall due.
Investment obligations totalled 32.5m 2016: 97.4m and the Company also has a contingent commitment of 16.8m at March 2017 2016: 16.8m See Note 18.
Unconsolidated subsidiaries are subject to contractual agreements that may impose temporary restrictions on their ability to distribute cash.
Such restrictions are not deemed significant in the context of the Companys overall liquidity.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 129 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.3 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 4.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED The table below analyses the Companys financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
Less than Between Between More than 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years 31 March 2017 m m m m Trade and other payables 1.0 Total 1.0 Less than Between Between More than 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years 31 March 2016 m m m m Trade and other payables 0.4 Total 0.4 Capital management The Company at 31 March 2017 had a 300m revolving acquisition facility via a Corporate Subsidiary which had no cash drawings at year end.
Further equity raisings are considered when debt drawings are at an appropriate level.
The proceeds from the share issues are used to repay debt and to fund future investment commitments.
The Company makes prudent use of its available leverage.
Under the Articles the Companys outstanding borrowings, including any financial guarantees to support outstanding subscription obligations but excluding internal Company borrowings of the Companys underlying investments, are limited to 50% of the Adjusted Gross Asset Value of its investments and cash balances at any time.
The ratio of the debt of the Company and the Corporate subsidiaries, to Adjusted Gross Asset Value at the end of the year was as follows: 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 m m Outstanding drawings Bank borrowings Letter of credit facility 30.9 36.6 30.9 36.6 Adjusted Gross Asset Value Portfolio valuation Note 13 2,380.0 2,030.3 Cash and cash equivalents 82.2 52.7 2,462.2 2,083.0 Borrowing ratio 1.3% 1.8% From time to time the Company issues its own shares to the market: the timing of these issuances depends on market prices.
In order to assist in the narrowing of any discount to the Net Asset Value at which the Ordinary Shares may trade from time to time the Company may, at the sole discretion of the Directors: s make market purchases of up to 14.99% per annum of its issued Ordinary Shares: and s make tender offers for the Ordinary Shares.
There were no changes in the Companys approach to capital management during the year.
130 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.
GEOGRAPHICAL ANALYSIS The tables below analyse the revenue and Investments at fair value by the different regions the Company has indirect investments in.
INVESTMENT INCOME For year ended For year ended 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 Restated Total Total m m Income from investment 108.6 98.4 Gains on valuation 70.0 60.4 178.6 158.8 7.
FUND EXPENSES For year ended For year ended 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 Restated Total Total m m Fees to Companys auditor for audit of Company 0.1 0.1 Fees to Companys auditor for audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Investment Adviser fees 0.1 0.1 Directors fees Note 17 0.4 0.3 Professional fees 1.1 1.0 1.8 1.6 The Company had no employees during the year 31 March 2016: nil.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 131 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.3 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 8.
NET FINANCE COSTS In the year ended 31 March 2017 the Company had fide minimus net finance income consisting of interest earned on bank deposits offset by some bank charges.
INCOME TAX Guernsey Under the current system of taxation in Guernsey, the Company itself is exempt from paying taxes on income, profits or capital gains.
Therefore, income from investments is not subject to any further tax in Guernsey.
Overseas tax jurisdictions The financial statements do not include the tax charges for any of the Companys 114 2016: 104 investments as these are held at fair value.
All of these investments are subject to taxes in the countries in which they operate.
BASIC AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during the year.
2017 2016 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 176.8m 157.2m Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue 1,427.5 million 1,319.8 million Basic and diluted earnings per Ordinary Share 12.4 pence 11.9 pence Further details of shares issued in the year are set out in Note 16.
DIVIDENDS For year ended For year ended 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders during the year: Fourth quarterly interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2016 of 1.87p 2015: 1.87p per share 25.9 23.7 First quarterly interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2017 of 1.91p per share 2016: 1.86p 26.5 24.7 Second quarterly interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2017 of 1.91p per share 2016: 1.86p 27.9 24.7 Third quarterly interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2017 of 1.91p per share 2016: 1.86p 27.9 25.4 108.2 98.5 Distributions paid to Company shareholders in cash 100.6 93.0 Distributions paid to Company shareholders by scrip issue 7.6 5.5 Total distributions paid to Company shareholders in the year 108.2 98.5 Amounts not recognised as distributions to equity holders during the year: Fourth quarterly interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2017 of 1.92p 2016: 1.87p per share 31.2 26.0 The fourth quarterly interim dividend was approved by the Board on 18 May 2017 and is payable on 30 June 2017 to shareholders on the register as at 26 May 2017.
The fourth quarterly interim dividend is payable to shareholders as a cash payment or alternatively as a scrip dividend.
The fourth quarterly interim dividend has not been included as a liability at 31 March 2017.
132 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11.
DIVIDENDS CONTINUED The 2016 fourth quarterly interim dividend of 1.87p and the first three 2017 quarterly interim dividends of 1.91p each are included in the statement of changes in shareholder equity.
Interim dividend Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 31 March 2013 3 month period 1.91p 1.86p 1.81p ending 30 June 3 month period 1.91p 1.86p 1.81p ending 30 September 3 month period 1.91p 1.86p 1.81p ending 31 December 3 month period 1.92p 1.87p 1.87p ending 31 March 6 month period 3.5p 3.425p ending 30 September 6 month period 3.6p 3.575p ending 31 March 7.65p 7.45p 7.3p 7.1p 7.0p 12.
NET ASSETS PER ORDINARY SHARE 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 m m Shareholders equity at 31 March 2,419.4 1,973.9 Less: fourth interim dividend 2016: fourth interim dividend 31.2 26.0 2,388.2 1,947.9 Number of Ordinary Shares at 31 March million 1,623.3 1,388.4 Net assets per share after deducting fourth interim dividend 2016: fourth interim dividend 147.1p 140.3p Add fourth interim dividend 2016: fourth interim dividend 1.92p 1.87p Net assets per Ordinary Share at 31 March 149.0p 142.2p 13.
INVESTMENTS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 Restated m m Opening balance 1,973.7 1,732.4 Investments in the year 375.7 180.9 Gains on valuation 70.0 60.4 Carrying amount at year end 2,419.4 1,973.7 This is represented by: Greater than one year 2,419.4 1,973.7 Carrying amount at year end 2,419.4 1,973.7 The Company recognises the investment in its single directly owned holding company at fair value which includes the fair value of each of the individual project companies and holding companies in which the Company holds an indirect investment.
Investments in the period reflect funds paid to the Companys immediate Corporate Subsidiary following issuance of equity to shareholders.
Refer to Note 3 for the valuation techniques and key model inputs used for determining investment fair values.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 133 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.3 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 13.
INVESTMENTS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS CONTINUED The Investment Adviser has carried out fair market valuations of the investments as at 31 March 2017.
The Directors have satisfied themselves as to the methodology used, the discount rates applied, and the valuation.
The Directors have also obtained an independent opinion from a third party with experience in valuing these types of investments, supporting the reasonableness of the valuation.
The A13 investment in listed senior bonds is valued based on quoted market price at the balance sheet date.
The valuation techniques and methodologies have been applied consistently with the prior year.
Discount rates applied range from 5.6% to 9.8% weighted average of 7.4% 2016: 7.0% to 10.1% weighted average of 7.5%.
The valuation of the Companys underlying portfolio at 31 March 2017 reconciles to the Balance Sheet as follows: 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 Restated m m Directors Valuation 2,380.0 2,030.3 Less: future commitments 32.5 97.4 Investments at fair value per Investment Basis 2,347.5 1,932.9 Net cash in Corporate Subsidiaries 81.3 52.2 Working capital in Corporate Subsidiaries 9.4 11.4 Investments per Balance Sheet 2,419.4 1,973.7 Investments are generally restricted on their ability to transfer funds to the Company under the terms of their senior funding arrangements for that investment.
Significant restrictions include: s Historic and projected debt service and loan life cover ratios exceed a given threshold: s Required cash reserve account levels are met: s Senior lenders have agreed the current financial model that forecasts the economic performance of the project company: s Project company is in compliance with the terms of its senior funding arrangements: and s Senior lenders have approved the annual budget for the Company.
134 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13.
2 The project is located in the Netherlands.
3 The project is located in Canada.
4 The project is located in France.
5 The project is located in Australia.
6 The project is located in the United States of America.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 137 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.3 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 14.
INVESTMENTS ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS The Company, via its Corporate Subsidiaries, made the following acquisitions for the year ended 31 March 2017: s In April 2016 the Company acquired a 30% equity and loan interest in the M1-A1 Link Road project for a total consideration of 14.5m.
s In April 2016 and June 2016 the Company acquired through two transactions a 75% equity and loan interest in the Hinchingbrooke Hospital project for a total consideration of 5.3m through an existing joint venture holding company, Redwood Partnership Ventures 2 Limited, in which the Company has a 75% shareholding.
s In May 2016 the Company acquired a 60% equity and loan interest in the Irish Primary Care Centres project for a total consideration of 11.6m including a loanstock subscription obligation of 9.5m in 2018. s In September 2016 the Company acquired a proportion of the Road Management Services A13 PLC Index-Linked Guaranteed Secured Bonds 2028 for a total consideration of 50.1m.
s In November 2016 the Company acquired a portfolio of six operational education PPPs for a total consideration of 22.7m.
The Portfolio compromised of four new investments: 20.4% interest in Bangor and Nendrum Schools, 25.5% interest in Salford Schools, 25.5% interest in East Ayrshire Schools, 25.5% interest in North Ayrshire Schools and incremental interests of 25.5% each in both Manchester School and Cork School of Music.
s In December 2016 the Company acquired a 20% equity interest in A9 Road Project in the Netherlands and an incremental 25% equity interest in Zaanstad Prison for a total consideration of 21.3m which includes a loan stock subscription obligation payable following the substantial completion of construction of the A9 Project.
s In January 2017 the Company completed the acquisition of 13.8% interest in A63 Motorway project for a total consideration of 87.0m.
s In March 2017 the Company acquired a 33.3% equity interest in Northwest Parkway for a total consideration of $166.4m.
s In March 2017 the Company invested in an incremental mezzanine loan investment in the Medium Support Helicopter Aircrew Training Facility project of 7.5m.
Acquisition after 31 March 2017 In May 2017, the Company, via its Corporate Subsidiaries, completed the acquisition of a 36.6% equity interest in the various entities that comprise the Affinity Water Group Affinity Water including the regulated entity, Affinity Water Limited for a consideration of approximately 269m.
HICL is part of a consortium, alongside DIF Infrastructure and Allianz Capital Partners on behalf of Allianz Group, which has acquired 100% of the equity interest in Affinity Water Acquisitions Investments Limited.
LOANS AND BORROWINGS The Company had no cash loans or borrowings outstanding at 31 March 2017 2016: nil.
A Corporate Subsidiary had letters of credit utilised on the revolving bank facility totalling 30.9m at 31 March 2017 2016: 36.6m.
The Company through its Corporate Subsidiaries has the following undrawn borrowing facilities at 31 March: 2017 2016 Floating rate: m m Secured expiring within one year expiring between 1 and 2 years expiring between 2 and 5 years 269.1 163.4 expiring after 5 years 269.1 163.4 The Companys multi-currency revolving bank facility via a Corporate Subsidiary was increased from 200m to 300m in November 2016 and was jointly provided by The Royal Bank of Scotland, National Australia Bank, Lloyds Bank, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, ING and HSBC.
In April 2017, the multi-currency revolving bank facility was increased from 300m to 400m and Santander joined the existing banking group.
The tenor and margin remained as before.
138 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15.
LOANS AND BORROWINGS CONTINUED The facility runs until May 2019 and has a margin of 1.70%.
It is available to be drawn in cash and letters of credit for future investment obligations.
During the year, the Company complied with its bank covenants on its revolving bank facility, the most significant of which were maintaining a forward and historic interest cover ratio above 3:1 and gearing ratio not greater than 0.275:1.
SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 Ordinary Shares m m Authorised and issued at 1 April 1,388.4 1,267.7 Issued for cash 230.2 117.1 Issued as a scrip dividend alternative 4.7 3.6 Authorised and issued at 31 March fully paid 1,623.3 1,388.4 The holders of the 1,623,260,735 Ordinary Shares of 0.01p each are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company 2016: 1,388,426,479 Ordinary Shares.
31 March 2017 31 March 2016 Ordinary Share capital and share premium m m Opening balance 1,376.6 1,194.3 Premium arising on issue of equity shares 380.9 183.7 Expenses of issue of equity shares 4.0 1.4 Balance at 31 March 1,753.5 1,376.6 Share capital at 31 March 2017 is 162.3 thousand 2016: 138.8 thousand.
For the year ended 31 March 2017 On 30 June 2016, 1.6 million new Ordinary Shares of 0.01p each fully paid in the Company were issued at a reference price of 162.6p as a scrip dividend alternative in lieu of cash for the fourth quarterly interim dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2016.
On 30 September 2016, 1.0 million new Ordinary Shares of 0.01p each fully paid in the Company were issued at a reference price of 175.72p as a scrip dividend alternative in lieu of cash for the first quarterly interim dividend in respect of the year ending 31 March 2017.
On 31 December 2016, 1.2 million new Ordinary Shares of 0.01p each fully paid in the Company were issued at a reference price of 161.34p as a scrip dividend alternative in lieu of cash for the second quarterly interim dividend in respect of the year ending 31 March 2017.
On 31 March 2017, 0.8 million new Ordinary Shares of 0.01p each fully paid in the Company were issued at a reference price of 164.14p as a scrip dividend alternative in lieu of cash for the third quarterly interim dividend in respect of the year ending 31 March 2017.
In September 2016, 66.7 million new Ordinary Shares of 0.01p each were issued to various institutional investors at an issue price per share before expenses of 170.0p.
In March 2017, 163.5 million new Ordinary Shares of 0.01p each were issued to various institutional investors at an issue price per share before expenses of 159.0p through issuing a Prospectus on 23 February 2017.
For the year ended 31 March 2016 On 30 June 2015, 0.7 million new Ordinary Shares of 0.01p each fully paid in the Company were issued at a reference price of 152.66p as a scrip dividend alternative in lieu of cash for the fourth interim dividend of 1.87p in respect of the year ending 31 March 2015.
On 30 September 2015, 1.3 million new Ordinary Shares of 0.01p each fully paid in the Company were issued at a reference price of 151.5p as a scrip dividend alternative in lieu of cash for the first quarterly interim dividend of 1.86p in respect of the year ending 31 March 2016.
On 31 December 2015, 0.5 million new Ordinary Shares of 0.01p each fully paid in the Company were issued at a reference price of 152.34p as a scrip dividend alternative in lieu of cash for the second quarterly interim dividend of 1.86p in respect of the year ending 31 March 2016.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 139 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.3 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 16.
SHARE CAPITAL AND RESERVES CONTINUED On 31 March 2016, 1.1 million new Ordinary Shares of 0.01p each fully paid in the Company were issued at a reference price of 155.66p as a scrip dividend alternative in lieu of cash for the third quarterly interim dividend of 1.86p in respect of the year ending 31 March 2016.
In the year ending 31 March 2016, 117.1 million new Ordinary Shares of 0.01p each were issued to various institutional investors at an issue price per share before expenses ranging between 150.0p and 156.0p.
Retained reserves Retained reserves comprise retained earnings and the balance of the share premium account, as detailed in the Statement of changes in shareholders equity.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The Investment Adviser to the Company and the Operator of a limited partnership through which the Company holds its investments is InfraRed Capital Partners Limited IRCP.
IRCPs appointment as Investment Adviser is governed by an Investment Advisory Agreement which may be terminated by either party giving one years written notice.
The appointment may also be terminated if IRCPs appointment as Operator is terminated.
The Investment Adviser is entitled to a fee of 0.1 million per annum disclosed within investment fees in Note 7 2016: 0.1 million, payable half-yearly in arrears and which is subject to review, from time to time, by the Company.
IRCP has been appointed as the Operator of Infrastructure Investments Limited Partnership by the General Partner of the Partnership, Infrastructure Investments General Partner Limited, a fellow subsidiary of IRCP.
The Operator and the General Partner may each terminate the appointment of the Operator by either party giving one years written notice.
Either the Operator or the General Partner may terminate the appointment of the Operator by written notice if the Investment Advisory Agreement is terminated in accordance with its terms.
The General Partners appointment does not have a fixed term, however if IRCP ceases to be the Operator, the Company has the option to buy the entire share capital of the General Partner and IRCP Group has the option to sell the entire share capital of the General Partner to the Company, in both cases for nominal consideration.
The Directors consider the value of the option to be insignificant.
In the year to 31 March 2017, in aggregate IRCP and the General Partner were entitled to fees and or profit share equal to i 1.1 per cent per annum of the adjusted gross asset value of all investments of the Company up to 750m, 1.0 per cent per annum for the incremental value in excess of 750m up to 1,500m, 0.9 per cent for the incremental value in excess of 1,500m and 0.8 per cent for the incremental value in excess of 2,250m and ii 1.0 per cent of the value of new portfolio investment, that were not sourced from entities, funds or holdings managed by the IRCP Group.
The total Operator fees were 20.9m 2016: 18.9m of which 10.8m remained payable at year end 2016: 9.7m.
The total charge for new portfolio investments disclosed within investment fees in Note 7 was 3.4m 2016: 1.5m of which 2.6m remained payable at year end 2016: 0.4m.
These fees are charged to a Corporate Subsidiary.
The Directors of the Company received fees for their services.
Further details are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report in Section 5.6.
Total fees for Directors for the year were 393,334 2016: 307,000.
Directors expenses of 34,006 2016: 12,939 were also paid in the year.
One Director also receives fees of 5,000 for serving as director of the two Luxembourg subsidiaries.
All of the above transactions were undertaken on an arms length basis.
GUARANTEES AND OTHER COMMITMENTS As at 31 March 2017 the Company had 32.5m commitments for future project investments 2017: 97.4m, and an additional contingent commitment of 16.8m 2016: 16.8m to acquire a further 32% equity and loan interest in the N17 N18 Road project from existing co-shareholders following completion of construction which is currently expected to occur in 2018.
140 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19.
EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE The fourth quarterly interim dividend for the year ended March 2017 of 1.92 pence per share was approved by the Board on 18 May 2017 and is payable on 30 June 2017 to shareholders on the register as at 26 May 2017.
In April 2017, the Companys multi-currency revolving bank facility via a Corporate Subsidiary was increased from 300m to 400m and to be jointly provided by The Royal Bank of Scotland, National Australia Bank, Lloyds Bank, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, ING, HSBC and Santander.
The facility runs until May 2019 and has a margin of 1.70%.
In May 2017, the Company, via its Corporate Subsidiaries, completed the acquisition of a 36.6% equity interest in the various entities that comprise the Affinity Water Group Affinity Water including the regulated entity, Affinity Water Limited for a consideration of approximately 269m.
DISCLOSURE SERVICE CONCESSION ARRANGEMENTS The Company held at 31 March 2017 investments in 114 2016: 103 service concession arrangements and one conditional contract to acquire an investment in the Accommodation, Education, Health, Transport and Law and Order sectors.
The concessions vary on the required obligations but typically require the financing and operation of an asset during the concession period.
The rights of both the concession provider and concession operator are stated within the specific project agreement.
The standard rights of the provider to terminate the project include poor performance and in the event of force majeure.
The operators rights to terminate include the failure of the provider to make payment under the agreement, a material breach of contract and relevant changes of law which would render it impossible for the service company to fulfil its requirements.
"Short description of End Number Project Key Project concession arrangements date of years Capex subcontractors A9 Road Finance, construct, operate and maintain a section of the A9 2041 20 574m Fluor road in the Netherlands A13 Road Design, build, finance and operate a 20km section of the A13 2028 30 220m Carillion road between Limehouse, London and Wennington, Essex on KBR behalf of Transport for London ""TfL"" A249 Road Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain the section 2036 30 79m Carillion from Iwade Bypass to Queensborough of the A249 road for the Secretary of State for Transport A63 Motorway Design, build, finance, operate and maintain an upgrade to 2051 40 1,130m Colas the A63 highway between Salles and Saint Geours fide Maremne in France A92 Road Design, construct, finance and operate the upgraded A92 2035 30 54m Bear shadow toll road between Dundee and Arbroath for Transport for Scotland Addiewell Prison Design, build, finance and operate a new maximum security 2033 25 75m Sodexo prison at Addiewell, West Lothian Allenby & Connaught MoD Design, build and finance new and refurbished MoD 2041 35 1,557m Carillion accommodation across four garrisons on Salisbury Plain and KBR in Aldershot, comprising working, leisure and living quarters as well as ancillary buildings AquaSure Desalination Plant Design, build, finance and operate a 150GL year desalination 2039 30 A$3,512m SUEZ Environmental plant and associated infrastructure Bangor & Nendrum Schools Design, build, finance and operate two schools on behalf of the 2038 32 31m Bilfinger Berger South Eastern Education and Library Board in Northern Ireland Barking and Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain the Eastbury 2030 26 47m Bouygues Dagenham Schools Comprehensive and Jo Richardson Community Schools for London Borough of Barking & Dagenham Barnet Hospital Design, construct, operate and maintain the re-building of 2032 33 65m Bouygues Barnet General Hospital in North London for the Wellhouse National Health Service Trust Birmingham & Solihull LIFT Design, construct and invest in facilities of new health and 2031 27 65m Carillion social care facilities HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 141 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.3 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 20."
DISCLOSURE SERVICE CONCESSION ARRANGEMENTS CONTINUED Short description of End Number Project Key Project concession arrangements date of years Capex subcontractors Birmingham Hospitals Design, construct, finance and maintain a new acute hospital 2046 40 553m Cofely and six mental health facilities for University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation Trust and Solihull Mental Health NHS Foundation Trust Bishop Auckland Hospital Design, construct, finance, service and maintain a 2059 60 with 66m ISS redevelopment of Bishop Auckland General Hospital, County break Durham for South Durham Health Care NHS Trust clause option by Grantor at Year 30, 40 & 50 Blackburn Hospital Design, construct, finance and maintain new facilities at the 2041 38 100m Cofely Queens Park Hospital in Blackburn for the East Lancashire Hospitals NHS Trust Blackpool Primary Care Facility Design, construct, finance and operate a primary care centre 2040 32 19m Eric Wright in Blackpool for Blackpool Primary Care Trust Boldon School Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain Boldon 2031 26 18m Mitie School for the Borough of South Tyneside Bradford BSF Phase 1 Design, construct, finance and operate three new secondary 2035 27 84m Amey schools Buttershaw High School, Salt Grammar School and Tong School, along with routine and major lifecycle maintenance for the life of the concession Bradford BSF Phase 2 Design, construct, finance and maintain four secondary 2036 27 230m Amey schools for Bradford Metropolitan District Council Brentwood Community Hospital Design, construct, finance and maintain a new community 2036 30 23m Interserve hospital for South West Essex Primary Care Trust Brighton Childrens Hospital Construct and operate a new childrens hospital in Brighton 2034 30 37m Integral Central Middlesex Hospital Design, construct, finance and maintain new hospital facilities, 2036 33 75m Bouygues and to refurbish some existing facilities, for the Brent Emergency Care and Diagnostic Centre on the Central Middlesex Hospital site in North West London Connect Upgrade London Underground Limiteds existing radio and 2019 20 330m Thales telecommunications systems and implement and operate a new system Conwy Schools Design, build, operate and maintain three schools for Conwy 2030 27 40m Sodexo County Borough Council in North Wales Cork School of Music Design, construct, finance and operate a new school of music 2030 25 50m Bilfinger Berger in Cork to accommodate 130 academic staff, 400 full time and 2,000 part-time students for the Minister of Education and Science Republic of Ireland Croydon Schools Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain a secondary 2034 30 20m Vinci school and community library in Croydon for the London Borough of Croydon Darlington Schools Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain an Education 2029 25 31m Mitie Village comprising four schools Defence Sixth Form College Design, build, operate, finance and maintain a new residential 2033 30 40m Interserve sixth form college for the Secretary of State for Defence Derby Schools Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain three 2031 27 37m Vinci primary schools and two secondary schools in Derby for Derby City Council Doncaster Mental Health Unit Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain a service 2031 28 15m Royal BAM accommodation for an elderly mental health unit in Doncaster for the Rotherham Doncaster and South Humber Mental NHS Foundation Trust Dorset Fire & Rescue Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain the fire and 2034 27 45m Cofely police facilities at three sites in Dorset for the Dorset Fire Authority & Police and Crime Commissioner for Dorset Durham & Cleveland Police Finance, construct, operate and maintain a state of the art 2025 25 6m Carillion Tactical Training Centre firearms and tactical training centre at Urlay Nook in the North of England 142 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20.
DISCLOSURE SERVICE CONCESSION ARRANGEMENTS CONTINUED Short description of End Number Project Key Project concession arrangements date of years Capex subcontractors Dutch High Speed Rail Link Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain power, track 2026 25 890m Fluor and signalling for the high speed railway between Schiphol Royal BAM Siemens Airport and the Belgian border in the Netherlands Ealing Care Homes Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain four care 2035 30 22m Viridian homes for the elderly in the London Borough of Ealing for the London Borough of Ealing Ealing Schools Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain a four-school 2029 27 31m Mitie education project consisting of one secondary school and three primary schools in the London Borough of Ealing East Ayrshire Schools Design, build, finance and operate three senior campus 2038 32 78m Mitie schools and a primary school on behalf of the North Ayrshire Council Ecole Centrale Supelec Design, construct, finance and maintain a new facility for the 2041 26 65m Bouygues Ecole Centrale Supelec in France, as well as a shared teaching and research facility Edinburgh Schools Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain six 2039 32 165m Mitie secondary schools and two primary schools for the City of Edinburgh Council Exeter Crown & County Court Build and service a new crown and county court building 2034 32 20m Sodexo in Exeter Falkirk NPD Schools Design, construct, finance and operate four secondary 2039 32 120m FES schools in the Falkirk area of Scotland Fife Schools 2 Design, construct, finance and maintain nine primary schools 2032 27 64m FES and one special education facility in Fife, Scotland Glasgow Hospital Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain two new 2036 30 178m Cofely ambulatory care and diagnostic hospitals in Glasgow for the Greater Glasgow and Clyde Health Board Gloucestershire Fire & Rescue Construct and operate 4 community fire stations in 2037 26 23m Capita Gloucestershire and a SkillZone education centre Greater Manchester Police Design, build, finance and operate a new traffic headquarters 2031 29 82m Carillion Authority and 16 new police stations for the Greater Manchester Police Authority Haverstock School Design and construction of a single new secondary school on 2030 26 21m Mitie an existing school site on Haverstock Hill, Camden Health & Safety Laboratory Construct new workshops and offices in Buxton 2034 32 60m Interserve Health and Safety Executive Finance, construct, operate and maintain a new four-storey 2035 30 62m Honeywell HSE Merseyside Headquarters office building for the Health and Safety Executive Helicopter Training Facility Design, construct, management, operate and finance 2037 40 with 100m CAE simulators based training facility for Royal Airforce RAF break helicopter pilots clause by Grantor at Year 20 Highland Schools Design, construct and operate eleven urban and rural schools 2037 30 143m Mears Hinchingbrooke Hospital Construction, financing, maintenance and operation of 2035 31 19m Kier 2 a two storey 8,500m diagnostic and treatment centre situated adjacent to the existing Hinchingbrooke District General Hospital Home Office Headquarters Build, finance, operate and maintain a new headquarters 2031 29 200m Bouygues building to replace the Home Offices existing London office accommodation with purpose-built serviced offices Irish Grouped Schools Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain five 2026 25 34m Bilfinger Berger secondary schools in the Republic of Ireland for the Department of Education and Skills Ireland Primary Care Centres Design, build, finance and maintain 14 primary care centres 2042 26 145 Balfour Beatty across Republic of Ireland Kent Schools Design, build, funding and partially operate six schools in Kent 2035 30 95m Mitie Kicking Horse Canyon P3 Upgrade, operate and maintain a section of highway in British 2027 22 CAD HMC Services Columbia, Canada $127m HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 143 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.3 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 20.
DISCLOSURE SERVICE CONCESSION ARRANGEMENTS CONTINUED Short description of End Number Project Key Project concession arrangements date of years Capex subcontractors Lewisham Hospital Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain a new wing 2036 32 58m Carillion in Lewisham Hospital for the Department of Health M1-A1 Link Road Finance, construct, operate, and maintain a motorway linking 2026 30 250m Balfour Beatty the M1, M621 and M62 motorways to the south of Leeds and the A1 M south of Wetherby M80 Motorway Design, build, finance and operate a section of the M80 2039 30 275m Bear motorway in Scotland Manchester School Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain the Wright 2031 26 29m Hochtief Robinson College in Manchester for Manchester City Council Medway LIFT Deliver health and social care infrastructure to NHS property 2034 29 19m Rydon services and Community Health Partnerships within the Medway area of North Kent Medway Police Station Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain a 2034 30 21m Vinci divisional police headquarters for Police and Crime Commissioner for Kent Metropolitan Police Specialist Finance, operate and maintain firearms and public order 2026 25 40m Carillion Training Centre training facility in Gravesend, Kent for the Mayors Office for Policing and Crime Miles Platting Social Housing Redesign and refurbish approximately 1,500 occupied 2037 30 79m Morgan Sindall properties, as well as to build 20 new extra care homes and 11 new family homes in Miles Platting, Manchester Newcastle Libraries Finance, develop, construct and operate a new city centre 2032 25 30m Integral library in Newcastle and an additional satellite library in High Heaton, both in the North East of the UK Newham Schools BSF Design, build, finance, maintain and operate two new 2036 27 53m Mitie secondary schools in Newham, London on behalf of the London Borough of Newham Council Newport Schools Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain a nursery, 2033 25 15m Vinci infant and junior school for Newport City Council Newton Abbot Hospital Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain a community 2039 32 20m Rydon hospital for Devon Primary Care Trust North Ayrshire Schools Design, build, finance and operate three secondary schools 2038 32 84m Mitie and one primary school on behalf of the North Ayrshire Council North Tyneside Schools Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain a four-school 2033 31 30m Mitie education project consisting of one secondary school and three primary schools in North Tyneside Northwest Anthony Henday P3 Finance, build, maintain and rehabilitate the northwest leg of 2041 33 CAD Vinci the Anthony Henday Drive ring road in the City of Edmonton, $995m Alberta, Canada Northwest Parkway Operate, manage, maintain, rehabilitate and toll a 14km 2106 99 NA None four-lane road under an agreement with the Northwest Parkway Public Highway Authority Northwood MoD Headquarters Design, construct and commission new-built facilities 2031 25 198m Carillion on behalf of the Ministry of Defence in Northwood, Greater London Norwich Area Schools Design, construct, finance and operate five primary schools 2032 26 43m Kier and one secondary school: all new build with the exception of a small element of retained estate at the secondary school for the Norwich City Council Nuffield Hospital Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain a new 2036 34 37m G4S orthopaedic hospital for the Secretary of State for Health N17 N18 Road Design, build, finance, operate and maintain the N17 N18 2042 28 336m Strabag road in Ireland for the National Road Authority, which is responsible for the development and improvement of national roads in Republic of Ireland Oldham Library Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain the Oldham 2029 25 15m Kier Library and Lifelong Learning Centre for Oldham Metropolitan Borough Council Oldham Schools Design, construct, finance and operate two secondary schools 2033 27 54m Kier for Oldham Metropolitan Borough Council 144 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20.
DISCLOSURE SERVICE CONCESSION ARRANGEMENTS CONTINUED Short description of End Number Project Key Project concession arrangements date of years Capex subcontractors Oxford Churchill Oncology Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain a 100 bed 2038 33 124m Impregilo oncology unit, including provision of medical equipment for Oxford Radcliffe Hospitals NHS Trust Oxford John Radcliffe Hospital Design, construct, manage, finance, operate and maintain a 2036 33 161m Carillion new wing adjacent to the former Radcliffe Infirmary PSBP North East Batch Schools Design, construct, operate and maintain six new primary and 2041 26 103m Galliford Try six new secondary schools in various UK locations Perth and Kinross Schools Design, construct, financing and operation of four 2041 34 136m Mitie secondary schools and five primary schools for the Perth and Kinross Council Pinderfields and Design, construct, manage, finance and operate a new 2042 35 311m Cofely Pontefract Hospitals 708 bed acute hospital in Pinderfields, West Yorkshire and a new diagnostic and treatment hospital in Pontefract, West Yorkshire for the Mid Yorkshire NHS Trust Queen Alexandra Hospital, Design and construct a new hospital and retained estates 2040 35 255m Carillion Portsmouth work in Portsmouth Queens Romford Hospital Design, construct, manage, finance, operate and maintain a 2040 36 211m Sodexo new hospital in Romford RD901 Road Design, construct, finance and maintain a new 7km dual 2039 25 84m Bouygues carriageway bypassing the small town of Troissereux, near Beauvais in France Redbridge & Waltham Deliver health and social care infrastructure for NHS Property 2030 25 15m Rydon Forest LIFT Services and Community Health Partnerships within Redbridge and Waltham Forest in North London Renfrewshire Schools Design, construct, manage, finance, operate and maintain six 2038 30 100m Amey primary and four secondary schools in Renfrewshire, Scotland Rhonnda Cynon Taf Schools Design, construct, manage, finance and operate a primary 2028 24 22m Vinci school, secondary school, a day nursery and an adult learning centre in South Wales for Rhondda Cynon Taf Authority Royal Canadian Mounted Police Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain a 72,000 2040 28 CAD234m Bouygues E Division Headquarters sqm headquarters office facility building in Surrey, British Columbia, Canada Royal School of Design, build, refurbish and maintain 32 new buildings, 21 2038 30 300m Carillion Military Engineering refurbishments and five training areas across three UK locations on behalf of the UK Ministry of Defence, that supports the Royal School of Military Engineering Salford Hospital Design, construct and commission new-build facilities and 2042 35 137m Cofely associated site infrastructure for the Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust Salford Schools Design, build, finance and operate two schools on behalf of 2033 27 36m Mitie the Salford City Council Salford & Wigan BSF Phase 1 Design, build, finance, maintain and operate two new 2036 26 56m SPIE secondary schools in Salford and Wigan, Greater Manchester on behalf of Salford City Council and Wigan Borough Council Salford & Wigan BSF Phase 2 Design, build, finance, maintain and operate three new 2038 27 70m SPIE secondary schools in Salford and Wigan, Greater Manchester on behalf of Salford City Council and Wigan Borough Council Sheffield BSF Design, build, finance, maintain and operate two new 2034 25 75m Vinci secondary schools and one new special educational needs secondary school in Sheffield for Sheffield City Council Sheffield Hospital Design, construction, financing and management of a new 2036 32 26m Dalkia 168 bed wing at the Sheffield Northern General Hospital for the Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust Sheffield Schools Design, construct, finance and operate two primary schools 2030 26 53m Kier and two secondary schools for Sheffield City Council South Ayrshire Schools Design, construct, finance and operate of three primary 2039 33 76m Mitie schools, two secondary academy schools and a new performing arts annex at an existing academy for South Ayrshire Schools South East London Design, construct, finance and operate four police stations in 2026 25 80m Carillion Police Stations South East London for the Mayors Office for Policing and Crime HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 145 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 6.3 Notes to the Financial Statements Continued 20.
DISCLOSURE SERVICE CONCESSION ARRANGEMENTS CONTINUED Short description of End Number Project Key Project concession arrangements date of years Capex subcontractors Southmead Hospital Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain an 800-bed 2049 35 431m Carillion acute hospital on a single site at Southmead in North Bristol, on behalf of the North Bristol NHS Trust South West Enniskillen Hospital Design, construct, finance and maintain a new acute hospital and 2042 34 227m Interserve key worker accommodation at Enniskillen in Northern Ireland Staffordshire LIFT Develop, design, construct, invest in and maintain health and 2030 25 40m Integral social care facilities Stoke Mandeville Hospital Design, finance, construct, refurbish, operate and maintain a 2034 30 40m Sodexo new hospital facility for the Buckingham Hospitals NHS Trust Sussex Custodial Services Build and service custody centres in Sussex for the Police and 2031 30 20m Capita Crime Commissioner for Sussex formerly the Sussex Police Authority.
The centres are at Worthing, Chichester, Brighton and Eastbourne Tameside General Hospital Design, construct and commission new-build facilities and 2041 34 78m Cofely associated site infrastructure for the Tameside Hospital NHS Foundation Trust Tyne & Wear Fire Stations Design, construct, manage, finance and operate seven fire 2031 25 23m Carillion station facilities and a headquarters building in Tyne and Wear for the Tyne and Wear Fire and Civil Defence Authority University of Bourgogne Design, construct, finance and maintain three new buildings 2040 27 20m Bouygues on the Bourgogne university campus in France and the refurbishment of an existing one University of Sheffield Construct and manage a new student village at the University 2046 40 160m Lend Lease Accommodation of Sheffield West Lothian Schools Design, construct, finance and operate two new schools, 2039 31 60m Dawn Construction Armadale Academy and the Deans Community High School for West Lothian Council West Middlesex Hospital Design, construct, finance, operate and maintain a new 228 2036 35 60m Bouygues bed hospital for West Middlesex University Hospital NHS Trust Willesden Hospital Design, construct, manage and finance a community hospital 2034 32 24m Accuro in north London for NHS Brent Wooldale Centre for Learning Design, construct, manage, finance and operate the Wooldale 2029 25 24m Mitie Centre for Learning consisting of a Centre for Learning CfL comprising a secondary school with sixth form, public library, primary school and nursery on a large site in Northamptonshire Zaanstad Prison Design, build, finance, maintain and operate of a new 2041 25 160m Ballast Nedam penitentiary institution at business park Hoogtij in Zaanstad, the Netherlands 21.
CORPORATE SUBSIDIARIES The following subsidiaries have not been consolidated in these Financial Statements, as a result of applying IFRS 10 and Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27.
See Note 1 for details on the Corporate Subsidiaries.
Ownership Name Country interest HICL Infrastructure 1 SARL Luxembourg 100.0% HICL Infrastructure 2 SARL Luxembourg 100.0% Infrastructure Investments Limited Partnership United Kingdom 100.0% 146 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22.
SUBSIDIARIES The following project subsidiaries have not been consolidated in these Financial Statements, as a result of applying IFRS 10 and Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 : Ownership Name Country interest 2003 Schools Services Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Ashburton Services Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Annes Gate Property Plc United Kingdom 100.0% Alpha Schools Highland Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Axiom Education Edinburgh Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Axiom Education Perth & Kinross Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Boldon School Limited United Kingdom 100.0% ByCentral Limited United Kingdom 100.0% By Education Barking Limited United Kingdom 100.0% ByWest Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Consort Healthcare Blackburn Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Consort Healthcare Mid Yorks Limited United Kingdom 100.0% CVS Leasing Limited United Kingdom 87.6% Derby School Solutions Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Education 4 Ayrshire Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Enterprise Civic Buildings Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Enterprise Education Conwy Limited United Kingdom 90.0% Enterprise Healthcare Limited United Kingdom 100.0% H&D Support Services Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Green Timbers Limited Partnership Canada 100.0% Information Resources Oldham Limited United Kingdom 90.0% Metier Healthcare Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Newport Schools Solutions Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Newton Abbot Health Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Pi2 B. V. Netherlands 100.0% PFF Dorset Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Ravensbourne Health Services Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Services Support Cleveland Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Services Support Gravesend Limited United Kingdom 72.9% Services Support Manchester Limited United Kingdom 72.9% Sussex Custodial Services Limited United Kingdom 100.0% THC OJR Limited United Kingdom 100.0% THC QAH Limited United Kingdom 100.0% TW Accommodation Services Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Willcare MIM Limited United Kingdom 100.0% Reporting date 31 December.
All other reporting dates are 31 March.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 147
