98 99 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT NOMINATION REPORT Employee accommodation at Sukari Nomination committee Developing a diverse workforce In developing the Companys policy on diversity, the board has considered As at the date of this report, the Centamin is an equal opportunity the requirements of the Code and nomination committee comprises employer and the Companys code of National Instrument 58101 and the Edward Haslam chairman and Mark conduct prohibits any form of FCA Listing Rules.
Arnesen, both of whom are discrimination.
However, no women independent nonexecutive directors, are employed at Sukari Gold Mine.
Board rotation and refreshment and Trevor Schultz, who is a This is mainly due to social conditions The committee and board are mindful nonexecutive director of the in Egypt and in the Middle East where, that each of the independent Company.
The committee welcomes in general, female employees are not members of the committee, as at the Alison Baker to the board, who will join encouraged to work at remote sites.
date of this report, had served on the the nomination committee on Local regulations include a number of Edward Haslam board for six years.
appointment on 5 February 2018. provisions, to restrict the working Chairman of the nomination committee hours between 7.00pm and 7.00am The Code notes that any term beyond Board diversity and type of work women on an six years for a nonexecutive director This has been an active year and I am pleased to see board The committee believes that diversity operational mine site can undertake: should be subject to particularly of opinion and experience are of vital these include restrictions on working rigorous review, and should take into refreshment with two new appointments and a pipeline of importance to board effectiveness and underground, working with explosives account the need for progressive diversity will continue to be a key talent amongst our senior management team.
consideration when contemplating the A greater percentage of women are composition and refreshing of the After carrying out the review and employed throughout the group in the board as well as senior and wider giving due consideration to the administrative offices and at the management.
independence of the independent Dear shareholders The committee met four times during It has been an active year for the Companys headquarters and on site nonexecutive directors on the board, the year, with two meetings held by committee, and as chairman I am During the year, the board, through in Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
Of I am presenting this report as chairman the committee and the board were in way of written resolution, and pleased with the progress the the recommendations of the our West African employees, over 10% of the nomination committee, a agreement that all independent undertook the following activities: committee has made during 2017. nomination committee, considered the are women working in Ouagadougou committee established by the board nonexecutive directors remained fully The board has been refreshed with Companys policy on diversity.
In and as geologists based at camp.
reviewed the board succession independent within the definition of two new appointments and there is reviewing the policy, the board Across the Company, a number of plans and progress to fill vacancies independence in the Canadian a pipeline of talent amongst the senior The committee led the process considered the Lord Davies report and women hold senior positions in the among the senior management Securities Administrators National management team, all of which will to identify a new independent the HamptonAlexander Review on areas of accountancy, investor team: Instrument 52110 Audit Committees ensure we not only meet the highest nonexecutive director to the board composition.
Having regard to relations, HSES and subsidiary and the Code.
It was noted that there made recommendations to the possible governance standards, but board and is delighted to welcome these reports and the composition of directorships.
was no requirement for rotation, board on the appointment to the also have the right experience and Alison Baker, who will join the board the board, the committee noted in however a staged rotation was in train committees and senior opportunity for succession as we The Equality Act 2010 Gender Pay in February 2018. particular the lack of gender balance with the appointment of Alison Baker management: continue delivering for shareholders Gap Information Regulations 2017 on the board.
Following year end, to the board in February 2018.
The committee also reviewed the made recommendations as to the into the future.
Alison Baker and Ross Jerrard were The committee considered these succession planning for board level structure, size and composition of appointed to the board and the regulations which stipulate a 250 The report provides more detail on and further recommended the the board and board committees: chairman announced his intention to employee threshold with reference to the activities, decisions and policies of appointment of Ross Jerrard, who will reviewed the competencies, skills, retire during the course of 2018.
In relevant employees as meaning those the nomination committee and become a member of the board in knowledge and experience of assessing candidates for the position employees working in Great Britain the board.
February 2018 as chief financial officer, directors: of chair of the board and any other and employees working outside Great duly appointed from within the made recommendations for the new appointments, the nomination Britain if there is a sufficiently strong Company.
appointment and reelection of Edward Haslam committee will continue to consider connection with Great Britain.
directors to the board: the composition of the board to Centamin does not meet the Chairman of the nomination The committee also considers the considered the requirements for ensure diversity of gender, ethnicity, stipulation set out by these regulations committee wider succession planning for senior board diversity including gender age and educational and professional and therefore does not have a roles and is delighted to welcome 31 January 2018 and ethnic diversity : backgrounds.
The majority of Mark Morcombe, chief operating employees are based in Egypt, at our officer, who joined at the beginning of reviewed the Companys diversity The board will update shareholders on exploration sites in Burkina Faso and January 2017.
Mark will provide policy at board, senior management the appointment of a new chair as and Cte dIvoire and at our headquarters support to our chief executive officer, and at an operational level: and when appropriate.
reviewed the policy on senior and current composition of the board and executive recruitment and the wider management team are set Centamin does, however, work to succession planning.
out in the directors report.
ensure women have pay parity with men in similar positions across its operations and at our corporate head office and administrative offices.
100 101 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT NOMINATION REPORT continued appointment of Alison Baker to the Recruitment process independent Induction and training possible five years as audit partner on Recruitment process the strategic aims and objectives nomination and HSES committees nonexecutive director the Centamin account and signed the chief financial officer to the board for the group.
A detailed induction pack has been effective 5 February 2018. audit opinion on the 2017 financial The nomination committee was active prepared for Alison, covering all key The nomination committee considered The board is assisted by the statements on 31 January 2018.
With throughout 2017 in identifying a policy documents, relevant operational the role of the CFO and the progress Details of the appointment process for nomination committee on its an appointment date for Alison of suitable candidate to join the board as and financial reports and key papers Ross Jerrard has made while serving as the independent nonexecutive evaluation of the nonexecutive 5 February 2018, PwC have confirmed an independent nonexecutive covering the Companys ongoing CFO.
In his short time at Centamin, director are set out earlier in the report.
that they are not aware of any ongoing director.
The committee considered litigation and regulatory compliance.
Ross has assembled an excellent The committee continues to work independence issues that impact the the skills, experience needed now and finance team between the head office The nonexecutives also discussed During the recruitment process and closely with the chairman and CEO 2017 audit or any independence issues in the future.
The committee also in Jersey, operations in Egypt and openly with the executive directors, prior to accepting the appointment, to ensure that the roles and arising from the appointment of Alison considered further the Companys across the exploration sites in West the areas they could assist further with Alison had the opportunity to meet responsibilities are clearly defined, and Baker.
Jonathan Lambert, PwC policy on diversity, the current Africa.
Ross has also been responsible in relation to business development, with all members of the board in an that the CEO has the required support partner, will replace Richard Spilsbury composition of the board having for leading crucial efficiency objectives, succession planning and strategy open forum for discussion.
A summary of the board and senior management following the 2017 audit.
regard to gender, ethnicity, age, race including the material improvement relating to the appointment and induction was also arranged, providing to undertake the role effectively.
and educational and professional to internal and external reporting retention of key personnel.
Non-executive director independence a high level introduction to the backgrounds.
systems, successful implementation Following the announcement in Company and the ongoing role on The committee and board determined An evaluation of the board and its and framework upgrades to cost January 2018, Josef ElRaghy served The committee considered a variety of the appointed committees.
The initial that Alison Baker is independent committees was undertaken during monitoring and cost control measures, notice under the terms of his contract.
different recruitment agencies to help induction process was conducted in within the meaning of the Code and the year and concluded in January and delivery of an accelerated monthly, A successor will be identified with the the committee identify potential an open forum allowing Q&A Centamins Directors Test of 2017.
The board, in conducting its quarterly and annual reporting guidance and direction of the candidates and also independently between Alison and the members Independence Policy.
The committee evaluation, reviewed the activity, timetable of accounts.
nomination committee and evaluate candidates that had been put of the executive and senior noted that although Alison is a former composition and expertise of the involvement of an independent third forward by the board.
PwC partner, Alison has not worked The nomination committee, through committees and considered their party recruitment firm, during the first candidates and CVs had been directly or indirectly on Centamins the process of succession planning, effectiveness taking account of the Training requirements have been half of 2018. received through the Companys account whilst employed with PwC ensured that adequate support, following: discussed with Alison and external recruitment platform and online and has not been involved with PwC in development and, where required, The performance of all directors is legal advisers will deliver bespoke the responsibilities set out in their presence which needed to be providing any consultation or other training was given to Ross to prepare constantly reviewed by the chairman training and refresh on topics such as respective charters: evaluated.
related activities since leaving the firm him for a role on the board of and, periodically, by the nomination directors duties covering the legal activities carried out during the in 2016.
The Company deployed a The committee agreed to appoint framework in Jersey, the LSE listing year, taking account of their determined that Alison is considered of Rosss experience and expertise, formal process for evaluation of the CliftonHill CH, an independent rules and the rules governing the TSX.
mandated duties and in all respects to be independent both and his performance as CFO since board, the board members, the board recruitment consultant with no responsibilities: in character and judgment.
2016, the nomination committee Following her appointment, Alison will committees and the chairman during previous connection to the Company progress made in respect of their approved the appointment of visit the site in Egypt to see firsthand the relevant period, led by the senior who, along with their own candidates, The committee considered Alisons duties and responsibilities: Ross Jerrard to the board with the full the modern mining operation at independent nonexecutive director.
assisted in evaluating all candidates skills and experience and the support of the board, effective from attendance and contribution to the Sukari.
This visit will coincide with the that were put forward by the board committees which would benefit 5 February 2018. committees: and The board has also had training scheduled quarterly board meeting and through the online platform.
Having sessions on various topics during reporting and updates provided to based on site at Sukari.
considered the composition of all Induction and training the year, carried out by external the board.
Following consultation with CH a list existing committees and Alisons Training requirements have been Auditor independence legal advisers.
of five candidates were shortlisted The board reviewed its own experience, the committee agreed discussed with Ross and external legal The committee notes that as a former and interviewed.
Following the membership and performance that Alison join the HSES committee advisers will deliver bespoke training PwC partner, having left PwC in 2016, interview process, the nomination and this review was concluded in and the nomination committee and a refresh on topics such as PwC and Alison are required to assess committee met to consider each December 2017. on appointment.
directors duties to meet his their independence given the of the shortlisted candidates.
The current The nomination committee had The committee then recommended audit partner, Richard Spilsbury, and recommended to the board the three of the five interviewees to the Performance evaluation Alison had worked together on other following key appointments: board for further discussion.
The senior independent nonexecutive clients unrelated to Centamin within director held meetings with the appointment of Mark Bankes to The board evaluated all three the last two years at PwC and nonexecutive directors without the the remuneration committee: candidates and following completion therefore Richard, for audit executive directors present, providing appointment of Ross Jerrard of due diligence process, the independence purposes, is a covered feedback to the full board.
These current CFO to the board nomination committee finalised and person to Alison.
Due to the meetings focused primarily on the effective 5 February 2018 : approved the appointment of Alison requirement of a mandatory evaluation of the boards performance, Baker, with the full support of the coolingoff period of two years, the appointment of Alison Baker a performance evaluation of the board.
Alison Baker was announced as current audit partner will be required as independent nonexecutive chairman and CEO, discussing the the successful candidate in January to step down from the audit before director effective 5 February quality of reporting and information 2018 and will become a member of Alison joins the board.
Richard 2018 : and flows to the board and discussions on the board on 5 February 2018.
Spilsbury has served four of his
