Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee consists of Mr. Keith Corbin riskreview was both thorough and rigorous and the Chairman, Mr. Andrew Moore and Mr. Alan Hodson.
Companys risk management and internal control In the year under review, the Audit Committee systems were effective.
The Audit Committee confirms examined the effectiveness of the Companys internal that there isan ongoing process for identifying, control systems, the annual and interim reports and evaluating, monitoring and managing the significant risks financial statements, the auditors remuneration and faced by the Company.
This process has been in place engagement, as well as the auditors independence for the year under review and up to the date of approval and any non-audit services provided.
of this Annual Report and Audited Consolidated Financial Statements, and is reviewed by the Board.
Additionally, the Audit Committee is responsible for making appropriate recommendations to the Board The internal control systems are designed to meet the and ensuring that the Company complies to the best Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is of its ability with applicable laws and regulations and exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are adheres to the tenet of generally-accepted codes designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of ofconduct.
failure to achieve business objectives and by their nature can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance The Audit Committee receives information from against misstatement and loss.
The Company places the Secretarys compliance department and the reliance on the control environment of its service external auditor.
providers, including its independent administrator and the Investment Manager.
In order to satisfy itself that In the financial year ended 31 January 2017, the Audit thecontrols in place at the Investment Manager are Committee met five times.
Below is a summary of adequate, the Audit Committee has reviewed a Type II director attendance at the committee meetings held SOC I Report Private Equity Fund Administration inthe financial year, compared with those for which Report on Controls Placed in Operation and Tests of they were eligible: Operating Effectiveness for the period from 1 October Audit Committee Meetings 2015 to 13 January 2017, detailing the control environment in place at the Investment Manager.
Audit Committee Member Attendance Therewere no significant findings disclosed in this report Mr. Keith Corbin 5 5 which warranted further investigation by the committee.
Mr. Andrew Moore 4 5 In addition, the Service Provider Committee conducted adetailed review of the performance of the Companys Mr. Alan Hodson 4 5 service providers, including the Companys administrator, and the Audit Committee reviewed theirfindings to The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are ensure that the Companys control environment was available on the Companys website and from the operating satisfactorily.
The Company does not have an internal audit department.
Internal Controls All of the Companys management and administration The Board is responsible for the Companys systems functions are delegated to independent third parties or of risk management and internal control.
The Audit the Investment Manager and it is therefore felt there is Committee reviews the effectiveness of such systems, noneed for the Company to have an internal audit facility.
on at least an annual basis, and reports its findings However, this matter will be reviewed annually.
The Audit Committee reviewed the Boards processes for evaluating risk to ensure thatthe systems covered all the potential risks facing the Company and confirmed to the Board that the 74 HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Supplementary Data Auditors Auditor Tender The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of The Audit Committee advised in last years report that theexternal audit process during the year, considering itwould be formulating a policy in the next financial year performance, objectivity, independence and relevant with a view to being able to follow FRC guidance, which experience, and concluded that Ernst & Young LLPs provides for an audit tender to be carried out every ten appointment as the Companys auditor should be years.
As a result of this guidance, the Audit Committee continued.
The Companys auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, commenced an audit tender process during 2017 in have been appointed to the Company since 2007. respect of the audit of the Companys financial statements TheCompanys auditors performed an audit of the for the year ending 31 January 2018.
Four audit firms Companys financial statements in accordance with were approached to participate in the tender process, applicable law, US Generally Accepted Auditing and two firms met with the audit committee in May 2017.
Standards GAAS, and International Standards on The decision will be announced in due course.
The audit approach remained Terms of Engagement unchanged relative to the prior year and the Audit The Audit Committee reviewed the audit scope and fee Committee was informed that a majority of the audit proposal set out by the auditors in their audit planning fieldwork would be performed by Ernst & Young in Boston, report dated 29 November 2016 and discussed the United States, under the direction and supervision same with the auditors at an Audit Committee meeting ofErnst & Young LLP.
The Audit Committee considered Auditor Independence the proposed fee of $135,400 for audit services related The Audit Committee understands the importance of tothe 31 January 2017 annual accounts.
Having been auditor independence and, during the year, the Audit satisfied by the scope of the engagement letter and fee Committee reviewed the independence and objectivity proposal, the Committee recommended to the Board ofthe Companys auditor, Ernst & Young LLP.
The Audit toapprove the fee proposal and letter of engagement.
Committee received a report from the external auditor Financial Statements and describing its independence, controls and current Significant Reporting Matters practices to safeguard and maintain auditor independence.
As part of the 31 January 2017 year end audit, the Audit Non-audit fees paid to the Auditor by the Company were Committee reviewed and discussed the most relevant nil.
The Auditor was paid non-audit fees of $107,450 issues for the Company and received a report from bythe Investment Manager, in relation to tax services theauditors.
provided by the independent auditors for the year ended 31 January 2017, which were reimbursed by the Company.
The following sections discuss the assessments made The Audit Committee considers all non-audit services to by the Audit Committee during the year.
be provided to the Company by the Auditor prior to their appointment to ensure that the Auditor is the most Investment Valuations appropriate party to deliver these services and to put in The Audit Committee reviews the monthly NAV place safeguards, where appropriate, to manage any statements issued by the Company prior to release.
It is the intention of the Inthe year under review, the Audit Committee met with Committee that the value of non-audit services provided operations staff of the Manager in Boston and conducted to the Company will not exceed the audit fee.
a detailed review of the Companys valuations process.
The Audit Committee intends to conduct a similar review at least once every year.
The Audit Committee has satisfied itself that the valuation techniques are accurate and appropriate for the Companys investments and consistent with the requirements of US GAAP.
HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 75 Audit Committee Report continued Fees and Expenses Corporate Governance The Audit Committee reviewed the calculation of fees The Audit Committee continues to monitor the review by and expenses paid by the Company to the Investment the Board of the Companys compliance with corporate Manager and primary service providers as well as the governance standards following the admission to trading auditors processes for checking those calculations.
of the Companys Ordinary Shares on the Main Market Discussing the calculation and disclosure of fees paid ofthe London Stock Exchange which took place on to the Investment Manager, the Audit Committee 9September 2015. noted the enhanced disclosures and presentation in Other Matters the Annual Report and concluded that the information The Board as a whole undertakes annual visits to was in a clear and understandable format.
The Audit theInvestment Managers offices usually alternating Committee noted the discussions between the Board between Boston and London.
In May 2016, the Board and the Investment Manager to ensure that fees visited the Investment Managers Boston office and the charged to the Company were comparable with those London office in November 2016.
The Board receives charged to other significant investors in HarbourVest presentations from various operational teams of the funds.
The overall percentage rate of fees and Investment Manager regarding investment strategy and expenses paid to the Investment Manager continues other matters relating to the Companys affairs and also to be reduced from the levels of previous financial discusses these matters with the Investment Managers years, and the Audit Committee also reviewed the managing directors.
information regarding those fees contained in this Annual Report to ensure that it was presented In presenting this report, I have set out for the Companys inaclear and consistent manner.
shareholders the key areas that the Audit Committee focuses on.
However if any shareholders would like Risk Management anyfurther information about how the Audit Committee The Audit Committee reviewed the Boards operates and its review process, I, or any of the other policiesand procedures regarding the identification, members of the Audit Committee would be pleased management, and monitoring of risks that could tomeet with members to discuss this.
affectthe Company, which were in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual financial report.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified in the review.
The Audit Committee considers that the Board isengaged on an ongoing basis in the process ofidentifying, evaluating and managing where possible the principal risks Keith Corbin facing the Company as shown on page 59 and 60.
Chairman of the Audit Committee This is inaccordance with relevant best practice 11 May 2017 detailed inthe Financial Reporting Councils guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
In addition, the Audit Committee members participated in the consideration by the Board of the viability of the Company until 31January 2020, details of which areshown on page70.
76 HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017
