96 97 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT Key shareholder and investor relations activities held throughout this financial year: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Andrew Pardey speaking at Indaba January and February 2017 May to September 2017 Investor conference, London Analyst and investor conference calls Investor conference, South Africa Roadshow, Scotland Investor conference, North America Conference, Denver March and April 2017 Investor marketing, North America October and November 2017 Investor marketing, London Analyst and investor conference calls Analyst site visit, Sukari Investor marketing, London Mark Bankes Chairman of the compliance and corporate governance committee The board recognises the importance of keeping the Modern Slavery Act consideration to the 2015 Act and the annual general meeting: related UK guidance on adherence The UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 the annual information form: market fully informed of the groups activities and of with the Acts principles.
the 2015 Act consolidated the law quarterly and halfyearly financial communicating openly and clearly with all stakeholders.
relating to slavery, servitude, forced and operational reports: Shareholder communication and compulsory labour and human continuous disclosure requirements All shareholders are encouraged to trafficking, coming at a time of and regulatory announcements: attend our AGM on 26 March 2018, increasing concern regarding slavery webcasts on quarterly and annual which will be held in Jersey.
This will and human trafficking affecting global Dear shareholders ACTIVITIES COMMITTEE COMMENTARY financial and operational results: be an excellent opportunity to meet supply chains.
Review of progress in respect to Whilst the substantive merits of the case remain the Companys website: I am presenting this corporate board members and our senior the Concession Agreement strong, Law no.
32 of 2014 which is legislation Whilst Centamin is not in scope governance report in my capacity management team.
registrar services: and court appeal hearing see note designed to protect and encourage foreign because it does not carry out business as chairman of the compliance and electronic and postal notifications.
22 to the financial statements investment should bring a resolution to this litigation The board of directors aims to in the Companys favour.
The committee monitors the in the UK, the committee considered, corporate governance committee, The board recognises the importance ensure that shareholders are outcome of developments in the appeal challenging as a matter of good corporate a committee established by the of keeping the market fully informed of the validity of Law no.
32 and reviews the litigation provided with important information governance, peer comparison and board of the Company.
The process in the Egyptian courts more widely.
the groups activities and of in a timely manner via written and shareholder expectation, that the 2015 committees primary functions, communicating openly and clearly electronic communications.
Review of progress in respect to The State Commissioners report released in Act should be evaluated.
responsibilities and duties are set with all stakeholders.
In addition, the the DFO litigation see note 22 September 2016, which was nonbinding, does not, in out in the committee charter.
The chairman, CEO, senior independent to the financial statements the committees view, impact upon the strong merits of group recognises the need to maintain The committee considered the our case.
Our legal advisers do not believe the report nonexecutive director and deputy communication with governance and Compliance and corporate guiding principles of the 2015 Act properly addresses the key arguments of the chairman, as well as our head of stewardship teams as well as proxy governance committee and considered the Companys own Companys case.
The committee continues to monitor investor relations, communicate with advisory groups.
A large proportion of progress in the Egyptian courts to resolve this dispute.
positive track record for employee As at the date of this report, the major shareholders on a regular basis the Companys shareholders are welfare and highest health and safety compliance and corporate governance Monitoring of government The committee reviews key correspondence between through facetoface meetings, guided by proxy advisers and their standards.
The committee noted that relations relating to the senior management and government.
With the onset committee has three independent telephone conversations, and analyst voting recommendations, which can Concession Agreement and of profit sharing with the Egyptian government the overriding goal would be to nonexecutive directors, Edward and broker briefings to help better review of the mechanism of EMRA this year, the committee wishes to ensure significantly impact voting outcomes identify any existing or potential Haslam, Mark Arnesen and me as profit share that the process is properly managed in accordance understand the views of the at the Companys AGM.
human rights impacts and remedies, chairman.
with the Concession Agreement and that all parties shareholders.
Any material feedback the use of leverage to remedy more continue to be treated fairly and equitably.
Details of the Companys policies and is then discussed at board level.
The activities undertaken during the remote impacts to which businesses procedures, including a copy of the Assisting with discussions on The committee placed the existing disclosure In particular, the feedback from certain year included the following: are linked and prevent ones occurring public announcements through committee on a more formal footing and is ready to Companys whistleblowing policy, can of the proxy advisory companies, in the future.
The methodology would the disclosure committee evaluate public announcements and matters which be found on the Companys website.
which provide guidance and voting may develop into inside information when needed to be based on working with potential recommendations to shareholders, do so.
offending companies, mainly in supply, is discussed by the board.
chains to improve their human rights Mark Bankes Review of the reporting and The committee is active in the review of public disclosure requirements required disclosures and continues to review and comment on record rather than terminate the Chairman of the compliance and Shareholder communication is by the LSE and TSX such disclosures to ensure messaging and information contracts.
Termination is seen as the corporate governance committee maintained through the following is clear and understandable to the market.
key information channels: 31 January 2018 Governance and board and The committee monitored the recommendations of the The committee recommended and the committee appointments nomination committee in respect to matters affecting the annual report: the board composition and governance structure.
HSES committee agreed to review the the notice of annual general Act further with a view to enhancing meeting and management Cross jurisdictional legal and Monitors both legal and regulatory obligations across the Companys existing human rights regulatory compliance the groups corporate structure and incountry at an information circular: operational level.
