Corporate Governance Report Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 As a UK premium listed Company, Riverstone Energy The Company does not have a chief executive or any Limiteds governance policies and procedures are based on executive directors.
The Company has not established a the principles of the Corporate Governance Code as required separate remuneration committee as the Company has no under the Listing Rules.
The Corporate Governance Code is executive officers and the Board is satisfied that any relevant available on the Financial Reporting Councils website, issues that arise can be properly considered by the Board.
The Company has no employees or internal operations The Company became a member of the AIC effective and has therefore not reported further in respect of these 15 January 2014 and has therefore put in place arrangements provisions.
The need for an internal audit function is to comply with the AIC Code and, in accordance with the discussed in the Audit Committee report.
AIC Code, complies with the Corporate Governance Code.
The Directors recognise the importance of sound corporate The Board governance, particularly the requirements of the AIC Code.
The AIC Code and the AIC Guide are available on the AICs The Company is led and controlled by a Board of Directors, website, www.
which is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
It does so by creating and preserving value, The Company is subject to the GFSC Code, which applies and has as its foremost principle acting in the interests of to all companies registered as collective investment Shareholders.
The GFSC has also confirmed that companies that report against the Corporate Governance The Company believes that the composition of the Board Code or AIC Code are deemed to meet the GFSC Code.
is a fundamental driver of its success as the Board must provide strong and effective leadership of the Company.
The The Board monitors developments in corporate current Board was selected, as their biographies illustrate, to governance to ensure the Board remains aligned with best bring a breadth of knowledge, skills and business experience practice especially with respect to the increased focus on to the Company.
The non-executive Directors provide diversity.
The Board acknowledges the importance of independent challenge and review, bringing wide experience, diversity, including gender, for the effective functioning of specific expertise and a fresh objective perspective.
the Board and commits to supporting diversity in the boardroom.
It is the Boards ongoing aspiration to have a The Board consists of eight Non-executive Directors well diversified representation.
The Board also values 31 December 2016: eight, five of whom, including the diversity of business skills and experience because Directors Chairman, are independent of the Companys Investment with diverse skills sets, capabilities and experience gained Manager: Mr Hayden, Mr Firth, Mr Barker, Mrs Whittet from different geographical backgrounds enhance the Board and Mr Thompson 31 December 2016: five.
Mr Lapeyre, by bringing a wide range of perspectives to the Company.
Mr Leuschen, and Mr Ryan are not considered independent because of their nomination for appointment to the Board by The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses the Investment Manager, pursuant to a right set out in the all the principles set out in the Corporate Governance Investment Management Agreement.
All Directors served Code, as well as setting out additional principles and throughout the year.
recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to investment companies such as the Company.
The Board The Chairman of the Board is independent and is appointed considers that reporting against the principles and in accordance with the Companys Articles of Incorporation.
recommendations of the AIC Code, by reference to the Mr Hayden is considered to be independent because he: AIC Guide, provides better information to Shareholders.
has no current or historical employment with the The Company has complied with the recommendations Investment Manager: of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the Corporate has no current directorships or partnerships in any other Governance Code, except as set out below.
investment funds managed by the Investment Manager: The Corporate Governance Code includes provisions and relating to: is not an executive of a self-managed company or an the role of the chief executive: ex-employee who has left the executive team of a self-managed company within the last five years.
executive directors remuneration: and New Directors receive an induction from the Investment the need for an internal audit function.
Manager and all Directors receive other relevant training For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained as necessary.
in the Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers that At each subsequent Annual General Meeting of the the above provisions are not currently relevant to the position Company, each of the Directors at the date of the notice of the Company, being an externally managed investment convening the Annual General Meeting shall retire from company, which delegates most day-to-day functions to office and may offer themselves for election or re-election third parties.
Corporate Governance Report continued Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 The Board meets at least four times a year for regular, Directors Remuneration scheduled meetings and should the nature of the activity of The level of remuneration of the Non-executive Directors the Company require it, additional meetings may be held, reflects the time commitment and responsibilities of their some at short notice.
At each meeting the Board follows a roles.
The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors does formal agenda that covers the business to be discussed.
The not include any share options or other performance related primary focus at Board meetings is a review of investment elements and there are no plans to seek any Shareholder performance and associated matters such as asset waivers to deviate from this.
allocation, share price discount premium management, investor relations, peer group information, gearing, industry In 2017, an  review of the issues and principal risks and uncertainties in particular remuneration of the Board was undertaken.
The Board those identified at the end of this report.
remuneration evaluation was externally facilitated by Optimus Group Limited, the only piece of work undertaken Between meetings the Board visits, at least annually, by Optimus Group Limited from the Company.
This evaluation the Investment Manager, and there is regular contact with and review considered Riverstone Energy Limited peers, the Administrator, and the Board requires to be supplied in a account domicile, asset class and size, board structure and timely manner with information by the Investment Manager, activity, and the resultant fees are further outlined below.
the Company Secretary and other advisers in a form and of a quality to enable it to discharge its duties.
The Chairman is entitled to annual remuneration of 132,000 31 December 2016: 120,000.
The Chairman of The Company has adopted a share dealing code for the the Audit Committee is entitled to annual remuneration of Board and will seek to ensure compliance by the Board and 82,500 31 December 2016: 75,000 and the Chairman relevant personnel of the Investment Manager and other of the Management Engagement Committee is entitled to third party service providers with the terms of the share annual remuneration of 71,500 31 December 2016: 65,000. dealing code.
The other independent Directors are entitled to annual remuneration of 66,000 31 December 2016: 60,000.
Board Tenure and Re-election This is the first time the Company has increased Board remuneration since the inception of the Company in 2013.
No member of the Board has served for longer than eight The three non-independent Directors have chosen not to years to date.
As such no issue has arisen to be considered be remunerated by the Company for their services.
by the Board with respect to long tenure.
In accordance with the AIC Code, when and if any director shall have been in During the year ended 31 December 2017 and office or on re-election would at the end of that term of 31 December 2016, the Directors remuneration was as follows: office for more than nine years the Company will consider 2017 2016 further whether there is a risk that such a director might Director $000 $000 reasonably be deemed to have lost independence through 1 Peter Barker 79 79 such long service.
1 2 Patrick Firth 99 91 A Director who retires at an Annual General Meeting may, 1 3 Richard Hayden 158 126 if willing to continue to act, be elected or re-elected at that Pierre Lapeyre meeting.
If, at a general meeting at which a Director retires, David Leuschen the Company neither re-elects that Director nor appoints Ken Ryan another person to the Board in the place of that Director, the 1 Jeremy Thompson 79 47 retiring Director shall, if willing to act, be deemed to have 1 4 Claire Whittet 86 83 been re-elected unless at the general meeting it is resolved not to fill the vacancy or unless a resolution for the re-election 1 Non-executive Independent Director of the Director is put to the meeting and not passed.
2 Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee 3 Directors are appointed under letters of appointment, Chairman of the Company 4 copies of which are available at the registered office of the Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee Company.
The Board considers its composition and succession planning on an ongoing basis.
The above fees due to the Directors are for the year ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016, and none were Following discussion, it is the opinion of the Management outstanding at 31 December 2017 31 December 2016: $Nil.
Engagement Committee that the Investment Manager for the year ended 31 December 2017 continues to demonstrate strong performance and as such for the Investment Manager to continue in their appointment on the terms agreed, which would be in the interests of the Shareholders as a whole.
The Board is pleased with the performance of the Investment Manager, based on selection of high quality E&P and midstream investments and comparative resilience in weak markets.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 The Company maintains directors and officers liability Duties and Responsibilities insurance in respect of legal action against its Directors The Board is responsible to Shareholders for the overall on an ongoing basis.
The duties and powers The Boards responsibilities for the Annual Report are reserved for the Board include decisions relating to the set out in the Directors Responsibility Statement.
The Board determination of investment policy and approval of is also responsible for issuing appropriate half-yearly investments in certain instances, strategy, capital raising, financial reports, quarterly portfolio valuations and other statutory obligations and public disclosure, financial reporting price-sensitive public reports.
and entering into any material contracts by the Company.
The Board has overall responsibility for maximising the Directors attendance at Board and Companys success by directing and supervising the affairs Committee Meetings: of the business and meeting the appropriate interests of One of the key criteria the Company uses when selecting Shareholders and relevant stakeholders, while enhancing Non-executive Directors is their confirmation prior to their the value of the Company and also ensuring the protection appointment that they will be able to allocate sufficient time of investors.
A summary of the Boards responsibilities is to the Company to discharge their responsibilities in a timely as follows: and effective manner.
statutory obligations and public disclosure: The Board formally met four times during the year and strategic matters and financial reporting: the other Board committee meetings were called in relation to specific events or to issue approvals, often at short notice risk assessment and management including reporting, and did not necessarily require full attendance.
The Chairman compliance, governance, monitoring and control: and meets privately with the independent Non-executive Directors other matters having a material effect on the Company.
before each scheduled Board meeting.
Directors are encouraged when they are unable to attend a meeting to The Directors have access to the advice and services of the give the Chairman their views and comments on matters Administrator, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring to be discussed, in advance.
In addition to their meeting that Board procedures are followed and that it complies commitments, the Non-executive Directors also make with Companies Law and applicable rules and regulations themselves available to management whenever required and of the GFSC and the LSE.
Where necessary, in carrying out there is regular contact outside the Board meeting schedule.
their duties, the Directors may seek independent professional advice and services at the expense of the Company.
Attendance is further set out below: Management Scheduled Audit Nomination Engagement Board Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Director max 4 max 5 max 1 max 1 max 7 1 Peter Barker 4 4 1 1 n a 1 2 Patrick Firth 4 5 1 1 7 1 Richard Hayden 4 4 1 1 n a Pierre Lapeyre 4 n a n a n a n a David Leuschen 3 n a n a n a n a 1 Claire Whittet 4 5 1 1 6 Ken Ryan 4 n a n a n a n a 1 Jeremy Thompson 4 5 1 1 7 1 Non-executive Independent Director 2 Non-executive Senior Independent Director A quorum is comprised of any two or more members of the Board from time to time, to perform administrative and other routine functions on behalf of the Board, subject to such limitations as the Board may expressly impose on this committee from time to time.
Corporate Governance Report continued Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 In considering appointments to the Board, the Nomination Committees of the Board Committee takes into account the ongoing requirements of The Board believes that it and its committees have an the Company and evaluates the balance of skills, experience, appropriate composition and blend of skills, experience, independence, and knowledge of each candidate.
Appointments independence and diversity of backgrounds to discharge are therefore made on personal merit and against objective their duties and responsibilities effectively.
The Board is of criteria with the aim of bringing new skills and different the view that no one individual or small group dominates perspectives to the Board whilst taking into account the decision-making.
The Board keeps its membership, and existing balance of knowledge, experience and diversity.
that of its committees, under review to ensure that an In the case of candidates for Non-executive Directorships, acceptable balance is maintained, and that the collective care is taken to ascertain that they have sufficient time to fulfil skills and experience of its members continue to be their Board and, where relevant, committee responsibilities.
It is satisfied that all Directors have sufficient The Board believes that the terms of reference of the time to devote to their roles and that undue reliance is not Nomination Committee ensure that it operates in a rigorous placed on any individual.
The Board believes that, as a whole, Each committee of the Board has written terms of it comprises an appropriate balance of skills, experience and reference, approved by the Board, summarising its objectives, knowledge.
The Board also believes that diversity of experience remit and powers, which are available on the Companys and approach, including gender diversity, amongst Board website www.
com and reviewed on an members is of great importance and it is the Companys annual basis.
All committee members are provided with policy to give careful consideration to issues of Board appropriate induction on joining their respective committees, balance and diversity when making new appointments.
as well as on-going access to training.
Minutes of all The Board is satisfied with the current composition and meetings of the committees save for the private sessions functioning of its members.
When appointing Board members, of committee members at the end of meetings are made its priority is based on merit, but will be influenced by the available to all Directors and feedback from each of the strong desire to maintain board diversity, including gender.
committees is provided to the Board by the respective committee Chairmen at the next Board meeting.
The All Directors are subject to annual re-election by Chairman of each committee attends the AGM to answer Shareholders at the AGM.
any questions on their committees activities.
Management Engagement Committee The Board and its committees are supplied with regular, comprehensive and timely information in a form and of a The Management Engagement Committee is chaired by quality that enables them to discharge their duties effectively.
Mrs Whittet and comprises Mr Barker, Mr Hayden, Mr Firth All Directors are able to make further enquiries of and Mr Thompson.
The Management Engagement management whenever necessary, and have access to the Committee meets at least once a year pursuant to its terms services of the Company Secretary.
The Management Engagement Committee provides Audit Committee a formal mechanism for the review of the performance of The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Firth and comprises the Investment Manager and the Companys other advisors Mr Barker, Mr Hayden, Mr Thompson and Mrs Whittet.
It carries out this review through Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Investment Manager consideration of a number of objective and subjective and the external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, have held criteria and through a review of the terms and conditions discussions regarding the audit approach and identified risks.
of the advisors appointments with the aim of evaluating The external auditors attend Audit Committee meetings and performance, identifying any weaknesses and ensuring a private meeting is routinely held with the external auditors to value for money for the Shareholders.
afford them the opportunity of discussions without the presence of management.
The Audit Committee activities are contained Board Performance and Evaluation in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 40 to 42.
In accordance with Principle 7 of the AIC Code which requires a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its Nomination Committee performance, the Board formally reviews its performance The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr Hayden and annually through an internal process.
Internal evaluation of comprises Mr Barker, Mr Firth, Mr Thompson and Mrs Whittet.
the Board, the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Management Engagement Committee and individual The Nomination Committee meets at least once a year Directors has taken the form of self-appraisal questionnaires pursuant to its terms of reference and met on 27 February and discussions to determine effectiveness and performance in 2018.
The Nomination Committee is convened for the purpose various areas as well as the Directors continued independence.
of considering the appointment of additional Directors as During 2017 the Board carried out an internal evaluation of and when considered appropriate.
The Nomination Committee the performance of the Board and the Board Committees.
recognises the continuing importance of planning for the future and ensuring that succession plans are in place.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 The responses were consolidated and anonymised and The Board monitors the ongoing performance of such common themes identified in order for the Board to agents and advisors and will continue to do so through determine key actions and next steps for improving Board the Management Engagement Committee: and Committee effectiveness and performance.
the Board monitors the actions of the Investment The Board believes that annual evaluations are helpful Manager at regular Board meetings and is given frequent and provide a valuable opportunity for continuous updates on developments arising from the operations and improvement.
All Directors participated in the evaluation, strategic direction of the underlying investee companies: and the findings were collectively considered by the Board.
the Administrator provides administration and company No significant areas of weaknesses were highlighted during secretarial services to the Company.
The Administrator the evaluation and the Board concluded that it had operated maintains a system of internal control on which they effectively throughout 2017 which supported the overall report to the Board: and conclusion of the 2016 external evaluation that the Board is collegiate, transparent and effective.
The Board is confident the Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit in its ability to continue effectively to lead the Company and function and has decided that the systems and procedures oversee its affairs.
The Board believes that the current mix employed by the Administrator and Investment Manager, of skills, experience, knowledge and age of the Directors is including their own internal controls and procedures, appropriate to the requirements of the Company.
provide sufficient assurance that an appropriate level of risk management and internal control, which safeguards New Directors receive an induction on joining the Board Shareholders investment and the Companys assets, is and regularly meet with the senior management employed maintained.
An internal audit function specific to the by the Investment Manager both formally and informally to Company is therefore considered unnecessary.
ensure that the Board remains regularly updated on all issues.
All members of the Board are members of professional Internal controls over financial reporting are designed to bodies and serve on other Boards, which ensures they are provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of kept abreast of the latest technical developments in their financial reporting and the preparation of Financial areas of expertise.
Statements for external reporting purposes.
The Administrator and Investment Manager both operate risk The Board arranges for presentations from the Investment controlled frameworks on a continual ongoing basis within Manager, the Companys brokers and other advisors on a regulated environment.
The Administrator has undertaken matters relevant to the Companys business.
The Board an ISAE 3402: Assurance Reports on Controls at a Service assesses the training needs of Directors on an annual basis.
Organisation audit and formally reports to the Board quarterly through a compliance report.
The Investment Internal Control and Financial Reporting Manager formally reports to the Board quarterly including updates within Riverstone and also engages with the Board The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for on an ad-hoc basis as required.
No weaknesses or failings establishing and maintaining the Companys system of within the Administrator or Investment Manager have been internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
control systems are designed to manage rather than The systems of control referred to above are designed to eliminate the failure to achieve business objectives and can ensure effectiveness and efficient operation, internal control only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against and compliance with laws and regulations.
In establishing material misstatements or loss.
However, the Boards the systems of internal control, regard is paid to the objective is to ensure that Riverstone Energy Limited has materiality of relevant risks, the likelihood of costs being appropriate systems in place for the identification and incurred and costs of control.
It follows therefore that the management of risks.
The Directors carry out a robust systems of internal control can only provide reasonable but assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, not absolute assurance against the risk of material including those that would threaten its business model, future misstatement or loss.
This process has been in place for performance, solvency or liquidity.
The key procedures which the year under review and up to the date of approval of this have been established to provide internal control are that: Annual Report and Financial Statements.
It is reviewed by the Board has delegated the day-to-day operations the Board and is in accordance with the FRCs internal of the Company to the Administrator and Investment control publication: Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Manager: however, it retains accountability for all Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
functions it delegates: the Board clearly defines the duties and responsibilities of the Companys agents and advisors and appointments are made by the Board after due and careful consideration.
Corporate Governance Report continued Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 The Investment Manager has regular contact with Investment Management Agreement Shareholders, including the Cornerstone Investors, and any The Investment Manager has been appointed as the sole views that they may have are communicated to the Board investment manager of the Company and the Partnership.
No sensitive information is provided to the Pursuant to the Investment Management Agreement, the Cornerstone Investors that is not provided to the Shareholders Investment Manager has responsibility for and discretion as a whole and at the same time.
The Board is also kept fully over investing and managing the Companys and the informed of all relevant market commentary on the Company Partnerships direct and indirect assets, subject to and in by the Investment Manager and the Corporate Brokers.
Over accordance with the Companys investment policy.
The the year, the Investment Managers investor relations team Investment Manager is entitled to delegate all or part of its and senior management held several roadshows and over functions under the Investment Management Agreement to 100 meetings with investors and equity research analysts.
one or more of its affiliates.
The Company has delegated the provision of all services Whistleblowing to external service providers whose work is overseen by the The Board has considered the AIC Code recommendations Management Engagement Committee at its regular in respect of arrangements by which staff of the Investment scheduled meetings.
Each year a detailed review of Manager or Administrator may, in confidence, raise concerns performance pursuant to their terms of engagement is within their respective organisations about possible undertaken by the Management Engagement Committee.
improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other In accordance with Listing Rule 15.6.
It has concluded that adequate arrangements are formally appraised the performance and resources of the in place for the proportionate and independent investigation Investment Manager, in the opinion of the Directors the of such matters and, where necessary, for appropriate continuing appointment of the Investment Manager on follow-up action to be taken within their organisation.
the terms agreed is in the interests of the Shareholders as a whole.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Companys assets consist of investments, through Relations with Shareholders the Partnership, within the global energy sector, with a The Board welcomes Shareholders views and places great particular focus on opportunities in the global exploration importance on communication with its Shareholders.
The and production and midstream energy sub-sectors.
Its Companys AGM provides a forum for Shareholders to meet principal risks are therefore related to market conditions and discuss issues with the Directors of the Company.
The in the energy sector in general, but also the particular Chairman is available to meet with Shareholders at the AGM circumstances of the businesses in which it is invested to hear their views and discuss any issues or concerns, through the Partnership.
The Investment Manager to the including in relation to board composition, governance and Partnership seeks to mitigate these risks through active strategy, or at other times, if required.
In addition, Mr. Firth, asset management initiatives and carrying out due diligence as the Senior Independent Director, is also available to work on potential targets before entering into any investments.
Shareholders if they have concerns which contact through Each Director is fully aware of the risks inherent in the the normal channels has failed to resolve or for which such Companys business and understands the importance of contact would be inappropriate.
The Chairman, Senior identifying, evaluating and monitoring these risks.
The Board Independent Director and other Directors are also available has adopted procedures and controls that enable it to carry to meet with Shareholders at other times, if required.
out a robust assessment of the risks facing the Company, The Company reports formally to Shareholders in a number manage these risks within acceptable limits and to meet of ways: regulatory news releases through the London Stock all of its legal and regulatory obligations.
The Board is Exchanges regulatory News Service, announcements are committed to upholding and maintaining our zero tolerance issued in response to events or routine reporting obligations, towards the criminal facilitation of tax evasion.
an Interim Report is published in August each year, outlining The Board thoroughly considers the process for performance to 30 June, which is made available on the identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks Companys website: the Annual Report is published in faced by the Company on an ongoing basis and these risks February each year, for the year ended 31 December, which are reported and discussed at Board meetings.
It ensures is made available on the Companys website.
In addition, that effective controls are in place to mitigate these risks the Companys website www.
com contains and that a satisfactory compliance regime exists to ensure comprehensive information, including company notifications, all applicable local and international laws and regulations share information, financial reports, investment objectives are upheld.
and policy, investor contacts and information on the Board and corporate governance.
Shareholders and other interested parties can subscribe to email news updates by registering online on the website.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 For each material risk, the likelihood and consequence An investments requirements for additional capital are identified, management controls and frequency of may require the Company to invest more capital than monitoring are confirmed and results reported and discussed it had originally planned or result in the dilution of at the quarterly Board meetings.
the Companys investment or a decrease in the value of that investment.
The Companys principal risk factors are fully discussed in the Prospectuses, available on the Companys The Company may not have sufficient dry powder to website www.
com and should be reviewed participate in all investment opportunities presented.
Current regulations require SIFIs, specifically large The key areas of risk faced by the Company are banks, to hold sufficient capital as a buffer against summarised below: trading losses, or CAR CRAR.
Since commodities are more volatile risky in the current market, 1.
The Company intends to only invest in the global energy it could strip large banks of commodity trading sector, with a particular focus on oil and gas exploration operations to alleviate the capital required to maintain and production, and midstream investments, which will their CAR CRAR.
This could in turn impact the expose it to concentration risk.
commodity prices and therefore the value of RELs portfolio companies.
The Ordinary Shares may trade at a Discount to NAV per Share for reasons including but not limited to: market REL's portfolio companies operate in a hazardous conditions, liquidity concerns and actual or expected industry, which is highly regulated by safety and Company performance.
As such, there can be no health laws.
Failure to provide a safe working guarantee that attempts to mitigate such discount will environment may result in harm to employees and be successful or that the use of discount control local communities.
Governments may force closure mechanisms will be possible, advisable or adopted by of facilities or refuse future drilling right applications.
These inherent risks associated with investments in the global 3.
Investments in the exploration and production and energy sector could result in a material adverse effect on the midstream sectors of the global energy sector involve Companys performance and the value of Ordinary Shares.
The above key risks are mitigated and managed by the The countries in which the Company invests may be Board through continual review, policy setting and updating exposed to geopolitical risks.
of the Companys risk matrix at each Audit Committee Meeting to ensure that procedures are in place with the The change in the price of oil could adversely affect intention of minimising the impact of the above mentioned the investment valuations through the public market risks.
The Board relies on periodic reports provided by the trading and transaction comparables, the discounted Investment Manager and Administrator regarding risks that cash flow rates, and potentially limit exit opportunities.
When required, experts will be employed A change in interest rates could adversely affect to gather information, including tax advisors, legal advisors, efficient access to debt as a source of capital for and environmental advisors.
both portfolio investments and potential buyers of portfolio investments.
The Companys financial instrument risks are discussed in Note 11 to the Financial Statements.
The regulatory and tax environment of the Companys By order of the Board target investments is potentially subject to change, which may adversely affect the value or liquidity of investments held by the Company or its ability to obtain leverage.
The Company will be exposed to increased risk by Richard Hayden investing in build-up and early-stage investments Chairman that have little or no operating history and are 27 February 2018 comparably more vulnerable to financial failure than more established companies.
The investor should be aware there can be no assurance that losses generated by these types of entities will be offset by gains if any realised on the Companys other investments.
