Report of the Audit Committee Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 The Audit Committee, chaired by Mr Firth, operates within The Audit Committee is aware that several sections of clearly defined terms of reference, which are available from the Annual Report are not subject to formal statutory audit, the Companys website www.
com, and including the Chairmans Statement and the Investment include all matters indicated by Disclosure Guidance and Managers Report.
Financial information in these sections Transparency Rule 7.1, the AIC Code and the Corporate is reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Its other members are Mr Barker, The Audit Committee is required to report its findings Mr Hayden, Mr Thompson and Mrs Whittet.
Members of the to the Board, identifying any matters on which it considers Audit Committee must be independent of the Companys that action or improvement is needed, and make external auditor and Investment Manager.
The Audit recommendations on the steps to be taken.
Committee will meet no less than three times in a year, and at such other times as the Audit Committee Chairman The external auditor is invited to attend the Audit shall require, and will meet the external auditor at least Committee meetings at which the Annual Report and once a year.
Interim Financial Report are considered and at which they have the opportunity to meet with the Committee without The Committee members have considerable financial representatives of the Investment Manager or Administrator and business experience and the Board has determined that being present at least once per year.
the membership as a whole has sufficient recent and relevant sector and financial experience to discharge its responsibilities and that at least one member has competence in accounting Financial Reporting or auditing having a background as a chartered accountant.
The primary role of the Audit Committee in relation to financial reporting is to review with the Administrator, Investment Responsibilities Manager and the external auditor and report to the Board on the appropriateness of the Annual Report and Financial The main duties of the Audit Committee are: Statements and Interim Financial Report, concentrating on, to monitor the integrity of the Companys Financial amongst other matters: Statements and regulatory announcements relating to the quality and acceptability of accounting policies and its financial performance and review significant financial practices: reporting judgements: the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with to report to the Board on the appropriateness of the financial reporting standards and relevant financial and Companys accounting policies and practices: governance reporting requirements: to review the valuations of the Companys investments material areas in which significant judgements have been prepared by the Investment Manager, and provide a applied or there has been discussion with the external recommendation to the Board on the valuation of the auditor including going concern and viability statement: Companys investments: whether the Annual Report and Financial Statements, to oversee the relationship with the external auditors, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable including agreeing their remuneration and terms of and provides the information necessary for Shareholders engagement, monitoring their independence, objectivity to assess the Companys performance, business model and effectiveness, ensuring that policy surrounding their and strategy: and engagement to provide non-audit services is appropriately applied, and making recommendations to the Board on any correspondence from regulators in relation to our their appointment, reappointment or removal, for it to financial reporting.
put to the Shareholders in general meeting: To aid its review, the Audit Committee considers reports to monitor and consider annually whether there is a need from the Administrator and Investment Manager and also for the Company to have its own internal audit function: reports from the external auditor on the outcomes of their half-year review and annual audit.
The Audit Committee to keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys supports Ernst and Young LLP in displaying the necessary internal controls, including financial controls and risk professional scepticism their role requires.
management systems: to review and consider the Corporate Governance Code, the AIC Code, the GFSC Code, the AIC Guidance on Audit Committees and the Stewardship Code: and to report to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 As outlined in Note 6 to the Financial Statements, the total Meetings carrying value of the investment in the Partnership at fair During the year ended 31 December 2017, the Audit value through profit or loss at 31 December 2017 was Committee met formally five times and maintained ongoing $1,742 million 31 December 2016: $1,695 million.
Market liaison and discussion between the external auditor and the quotations are not available for this financial asset such Chairman of the Audit Committee with regards to the audit that the value of the Companys investment is based on the approach and the identified risks.
The Audit Committee has value of the Companys limited partner capital account with met on one occasion since the year end through to the date the Partnership, which itself is based on the value of the of this report on 27 February 2018.
The matters discussed at Partnerships investments as determined by the Investment those meetings include: Manager, along with the cash and fixed deposits held.
The valuation for each individual investment held by the review of the terms of reference of the audit committee Partnership is determined by reference to common industry for approval by the Board: valuation techniques, including comparable public market review of the accounting policies and format of the valuation, comparable merger and acquisition transaction Financial Statements: valuation, and discounted cash flow valuation, as detailed in the Investment Managers Report and Note 5 to the review and approval of the audit plan of the external Financial Statements.
auditor: The valuation process and methodology was discussed discussion and approval of the fee for the external audit: with the Investment Manager and with the external auditor detailed review of the valuations of the Companys at the Audit Committee meetings held on 31 October 2017 investment portfolio and recommendation for approval and 27 February 2018.
The Investment Manager has carried by the Board: out a valuation quarterly and provided a detailed valuation report to the Company at each quarter.
detailed review of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, Interim Financial Report and quarterly The Audit Committee reviewed the Investment Managers portfolio valuations, and recommendation for approval Report.
The Investment Manager confirmed to the Audit by the Board: Committee that the external auditors work had not identified any errors or inconsistencies that were material in the context assessment of the independence of the external auditor: of the Annual Report and Financial Statements as a whole.
assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit The external auditor explained the results of their audit process as described below: and work on valuations.
There were no adjustments proposed review of the Companys key risks and internal controls.
that were material in the context of the Annual Report and Financial Statements as a whole.
The Audit Committee has reviewed going concern and Significant Areas of Judgement has considered managements forecasts.
Following this Considered by the Audit Committee review and a discussion of the sensitivities, we confirmed that it continues to be appropriate to follow the going The Audit Committee has determined that a key risk of concern basis of accounting in the Financial Statements.
misstatement of the Companys Financial Statements Further detail on the basis of the going concern assessment relates to the valuation of the investment in the Partnership by the Directors is set out on page 29. at fair value through profit or loss, in the context of the judgements necessary to evaluate market values of the For the Viability Statement, the Audit Committee Investment Undertakings of the Partnership.
endorsed the selection of a three year time horizon as a basis for the statement and the approach to its development.
The Directors have considered whether any discount Further detail on the assessment of viability and the viability or premium should be applied to the net asset value of the statement are set out on pages 29 and 30.
Partnership, which is based on the fair value of its Investment Undertakings.
In view of the Companys investment in the Partnership and the nature of the Partnerships assets, no Risk Management adjustment to the net asset value of the Partnership has been made, as this is deemed equivalent to fair value.
The Board is accountable for carrying out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those The Audit Committee reviews, considers and, if thought threatening its business model, future performance, appropriate, recommends for the purposes of the Companys solvency and liquidity.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Financial Statements, valuations prepared by the Investment Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Companys risk Manager in respect of the investments of the Partnership.
The Companys risk assessment process and the way in which significant business risks are managed is a key area of focus for the Audit Committee.
Report of the Audit Committee continued Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 The work of the Audit Committee was driven primarily by the This precludes Ernst & Young LLP from providing certain Companys assessment of its principal risks and uncertainties services such as valuation work or the provision of as set out in the Corporate Governance Report.
The Audit accounting services and also sets a presumption that Ernst Committee receives reports from the Investment Manager & Young LLP should only be engaged for non-audit services and Administrator on the Companys risk evaluation process where Ernst & Young LLP are best placed to provide the and reviews changes to significant risks identified.
non-audit service for example, the interim review and reporting accountant services.
Note 14 details services provided by Ernst & Young LLP.
Internal Audit To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence The Audit Committee shall consider at least once a year of the external auditor, the Audit Committee considers: whether or not there is a need for an internal audit function.
discussions with or reports from the external auditor Currently, the Audit Committee does not consider there to describing its arrangements to identify, report and be a need for an internal audit function, given that there manage any conflicts of interest: and are no employees in the Company and all outsourced functions are with parties who have their own internal the extent of non-audit services provided by the external controls and procedures.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the External Audit committee reviews: Ernst & Young LLP has been the Companys external the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan auditor since the Companys incorporation.
This is the fifth and variations from it: year of audit.
discussions or reports highlighting the major issues that The external auditor is required to rotate the audit arose during the course of the audit: and partner every five years.
The current Ernst & Young lead feedback from other service providers evaluating the audit partner, Mr Michael Bane, started his tenure in 2013 and his current rotation will end with the audit of the 2017 performance of the audit team.
Annual Report and Financial Statements.
There are no The Audit Committee is satisfied with Ernst & Young LLPs contractual obligations restricting the choice of external effectiveness and independence as external auditor having auditor and the Company will put the audit services contract considered the degree of diligence and professional out to tender at least every ten years.
Under Companies Law, scepticism demonstrated by them.
Having carried out the the reappointment of the external auditor is subject to review described above, and having satisfied itself that the Shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting.
The external auditor remains independent and effective, the Audit Committee will continue to monitor the performance Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that Ernst of the external auditor on an annual basis and will consider & Young LLP be reappointed as external auditor for the year their independence and objectivity, taking account of ending 31 December 2018. appropriate guidelines.
In addition, the Committee Chairman will continue to maintain regular contact with the lead audit The Audit Committee has provided the Board with its partner outside the formal Committee meeting schedule, not recommendation to the Shareholders on the re-appointment only to discuss formal agenda items for upcoming meetings, of Ernst & Young LLP as external auditor for the year ending but also to review any other significant matters.
Accordingly, a resolution proposing the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as our external auditor The Audit Committee reviews the scope and results of will be put to Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
the audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external auditor, with particular regard to On behalf of the Audit Committee the level of non-audit fees.
Notwithstanding such services the Audit Committee considers Ernst & Young LLP to be independent of the Company and that the provision of such non-audit services is not a threat to the objectivity and independence of the conduct of the audit.
Patrick Firth To further safeguard the objectivity and independence of Chairman of the Audit Committee the external auditor from becoming compromised, the Audit 27 February 2018 Committee has a formal policy governing the engagement of the external auditor to provide non-audit services.
