Nomination Committee report Dear shareholder Succession planning I am pleased to present to you my report We ensure that succession plans are on the Nomination Committee the in place for the orderly succession for Committee further to my appointment in appointments to the Board and senior 2017 to Nomination Committee Chairman.
management positions, so that there is an appropriate balance of skills During 2017, the composition of the Board and experience within the Company changed as Lance Browne stepped down.
I am delighted to take on his particular responsibility as Senior Independent NonSuccession planning discussions continue Executive Director in addition to the role of to be an integral priority of the Groups Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
business planning and review process, as is the continued development of both Our Board composition management capacity and capabilities As at the date of this report, the Board within the business.
comprises seven members, being: Terms of reference the Chairman Douglas Sutherland : Below is a summary of the terms of two Executive Directors: and reference of the Nomination Committee: four Non-Executive Directors.
Board appointment and composition to regularly review the structure, size IWG maintains a Board whose breadth and 7KH GLYHUVLW RI WKH %RDUG and composition of the Board and scope in terms of expertise, gender and PLUURUV WKH ZLGH JHRJUDSKLFDO make recommendations on the role and nationality reflect the size and geographical UHDFK RI RXU EXVLQHVV DQG ZH nomination of Directors for appointment reach of the business.
We believe the Board and reappointment to the Board for the is the right size to meet the requirements of FRQWLQXH WR SODFH VWURQJ purpose of ensuring a balanced and the business and any changes to the Boards HPSKDVLV RQ WKH VDPH diverse Board in respect of skills, composition and to its Committees can be knowledge and experience.
FRANOIS PAULY Board Committees to make Board appointments CHAIRMAN recommendations to the Board in Our regular internal Board review process relation to the suitability of candidates monitors effectiveness, performance, for membership of the Audit and balance, independence, leadership and Remuneration Committees.
The succession planning, enabling us to identify appointment and removal of Directors the capabilities and roles required for a are matters reserved for the full Board.
Members of the Committee particular Board appointment.
In view of Board effectiveness to review annually the future development of the Group Committee membership during the and make appropriate recommendations and our objective to continue to place strong year and attendance at the meetings to the Board.
emphasis on the diversity of the Board, the are set out below.
Nomination Committee maintains an ongoing Attendance programme of engagement with highly out of possible qualified female and male Non-Executive maximum number Director candidates of varied education, Members of meetings backgrounds and business experience.
Franois Pauly, Chairman 4 4 We maintain a policy of diversity, as is 1 reflected in our current Board of two Lance Browne 1 1 women and five men, representing five Elmar Heggen 3 4 nationalities and six countries of residence.
Nina Henderson 4 4 Along with their international operational Florence Pierre 4 4 experience, they also bring in-depth Douglas Sutherland 4 4 Length of tenure of Non-Executive working knowledge of multiple industries, business and organisational models, Directors within the Committee 1.
Lance Browne left the Nomination Committee on 16 May 2017 corporate cultures, functional areas and business issues.
We continue to monitor All members of the Committee are independent.
the broader discussion on diversity which we take into consideration whilst 0-3 years 1 maintaining a merit based approach to 3-6 years 2 recommendations for Board appointments.
6 years 2 56, : 3 & $118$ 5 3257 $1' $&&28176 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Gender split of board Gender split of business Gender split of Group employees centre employees Female: 29% Female: 75% Female: 52% Male: 71% Male: 25% Male: 48% Board performance to assist the Our Board composition Chairman with the annual performance As at the date of this report, the evaluation to assess the performance and Board comprises seven members: effectiveness of the overall Board and the Chairman Douglas Sutherland, individual Directors.
four Non-Executive Directors and two Leadership to remain fully informed Executive Directors.
The Board considers about strategic issues and commercial all the Non-Executive Directors to be matters affecting the Company and to independent.
The names of the Directors keep under review the leadership needs serving as at 31 December 2017 and of the organisation to enable it to their biographical details are set out compete effectively.
Complete details of the above are available All Directors served throughout on the Companys website: the year under review.
com stepped down from the Board following the 2017 AGM.
FRANOIS PAULY CHAIRMAN, NOMINATION COMMITTEE IWGs aim is to appoint a Board with varied backgrounds and gender to reflect the society in which we operate.
