Corporate governance ACCOUNTABILITY, TRANSPARENCY, PROBITY AND FOCUS FORM THE BASIS OF THE COMPANYS GOOD GOVERNANCE I trust that you will find our reports to be Dear shareholder fair, balanced and understandable: this is This section is concerned with good a reflection of how we do business and governance and the approach that how the Board serves its stakeholders.
your Board takes in order to promote an effective and robust governance Board composition structure within the Group.
It is the Following the 2017 annual general responsibility of your Board to ensure and meeting, Lance Browne resigned, with be responsible for the long-term success of Franois Pauly simultaneously replacing the Company through facilitating effective him as Senior Independent Non-Executive entrepreneurial and prudent management.
Director and Nomination Committee Through the detail provided in the Chairman.
We maintain a Board based on reports contained in this section, I hope merit which we believe encompasses the we can provide you with an insight into broad range of skills, backgrounds and how we continually strive to achieve experience necessary to properly serve our effective governance.
The mix of Board members brings together many backgrounds and Our approach to governance nationalities covering diverse executive We firmly believe that good governance responsibilities and, additionally, each starts with a strong Board providing member brings with them distinct yet entrepreneurial leadership and setting complementary personal experiences 7KH DLP RI RXU %RDUG LV the values of the Group against a backdrop and approaches to matters which include of prudent and appropriate safeguards, the evaluation of opportunities and WR VHW WKH YDOXHV RI WKH checks and balances which are regularly management of risks.
We continue to see &RPSDQ WKURXJK D FXOWXUH reviewed and which ensure that the right the rewards and benefits of having such RI RSHQQHVV DQG GHEDWH considerations underpin every decision strength and diversity on the Board.
Nomination Committee DOUGLAS SUTHERLAND As your Board, it is our responsibility, The Nomination Committee report is set CHAIRMAN through a culture of openness and out on pages 56 to 57. debate, to determine the conduct of the Group's business with particular Remuneration Committee focus on the following areas: The Directors Remuneration report is set out on pages 62 to 73 including the performance and progress: Remuneration Policy on pages 64 to 68. major risks and their mitigation: Audit Committee and auditors strategy: In view of our continuing long-term ethics, behaviours and values: ambition for growth and the significant investments that have been made across people and how we can create the business, the Audit Committee has a high-performing team: continued to play a substantial role in future development and succession: ensuring appropriate governance and customers: and challenge around our risk and assurance processes.
This is covered in further accountability to shareholders.
Full details Independent Committee of the work of the Audit Committee are An Independent Committee comprised of in the Audit Committee report on pages the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors 58 to 61. was formed to consider the unsolicited DOUGLAS SUTHERLAND approach nearing year end by funds CHAIRMAN managed by affiliates of Brookfield Asset, Q WKLV VHFWLRQ Management, Inc. and Onex Corporation.
The discussions ended on 1 February 2018.
50 Corporate governance 56 Nomination Committee report 58 Audit Committee report 62 Directors Remuneration report 74 Directors report 75 Directors statements 50, : 3 & $118$ 5 3257 $1' $&&28176 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Board has a formal schedule of matters UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE LEADERSHIP reserved for its decision and which cannot Role of the Board CODE be delegated.
These include: The UK Corporate Governance Code, as The role of your Board is to facilitate approval of long-term objectives published by the Financial Reporting effective, entrepreneurial and prudent and commercial strategy: Council in September 2014 and available management and through that to be on www.
uk the Code, sets out collectively responsible for the long-term approval of the annual budget: a series of principles and provisions success of the Company.
The Board sets: approval of regulatory announcements documenting good practice in governance.
the strategy for the Group and ensures including the interim and annual financial Our Corporate Governance Report is that the necessary resources, measures statements: structured to report against the main and controls are in place to implement principles of the Code, which relate to: approval of terms of reference the agreed strategy and to monitor leadership, effectiveness, accountability, and membership of the Board performance: and remuneration and relations with and its Committees: the values and standards which form shareholders.
Together with the Audit approval of risk management strategy: the basis of the corporate culture of Committee report, the Nomination the Company.
Committee report and the Directors changes to the Groups capital structure: Remuneration report, this Corporate changes to the Groups management Role of the Chairman Governance Report shows how we have and control structure: The Chairman: applied the principles of the Code during capital expenditure in excess of 5m: and 2017 when we complied with all the is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness provisions of the Code except in relation material contracts annual value in excess on all aspects of its role: to Senior Independent Director contact of 5m.
Further sets the Board meeting schedule Minutes are taken of all Board discussions information on this is provided in our and agenda: and and decisions.
In the event that a Director Compliance Statement on page 55. has a concern about the running of the ensures that each meeting covers an Company or a proposed action, and such appropriate range of topics including concern remains unresolved, Directors operations, strategy, business ensure that any such concerns are recorded development, special projects in the Board minutes.
Board Committees Board meetings There are three committees which support In 2017 the Board met seven times.
the Board: Details of Board membership throughout the year and attendance at meetings are the Audit Committee: set out below: the Remuneration Committee: and the Nomination Committee Attendance the Committees.
out of possible The Committees have been delegated maximum number Members of meetings : certain powers by the Board, further details of which, together with the work Douglas Sutherland, of the Committees, can be found on pages Chairman 7 7 56 to 73.
The terms of reference of each Mark Dixon 7 7 Committee can be found on the Companys Dominik fide Daniel 7 7 website: www.
com 1 Lance Browne 3 3 The Company Secretary acts as Franois Pauly 6 7 Secretary to all the Committees and Elmar Heggen 6 7 minutes of meetings are circulated Florence Pierre 7 7 to all Board members.
Lance Browne left the board on 16 May 2017 51 Corporate Governance continued Re-election of the Board Development, information and EFFECTIVENESS All Executive and Non-Executive Directors support Board composition submit themselves for re-election by All Directors have: The Board currently comprises the shareholders annually.
Directors appointed Chairman, two Executive Directors and the opportunity to meet with major during the period since the last annual four Non-Executive Directors.
The Board shareholders and have access to the general meeting are required to seek considers all Non-Executive Directors to Companys operations and employees: election at the next annual general meeting be independent and they each bring their under the Companys articles of association.
access to training which is provided on an own senior-level experience and objectivity ongoing basis to meet particular needs There have been no Directors appointed to the Board.
during the period since the last annual with the emphasis on governance and The composition of the Board accounting developments.
During the year general meeting.
and Committees are both regularly the Company Secretary provided updates Time commitment reviewed and the Board considers the to the Board on relevant governance correct balance of expertise, skills and In accordance with the terms of their matters, whilst the Audit Committee dedication in order to discharge its duties appointment agreements, the Chairman regularly considers new accounting effectively has been maintained.
and all Non-Executive Directors are developments through presentations expected to allocate such time as is from management, internal business Board appointments and succession necessary for the proper performance of assurance and the external auditors: and The Nomination Committee continues to their duties as Directors of the Company be responsible for leading the process for access to the advice and services of the and are required to advise the Board if Board appointments, which it does on the Company Secretary, who is responsible for there is a change in circumstances which basis of the evaluation of the balance of ensuring that Board procedures, corporate will impact on the time they are able to skills, experience, independence and governance and regulatory compliance are dedicate to the Company.
Appointment Copies of all Non-Executives Directors Further details of the Nomination and removal of the Company Secretary is appointment agreements are available for Committees work and responsibilities a matter reserved for the Board.
inspection at the Companys registered are contained on pages 56 and 57.
The Board programme includes the receipt office during normal business hours and at of monthly Board reports and presentations the annual general meeting.
Details of other given at Board meetings from management commitments held by the Directors are with strategic responsibilities.
These, disclosed on pages 48 and 49. together with site visits, increase the Non-Executive Directors understanding of the business and sector.
Should a Director request independent professional advice to carry out his duties, such advice is available to him or her at the Companys expense.
DOUGLAS SUTHERLAND MARK DIXON ROLE OF BOARD MEMBERS CHAIRMAN CHIEF EXECUTIVE There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Responsible for leadership of the Board, Responsible for formulating strategy and Company between the running of the setting its agenda and monitoring its for its delivery once agreed by the Board.
Board and the running of the Companys effectiveness.
He ensures that adequate He creates a framework of strategy, values, business.
No one individual Director has time is available for discussion of all organisation and objectives to ensure the unfettered powers of decision-making agenda items, in particular strategic successful delivery of key targets, and and all Directors are required to act in issues.
Additionally, he ensures effective allocates decision-making and the best interests of the Company.
communication with shareholders and responsibilities accordingly.
that the Board is aware of the views of DOMINIK fide DANIEL major shareholders.
He facilitates both the CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER contribution of the Non-Executive Directors AND CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER and constructive relations between the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Responsible as CFO for leading the Directors, and regularly meets with the Nonfinance and accounting functions.
He Executive Directors without the Executive is also responsible for business ethics, Directors being present.
In addition, he good governance, assisting with strategy oversees the corporate responsibility and compliance.
Responsible as COO activities of the Group, including community for the implementation of the strategy projects and environmental impact initiatives.
52, : 3 & $118$ 5 3257 $1' $&&28176 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board performance Going concern ACCOUNTABILITY The Senior Independent Director annually The Directors, having made appropriate Financial and business reporting leads the Non-Executive Directors enquiries, have a reasonable expectation In accordance with its responsibilities the performance evaluation of the Chairman, that the Group and the Company have Board considers this Annual Report and taking the views of the Executive Directors adequate resources to continue in Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, into account.
operational existence for a period of at balanced and understandable in addition least 12 months from the date of approval to providing the information necessary An annual internal evaluation of Board of the financial statements.
For this reason, for shareholders to assess the Companys performance was conducted for 2017. they continue to adopt the going concern position and performance, business model The results were reviewed and incorporated basis in preparing the accounts on pages and strategy.
in our ongoing efforts to continuously 80 to 125. improve the processes and effectiveness A statement by the Companys auditor of the Board.
There were no reportable In adopting the going concern basis for about their responsibilities in relation to matters identified and we continue to preparing the financial statements, the the Annual Report and Accounts is included have full confidence in the Boards Directors have considered the further on pages 76 to 79. members and processes.
information included in the business The Board conducts regular reviews of the activities commentary as set out on pages Groups strategic direction.
Country and 24 to 29, as well as the Groups principal regional strategic objectives, plans and risks and uncertainties as set out on pages performance targets are set by the 37 to 43.
Executive Directors and are regularly Further details on the going concern basis reviewed by the Board in the context of the of preparation can be found in note 24 Groups overall objectives.
Further details of of the notes to the accounts on page 105. the basis on which the Company generates and preserves value over the longer term and the strategy for delivering the objectives of the Company are contained in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 47.
FRANOIS PAULY NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS TIMOTHY REGAN SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR The independent counsel, character and COMPANY SECRETARY judgement of the Non-Executive Directors The Senior Independent Director acts The Company Secretary is responsible enhances the development of strategy and as a sounding board and confidant for for advising the Board, through the overall decision-making of the Board.
the Chairman, as an intermediary for the Chairman, on all governance The Non-Executive Directors scrutinise the other Directors as and when necessary matters and ensuring that appropriate performance of management and monitor and leads the appraisal of the Chairmans minutes are taken of all Board meetings the reporting of performance, satisfying performance.
He is also available to and discussions.
themselves on the integrity of financial shareholders if they have concerns information and that financial controls that cannot be resolved through and systems of risk management are robust normal channels.
They are also responsible for determining appropriate levels of executive remuneration.
Non-Executive Directors are subject to the re-election requirements and serve the Company under letters of appointment, which have an initial three-year term.
53 Corporate Governance continued The Board has delegated authority for Longer-term viability REMUNERATION overseeing and reviewing the process of The Directors have also assessed the Remuneration Committee identifying, managing and reviewing risks viability of the Group and Company over a The Board has established a Remuneration to the Audit Committee, which reports three-year period to 31 December 2020.
Committee with responsibility for the regularly to the Board.
This is based on three years of strategic design and implementation of the outlook and planning and related stress Internal control systems Remuneration Policy for both Executive scenario testing.
Whilst the Board has no Directors and the Chairman.
In doing so, The Board has delegated its responsibility reason to believe that the Group will not be the Committee will pay due regard to for the Companys system of internal viable over a longer period, using a threewider remuneration trends across the control and risk management and for year period was chosen to give greater Group, legal requirements and best ensuring the effectiveness of this system certainty over the assumptions used.
The aim is to ensure to the Audit Committee.
Details of the our Remuneration Policy is aligned to In making their assessment, the Directors system and the Committees review of Company strategy, key business objectives took account of the further information its effectiveness are reported on pages and the best interests of our shareholders included in the business activities 58 to 60. and stakeholders.
Further details of the commentary as set out on pages 24 to 29, Audit Committee and auditors Remuneration Committees work is as well as the Groups principal risks and The Board has established an Audit contained on pages 62 to 73.
In order uncertainties and related mitigation Committee consisting entirely of to maintain transparency, approval for the approaches as set out on pages 37 to 43.
Annual Report on Remuneration will be They assessed potential financial and The Audit Committee has responsibility sought at the annual general meeting.
operational aspects of various severe for ensuring the integrity of financial but plausible scenarios in the context information and the effectiveness of of these principal risks and uncertainties financial controls and the internal control and potential combinations thereof along and risk management system.
Further with the likely effectiveness of available details of the Audit Committees work mitigating actions.
and responsibilities are contained on Based on this assessment, the Directors pages 58 to 61. have a reasonable expectation that the All members of the Audit Committee are Group and Company will be able to considered by the Board to be competent continue in operation and meet all their in accounting and or auditing.
Furthermore, liabilities as they fall due over the period and in compliance with the Code, the Board up to 31 December 2020. regards Elmar Heggen as the Committee Principal risks member possessing recent and relevant The Board is responsible for assessing the financial experience.
nature and extent of the principal risks it is On recommendation of the Audit willing to take to achieve its strategic Committee, it is intended that a tender objectives and also those risks that threaten process for the external audit should be its business model, future performance, launched during 2018 and it is proposed solvency or liquidity.
The key risks to the that KPMG be re-appointed as the auditor Group and the steps taken to manage and for the financial year ending 31 December mitigate them which were reviewed and 2018. approved by the Board are detailed on pages 37 to 43.
A clearly defined An induction process Provision to all team CONTROL ENVIRONMENT organisation structure to educate new team members of a copy High standards of behaviour are with established members on the of the Team Member demanded from staff at all levels within responsibilities: standards required Handbook which the Group.
The following procedures are from them in their contains detailed in place to support this: role, including guidance on business ethics and employee policies compliance, and the standards regulations and of behaviour internal policies: required of staff: 54, : 3 & $118$ 5 3257 $1' $&&28176 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual general meeting Compliance statement RELATIONS WITH The annual general meeting each year The Company has complied with the SHAREHOLDERS is held in May in Switzerland and will provisions of the Code throughout the Dialogue with shareholders be attended, other than in exceptional year ended 31 December 2017, with The Company reports formally to circumstances, by all members of the the exception of the following: shareholders twice a year, with the Board.
In addition to the formal business Provision E. 1.1 the Senior Independent half-year results typically announced of the meeting, there is normally a trading Non-Executive Director, Franois Pauly, in August and the final results in March.
update and shareholders are invited to does not have regular meetings with There are programmes for the Chief ask questions and are also given the major external shareholders.
Executive Officer and the Chief Financial opportunity to meet the Directors Officer to give presentations of these The Board considers it appropriate for informally afterwards.
results to the Companys institutional the Chairman to be the main conduit Notice of the annual general meeting investors, analysts and media in London to investors, rather than the Senior together with any related documents is and other key locations.
required to be mailed to shareholders at The Chief Executive Officer and the The Chairman participates in investor least 20 working days before the meeting meetings and makes himself available for Chief Financial Officer maintain a close and separate resolutions are proposed on dialogue with institutional investors on questions, in person, at the time of major each issue.
announcements as well as upon request.
the Companys performance, governance, plans and objectives.
These meetings also The voting in respect of all resolutions The Chairman regularly updates the Board to be put to the annual general meeting and particularly the Senior Independent serve to develop an ongoing understanding of the views and any concerns of the is conducted by means of a poll vote.
Non-Executive Director on the results of his meetings and the opinions of investors.
The level of proxy votes cast and the On this basis, the Board considers that the balance for and against each resolution, Non-Executive Directors are given regular Senior Independent Non-Executive Director together with the level of abstentions, updates as to the views of institutional is able to gain full awareness of the issues if any, are announced following voting shareholders.
The Chairman attends the and concerns of major shareholders.
Where the Board considers main presentations of the half-year and Notwithstanding this policy, all Directors that a significant proportion of votes full-year results and is also available to have a standing invitation to participate have been cast against a resolution, the meet with shareholders on request.
actions which the Board intends to take The principal communication with to understand the reasons behind the INSURANCE private shareholders is through the vote result will also be explained.
The Groups insurance programme is Annual Report, the half-year results and the annual general meeting.
Financial and other information is made reviewed annually and appropriate available on the Companys website: insurance cover is obtained to protect The Company continues to engage the www.
com the Directors and senior management in services of Brunswick as its investor the event of a claim being brought against relations advisor.
any of them in their capacity as Directors and Officers of the Company.
To underpin the Policies and Operational audit and effectiveness of controls, procedure manuals self-certification tools it is the Groups policy and guidelines that which require to recruit and develop are readily accessible individual centre appropriately skilled through the Groups managers to confirm management and staff intranet site: their adherence to of high calibre and Group policies and integrity and with procedures: and appropriate disciplines.
