Audit Committee report Dear shareholder Responsibilities As Chairman of the Audit Committee the Below is a summary of the terms of Committee, I am pleased to present to reference of the Committee the full you this years Committee report which text of which is available on the shows how the Committee applied the Companys website www.
com : principles of the UK Corporate Governance Financial reporting to provide Code during 2017. support to the Board by monitoring the integrity of financial reporting and Key objective ensuring that the published financial Acting on behalf of the Board, the statements of the Group and any Committees key objective is to provide formal announcements relating to effective governance over the Companys the Companys financial performance financial reporting: this is achieved by comply fully with the relevant statutes monitoring, reviewing and making and accounting standards.
recommendations to the Board in respect of: Internal control and risk systems to review the effectiveness of the the integrity of the Companys external Groups internal controls and risk financial reporting: management systems.
the Companys system of internal Internal audit to monitor and control and compliance: and The application of the review the annual internal audit the Companys external auditors.
programme ensuring that the internal corporate reporting, risk audit function is adequately resourced Membership and meetings management and internal and free from management restrictions, Five Committee meetings were held during control principles are the and to review and monitor responses 2017.
At the request of the Committee to the findings and recommendations focus of the Committee.
Chairman, the external auditors, the of the internal auditor.
Executive Directors, the Company Secretary ELMAR HEGGEN acting as secretary to the Committee, External audit to advise the Board CHAIRMAN the General Counsel and the Business on the appointment, reappointment, Assurance Director may attend each remuneration and removal of the meeting.
The Committee also when external auditor.
required, and at least annually, meets Employee concerns to review the independently, without the presence Companys arrangements under which of management, with the Companys employees may in confidence raise any external auditors and with the Business concerns regarding possible wrongdoing Assurance Director to discuss matters of Members of the Committee in financial reporting or other matters.
The Audit Committee ensures that these Committee membership during the arrangements allow proportionate and year and attendance at the meetings independent investigation and are set out below.
Attendance out of possible The Chairman of the Audit Committee maximum number routinely reports to the Board on Members of meetings how the Committee has discharged its Elmar Heggen, responsibilities, as well as highlighting Chairman 4 5 any concerns that have been raised as 1 and when they arise.
Lance Browne 2 2 Nina Henderson 5 5 Franois Pauly 5 5 Length of tenure of Non-Executive Florence Pierre 5 5 Directors within the Committee 1.
Lance Browne left the Audit Committee on 16 May 2017 All members of the Committee are independent.
0-3 years 1 3-6 years 2 6 years 1 58 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 58 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Valuation of intangibles and goodwill: The Groups principal risks, together with Activities of the Audit Committee The Committee has considered the an explanation of how the Group manages during the year impairment testing undertaken and these risks, are presented on pages 37 The following sections summarise the main disclosures made in relation to the to 43 of this Annual Report.
areas of focus of the Committee and the value of the Companys goodwill and results of the work undertaken in 2017: Internal control intangibles and has challenged the The Committee has a delegated Financial reporting key assumptions made by management responsibility from the Board for the in their valuation methodology.
The The main focus of the Audit Committee was Companys system of internal control and Committee considers that an the review of the half-year results and this risk management and for reviewing the appropriately cautious approach Annual Report together with the formal effectiveness of this system.
Such a system has been used by management announcements relating thereto.
Before is designed to identify, evaluate and control and is satisfied that no impairment of recommending these to the Board we the significant risks associated with the intangibles and goodwill is required.
See ensure that the actions and judgements Groups achievement of its business notes 12 and 13 for further information.
made by management are appropriate.
objectives with a view to safeguarding Particular focus is given to: Following its in-depth review of this Annual shareholders investments and the Groups Report, the Committee has advised the critical accounting policies and practices assets.
Due to the limitations that are Board that it considers the Annual Report, and changes thereto: inherent in any system of internal control, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and this system is designed to meet the changes in the control environment: understandable, providing the information Companys particular needs and the risks control observations identified by necessary for shareholders to assess the to which it is exposed, and is designed to the auditor: Companys position and performance, manage rather than eliminate risk.
As such, decisions delegated to and requiring Accordingly, such a system can provide the Committee recommended the judgements by management: reasonable, but not absolute, assurance Annual Report to the Board.
adjustments resulting from the audit: against material misstatement or loss.
Risk management In accordance with the FRC Revised clarity of the disclosures made and On behalf of the Board, the Audit compliance with accounting standards Guidance, the Committee confirms that Committee oversees and reviews an there is an ongoing process for identifying, and relevant financial and governance ongoing process for identifying, evaluating reporting requirements: and evaluating and managing the significant and managing the risks faced by the Group.
the process surrounding compilation Major business risks and their financial of the Annual Report and Accounts During the year under review, the implications are appraised by the to ensure they are fair, balanced Committee continued to revisit its risk responsible executives as a part of the and reasonable.
identification and assessment processes, planning process and are endorsed by inviting Board members and senior regional management.
Key risks are The Committee formally considers and management to convene and discuss the reported to the Audit Committee, which minutes their consideration of the key Groups key risks and mitigating controls.
in turn ensures that the Board is made audit matters before recommending the aware of them.
The appropriateness of A risk-based approach has been adopted in financial statements to the Board.
controls is considered by the executives, establishing the Groups system of internal The Committee discussed and reviewed having regard to cost, benefit, materiality control and in reviewing its effectiveness.
the following significant issues with KPMG and the likelihood of risks crystallising.
To identify and manage key risks: and management in relation to the financial Key risks and actions to mitigate those statements for 2017: a number of Group-wide procedures, risks were considered by both the Audit policies and standards have been Committee and the Board in the year under Taxation: The Committee considered the established: taxation risks arising from the Groups review, and were formally reviewed and approved by the Board.
The Company has a framework for reporting and operations when assessing the accounting for taxation related balances and applied put systems in place to enable compliance escalating matters of significance with the requirements of the EU Market has been maintained: sensitivity analysis to determine the appropriateness of key judgements.
Abuse Regulation since it came into effect reviews of the effectiveness of in July 2016.
Also assessed was the recoverability management actions in addressing of deferred tax assets and whether key Group risks identified by the Board Principal risks the recognition of additional deferred have been undertaken: and There are a number of risks and tax assets would be appropriate.
uncertainties which could have an impact a system of regular reports from The presentation and disclosure in on the Groups long-term performance.
management setting out key accordance with IAS 1 and IAS 12 in performance and risk indicators respect of taxation related balances The Group has a risk management structure has been developed.
were considered as was whether the in place designed to identify, manage and Groups disclosures reflected the risks mitigate business risks.
Risk assessment inherent in the accounting for the taxation and evaluation is an integral part of the balances.
The Committee is satisfied that annual planning process, as well as the appropriate judgements have been made.
59 Audit Committee report continued The Committee and the Board regard The above process is designed to The delegation of authority limits with provide assurance by way of cumulative regard to the approval of transactions: responsible corporate behaviour as an integral part of the overall governance assessment and is embedded in operational The generation of targeted, actionmanagement and governance processes.
framework and believe that it should oriented reports from the Groups sales be fully integrated into management Key elements of the Groups system and operating systems on a daily, weekly structures and systems.
Therefore, the of internal control which have operated and monthly basis, which provide risk management policies, procedures and throughout the year under review are management at all levels with monitoring methods described above apply as follows: performance data for their area equally to the identification, evaluation and of responsibility, and which help The risk assessments of all significant control of the Companys safety, ethical and them to focus on key issues and business decisions at the individual environmental risks and opportunities.
This manage them more effectively: and transaction level, and as part of the approach ensures that the Company has annual business planning process.
A The delivery of a centrally co-ordinated the necessary and adequate information Group-wide risk register is maintained assurance programme by the business to identify and assess risks and and updated at least annually whereby assurance department that includes opportunities affecting the Companys all Company-inherent risks are identified key business risk areas.
The findings long-term value arising from its handling and assessed, and appropriate action and recommendations of each review of corporate responsibility and corporate plans developed to manage the risk are reported to both management and governance matters.
per the Companys risk appetite.
The Committee has completed its annual Board reviews the Groups principal The maintenance of high standards of review of the effectiveness of the system risks register at least annually and behaviour which are demanded from staff of internal control for the year to management periodically reports at all levels in the Group.
The following 31 December 2017 and is satisfied that on the progress against agreed actions procedures are in place to support this: it is in accordance with the FRC Revised to keep a close watch on how key risks Guidance and the Code.
The assessment a clearly defined organisation structure are managed: included consideration of the effectiveness with established responsibilities: The annual strategic planning process, of the Boards ongoing process for an induction process to educate new which is designed to ensure consistency identifying, evaluating and managing team members on the standards required with the Companys strategic objectives.
the risks facing the Group.
from them in their role, including The final budget is reviewed and Whistle-blowing policy business ethics and compliance, approved by the Board.
Performance regulation and internal policies: The Company has an externally hosted is reviewed against objectives at whistle-blowing channel EthicsPoint, each Board meeting: the availability of the Team Member which is available to all employees via Comprehensive monthly business Handbook, via the Groups intranet, email, and on the Companys intranet.
which contains the Companys Code review processes under which business The aim of the policy is to encourage all performance is reviewed at business of Business Conduct, detailed guidance employees, regardless of seniority, to bring on employee policies and the standards centre, area, country, regional and matters that cause them concern to the of behaviour required of staff: functional levels.
Actual results attention of the Audit Committee.
are reviewed against targets, policies, procedure manuals and explanations are received for The Business Assurance Director, where guidelines are readily accessible all material movements, and recovery appropriate and in consultation with the through the Groups intranet site: plans are agreed where appropriate: senior management team, decides on the operational audit and self-certification appropriate method and level of The documentation of key policies and tools which require individual managers investigation.
The Audit Committee is control procedures including finance, to confirm their adherence to Group notified of all material discourses made operations, and health and safety policies and procedures: and and receives reports on the results of having Group-wide application.
These investigations and actions taken on a a Group-wide policy to recruit and are available to all staff via the Groups regular basis.
The Audit Committee has develop appropriately skilled intranet system: the power to request further information, management and staff of high calibre and Formal procedures for the review and conduct its own inquiries or order integrity and with appropriate disciplines.
approval of all investment and additional action as it sees fit.
The Group Investment Committee reviews and approves all investments.
Additionally, the form and content of routine investment proposals are standardised to facilitate the review process: 60, : 3 & $118$ 5 3257 $1' $&&28176 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Measures in place to safeguard KPMGs In assessing the effectiveness of External audit independence were: the external audit process for 2017 KPMG Ireland KPMG were appointed in the Committee has considered: 2016 as the auditors of IWG plc.
Whilst IWG the Companys policy to use the external plc is a Jersey company, after consultation auditor for non-audit-related services the audit process as a whole and with KPMG, the Committee determined that only where the use of the external its suitability for the challenges facing appointing a Jersey registered KPMG Dublin auditor will deliver a demonstrable the Group: audit partner would best serve the needs of benefit to the Company as compared the strength and independence the Group.
The Audit Committee is to the use of other potential providers of of the external audit team: responsible for oversight of the external the services and where it will not impair the audit teams understanding auditor, including an annual assessment their independence or objectivity: of the control environment: of their independence and objectivity and all proposals for permitted defined nonthe measures in place to safeguard this.
the culture of the external auditor audit services to use the external auditor in seeking continuous improvement During the year, KPMG audited the must be submitted to, and authorised by, and increased quality: consolidated financial statements of the the Chief Financial Officer: permitted Group and provided an overview of the non-audit services include advice on the quality and timeliness half-year results of the Company.
financial accounting and regulatory of communications and reports reporting matters, reviews of internal received: and The value of non-audit services provided accounting and risk management by KPMG in 2017 amounted to 0.1m the quality of interaction with controls, non-statutory audits e. g. 2016: 0.4m.
regarding acquisitions and disposal of to assurance services in relation to reports assets and interests in companies and Following the Committees assessment provided to landlords in the UK, and other tax compliance and advisory services: of the effectiveness of the external audit non-audit services in relation to statutory process for 2017 and of KPMGs continuing declarations in South Africa and India.
The prohibited non-audit services include independence, the Committee has services provided are considered by the book-keeping and other accounting recommended to the Board that a Committee to be necessary in the interests services, actuarial valuation services, resolution to reappoint KPMG as the of the business and, by their nature, these recruitment services in relation to key Companys auditor in respect of the services could not easily be provided by management positions and transaction financial year ending 31 December 2018 another professional auditing firm.
During acquisitions, mergers and dispositions be proposed at the annual general meeting.
the year there were no circumstances work that includes investment banking where KPMG were engaged to provide services, preparation of forecasts or Notwithstanding the Audit Committees services which might have led to a conflict investment proposals and deal execution continued satisfaction with the of interests.
services: and performance of KPMG, as previously noted, the Committee has recommended KPMG are required to adhere to a rotation to the Board that a tendering process for policy requiring rotation of the lead audit the external audit should be launched partner at least every five years.
A new during 2018. lead audit partner took responsibility for the audit in respect of the financial year ELMAR HEGGEN ended 31 December 2017.
CHAIRMAN, AUDIT COMMITTEE The breakdown of the fees paid to the external auditor during the year to 31 December 2017 can be found in note 5 of the notes to the financial statements on page 93.
