Corporate Governance report This report should be read in conjunction with the Directors Report and the remainder of the Governance section Board governance and structure Division of responsibilities The Senior Independent Director is Overview As a Jersey incorporated company, available to meet with shareholders This governance report sets out Glencore has a unitary Board, and acts as an intermediary between how Glencore has applied the meaning all Directors share equal the Chairman and other independent main principles of the UK Corporate responsibility for decisions taken.
This division Governance Code the Code in a Glencore has established a clear of responsibilities, coupled with the manner which enables shareholders division between the respective schedule of reserved matters for the to evaluate how these principles responsibilities of the Non-Executive Board, ensures that no individual have been applied.
As a London Chairman and the Chief Executive has unfettered powers of decision.
premium listed entity we seek to Officer which are set out in a Further details of these ensure full compliance with the schedule of responsibilities which responsibilities are set out below.
The Board believes that the has been approved by the Board.
Company has throughout the year While the Non-Executive Chairman complied with all relevant provisions is responsible for leading the Boards contained in the Code.
discussions and decision-making, the CEO is responsible for implementing The Glencore Board currently and executing strategy and for comprises eight Non-Executive leading Glencores operating Directors including the Chairman performance and day-to-day and one Executive Director.
The CEO and CFO 1January 2018 Gill Marcus joined have line of sight across the Group.
A list of the Directors The CEO is further supported by the with their brief biographical details Groups senior management team and other significant commitments, principally comprising the heads of is provided in the previous pages.
the businesses and the heads of legal TheChief Financial Officer attends and strategy.
The Company Secretary all meetings of the Board and Audit isresponsible for ensuring that there Committee.
The Company Secretary is clear and effective information attends allmeetings of the Board flow to the Non-Executive Directors.
Roles and responsibilities Chairman Chief Executive Officer Senior Independent Other Non-Executive Company Secretary Director Directors Leader of the Board Leads and motivates Is a confidant of the Supply challenge and Secretary to Board Responsible for effective management team Chairman and when support to management andits Committees communication flow Implements strategy and appropriate also acts as Bring independent Informs the Board on all between Directors objectives as directed an intermediary for other mindset and differing matters reserved to it Facilitates effective bythe Board independent Directors backgrounds and and ensures papers are contribution of all Develops Group policies Will stand in for the experience to Board provided in sufficient Directors and proposals for Chairman if he debates detail and on time Responsible for effective approval by the Board is unable toattend Provide leadership and Available to Directors Board governance and ensures effective Responsible for challenge as chair of, or inrespect of Board Ensures effective implementation appraising the amember of, the Board procedures and provides communication with Chairmans performance Committees which support and advice shareholders along with other except HSEC comprise Ensures the Board is independent Directors only Non-Executive kept informed on Available to shareholders Directors governance matters to answer questions Scrutinise leadership Coordinates and assists of Chairman with the Board evaluation process along with the Chairman Glencore Annual Report 2017 86 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Non-Executive Directors Board of any changes in the HSEC Committee, whose The Companys Non-Executive circumstances.
Glencores Articles membership includes both Directors provide a broad range ofAssociation and Jersey law allow Chairman and CEO, continues to of skills and experience to the for the Board to authorise potential have the heaviest workload of all Board, which assists in their roles conflicts and the potentially the committees due to its strong in formulating the Companys conflicted Director must abstain focus on sustainability issues, strategy and in providing constructive from any vote accordingly.
During especially safety performance challenge to executive management.
2017, no abstention procedures for A report for 2017 from each conflicts had to be activated.
Glencore regularly assesses itsNonCommittee Chairman is set out later Executive Directors independence.
Board Committees in this Corporate governance report.
Except for Peter Coates, due to his The following four Committees are in Each Committee reports to, and has employment by the Group during place to assist the Board in exercising its terms of reference approved by, 201314, they all are regarded by its functions: Audit, Nomination, the Board and the minutes of the the Company as Independent Remuneration and Health, Safety, Committee meetings are circulated Non-Executive Directors within Environmental and Communities to the Board.
Each Committee the meaning of independent as HSEC, as set out in the diagram on reviewed its terms of reference during defined in the Code and free from the next page.
Committee meetings the year and as a result revisions were any business or other relationship are held prior to Board meetings and made to the HSEC Committees which could materially interfere at each scheduled Board meeting terms of reference to ensure they withthe exercise of their the chairman of each Committee reflect the Boards expectations independent judgement.
leads a discussion concerning as to the Committees role.
the Committees activities since Management of conflicts of interest the previous Board meeting.
All Committees terms of reference All Directors endeavour to avoid any are available at: www.
com situation of conflict of interest with The Committees carry out a who-we-are governance the Company.
Potential conflicts can considerable amount of work.
arise and therefore processes and In particular: procedures are in place requiring the Audit Committee provides Directors to identify and declare any challenge and enquiry on the actual or potential conflict of interest.
significant areas of financial Any such notifications are required to andaccounting oversight and be made by the Directors prior to, or risk management at, a Board meeting and all Directors have a duty to update the whole Board attendance throughout the year Attendance during the year for all scheduled full agenda Board and all Board Committee meetings is set out in the table below: Board Audit Remuneration Nomination HSEC of 6 of 4 of 2 of 4 of 5 Peter Coates 6 5 Leonhard Fischer 6 4 2 4 1 Martin Gilbert 5 3 1 Ivan Glasenberg 6 5 Peter Grauer 6 4 4 Anthony Hayward 6 5 2 William Macaulay 1 1 1 John Mack 5 2 4 Patrice Merrin 6 5 1 Attended all meetings since appointment on 5 May 2017.
2 Attended all meetings until he retired from the Board on 14 April 2017.
In addition, there were another five limited agenda meetings of the Board.
Details of all these Board meetings are set out on page 89.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 87 Corporate Governance report continued Appointment and re-election of Directors Board structure All Directors will be offering themselves for re-election at the 2018 AGM.
All of the Directors have service agreements or letters of appointment Shareholders and the details of their terms are set out in the Directors remuneration report.
No other contract with the Company or any subsidiary Elect undertaking of the Company in Directors which any Director was materially interested existed during or at Chief Executive Ongoing the end of the financial year.
Officer and Chief engagement Financial Officer Information, management meetings, site visits and professional development It is considered of great importance that the Non-Executive Directors Board of attain a good knowledge of the Directors Company and its business and allocate sufficient time to Glencore HSEC Audit to discharge their responsibilities committee committee effectively.
The Board calendar is planned to ensure that Directors are briefed on a wide range of topics.
Aswell as internal briefings, Nomination Remuneration Directors attend appropriate committee committee external seminars and briefings.
While attending Company meetings, the Directors also usually engage with heads of commodities and other senior Group functions.
In addition, in order to better familiarise themselves with the industrial activities, site visits are also arranged.
During 2017, three Board meetings meetings also benefit from operations were visited.
The Board has approved a formal presentations by senior executives schedule which sets out those and some technical and investor All Directors have access to the matters which are reserved for relations updates.
Presentations from advice and services of the Company its decision-making alone such as the business and senior management Secretary, who is responsible to strategy, the annual budget and allow Directors to enhance their the Board for ensuring the Board material acquisitions and disposals.
understanding of the business and procedures are complied with, and Meetings are usually held at the the implementation of strategy, in have access to independent and Companys headquarters in Baar, turn contributing to a more effective professional advice at the Companys Switzerland.
Details of the Board Board.
A summary of the Boards expense, where they judge this and Committee meetings held main activities during 2017 is set to be necessary to discharge their during the year are detailed above.
The Board and its Committees have Several times a year the Chairman standing agenda items to cover their holds meetings with the Nonproposed business at their scheduled Executive Directors without the meetings.
The Chairman seeks to Executive Director present, and at ensure that the very significant work least once a year the Non-Executive of the Committees feeds into, and Directors meet without the benefits as to feedback from, the full Chairmanpresent.
The Board and Committee Glencore Annual Report 2017 88 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Work at Board First scheduled short agenda meeting Third scheduled short agenda meeting Results business update Business update meetings and Initial discussion as to proposed Review and approval of half-year impairment charges Production Report principal Board Consideration and approval of Mutanda Review of potential M&A and other and Katanga share purchase transactions material matters including an update activities during 2017 Review and approval of prior year on and approval of proposals Production Report and Reserves and concerning Hunter Valley Resources Report Fourth scheduled meeting First scheduled meeting Half-year results, including review Annual results, including review and and approval, where appropriate, of: approval, where appropriate, of: report from the Audit Committee from the Audit Committee Chairman: Chairman detailed consideration of principal principal risks and mitigation risks uncertainties and mitigation to be disclosed to be disclosed: report on going concern The main considerations and report on going concern: half-year results announcement final distribution recommendation: actions carried out at the meetings other material accounting issues full-year results announcement for the management representation letter of the Board during 2017 are prior year: Report from the HSEC Committee summarised here.
Thework Annual Report draft: and Chairman of the committees is described management representation letter Considered outcomes from multiple Consideration of AGM resolutions later in this report.
shareholder meetings on governance Report from the Nomination Committee and sustainability issues At each main scheduled meeting Chairman and discussion on whether all Initial discussion concerning Katanga current Directors should stand at AGM the following standing matters controlissues Report from the Remuneration Committee are considered: Chairman Second short notice meeting Report from the HSEC Committee consideration of any new Consideration and approval of Chairman, in particular discussions on conflicts of interest proposed investment in Chevrons safety and draft sustainability report downstream oil business in Reviewed updated Board governance review of minutes of previous South Africa and Botswana documents and key policies meetings, including actions Board evaluation report and discussion from previous meetings Fifth scheduled meeting Review of Q3 financial report Second scheduled short agenda meeting reports updates from the CEO, Review and approval of Q3 Business update CFO, Head of Strategy and production report Considered and approved the Consideration and approval of Investor Relations and Head of Q1Production Report Rusal share exchange transaction Communications.
These reports Consideration and conditional approval Consideration and approval of the of the appointment of Martin Gilbert as include consideration of strategic Companys delisting in Hong Kong independent Non-Executive Director matters including possible Established committee to oversee asset expansions contractions, Katanga review Second scheduled meeting Review of the Groups Zinc business acquisitions disposals, material Briefing on the business to be conducted Review of Groups IT function including at the AGM and after, of the other debt refinancing and analysis cyber security issues raised of risks Review of legal and compliance Business update and review function including actual or potential Report from the HSEC Committee In addition: litigation and the Raising Concerns Chairman programme Report from the Audit Committee regular updates are provided Report from the Chairman including as to the current by the Company Secretary HSEC Committee Chairman year audit plan on governance, Board Report from the Nomination Committee processes and other Company Chairman Sixth scheduled meeting Review of Katanga control issues secretarial matters First short notice meeting Review of principal risks and Business update uncertainties and preparation for usually the Non-Executive Consideration and approval of proposal longer-term viabilitystatement Directors have a separate for an acquisition of Rio Tintos Australian Consideration and approval meeting, with sometimes Hunter Valley coal assets of the 2018 budget and 201921 a second session without business plan the Chairman present Third scheduled meeting Presentations from senior management Review of various business issues of copper and nickel Consideration and approval of updated Report from the HSEC Committee proposal concerning Hunter Valley Chairman Review of other M&A matters Report from the Audit Committee Consideration of certain regulatory matters Chairman Glencore Annual Report 2017 89 Corporate Governance report continued Director induction Diversity New Directors receive a full, formal The diversity policy which is R isk Board and tailored induction on joining the applied to appointments to our leadership Board, including meetings with senior administrative, management and management.
The induction process supervisory bodies with regard to The Board provides leadership for Martin Gilbert in 2017 provided aspects such as, for instance, age, and oversight on risk acomprehensive introduction to the gender, or education and professional management.
Specifically it: main aspects of the Group, its backgrounds is the same as for all business and functions and the roles Group employees, as described on 1 provides a robust assessment and responsibilities of a UK listed page 36.
During 2017 Martin Gilbert of the principal risks facing company director and the Companys and Gill Marcus were appointed the Group Code of Conduct.
The Board determines the nature is being undertaken for Gill Marcus and extent of the principal risks the The Board is very cognisant Group should take in achieving its in2018.
of the ongoing desire from strategic objectives.
The Board has stakeholders for greater diversity carried out a robust assessment Board effectiveness in senior management and boards.
of the principal risks facing the Since an external evaluation was In particular, leading institutional Group, including those that would carried out during 2015 and no shareholders have set a target for threaten its business model, future material governance issues arose performance, solvency or liquidity.
women to comprise 30% of the during 2016, the Board resolved to The Directors description of those senior management and boards of carry out an internal evaluation for risks and their explanation as to FTSE100 companies by 2020.
As part of this process, the how they are being managed or we support the aims of diversity, we findings from the external evaluation mitigated are set out on page 42. do not believe that a one size fits all which were summarised in the 2015 policy is correct.
Historically, certain 2 determines a longer-term Annual Report were reviewed.
viability statement sectors have attracted a considerable The evaluation process has been Taking account of the Groups number of career women while augmented by the private sessions position and principal risks, the others such as mining and which take place between the Directors assess the prospects of the commodities have not.
Even today Non-Executive Directors without Group and conclude whether they we find it challenging to fill positions have a reasonable expectation that management and ongoing in remote mining locations and for the Group will be able to continue discussions as to the efficiency the marketing of commodities in operation and meet its liabilities and effectiveness of the Board bywomen.
as they fall due over theperiod of and its committees.
Their conclusions currently no material issues which are setout on page 109. have been identified regarding the 3 monitors the Groups risk composition or operation of the management and internal Board.
The next Board evaluation control systems will be facilitated externally.
The Board oversees sound risk management and internal control Remuneration systems.
It carries out a regular Remuneration is covered in the review of their effectiveness Directors remuneration report which including reviewing the Groups follows this section.
It includes internal financial controls and the adescription of the work of the Groups internal control and risk management.
This monitoring and Remuneration Committee.
review covers all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls.
Their work and conclusions are described on pages 42 and 91 94.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 90 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Accountability and audit of the monthly reporting process, Annual Report and financial Financial reporting areforecast of the current year statements.
The process is designed The Group has in place a projections is performed.
To ensure to manage and mitigate rather than comprehensive financial review cycle, consistency of reporting, the Group eliminate risk, and can only provide which includes a detailed annual has a global consolidation system reasonable and not absolute planning budgeting process where aswell as a common accounting assurance against material business units prepare budgets for policies and procedures manual.
The Directors overall consolidation and approval Management monitors the confirm that they have carried out by the Board.
The Group uses a large publication of new reporting a robust assessment of the principal number of performance indicators standards and works closely with risks facing the Group and have to measure both operational and our external auditor in evaluating reviewed the effectiveness of the risk financial activity in the business.
management and internal control Depending on the measure, these systems.
This review excludes Risk management are reported and reviewed on a daily, associates of the Group as Glencore and internal control weekly or monthly basis.
In addition, does not have the ability to dictate or The Board has applied Principle management in the business receives modify the internal controls of these C. 2 of the Code by establishing a weekly and monthly reports of entities.
This report describes how the continuous process for identifying, indicators which are the basis of effectiveness of the Groups structure evaluating and managing the risks regular operational meetings, where of internal controls including financial, that are considered significant by the corrective action is taken if necessary.
operational and compliance controls Group in accordance with the revised At a Group level, a well-developed and risk management systems Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control management accounts pack, isreviewed.
published by the Financial Reporting including income statement, balance Council.
This process has been in sheet, cash flow statement as well as place for the period under review key ratios is prepared and reviewed and up to the date of approval of the monthly by management.
As part Risk Management Framework Risk culture Board of Directors Oversight Risk strategy and appetite Audit Committee Tone from Risk governance HSEC Committee the top Risk organisation Management team executive Infrastructure External disclosure Group functions incl.
Compliance Risk monitoring and reporting Internal Audit People Process Technology HSEC Assurance Risk identification Business segments Risk process Risk assessment and functions Identify Measure Mitigate Control Report Risk management Marketing Industrial HSEC risk process risk process risk process Principal risks External Business Sustainability and uncertainties Supply & see pages 42 Prices Operating Credit Catastrophes HSEC demand Glencore Annual Report 2017 91 Corporate Governance report continued Katanga Restatement of Katanga.
Katanga has also been Risk Management Framework Notwithstanding the strong Group advised that OSC enforcement Management engagement internal control environment, staff are reviewing Katangas risk The Companys senior management arestatement of past financial disclosure in connection with reviews the major risks facing the statements was required at Katanga.
applicable requirements under Group and decides if the level of risk This followed an internal review certain international bribery, is acceptable or whether further steps of certain of Katangas historic government payment and antineed to be taken to mitigate these accounting practices under the corruption laws.
Together, central and business direction of the independent cooperating fully with the OSC management set the level of risk directors of Katanga, who engaged investigations and the Board appetite by ensuring that there Canadian legal counsel, and an committee continues to closely is an appropriate balance between international accounting firm, to monitor developments with the level of risk assumed and the assist them in conducting the review.
respect to the OSC investigation.
Despite the matter not having Audit Committee amaterial adverse effect on the Approach to risk management The Audit Committee is responsible consolidated income, financial Effective risk management is crucial for reviewing the risk management position or cash flows of Glencore, in helping the Group achieve its system and internal controls.
the Board regarded it as serious and objectives of preserving its overall accordingly established a Board financial strength for the benefit of all Mandated by the Board, the committee headed by the Chairman shareholders and other stakeholders Audit and HSEC Committees are to carefully consider the findings of and safeguarding its ability to responsible for ensuring that the this review, and noted the material continue as a going concern while significant risks identified are weaknesses identified in Katangas generating sustainable long-term properly managed.
internal controls over financial profitability.
Spanning the Group functions reporting.
As a result of these matters, organisational structure, Glencores Group functions Risk Management, three of the Katanga executive disciplined approach to risk Compliance, Legal and Sustainable directors resigned from the Katanga management and control originates Development support the Business board and Glencore nominated with strategic responsibility in the Risk Owners and senior management three new directors to replace them.
hands of the Board, which also in mitigating risk across the Group.
Additionally as a result of a review retains operational authority on by Glencore, various structural and matters exceeding agreed thresholds Internal Audit internal control changes have been of materiality.
Internal Audit, as an independent implemented across the copper assurance provider, reviews the risk The Board retains final authority for department in order to enhance and management process and internal assessing and approving the Groups strengthen its financial processes and controls established by the overall risk appetite and sets overall procedures.
Your Board has been management team.
limits which are subject to review committed to ensure that the annually.
It is assisted by the work of A risk-based audit approach is weaknesses identified are addressed the Audit Committee for oversight applied in order to focus on high and do not recur.
and by senior management for risk areas during the audit process.
Katanga has been advised by the day-to-day operational matters, in Itinvolves discussions with Ontario Securities Commission OSC order to maintain an effective risk management on the risks identified that its enforcement staff are management governance apparatus in the business risk registers, investigating, among other things, for the Group.
emerging risks, operational changes, whether Katangas previously filed new investments and capital projects.
periodic public disclosures contain The key results from this process are statements that are misleading in a reported to the AuditCommittee for material respect and the adequacy their review.
of Katangas corporate governance practices and the related conduct As well as being subject to a review of certain directors and officers of the Audit Committee for its effectiveness, the Internal Audit function was also subject to a conformance review in 2017 Glencore Annual Report 2017 92 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information by KPMG pursuant to the Further information is provided in the At the heart of the risk management International Internal Audit Standards report from the HSEC Committee regime is the process of challenge and International Professional below and will be published in the that takes place between the Practices Framework Guidance.
CEO, the CRO and the business A Generally Conforms assessment heads which sets risk appetite in the best scale of assessment Marketing risk management accordance with Group requirements available was made byKPMG.
Glencores marketing activities are and market conditions for each exposed to commodity price, basis, commodity.
The objective is to Industrial risk management volatility, foreign exchange, interest ensure that an appropriate balance We believe that every employee rate, credit and performance, liquidity is maintained between the levels of should be accountable for the risks and regulatory risks.
risk assumed and expected return, related to their role.
As a result, which relies on the commodityGlencore devotes significant we encourage our employees to specific expert knowledge provided resources to developing and escalate all risks to their immediate by business heads.
This is then implementing policies and supervisors.
This enables risks to be subject to challenge from the procedures to identify, monitor and tackled and mitigated at an early CEO based on his overall Group manage these risks.
stage by the team with the relevant knowledge and experience.
Glencore has a disciplined and process is designed to manage risk conservative approach to Marketing effectively while facilitating the fast, The management teams at each Risk MR management supported commercial decision-making which industrial operation are responsible by its flat organisational structure.
is required in a dynamic commodity for implementing a risk management Glencore continues to update and marketing company.
process that identifies, assesses and implement policies which are manages risk.
Another important consideration intended to mitigate and manage of the MR team is the challenge The risks that may impact on commodity price, credit and other of dealing with the impact of large business objectives and plans are related risks.
transactional flows across many maintained in a business risk register.
Glencores MR is managed at an locations.
The function seeks They include strategic, compliance, individual, business and central toensure effective supervision operational and reporting risks.
Initial responsibility for risk by its timely and comprehensive Any significant risks are reported management is provided by the transaction recording, ongoing to Management and the Audit businesses in accordance with and monitoring of the transactions and Committee.
A Corporate Risk complementing their commercial resultant exposures, providing all Management Framework is decision-making.
A support, encompassing positional reporting, implemented on a Group-wide challenge and verification role is and continually assessing universal basis to ensure consistency in the provided by the central MR function counterparty credit exposure.
assessment and reporting of risks.
headed by the Chief Risk Officer Key focus points CRO via its daily risk reporting Market Risk limits and reporting HSEC risk management and analysis which is split by The MR team provides a wide array These risk management processes market and credit risk.
A daily risk are operated at asset level subject The CEO, as the central figure of report showing Group Value at Risk to coordination and guidance from commercial leadership and control, VaR as shown on the next page and the central sustainability team and drives functional risk management various other stress tests and analyses subject to the leadership and policy, supported by the CFO and are distributed to the CEO, CFO oversight of the HSEC Committee.
CRO, with data and reporting from and CRO.
Business risk summaries The Groups internal assurance the central risk team and the other showing positional exposure and programme continues to be key functional units.
In turn the CEO other relevant metrics, together with developed for the assessment of reports to, and seeks authority limits potential margin call requirements, compliance with leading practices from the Board, with the main are also circulated daily.
The MR in health and safety, environment oversight role being performed function works to enhance its stress and communities.
by the Audit Committee which and scenario testing as well as receives a report from the CRO enhancing measures to capture risk at each of its scheduled meetings.
exposure within the specific areas Italso approves subject to Board of the business, e. g. within metals, confirmation the Group-wide risk concentrate treatment and profile, and any exceptions to refining charges are analysed.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 93 Corporate Governance report continued Value at risk The Group monitors its commodity Last year, the Board approved the illiquidity risks and risks associated price risk exposure by using a VaR Audit Committees recommendation with longer time horizons as well computation assessing open of a one day, 95% VaR limit of as tail risks.
Recognising these commodity positions which are $100million for 2017, consistent with limitations the Group complements subject to price risks.
VaR is one of the previous year.
This limit is subject and refines this risk analysis the risk measurement techniques to review and approval on an annual through the use of stress and the Group uses to monitor and basis.
The purpose of this Group limit scenario analysis.
The Group limit its primary market exposure is to assist senior management in regularly back-tests its VaR to related to its physical marketing controlling the Groups overall risk establish adequacy of accuracy exposures and related derivative profile, within this tolerance and to facilitate analysis of positions.
During 2017 Glencores significant differences, if any.
potential loss in value of open reported average daily VaR was The Board has again approved positions that could occur as approximately $25 million, with theAudit Committees aresult of adverse market anobserved high of $41 million recommendation of a one day, 95% movements over a defined time and a low of $13 million.
VaR limit of $100 million for 2018. horizon, given a specific level of There were no breaches in the limit confidence.
The methodology is during the year.
astatistically defined, probability VaR development $m based approach that takes into The Group remains aware of the account market volatilities, as well extent of coverage of risk exposures 45 as risk diversification benefits by and their limitations.
In addition, VaR 40 recognising offsetting positions does not purport to represent actual 35 and correlations between gains or losses in fair value on 30 25 commodities and markets.
In this earnings to be incurred by the 20 way, risks can be compared across Group, nor are these VaR results 15 all markets and commodities and considered indicative of future 10 risk exposures can be aggregated market movements or representative 5 to derive a single risk value.
of any actual impact on its future 0 Jan Mar Jun Sept Dec results.
VaR remains viewed in the 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 context of its limitations: notably, the Metals and minerals use of historical data as a proxy for Energy products Agricultural products estimating future events, market Credit Risk Management The Group-wide Credit Risk Policy Systems and reporting The Group continues to make governs higher levels of credit risk Whilst no single trading system that extensive use of credit enhancement exposure, with an established the Group can identify appears able tools, seeking letters of credit, threshold for referral of credit to manage the broad range of insurance cover, discounting and decisions by business heads to CFO requirements that the different other means of reducing credit risk CEO relating to unsecured amounts business profiles of the Group would from counterparts.
In addition, in excess of $75 million with BBB or place on it, interfacing with multiple mark-to-market exposures in relation lower rated counterparts.
At lower source systems and transferring data to hedging contracts are regularly levels of materiality, decisions may from one to another create enhanced and substantially collateralised betaken by the business heads risk to data integrity, granularity, primarily with cash pursuant to where key strategic transactions consistency and timeliness.
margining agreements in place orestablished relationships suggest with such hedge counterparts.
that an open account exposure may bewarranted.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 94 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Dealing with requirements arising Internal Audit reviews areas of many major shareholders have from regulatory reform In 2017, potential risk within the business and meetings with the Chairman and Glencore continued to implement suggests control solutions to mitigate appropriate senior personnel of the the requirements of financial exposures identified.
The Audit Group including other Non-Executive regulatory reform, including: Committee considers and approves Directors, the Company Secretary the risk-based audit plan, areas and senior Sustainability managers.
the European Market Abuse ofaudit focus and resources and Regulation MAR which affects the In particular in 2017, the following isregularly updated on audits protection and disclosure of inside were undertaken: performed and relevant findings, as information and the prevention of well as the progress on implementing a presentation and investor market manipulation the actions arising.
In particular, roadshow was held in May to the Dodd-Frank Act, the European the Committee considered Internal provide a detailed account of Market Infrastructure Regulation Audits high priority issues with a the Companys sustainability EMIR and the Swiss Financial particular focus on procurement policies and plans.
Led by the Market Infrastructure Act FMIA andsystems, its KPIs and the Chairman of the HSEC Committee, which affect in particular the effectiveness and timeliness presentations were also given areas of risk mitigation trade of managements responses by the Chairman and the CEO confirmation timeframes, to its findings.
the Chairman and Company portfolio reconciliation, portfolio The Audit Committee reviewed Secretary met with a large number compression and dispute the effectiveness of the Internal of institutional shareholders in resolution and trade reporting Audit function.
As part of this work, the summer, principally to discuss itconsidered the functions governance and reporting Upcoming financial regulatory reform management framework and its proposals or requirements include: The Board receives regular updates improvement programme.
further requirements under EMIR from the Companys Head of Strategy including mandatory clearing and on the views of shareholders through Relationships with shareholders margining requirements a briefing, which is a standing The Board aims to present a agendaitem for all Board meetings, balanced and clear view of the Group further requirements under FMIA which is supplemented by input in communications with shareholders including trade reporting, risk fromthe Chairman, CEO, CFO and believes that being transparent mitigation, margin requirements and, ifapplicable, the Senior in describing how we see the market and mandatory clearing Independent Director.
and the prospects for the business MIFID II including EU authorisations isextremely important.
and position limits AGM We communicate with shareholders The Companys next AGM is due to The impact of certain aspects of in a number of different ways.
Full these and other new regulations Theformal reporting of our fulldetails of the meeting will be set out to commodity market participants is and half-year results and quarterly in the Notice of Meeting which will potentially considerable.
The impact production reports is achieved be sent to shareholders one month on our marketing business will largely through a combination of releases, before the meeting.
Shareholders be in the form of compliance presentations, group calls and one to unable to attend are encouraged requirements with associated costs, one meetings.
The fulland half-year tovote by proxy as detailed in the rather than meaningful commercial reporting is followed by investor Notice of Meeting.
Glencores compliance, meetings in a variety of locations All documents relating to the AGM finance, IT and risk teams continue where we have institutional will be available on the Companys to work together in monitoring and shareholders.
We also regularly website at: www.
com agm advising management on these meet with existing and prospective developments.
shareholders to update or to introduce them to the Company Internal Audit and periodically arrange visits to Glencore has a dedicated Internal parts of the business to give analysts Audit function reporting directly to and major shareholders a better the Audit Committee.
The role of understanding of how we manage Internal Audit is to evaluate and our operations.
These visits and improve the effectiveness of risk meetings are principally undertaken management, control, and business by the CEO, CFO and senior members governance processes.
of the Investor Relations team and an array of business heads.
In addition, Glencore Annual Report 2017 95 Corporate Governance report continued MrFischer and MrGrauer served reviewing and agreeing the throughout the year.
MrGilbert joined preparation and scope of the A udit Committee the Committee at its second meeting year-end reporting process: report of the year in May.
MrMacaulay determining the global audit retired from the Board in April 2017, plan, scope and fees of the audit and participated in one meeting prior work to be undertaken by the to this date.
All are considered to be external auditor Independent Non-Executive Directors and deemed to be financially literate evaluating the Groups procedures by virtue of their business experience.
for ensuring that the Annual Report Additionally, all Committee members and accounts, taken as a whole, are are considered by the Board to have fair, balanced and understandable recent and relevant financial reviewing the full-year audited, experience and have competence and half-year unaudited, financial in accounting.
The Committee held statements with management and four scheduled and one additional the external auditor meeting during the year, which all the Committee members attended.
reviewing the Groups financial and John Burton is Secretary to accounting policies and practices theCommittee.
including discussing material issues with management and the Governance processes external auditor, especially matters Chairman The Audit Committee usually invites that influence or could affect the Leonhard Fischer the CEO, CFO, Group Financial presentation of accounts and Other members Controller, CRO and Head of Internal keyfigures Martin Gilbert Audit and the lead partner from considering applicable regulatory Peter Grauer the external auditor to attend changes to reporting obligations each meeting.
Other members of management and the external evaluating the effectiveness auditor may attend as and when of the external auditor required.
Other Directors, and recommending to the Board sometimes all other Directors, also a resolution to be put to the attend its meetings.
The Committee shareholders for their approval also holds private sessions with the on the appointment of the external external auditor and the Head of auditor and to authorise the Internal Audit without members of Board to fix the remuneration management being present.
The and terms of engagement of the Committee has adopted guidelines external auditor allowing non-audit services to be contracted with the external auditor monitoring the independence of on the basis set out below.
the external auditor and reviewing the operation of the Companys Role, responsibilities policy for the provision of non-audit and main activities services by it The primary function of the Audit considering and approving two Committee is to assist the Board assignments above the approval in fulfilling its responsibilities with threshold with the external auditor regard to financial reporting, external in respect of non-audit services and internal audit, risk management andcontrols.
considering the output from the Group-wide processes used to During the year, the Committees identify, evaluate and mitigate risks, principal work included the following: including credit and performance reviewing Glencores internal risks, across the industrial and financial and compliance controls marketing activities and internal controls and risk management systems Glencore Annual Report 2017 96 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information considering the scope and to satisfy itself, in discussions assumptions.
The Committee methodologies to determine the with the CEO and CFO and the discussed with the external auditor Companys going concern and internal and external auditor that their work in respect of impairment longer-term viability statements the remedial steps proposed to review, which was a key area of focus the internal controls are sufficient for them.
reviewing the Internal Audit to ensure that the weaknesses departments annual audit plan 4.
Taxation identified do not recur and reviewing the effectiveness Due to its global reach, including of the Internal Audit function overseeing the implementation and operating in high risk jurisdictions, monitoring of recommendations the Group is subject to enhanced monitoring and reviewing the by external experts and the complexity and uncertainty in effectiveness of Glencores internal Board committee to strengthen accounting for income taxes, controls for which there were no internal controls particularly the evaluation of tax significant failings or weaknesses exposures and recoverability of noted other than the Katanga to consider the appropriate deferred tax.
The Committee has restatement noted below treatment in our accounts engaged with management to for matters arising as a result reviewing reports on the operation understand the potential tax of these issues of the Groups legal compliance exposures globally and the key programme, including material estimates taken in determining the 2.
Acquisitions and disposals notifications under the Groups positions recorded, including the Accounting for acquisitions Raising Concerns whistleblowing status of communications with local involves significant management programme tax authorities and the carrying judgements and estimates.
In 2017, values of deferred tax assets.
the Committee analysed the Risk analysis accounting treatment of the QIA 5.
Counterparty exposures The Committee receives reports and Rosneft strategic partnership, The Groups global operations expose and presentations at its meetings on the purchase of interests in Katanga, it to credit and performance risk, our management of marketing and Mutanda and Volcan, the finalisation which result in the requirement to other risks excluding sustainability of the sale of a 50% stake in make estimates around recoverability risks which are reviewed by the Glencore Agriculture, the sale of a of receivables, loans, trade advances HSEC Committee.
controlling stake in oil storage assets and contractual non-performance.
and the Trevali zinc assets transaction.
As part of an ongoing review, the Significant issues related Committee considered material 3.
Impairment to the financial statements continuing exposures, the robustness The Committee considered whether The Committee assesses whether of processes followed to evaluate the carrying value of goodwill, suitable accounting policies have recoverability and whether the industrial assets, physical trade been adopted and whether amounts recorded in the financial positions and material loans and management has made appropriate statements are reasonable.
advances may be impaired as a result estimates and judgements.
They of commodity price volatility and Following its analysis of these also review external auditor reports some asset specific factors.
The matters, the Committee satisfied outlining audit work performed and Committee reviewed managements itself that the estimates made by conclusions reached in respect of key reports, outlining the basis for the key management are reasonable and judgements, as well as identifying assumptions used in calculating the that financial statements disclosures any issues in respect of these.
recoverable value for the Groups included in the accounts During the year, the Committee assets.
has focused in particular on these assumptions used are derived from key matters: the Board approved business plan.
As part of the process for approval of 1.
Katanga restatement this plan, the Committee considered The Katanga restatement issue is the feasibility of strategic plans described on page 92.
Areas of focus underpinning future performance for the Audit Committee were: expectations, and whether they understanding the material defects remain achievable.
Considerable in the internal control environment focus was applied to managements which led to the misstatements commodity price and exchange rate Glencore Annual Report 2017 97 Corporate Governance report continued Internal Audit Provision of non-audit services Taking into account all relevant The Committee monitored the by the external auditor factors the Audit Committee has internal audit function as described The Groups policy on non-audit concluded that it is not appropriate under Internal Audit on page 95. services provided by the external to tender at the current time.
auditor is designed to ensure the The Committee has determined External Audit external auditor independence and that it is satisfied that the work of The Committee has evaluated the objectivity is safeguarded.
A specified DeloitteLLP is effective, the scope effectiveness of the external auditor wide range of services may not be is appropriate and significant and as part of this assessment, provided as they have the potential judgements have been challenged hasconsidered: to impair the external auditors robustly by the lead partner and independence Excluded Services.
t he steps taken by the auditor team.
Additionally, there are no The Audit Committees approval is to ensure their objectivity and contractual restrictions on the required for 1 any Excluded Service independence Companys choice of external auditor.
2 any other engagement where The Committee has therefore t he deep knowledge of the either i the fee is contingent, recommended to the Board that a Company which enhances ii the fee may exceed $500,000, or proposal be put to shareholders at Deloittes ability to perform as iii where the fees for all non-audit the 2018 AGM for the reappointment external auditor work may exceed $15 million.
Subject of Deloitte LLP as external auditor.
to these restrictions and other c ompetence when handling key safeguards in the policy, the external accounting and audit judgements auditor may be permitted to provide and ability to communicate Leonhard Fischer certain non-audit services when it is these to the Committee and Chairman of the Audit Committee concluded that they are the most management 1 March 2018 appropriate supplier due to efficiency the extent of the auditors resources and status as a leading firm for those and technical capability to deliver specific services.
For 2017, fees paid to a robust and timely audit including the external auditor were $32 million, consideration of the qualifications the total non-audit fees of which and expertise of the team were $9 million: further details are contained in note 28 to the a uditors performance and progress financial statements.
against the agreed audit plan, including communication of Reappointment of the changes to the plan and external auditor identified risks Deloitte has been the auditor of the t he proven stability that is gained listed entity since its IPO in 2011. from the continued engagement Alead audit engagement partner of Deloitte as external auditor rotation occurred prior to the financial year ended 31December2013 and is the benefit of lead audit due to take place again during 2018 partner rotation.
for which preparations have already commenced.
The Committee assesses the quality The Board and the Audit Committee and effectiveness of the external acknowledge the greater investor audit process on an annual basis scrutiny as to a tendering for, and in conjunction with the senior rotation of, the external auditor and management team.
Key areas of note the recent regulatory and focus include consideration of the guidance changes.
quality and robustness of the audit, identification of and response to areas of risk and the experience and expertise of the audit team, including the lead audit partner.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 98 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information All members served on the Secondly, the Committee considered Committee throughout the year.
the composition of the Board and N omination TheCommittee only comprises refreshment.
Search processes for Committee report Independent Non-Executive suitable additional Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee met Directors were conducted.
four times during the year and all Martin Gilbert was appointed members attended these meetings.
In recommending In addition, some of the discussions his appointment to the Board, and deliberations in respect of the MrGilberts in-depth financial matters summarised below were knowledge and long track record carried out at Board meetings.
both as a listed company CEO and as a FTSE Non-Executive Director Roles and responsibilities were considered.
At the end of the The main responsibilities of the year Gill Marcus was also appointed, Nomination Committee are to assist with effect from 1 January 2018. the Board with succession planning MsMarcus will bring to the Board and with the selection process for extensive experience of finance the appointment of new Directors, and public service.
both Executive and Non-Executive, including the Chairman.
This involves: The Committee has noted the recommendations of the Hampton evaluating the balance and skills, Alexander Review on gender and the Chairman knowledge and experience of Parker Review on ethnic diversity.
It is Peter Grauer the Board and identifying the part of the Committees policy when capabilities and qualities Other members making new Board appointments to including diversity required John Mack consider the importance of diversity for a particular appointment Leonhard Fischer on the Board, including gender overseeing the search process and ethnicity.
This is considered inconjunction with experience evaluating the need for Board and qualifications.
Further details refreshment and succession are set out on page 90. planning generally External consultancy Spencer Stuart Main activities was retained for search mandates The Committee focused on two main during the year.
Other than this tasks during this year.
Firstly, prior engagement Spencer Stuart do not tothe notice of 2017 AGM being provide other services to the Group.
compiled, the Committee considered the performance of each Director.
Itconcluded that each Director is Peter Grauer effective in their role and continues Chairman of the Nomination todemonstrate the commitment Committee required to remain on the Board.
1 March 2018 Accordingly, it recommended to the Board that re-election resolutions be put for each continuing Director atthe 2017 AGM.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 99 Corporate Governance report continued The Committee met five times during continued to analyse the year.
Each Committee member implementation of the SafeWork H ealth, Safety, served throughout the year and programme focusing on Environment & attended all of the meetings.
identification of fatal hazards Every scheduled meeting had a and an appropriate safety culture Communities substantial agenda, reflecting the considered reports from the HSEC report Committees objective of overseeing Groups assurance programme the Groups ongoing improvements for sustainability matters with an in HSECperformance.
emphasis on catastrophic hazards and approved the assurance plan Responsibilities for 2018 The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: provided ongoing support for managements engagement on ensure that appropriate Group climate change and emissions policies are developed in line with matters.
This included considering our Values and Code of Conduct for the work of the Groups climate the identification and management change working group, chaired of current and emerging health, by Dr Hayward safety, environmental and considered reports on key community risks performance indicators in relation evaluate the effectiveness Chairman to material issues, including water of policy implementation and Peter Coates and energy use and complaints HSEC risk management through: from host communities Other members assessment of operational Ivan Glasenberg considered process safety performance Anthony Hayward management, water and effluents, Patrice Merrin review of recent internal and waste and spills, human rights and external reports grievance mechanism, product stewardship and community independent audits and reviews engagement and compliance of performance in regard to to social commitments HSEC matters, and action plans considered engagement with developed by management communities and NGOs on inresponse to issues raised sustainability matters report to the Board reviewed and oversaw the Groups sustainability report Main activities During the year, the Committee: held an investor roadshow to inform and receive feedback reviewed and approved the on the Companys sustainable Groups HSEC strategy development strategy and continued its monitoring of approach to HSEC management achieving ongoing reductions in considered a variety of other fatalities, especially at the higher material HSEC issues such as risk focus assets.
For this purpose resettlement programmes, incident it received a report on, reviewed reporting and health strategy and made recommendations in respect of, each fatality ongoing review of the Groups Peter Coates progress on its catastrophic Chairman of the HSEC Committee hazard management, as the 1 March 2018 most important non-financial risk management issue for the Group Glencore Annual Report 2017 100
