International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Social responsibility and corporate citizenship are core to our business, creating value for clients, investors, shareholders, communities and society alike.
This is achieved by taking responsibility for our actions, outcomes and reputation and is fully embedded into INPPs core business objectives and day-to-day business culture and operations.
Our most material impacts are indirect, relating to the environmental and social performance of the construction and operation of the buildings and infrastructure that make up the Companys portfolio.
This ranges from the social utility derived from modern school environments for children to learn: to quality public buildings such as libraries and local health practices: to new efficient trains and light rail systems providing better connectivity: and to offshore power networks enabling the transmission of green energy from offshore wind farms for wider distribution to homes and businesses.
Additionally, we recognise the importance of managing our relationship with Amber, our Investment Adviser, and associated asset management operations including the energy and resources used within all our operations and our contribution to the local and international community.
INPP relies upon Amber and its Sustainability Policy to promote best practice and continued improvement in environmental management and social responsibility.
Ambers Sustainability Policy looks beyond legislative and regulatory requirements and has three principles as its core: 1.
Supporting projects which contribute to the long-term sustainable development of an area 2.
Factoring the socio-economic and environmental impacts of its assets and their supply chain is embedded in its development and management decision making: and 3.
Encouraging and promoting sustainable practices within Amber for its people, at its place of work and in the communities that it serves.
Over the course of 2017, Amber has expanded and enhanced its Sustainability outlook by developing a clear set of aims that are measurable through its Key Performance Indicators KPIs that are embedded across the business and the projects that it manages.
Amber uses the UN Sustainable Development Goals UNSDGs as the overarching sustainability framework to inform its strategies and target setting and has chosen to focus on seven of the 17 UNSDGs to prioritise its goals.
Amber is certified to The Planet Mark, an  and trusted sustainability certification programme, and is committed to measuring and reducing its carbon footprint and wider sustainability metrics.
More information is available on Ambers website: www.
Our values are based on the principles of responsible investment and finance that supports sustainable economic development, enhances quality of life and safeguards the environment.
A selection of the social responsibility and environmental initiatives provided through our investment portfolio are described below demonstrating that wherever we operate, we seek to integrate within the neighbourhood, supporting the local community, its business and workforce.
INVESTING IN THE COMMUNITY INPP seeks, through its projects, to work collaboratively with the local communities where it invests, recognising the economic benefits and contribution the projects can bring to the area, particularly as the Company is typically investing for in excess of 20 years.
Examples of community engagement during the year are given below.
The Thames Tideway Tunnel project leads the construction industry in demonstrating how a large capital construction project should integrate into and deliver real benefits to adjacent communities.
The project team are helping deliver their vision of Reconnecting 1 London and Londoners with the River Thames through supporting community activities in the boroughs where works are to be delivered.
Specific events have included education programmes, support of local clubs and societies working in partnership with local schools and colleges.
com article aug-2015  41 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Salford and Wigan BSF worked with their local authority partners to identify specific areas of need.
Walkden school was assisted in the purchase of books that specifically target encouraging fathers to read to their children and the provision of transportation to parents evening to encourage participation and partnership between the school and parents.
Additionally, Moorside High School pupils were assisted by the facilities manager FM provider to create videos warning of the dangers of drug and alcohol abuse.
We continue to support the Community Partnerships Programme at the Royal Childrens Hospital RCH, an investment in Melbourne, Australia, which aims to provide partnerships and attractions to reflect the RCHs standing as one of the worlds great childrens hospitals.
The initiative includes bringing the community into the RCH and creating partnerships with iconic local intuitions, supporting the pain free experience for children through entertainment and distraction, integrating education outcomes with entertainment and incorporate evidence based outcomes in developing the programme of events and activities.
COMMITMENT TO THE ENVIRONMENT We continue to consider the environmental impact of our portfolio and have taken various steps to increase our commitment.
This is illustrated by some of the initiatives set out below.
We proactively work with the commissioning authorities and constructing partners to achieve high standards in sustainability, including building certifications such as BREEAM, LEED and Green Star.
A scheme at Olga School, one of the schools in the Tower Hamlets Grouped Schools project, was successfully completed this year.
The project involved the entire demolition of the existing one form entry school and the creation of a new three form entry school.
The new school achieved a BREEAM Excellent status overall and was accredited with ISO 14001, an internationally recognised environmental management standard which monitors factors such as reduction in energy consumption, waste disposal and material use throughout the supply chain.
The construction also incorporated the installation of photovoltaic panels, which met a 30% renewable energy target and will have an ongoing contribution towards sustainable energy generation.
Oakfield School in Nottingham part of our Nottingham BSF 1 project received a Gold Award in the annual Nottingham in Bloom competition, a nationwide gardening competition across Britain that helps bring the community together and show environmental responsibility.
Staff of the facilities management provider give un-paid support to the school to help promote the scheme.
The school has been commended for horticultural excellence and its contribution to the environment, local landscape and character of Nottingham.
Additionally, the school is currently evaluating the potential to reuse cooking oil from the kitchen in the CHP plant to power and heat the school, reducing both emissions and waste.
At the Royal Childrens Hospital in Melbourne, project staff have worked with their project partners to develop a joint strategy for energy conservation.
To date, 52 initiatives have been implemented: these initiatives are projected to reduce 60,000 tonnes of C02 emissions and could result in a saving of over A$8M.
One such project includes the installation of an organic waste dehydrator in the commercial retail section of the facility which saves 55,000kg of waste from landfill and 87.6 tonnes of CO2 emissions annually.
INPPs investment into OFTOs enables the transmission of green energy generated by offshore windfarms to the National Grid.
In addition, INPPs investment into the Thames Tideway Tunnel will have a significant environmental impact on the water quality of the River Thames in London, as a result of sewage and waste water being diverted away from the Thames and directly to a water facility.
SUPPORTING PUBLIC SECTOR PARTNERS INPP investments by their very nature support public sector partners engagement with the wider communities throughout the construction and operational phases of the portfolios assets, some examples of this are set out below.
Lewisham BSF project has provided over 10,000 of sponsorship to CSR initiatives across the project.
Bonus Pastor School was supported in holding two awards evenings to celebrate success and encourage attainment.
With a specific focus on sports and arts, the students displayed their work and were awarded trophies for individual success.
Drumbeat School for students with special needs benefitted from the installation of external surfacing and play equipment enabling safe outdoor play and motor skill development at no cost to the school.
Similarly, Prendergast Vale School received a donation towards the purchase of play equipment.
The project has received outstanding feedback from the public sector partner for tangibly enhancing the educational development of the young people who use the facilities.
42 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED The Waltham Forest project supported an Eco Garden at Frederick Bremner School.
The financial sponsorship provided facilities for an Outdoor Classroom providing flowers, plants, vegetables and shrubs, and implements such as wheel barrows, hand tools and protective clothing.
It enhanced curriculum delivery in a number of areas such as healthy eating, employability and the natural environment.
It was noted as being particularly beneficial for students with additional support needs who find traditional classroom environments challenging.
Stepney Green Sixth Form Centre, a large variation in the Tower Hamlets Schools project is nearing completion.
As part of the scheme the building contractor supported the local educational community to provide careers talks and mock interviews at local schools to inspire the next generation of construction industry professionals.
This led to the contractor employing six apprentices as part of the workforce, of which 23% lived in the local area.
In addition, the contractor provided business support to ensure 400 SMEs were encouraged to bid for the project and were subsequently encouraged to bid for future construction opportunities in the local area.
The programme comprised of an engagement and brokerage service for main contractors and buying organisations to help diversify their supply chains.
PROMOTING SUCCESSFUL PARTNERSHIPS Our long-term partnerships with the operational business, construction firms and facilities managers who build and operate the investments within the portfolio are critical to the overall success of those projects.
We work hand-in-hand with those firms and are pleased to provide examples of how they have engaged with the projects and their local communities during the year.
The facilities management provider staff at St Thomas More have been particularly proactive in partnering with the local community.
Examples include charity support such as collecting Easter eggs for a local childrens hospital and supporting the local homeless through clothing and financial donations.
The wellbeing of staff has also been a particular focus with the establishment of an in-house health club which promotes healthy eating and exercise, including the participation of FM staff in a local running event.
Staff from the facilities management provider at Bootle Government offices have partnered with the local Authority to offer work experience placements for young people.
The fortnight long placements offered five young people in the area an insight into the world of work and increased their employability.
In addition, the facilities management provider supported a local building training college with materials, expertise and work placements on local building sites through their construction division.
Cadent continues to offer a reliable, valued and trusted presence in local communities.
Their strategy, Our Contribution details specifically how the company will do business and create a sustainable legacy.
Highlights from 2017 include: Employees continue to share time, skills and expertise through volunteeringin 2017 over 14,000 hours were dedicated to community projects.
Establishing the Alzheimers Society as their first charity partnership following a staff vote in September 2016.
To date, over 600,000 has been raised by staff to assist with the aim of assisting those living with dementia and their families.
Where assets are renewed, consideration is given to reducing costs, carbon and emissions.
As an example, Bishops Wood Substation in the U. K. was refurbished resulting in an electricity consumption saving of 60%.
43 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 CORPORATE GOVERANCE SUMMARY OF INVESTMENT POLICY OVERVIEW INPP invests in public or social infrastructure assets and related businesses located in the U. K. Australia, Europe, North America and other parts of the world where the risk profile meets the Companys risk and return requirements.
The Company has a long-term view and invests in operational and construction phase assets for the life of the asset or concession, unless there is a strategic rationale for earlier realisation.
INPP seeks to enhance the capital value and the income derived from its investments to optimise returns for its investors.
The Investment Policy is summarised below and available in full at www.
INVESTMENT PARAMETERS Maintaining the performance of the existing portfolio is the Companys key focus.
However, it will also seek attractive opportunities to expand its portfolio, including: - Investments with characteristics similar to the existing portfolio - Investments in other assets or concessions having a public or social infrastructure character with either availability, property rental or user paid payment mechanisms - Investments in infrastructure assets or concessions characterised by high barriers to entry and expected to generate an attractive total rate of return over the life of the investment PORTFOLIO COMPOSITION The Company will, over the long-term, maintain a spread of investments both geographically and across industry sectors in order to achieve a broad balance of risk in the Companys portfolio.
It does not expect to invest in projects in non-OECD countries, unless it can get comfortable with the risk-return profile.
Asset allocation will depend on the maturity of the local infrastructure investment market, wider market conditions and the judgement of the Investment Adviser and the Board on the suitability of the investment from a risk and return perspective.
The Company Overview on page 2 has details of the current composition of the investment portfolio.
INVESTMENT RESTRICTIONS The Companys Investment Policy restricts it from making any investment of more than 20% of the total assets in any one investment in order to limit the risk of any one investment to the overall portfolio.
As a London Stock Exchange-listed Company, INPP is also subject to certain restrictions pursuant to the UKLA Listing Rules.
MANAGING CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Further investments will continue to be sourced by the Investment Adviser, Amber Fund Management Limited.
Some of these investments will have been originated and developed by, and in certain cases may be acquired from, members of the Amber Infrastructure Group.
The Company has established detailed procedures to deal with conflicts of interest that may arise and manage conduct in respect of any such acquisition.
The Corporate Governance Report sets out more details on the conflicts management process.
44 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SUMMARY OF INVESTMENT POLICY CONTINUED FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT The Company may also make prudent use of leverage to enhance returns to investors, to finance the acquisition of investments in the short-term and to satisfy working capital requirements.
Under the Companys Articles, outstanding borrowings at the Company level, including any financial guarantees to support subscription obligations in relation to investments, are limited to 50% of the Gross Asset Value GAV of the Companys investments and cash balances.
The Company has the ability to borrow in aggregate up to 66% of such GAV on a short-term basis i. e. less than 365 days if considered appropriate.
Details of the Companys corporate debt facility can be found on page 22.
CHANGES TO INVESTMENT POLICY Material changes to the Investment Policy summarised in this section may only be made by ordinary resolution of the shareholders in accordance with the U. K. Listing Rules.
45 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 CORPORATE GOVERANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The table below details all Directors of the Company at the date of this report.
BACKGROUND AND EXPERIENCE LISTED COMPANY AND OTHER RELEVANT DIRECTORSHIPS 1 Aged 57 and a resident of Guernsey, Rupert has over 30 years of experience AP Alternative Assets LP Rupert Dorey Chairman in financial markets, including 17 years at CSFB where he specialised in Cinven Capital Management IV, Chairman, Investment credit-related products.
V, VI Ltd and Cinven General Committee Ruperts expertise was principally in the areas of debt distribution, Partner Ltd. origination and trading, where he held a number of senior positions at CSFB, NB Global Floating Rate Income including Fixed Income Credit product coordinator for European offices and Date of Appointment: Fund Ltd head of U. K. Credit and Rates Sales.
Since 2005 Rupert has been a non-executive director for a number of Hedge Funds, Private Equity & Infrastructure Funds.
Tetragon Financial Group Limited He is a member of the Institute of Directors.
1 Aged 62, John is a resident of Guernsey.
John is a Fellow of the Institute of Aberdeen Frontier Markets John Whittle Senior Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and holds the Institute of Investment Company Ltd Independent Director Directors Diploma in Company Direction.
John holds non-executive Globalworth Real Estate Chairman, Audit and Risk positions on a number of other boards.
Investments Ltd Committee John was previously Finance Director of Close Fund Services, a large GLI Finance Ltd independent administrator.
Date of Appointment: India Capital Growth Fund Ltd Prior to moving to Guernsey, John was at Price Waterhouse in London before 6 August 2009 embarking on a career in business services, predominantly telecoms.
Starwood European Real Estate Finance Ltd Chenavari Toro Income Fund Ltd 1 John Le Poidevin Aged 47, and a resident of Guernsey, John has over 25 years of business Aurigny Air Services Ltd experience.
BH Macro Ltd Date of Appointment: John is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Safecharge International Group Wales and a former partner of BDO LLP, where he held a number of 1 January 2016 Ltd leaderships rules, including Head of Consumer Markets, where he developed an extensive breadth of experience and knowledge across the Stride Gaming plc real estate, leisure and retail sectors in the U. K. and overseas.
John is a non-executive director on several plc boards and chairs a number of Audit Committees.
1 Aged 66 and a resident of Guernsey since 2001, John has over 40 years JT Group Chairman John Stares Chairman, experience.
Risk Sub-Committee Terra Firma Guernsey-based Before moving to Guernsey, John worked for 23 years as a management entities Chairman, Nomination and consultant with Accenture where he held a wide variety of leadership roles.
Remuneration Committee Governor of More House School He currently holds non-executive positions on the boards of several other New Philanthropy Capital companies.
Date of Appointment: Trustee John is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and 28 August 2013 Wales, a member of the Worshipful Company of Management Consultants, and a Freeman of the City of London.
1 Aged 62 and a resident of Guernsey, Claire has nearly 40 years experience BH Macro Ltd Claire Whittet in the banking industry with Bank of Scotland, Bank of Bermuda and Eurocastle Investment Ltd Chairman, Management Rothschild Bank International where she was latterly, Managing Director and co-Head until May 2016 when she became a Non-Executive Director of Engagement Committee Riverstone Energy Ltd the bank.
She is also Non-Executive Director of five other listed funds.
TwentyFour Select Monthly Claire is a member of the Chartered Institute of Bankers in Scotland, the Date of Appointment: Income Fund Ltd Chartered Insurance Institute, is a Chartered Banker, a member of the 10 September 2012 Third Point Offshore Investors Institute of Directors and holds the Institute of Directors Diploma in Ltd Company Direction.
46 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 CORPORATE GOVERANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED BACKGROUND AND EXPERIENCE LISTED COMPANY AND OTHER RELEVANT DIRECTORSHIPS Giles Frost Aged 55 and a resident in the United Kingdom, Giles is a founder and Giles is also a Director of a Director of Amber Infrastructure and has worked in the infrastructure number of the Companys investments sector for over 20 years.
Giles qualified as a solicitor and subsidiary and investment Date of Appointment: partner in the law firm Wilde Sapte now Dentons.
holding entities and of other 2 August 2006 entities in which the Company Giles is a Director of Amber Infrastructure Group Holdings Ltd, the ultimate has an investment.
He does not holding company of the Investment Adviser to the Company and various of receive Directors fees from its subsidiaries.
such roles for the Company.
1 Julia Bond Aged 59 and a resident in the United Kingdom, Julia has 27 years European Assets Trust EAT experience of capital markets in the financial sector and held senior positions within Credit Suisse including Head of One Bank Delivery and Date of Appointment: Global Head of Sovereign Wealth funds activity.
1 September 2017 Julia is currently a non-executive director and trustee of several governmental bodies and charities including the Supervisory and Management Board of the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office and a non-executive advisor to the CEO of the Association of Certified Chartered Accountants.
1 All of the Independent Directors are members of all Committees.
47 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 CORPORATE GOVERANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT INTRODUCTION The Board of Directors is committed to high standards of corporate governance and has put in place a framework for corporate governance which it believes is appropriate for an investment company that is a constituent of the FTSE 250 Share Index.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall management and oversight of the Company, for agreeing its strategy, monitoring its financial performance, and setting and monitoring its risk appetite.
This section describes how INPP is governed.
It explains how the Board is organised and operates, including the roles and composition of each of its Committees, and provides details on our Board members and how they are remunerated.
As an investment company, the Company has no employees and relies on the advice and expertise of its key suppliers, notably its Investment Adviser, Amber Fund Management Limited Amber.
This section therefore also explains the nature of the Companys relationship with Amber, and how this is managed including the remuneration of the Adviser.
COMPLIANCE WITH CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODES AND REGULATIONS All companies with a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange are required to confirm their compliance with or explain departures from the U. K. Corporate Governance Code issued in April 2016 the U. K. Code.
This requirement applies regardless of where the company is incorporated.
The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Companies the AIC.
The Financial Reporting Council acknowledges that the AIC Corporate Governance Code issued in July 2016 the AIC Code can assist externally managed companies in meeting their obligations under the U. K. Code in areas that are of specific relevance to investment companies.
The Guernsey Financial Services Commission has also confirmed that companies that report against the U. K. Code or AIC Code are deemed to meet the Guernsey Code of Corporate Governance.
The AIC Code is available from the Association of Investment Companies website www.
The U. K. Code is available from the Financial Reporting Council website www.
The Company has complied throughout the year with all the provisions of the AIC Code and as such also meets the requirements of the U. K. Code.
However, as an investment company, most of the Companys day-to-day responsibilities are delegated to third parties.
The Company does not have any Executive Directors.
The U. K. Codes two separate principles of setting out the responsibilities of the chief executive and disclosing the remuneration of executive directors Section A.
2 of the U. K. Code are therefore not applicable.
The Company is subject to a new European Union Regulation 2017 653 the Regulation which deems it to be a packaged retail and insurance-based investment product PRIIPS.
In accordance with the requirements of the Regulation, the Company published its first standardised three-page Key Information Document KID on 22 December 2017.
The KID is available on the Companys website www.
com investors and will be updated at least every 12 months.
BOARD AND COMMITTEES The Board sets the strategy for the Company and makes decisions on changes to the portfolio including approvals of acquisitions, disposals and valuations.
Through Committees and the use of external independent advisers it manages risk and governance of the Company.
The Board has a majority of Independent Directors currently six of the seven Directors are independent.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors consists of seven Non-Executive Directors, whose biographies, on pages 46 to 47, demonstrate a breadth of investment and business experience.
48 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 CORPORATE GOVERANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED On 1 September 2017 the Board was pleased to announce that following an external recruitment process it had appointed Ms Julia Bond as an additional Non-Executive Director of the Board.
Ms Bond brings a wealth of board experience in Investment Trusts, the public sector, professional bodies as well as the voluntary sector.
Ms Bonds skills and knowledge are complementary to the current Board.
As mentioned in the Chairmans Letter, the Board is actively seeking a candidate for Chairmanship following Mr Doreys planned retirement from this role and the Board.
The Board consists solely of Non-Executive Directors and, for the period of this report, was chaired by Mr Dorey, who is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
The Board considered that Mr Dorey was independent upon appointment and remained independent throughout his term of service for the purposes of the AIC Code.
For the period of this report, Mr Whittle held the role of Senior Independent Director.
He is an alternative point of contact for shareholders and leads in matters where it is inappropriate for the Chairman to do so.
For the purposes of the AIC Code, Mr Frost is treated as not being an Independent Director, due to his relationship with the Companys Investment Adviser.
In accordance with the AIC Code, all other Non-Executives are independent of the Companys Investment Adviser.
BOARD TENURE AND RE-ELECTION Directors do not have service contracts.
Directors are appointed under letters of appointment, copies of which are available at the registered office of the Company.
All Directors offer themselves for re-election on an annual basis.
The Board considers its composition and succession planning on an ongoing basis.
In accordance with the AIC Code, when and if any Director has been in office or on re-election would at the end of that term of office have been in office for more than nine years, the Company will consider further whether there is a risk that such a Director might reasonably be deemed to have lost independence through such long service.
Mr Dorey has been a Board member since August 2006 and in August 2015 had served as a Board member for over nine years.
The Board is confident that Mr Dorey remains independent and offers himself for re-election on an annual basis.
Mr Dorey intends to retire following the successful search for a new Chairman and completion of a reasonable transition period.
More information is available on page 6.
DIRECTORS DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors have adopted a set of Reserved Powers, which establish the key purpose of the Board and detail its major duties.
These duties cover the following areas of responsibility: - Statutory obligations and public disclosure - Approval of investment decisions - Strategic matters and financial reporting - Board composition and accountability to shareholders - Risk assessment and management, including reporting, compliance, monitoring, governance and control - Other matters having material effects on the Company These reserved powers of the Board have been adopted by the Directors to demonstrate clearly the importance with which the Board takes its fiduciary responsibilities and as an ongoing means of measuring and monitoring the effectiveness of its actions.
The Board monitors the Companys share price and NAV and regularly considers ways in which shareholder value may be enhanced.
These may include implementing marketing and investor relations activities, appropriate management of share price premium discount and the relative positioning and performance of the Company to its competitors.
The Board is also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Individual Directors may, at the expense of the Company, seek independent professional advice on any matter that concerns them in the furtherance of their duties.
The Company maintains appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance in respect of legal action against its Directors on an ongoing basis and the Company has maintained appropriate cover throughout the period.
49 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 CORPORATE GOVERANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED All new Directors receive introductory support and education about the infrastructure sector and the Company from the Investment Adviser on joining the Board and, in consultation with the Chairman, all Directors are entitled to receive other relevant ongoing training as necessary.
BOARD DIVERSITY The Board is committed to maintaining the appropriate balance of skills, gender, knowledge and experience among its members to ensure strong leadership of the Company.
When appointing Board members, its priority will always be based on merit, but will be influenced by the strong desire to maintain Board diversity.
The Board has two female Directors.
BOARD REMUNERATION The Nomination and Remuneration Committee considers matters relating to the Directors remuneration, taking into account benchmark information including fees paid to directors of comparable companies, although such a review does not necessarily result in any changes to the fees paid and based upon the amount of work performed by the Board members.
In 2017 no advice or services were provided by any external persons in respect of its consideration of Directors remuneration.
All fees payable to the Directors should reflect the time spent by the Directors on the Companys affairs and the responsibilities borne by the Directors and be sufficient to attract, retain and motivate Directors of a quality required to run the Company successfully.
The Chairman of the Board is paid a higher fee in recognition of additional responsibilities, as is the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Chairmen of the Nomination and Remuneration, Management Engagement, and Investment Committees respectively do not receive additional fees for these roles.
There are no long-term incentive schemes provided by the Company and no performance fees, or bonuses paid to Directors.
Any changes to Directors remuneration are considered at the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The base remuneration, approved at the 2017 Annual General Meeting, for each director role is set out below: POSITION Board Chairman 67,500 Audit Committee Chairman 55,000 Director Independent and Non-Independent 43,000 1 2017 FEES PAID 2016 FEES PAID DIRECTOR 2 Rupert Dorey 77,500 60,000 3 John Whittle 65,000 50,000 Claire Whittet 53,000 37,500 John Stares 53,000 37,500 John Le Poidevin 53,000 37,500 4 Julia Bond 14,333 N A 5 Giles Frost 53,000 32,000 1 Includes 10,000 fee payable to Board members with respect to the May 2017 share issue.
2 Mr Dorey became Chairman of the Board on 31 December 2013 for which he receives a higher fee.
3 Mr Whittle became Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee on 31 December 2013 for which he receives a higher fee.
4 Ms Bond joined the Board on 1 September 2017.
5 The emoluments for Mr Frost are paid to his employer Amber Infrastructure Limited, a related company of the Companys Investment Adviser.
Mr Frost is also a director of a number of other companies in which the Company directly or indirectly has an investment, although he does not control or receive remuneration in relation to these entities.
In addition to director fees above, following Mr Whittles appointment as Director to the five Luxembourg subsidiary entities of International Public Partnerships, he received fees of 3,000 per entity for the year ended 2017.
50 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 CORPORATE GOVERANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS INTERESTS Directors, who held office at 31 December 2017, had the following interests in the shares of the Company: 31 DECEMBER 2017 31 DECEMBER 2016 1 1 DIRECTOR NUMBER OF ORDINARY SHARES NUMBER OF ORDINARY SHARES 2 Rupert Dorey 1,037,614 793,687 3 John Whittle 58,864 52,198 4 Claire Whittet 68,017 52,257 John Stares 75,000 75,000 John Le Poidevin 65,333 - 5 Julia Bond - - Giles Frost 880,313 513,274 1 All shares are beneficially held.
2 Included in this number are 200,000 shares owned by Mr Doreys spouse and 43,927 shares are held by another close family member.
3 Holds shares through a Retirement Annuity Trust Scheme.
4 Holds shares through a Retirement Annuity Trust Scheme jointly with Ms Whittets spouse.
5 Ms Bond joined the Board on 1 September 2017.
There have been no changes to any of the above holdings between 31 December 2017 and the date of this report.
51 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 CORPORATE GOVERANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD The Board has established four Committees consisting of the independent Non-Executive Directors.
The responsibilities of these Committees are described below.
Terms of reference for each Committee have been approved by the Board and are available on the Companys website.
AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE The Audit and Risk Committee is comprised of the full Board, with the exception of Mr Frost as the Non-Independent Director.
Mr Whittle is the current Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and Mr Stares has lead responsibility for risk within the Risk SubCommittee.
As a consequence, the Company Chairman is a member of the Audit and Risk Committee, which the Board believes is appropriate as Mr Dorey brings significant independent expertise in investment trusts and finance for the benefit of that Committee.
The duties of the Audit and Risk Committee in discharging its responsibilities are outlined in the Audit and Risk Committee Report.
52 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 CORPORATE GOVERANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED In respect of its risk management function, the Audit and Risk Committee is also responsible for reviewing the Companys risk management framework including the acquisition and disposal of assets, the valuation of assets and ensuring that the risk management function of the Investment Adviser, Administrator and other third-party service providers are adequate and to seek assurance of the same.
The Audit and Risk Committee satisfied that the key risks that could impact the Company and its investments were effectively mitigated and reported upon and were broadly in line with those of the Companys relevant industry peers.
MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE The Management Engagement Committee is comprised of the full Board, with the exception of Mr Frost as the Non-Independent Director, and is chaired by Ms Whittet.
The duties of the Management Engagement Committee in discharging its responsibilities are outlined in the diagram on page 52.
The Management Engagement Committee carries out its review of the Companys advisers through consideration of a number of objective and subjective criteria and through a review of the terms and conditions of the advisers appointments: with the aim of evaluating performance, identifying any weaknesses and ensuring value for money for the Companys shareholders.
During the year, the Management Engagement Committee formally reviewed the performance of the Investment Adviser and other key service providers to the Company and no material weaknesses were identified.
Overall the Committee confirmed its satisfaction with the services and advice received.
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Nomination and Remuneration Committee is comprised of the full Board, with the exception of Mr Frost as the Non-Independent Director, and is chaired by Mr Stares.
The Committee is formally charged by the Board to consider the structure, size, remuneration and composition of the Board.
It also oversees the appointment and re-appointment of Directors, taking into account the expertise of the candidates and their independence see page 52 for more detail on the Committee.
In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code for FTSE 350 companies, the Company undertakes externally facilitated evaluation every three years.
During the period the Board commissioned Trust Associates to facilitate an external evaluation of the Boards performance.
The evaluation included interviews with members of the Investment Advisers team, other external advisers including the Companys broker and discussions with several of the Companys largest investors.
The report concluded the relationship between Amber and the Board continues to be very strong.
It also acknowledged that the composition and practices of the Board were strong and there was a need to continue to plan for growth and replacement of skills as directors retire.
Ahead of the anticipated changes in chairmanship role of the existing Board following Mr Doreys retirement as Chairman, the Board also discussed succession planning.
An active search for a new Chairman is in process.
INVESTMENT COMMITTEE The Investment Committee is comprised of the full Board, with the exception of Mr Frost as the Non-Independent Director, and is chaired by Mr Dorey, as Chairman of the Company.
The Committee considers proposals relating to the acquisition and disposal of investments and, if thought fit, approves those proposals.
Details of the transactions invested in during the period are outlined on page 13 of the Report.
53 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 CORPORATE GOVERANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDANCE The full Board meets at least four times per year and in addition there is regular contact between the Board, the Investment Adviser, the Administrator and the Company Secretary.
The agenda and supporting papers are distributed in advance of quarterly Board and Committee meetings to allow time for appropriate review and to facilitate full discussion at the meetings.
The table below lists Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year, to the date of this report.
DIRECTORS QUARTERLY AD-HOC BOARD AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT REMUNERATION AND BOARD COMMITTEE ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Maximum number 4 11 4 1 3 3 Rupert Dorey 4 11 4 1 3 3 John Whittle 4 9 4 1 3 3 Claire Whittet 4 8 4 1 3 3 John Stares 4 7 3 1 1 3 John Le Poidevin 4 9 4 1 2 3 1 Julia Bond 2 N A N A N A N A N A 2 Giles Frost 4 1 0 0 0 0 1.
Ms Bond joined the Board on 1 September 2017.
Ms Bond joined the Committees of the Board on 1 December 2017.
Mr Frost is not a member of the Audit and Risk Committee, Management Engagement Committee or Investment Committee.
While Mr Frost attended the majority of ad-hoc Board and Committee meetings, as these meetings considered recommendations from the Investment Advisers his presence does not count towards the quorum so has been excluded from this tally.
RELATIONSHIP WITH ADMINISTRATOR AND COMPANY SECRETARY Estera International Fund Managers Guernsey Limited, formerly Heritage International Fund Managers Limited, acts as Administrator and Company Secretary, and is responsible to the Board under the terms of the Administration Agreement.
The Administrator is also responsible for ensuring compliance with Guernsey Company Law, London Stock Exchange listing requirements, the regulatory requirements of the Guernsey Financial Services Commission, anti-money laundering regulations and observation of the Reserved Powers of the Board and in this respect the Board receives detailed quarterly reports.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that it adheres to applicable legislation, rules and regulations under Guernsey law, the Guernsey Financial Services Commission and the London Stock Exchange.
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE INVESTMENT ADVISER The Directors are responsible for the overall management and direction of the affairs of the Company.
Under the Investment Advisory Agreement IAA, Amber Fund Management Limited a member of the Amber Infrastructure Group Holdings Limited group of companies acts as Investment Adviser to the Company to review and monitor investments and to advise the Company in relation to strategic management of the investment portfolio.
54 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 CORPORATE GOVERANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED CONTRACTUAL ARRANGEMENTS AND FEES The IAA allows for the provision of investment advisory and certain other financial services to the Board.
In return, the Investment Adviser receives fees based on the Gross Asset Value GAV and composition of the investment portfolio as well as a contribution to expenses.
The annual base fees are detailed in note 17 to the financial statements and calculated at the following rates: - 1.2% for that part of the portfolio that bears construction risk i. e. the asset has not fully completed all construction stages including any relevant defects period and achieved certification by the relevant counterparty and senior lender - For fully operational assets: 1.2% for the first 750 million of GAV of the portfolio 1.0% for that part of the portfolio that exceeds 750 million in GAV but is less than 1.5 billion 0.9% for that part of the portfolio that exceeds 1.5 billion in GAV In addition, GAV excludes uncommitted cash from capital raisings.
The Company has a long-standing relationship with the Investment Adviser and the Board believes that the continuation of this relationship, on a long-term basis, is in the Companys best interest.
The current Investment Advisory Agreement IAA was renegotiated in 2013 and has a ten-year fixed term with a five-year notice period.
The Board considers that, given the long-term nature of the Companys investments, its responsibility for the detailed day-to-day delivery of management services and relationships with public sector clients, it is important that it benefits from the continuity of service provided by a long-term advisory partner.
To ensure that shareholder interests are protected, termination provisions have been put in place to ensure that, in the event of poor investment performance, the Company has the flexibility to remove the Investment Adviser.
The Investment Adviser is also entitled to receive an asset origination fee of 1.5% of the value of new investments acquired by the Group.
It should be noted that, generally, the Investment Adviser bears the risk of abortive transaction origination costs and that this fee has been waived or reduced by agreement in the past where it has been deemed appropriate to do so for the transaction in question.
Cash receipts from capital raisings and tap issuances are not included in the GAV for the purposes of the calculation of base fees until such receipts are invested for the first time.
MAKING NEW INVESTMENTS As outlined above, the Investment Committee, comprised of independent Directors of the Company, make investment decisions with respect to new investments after reviewing recommendations made by the Companys Investment Adviser.
The Investment Adviser has a detailed set of procedures and approval processes in relation to the recommendation of new investments to the Board.
It is expected that further investments will be sourced by the Investment Adviser.
It is likely that some of these investments will have been originated and developed by, and in certain cases may be acquired from, other members of the Investment Advisers Group.
Where that is the case the conflicts management process summarised below is followed.
MANAGING CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Company has established detailed procedures to deal with conflicts of interest that may arise on investments acquired from the Investment Advisers Group, and manage conduct in respect of any such acquisitions.
As previously mentioned, the Companys Board has a majority of independent members and a Chairman who is independent of the Investment Adviser.
Each Director is required to inform the Board of any potential or actual conflicts of interest prior to Board discussions.
The potential conflicts of interest that may arise include when an Amber entity is an existing investor in the target entity while an associated company, AFML, acts on the buyside as Investment Adviser to the Company.
The Investment Advisory Agreement contains procedures with the intention of ensuring that the terms on which the vendors of such assets dispose of their assets are fair and reasonable to the vendors: and on the buyside the Company as Investment Adviser must be satisfied as to the appropriateness of the terms for and the price of the acquisition.
55 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 CORPORATE GOVERANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Key features of these procedures include: - The creation of separate committees representing the interests of the vendors on the one hand the Sellside Committee and the Company on the other the Buyside Committee, to ensure arms length recommendation and approval processes.
The membership of each Committee is restricted in such a way as to ensure its independence and to minimise conflicts of interest arising - A requirement for the Buyside Committee to conduct and report to the Company on an independent due diligence process on the assets proposed to be acquired prior to making an offer - A requirement for any offer made for the assets to be supported by advice on the fair market value for the transaction from an independent expert - The establishment of information barriers between the Buyside and Sellside Committees to ensure information is kept confidential to one or the other side - The provision of a release letter to each employee of the relevant associate of the Investment Adviser, who is a member of the Buyside and Sellside Committees.
The release letter confirms that the employee shall be treated as not being bound by his her duties as an employee to the extent that such duties conflict with any actions or decisions which are in the employees reasonable opinion necessary for him her to carry out as a member of the Buyside Committee or Sellside Committee - Individuals with material direct or indirect economic interests in the relevant assets will not participate in Buyside Committee and Sellside Committee discussions regarding the relevant assets - A requirement that the financial statements, policies and records of any such asset offered to the Company be compliant with the Companys accounting policies and procedures The acquisition of all assets, including those from any associate of the Investment Advisers is considered and approved in advance by the Investment Committee.
In considering any such acquisition, the Committee will, as it deems necessary, review and ask questions of the Buyside Committee of the Investment Adviser and the Groups other advisers and the acquisition will be approved by the Committee on the basis of this advice.
The purpose of these procedures is to ensure that the terms upon which any investment is acquired from a member of the Amber group is on an arms length basis.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS The Board is responsible for overall risk management with delegation provided to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The system of risk management and internal control has been designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to meet the business objectives.
Regard is given to the materiality of relevant risks and therefore the system of internal control cannot provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
This process is outlined in further detail in the Risk Report found on pages 31 to 40.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board welcomes shareholders views and places great importance on communication with shareholders.
It has responsibility for communication with the investor base and is directly involved in major communications and announcements.
The Board receives regular reports on the views of shareholders and the Chairman and other Directors, including the Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee, are available to meet shareholders as required.
In addition to more formal investor events, such as Results Presentations, the Investment Adviser conducts the day-to-day investor relations activities for the Company.
It meets with major shareholders on a regular basis and reports to the Board on these meetings.
During 2017, the Investment Adviser and members of the Board held formal meetings with over 70 individual shareholders in addition to day-to-day interaction, including calls and other forms of correspondence.
In addition, major investors were approached as part of the external-facilitated Board evaluation process.
The Company also has an active programme of sell side engagement and the Board is also informed on a regular basis of all relevant market commentary on the Company by the Investment Adviser, Administrator and the Companys Broker.
The Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company provides a forum for shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the Directors and with the Investment Adviser of the Company.
It is the Boards policy to publish the results of the voting at the AGM via RNS at the completion of the meeting.
56 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 CORPORATE GOVERANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED To promote a clear understanding of the Company, its objectives and financial results, the Board aims to ensure that information relating to the Company is disclosed in a timely manner.
During 2017 the Company significantly upgraded its website www.
com enabling investors to easily find publicly disclosed documents including Annual Reports and RNS announcements, together with additional background information on its assets and corporate practice.
Investors can register to receive notification via email of RNS announcements the Company issues.
The Board encourages investors to utilise this useful online resource.
Any shareholder issues of concern including on corporate governance or strategy can be addressed in writing to the Company at its registered office address see back cover.
