DIRECTORS INFORMATION Audit Committee Compliance and Ethics Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Committee Chairman 2 1 ALASTAIR COCHRAN ANDREA ABT MATTHIAS BICHSEL REN MDORI GEORGE PIERSON SARA AKBAR RIJNHARD VAN TETS AYMAN ASFARI Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Chairman Group Chief Executive Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board January 2002 October 2016 May 2016 May 2015 January 2012 May 2016 January 2018 May 2007 August 2014 as Chairman September 2017 as SID Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Extensive financial background, Strong operational leadership skills Wide-ranging experience in finance, Extensive background in a variety Over 35 years experience in the Extensive and current international A qualified lawyer and engineer.
Over 30 years experience in the withsolid international board and and international focus.
Extensive strategy, M&A, planning and business of functional roles, including sales, oil and gas industry.
Extensive financial experience, with knowledge Extensive background in risk oil and gas industry, with a unique senior management experience.
business development skills, a wealth development.
Extensive knowledge finance, procurement and logistics.
of balance sheet strengthening management, contracting, insight into the Middle Eastern Excellent experience of governance of oil and gas industry knowledge of global capital markets, energy and Specialist knowledge of the Deep understanding of operational opportunities and financing construction law, compliance environment.
and project management, as well arrangements.
Excellent international experience and Entrepreneurial track record.
understanding of corporate finance as technology management.
knowledge of governance and understanding of operational significant operational and project and investor relations.
regulatory matters and a good and engineering management.
understanding of operational and strategic management.
Experience Experience Experience Experience Experience Experience Experience Experience General partner of Laaken Asset Joined the Group in 1991 to establish Joined Petrofac in October 2016 Joined Siemens in 1997 and held Stepped down from the executive Stepped down as finance director Appointed as general counsel and Until the end of 2017, was chief Management NV.
Advised the Petrofac International, of which he fromBG Group plc, where he had various leadership roles, including committee of Royal Dutch Shell plc of Anglo American plc at the end secretary of Parsons Brinckerhoff in executive officer of Kuwait Energy managing board of ABN AMRO was CEO.
After growing the business, been Transition Head of BG Strategy Head of Supply Chain Management at the end of 2014.
Held a number of April 2017 and retired from the 2006, later becoming COO of its KSC, which she founded in 2005 between 2002 and 2007, having he led a corporate reorganisation in & Business Development and, prior and Chief Procurement Officer for of roles over his 34-year career with company at the end of January 2018, Americas operations.
Appointed as to exploit the opportunity for an previously served as a managing 2002 and became Group Chief to that, Group Head of M&A and Infrastructure & Cities from 2011 Shell, including director of Petroleum after over 12 years.
From June 2000 president and chief executive officer independent engineering and board member for 12 years.
In 2005, he led the Corporate Finance.
She started her career in Development Oman: MD of to May 2005 was group finance between 2010 and 2014.
Previously production company in the MENA appointed as the Companys Senior successful initial public listing of the Institute of Chartered Accountants industry at Dornier Luftfahrt, then deepwater services in Houston: director of The BOC Group plc.
non-executive director of WSP and Eurasia regions.
Was previously Independent Director in May 2011 Company.
He has more than 37 inEngland and Wales, he started a company of the Daimler-Benz executive vice president global Until June 2012, was a non-executive Global Inc, Terracon Consultants, new business development but stepped down on appointment years experience in the oil and gas hiscareer with KPMG before enjoying Group, where her last role was exploration and executive vice director of SSE plc.
Was appointed as Inc. and Railworks LLC.
Joined The manager for Kuwait Foreign as Chairman.
He will step down from industry.
Formerly worked as MD a successful career in investment Director, Aircraft Sales Australia president technical, of Shell the Companys Senior Independent Kleinfelder Group Inc. in August 2016.
Petroleum Exploration Company the Board at the 2018 AGM.
of a major civil and mechanical banking with Barclays fide Zoete Pacific.
Ran Shells Project and Director in September 2017. and served in various positions in construction business in Oman.
Wedd, Credit Suisse First Boston director of Brammer plc until Technology business from 2009. the oil and gas industry in Kuwait andMorgan Stanley.
February 2017. and internationally from 1981 to 1999.
Holds a BSc in Chemical Engineering.
External appointments External appointments External appointments External appointments External appointments External appointments External appointments External appointments Non-executive chairman of Euronext Founder and chairman of the None.
Non-executive director of SIG plc Vice-chairman of Sulzer AG.
Non-executive director of President, Chief Executive Officer Member of Higher Planning Council Amsterdam NV, Euronext NV and Asfari Foundation.
Member of the and a member of the supervisory Non-executive director of Canadian Cobham plc and Board member of The Kleinfelder State of Kuwait and Trustee of BNP Paribas OBAM NV.
board of trustees of the American board of Gerresheimer AG.
Utilities Limited and South Pole Group Inc. and Board director of Lane |The Silk City and Islands University of Beirut.
Member of the advisory board Power and Energy Solutions, Inc. development State of Kuwait.
Ambassador for the UK Prime of Chrysalix Energy Venture Capital.
Member of the board of trustees for the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.
Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering and member of the Chatham House Panel of Senior Advisors.
1 M r Asfari is a British citizen: he is Syrian born and has dual nationality.
2 A ppointed to the Board after 31 December 2017.
68 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Governance Gender diversity Women as a percentage of the total Board skill set 2017 Board 25% Oil and gas experience 50% Leadership team 9% Engineering 63% Total Group 11% Finance 50% Senior management 7% International experience 100% Graduates 16% Regulatory and governance 88% HSE 63% Operational strategic management 100% 2 1 ALASTAIR COCHRAN ANDREA ABT MATTHIAS BICHSEL REN MDORI GEORGE PIERSON SARA AKBAR RIJNHARD VAN TETS AYMAN ASFARI Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Chairman Group Chief Executive Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board January 2002 October 2016 May 2016 May 2015 January 2012 May 2016 January 2018 May 2007 August 2014 as Chairman September 2017 as SID Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Extensive financial background, Strong operational leadership skills Wide-ranging experience in finance, Extensive background in a variety Over 35 years experience in the Extensive and current international A qualified lawyer and engineer.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 69
