Governance Board and committee governance Governance framework The Board has established the following governance framework in order to ensure effective oversight and control over the Groupsoperations: Board of Directors Audit, Compliance Remuneration Committee Nomination & Governance Science & Technology &RiskCommittee Committee Committee See page 71 See page 78 See page 75 See page 77 Board of Directors Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee Nomination & Governance Committee The principal purpose of the Board is The Committee oversees Shires The Committee is responsible for reviewing toprovide leadership to the Company accounting and financial reporting the structure and composition of the inamanner that promotes its long-term processes, the audits of its financial Boardand for overseeing succession success, creating sustainable value statements and the effectiveness of the planning for members of the Board and, forthebenefit of shareholders and Companys risk management, internal inconsultation with the Chief Executive otherstakeholders.
control and compliance framework, making Officer, the Executive Committee.
In recommendations to the Board as required.
addition, the Committee reviews and The Board is responsible for setting the makes recommendations to the Board Companys strategy and overseeing Remuneration Committee oncultural, reputational, political and itsimplementation by management.
In The Committee oversees remuneration governance matters affecting the Group.
doingso, the Board works closely with matters affecting the Companys management to ensure that a culture of Chairman, Executive Directors, Executive Science & Technology Committee integrity, responsibility and patient focus Committee members and wider The Committees principal responsibilities exists throughout the organization.
In employees, includingannual and long-term are to regularly review and advise the addition, the Board has oversight of all incentive arrangements and related Board on the Companys investment in material matters impacting the Company performance targets.
research, development and technology, andits operations, including key policies, thequality of the R&D pipeline and that significant financial matters and M&A activity, ofR&D talent within the Group.
risk management and succession planning.
62 Shire Annual Report 2017 Board of Directors Chairman Senior Independent Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Directors Director Company Secretary Chief Financial Officer Executive Committee Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer The Chairmans primary responsibility is to The principal responsibility of the Chief The Chief Financial Officer is responsible provide leadership to the Board, ensuring Executive Officer is to manage Shires for developing strategies to enable the its effective operation.
This is achieved in day-to-day business.
The Chief Executive fulfilment of Shires short and long-term part through the promotion of an open and Officer is accountable to the Board for the strategic and financial goals, and for engaged culture that facilitates constructive development of the Companys strategy collaborating with the Chief Executive dialogue both with management and in and operations, having regard to the risk Officer in support of ongoing business executive sessions of the Board.
The profile, objectives and policies set forth operations and the development of new Chairman is also responsible for ensuring bythe Board and its committees.
In doing so, the Chief effective communications between the Financial Officer oversees all financial Non-Executive Directors Board and shareholders.
The Non-Executive Directors are charged Senior Independent Director with exercising independent judgment Executive Committee The Senior Independent Director is during Board deliberations, and ensuring The Committee assists the Chief Executive responsible for providing a sounding board effective performance and delivery of Officer in managing Shires operations, for the Chairman and for serving as a strategy by management.
ensuring that the Group is run within the trusted intermediary for the other Directors.
governance framework agreed by the Company Secretary In addition, the Senior Independent Director Board.
In doing so, the Executive The Company Secretary ensures the is responsible for leading meetings of the Committee supports the development and efficient flow of information between the Non-Executive Directors in the absence of implementation of the Companys strategy Board, its committees and members of the Chairman, leading the Non-Executive and deliberates matters that are material management to enable effective decision Directors in evaluating the performance of from a risk, financial, reputational and or making.
The Company Secretary is the Chairman, and for consulting with strategic perspective.
responsible for advising the Board on shareholders when communication with the matters of governance and for facilitating The Board Reserve Powers, Board Chairman or Chief Executive Officer would induction and training initiatives for Directors.
committee terms of reference and formal be inappropriate.
division of responsibilities of the Chairman, Senior Independent Director, Chief Executive Officer, Non-Executive Directors, and Company Secretary are available on the Companys website: www.
com Shire Annual Report 2017 63 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Membership and meetings Board and committee meeting attendance Audit, Board Board Board Compliance Nomination & Science & 1 2 2 2 2 Board member appointment date scheduled ad hoc & Risk Remuneration Governance Technology 3 Susan Kilsby September 1, 2011 5 5 5 5 6 6 Flemming Ornskov January 2, 2013 5 5 3 3 4 William Burns March 15, 2010 5 5 3 3 9 10 6 6 5 5 5, 6 Dominic Blakemore January 1, 2014 4 5 3 3 5 5 6 8 7 Olivier Bohuon July 1, 2015 5 5 3 3 10 10 5 5 0 1 Ian Clark January 3, 2017 5 5 3 3 8 8 4 4 Gail Fosler June 3, 2016 5 5 3 3 5 5 Steven Gillis October 1, 2012 5 5 4 5 5 5 9 10 5 5 David Ginsburg June 16, 2010 5 5 2 3 6 6 5 5 6 Sara Mathew September 1, 2015 5 5 5 5 5 5 2 2 5 5 8 Anne Minto June 16, 2010 5 5 3 3 10 10 6 6 8 Albert Stroucken June 3, 2016 5 5 5 5 5 5 10 10 Jeffrey Poulton April 29, 2015 December 31, 2017 5 5 3 3 Notes: The number in brackets denotes the number of meetings that Board and committee members were eligible to attend.
Numbers in blue indicate Board and committee chairmanship.
1 Ad hoc Board meetings include those that fell outside the usual Board calendar, which were timed to facilitate maximum possible attendance, and those of asub-committee of the Board comprising a select group of Directors.
2 Each Board committee held five scheduled meetings during the year, with additional ad hoc meetings held to meet the requirements of the business and timed tofacilitate maximum possible attendance.
3 Susan Kilsby served as an independent Non-Executive Director prior to her appointment as Chairman on April 29, 2014.
4 William Burns served as a Non-Executive Director prior to his appointment as Senior Independent Director on April 28, 2016.
5 Dominic Blakemore was absent from one scheduled Board meeting due to personal bereavement.
6 Dominic Blakemore was succeeded by Sara Mathew as Chairman of the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee on October 27, 2017.
Mr. Blakemore continues toserve as a member of the Committee.
7 In anticipation of changes to Board committee composition, with the approval of the Board, Olivier Bohuon was excused from attending one Science & Technology Committee meeting.
8 Anne Minto was succeeded by Albert Stroucken as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on August 3, 2017.
Ms. Minto continues to serve as a member ofthe Committee.
During the year the Board met frequently Only members of the Board are entitled to inorder to discharge its duties.
Five attend Board meetings, however, during scheduled Board meetings were held, the year members from the following typically alongside Board committee internal functions attended by invitation: meetings.
In addition, five ad hoc Board Finance meetings took place to consider the Legal and Company Secretariat strategic review of the Companys Corporate Development neuroscience business and other matters Human Resources of significance.
Research and Development During scheduled Board meetings it is Global Compliance and Risk customary for the Non-Executive Directors Management to meet without Executive Directors or Communications and Public Affairs management present, following which a Investor Relations meeting of the Non-Executive Directors led International Commercial by the Senior Independent Director is held U. S. Commercial in the absence of the Chairman.
Technical Operations External professional advisors also attended meetings when necessary.
64 Shire Annual Report 2017 Governance Effectiveness Effective stewardship is central to the development and promotion of the Companys purpose, culture, and values, and therefore to the execution of its strategy.
The Board is committed to ensuring that the Company operates in accordance with the highest standards of governance in order to promote its success for the benefit of all stakeholders.
Independence and competencies The Board has reviewed the independence of the Non-Executive Directors, other than the Chairman, inaccordance with the factors set forth for Appointments consideration in the Governance Code, The Board may appoint any individual as and determined that each Non-Executive a Director either to fill a vacancy or as an Director seeking election or re-election additional member of the Board, subject continues to be independent in character to subsequent election and annual and judgment.
In addition, the Board re-election by the Companys Planning and operation regards each of itsmembers as shareholders.
The process for new At the start of the year the Chairman and possessing the skills, knowledge and appointments is led by the Nomination her fellow Directors, supported by the experience necessary for it to function &Governance Committee procedural Company Secretary, agree on a forwardeffectively.
Board members biographical details are available on page 76 which looking schedule of matters to be information can be found on pages 56 ultimately makes a recommendation to considered by the Board and its to58.
Details of the 2017 Board the Board.
committees, with specific updates made performance evaluation can be found throughout the year as required.
In With the exception of Dominic Blakemore, onpages 66 to 67. addition, the Chairman, assisted by the William Burns, and Anne Minto, all Company Secretary, ensures appropriate Directors are seeking election or reCommitment time-allocation at meetings and election at theAnnual General Meeting Prior to appointment, Non-Executive encourages open and balanced tobe held onApril 24, 2018.
At this Directors are required to disclose to discussion with a view to achieving meeting, Non-Executive Director terms theBoard their existing significant resolution by consensus.
If consensus is ofappointment and Executive Director commitments.
This enables an not possible, decisions are to be taken by service contracts will be made available assessment of their capacity to commit majority vote, with the Chairman having for inspection by shareholders.
sufficient time to effectively discharge the deciding vote in the case of an their anticipated duties and equality of votes.
Each Non-Executive The Board recognizes the inherent value Director keeps the Board informed of any Information and support of diversity at all levels within the changes to their significant commitments.
The Chairman, supported by the organization, and strives to foster an As part of the 2017 Board performance Company Secretary, ensures that inclusive and respectful professional evaluation, it was determined that each effective channels of communication culture.
In doing so, the Board promotes ofthe Directors had committed sufficient existbetween the Board, its committees its core belief that a diverse workforce time to their role.
and members of management, and that brings a wealth of ideas, innovation and Board members are provided with the drive that in turn contribute to the Conflicts of interest information necessary for them to Companys ability to anticipate, and Directors are required to notify the Board discharge their duties and responsibilities.
adaptto, ongoing changes in its before accepting any appointment, or Before decisions are taken at Board and operatingenvironment.
taking any action, which may give rise to committee meetings, consideration is During the year the Board reviewed its aconflict of interest or a potential conflict given to the adequacy of the information Diversity Policy and considered related of interest together a conflict, or on made available, enabling the deferral of external publications, including the becoming aware of a conflict.
Directors Hampton-Alexander Review concerning notification, the Board will consider may seek clarification, additional gender diversity and the Parker Review whether to authorize the conflict and, information or professional advice concerning ethnic diversity.
The Policy ifso, set any related terms and conditions.
necessary to the fulfilment of their duties acknowledges that the Company, its These may include the relevant Director and responsibilities from across the shareholders and other stakeholders are being requested to abstain from the business, from the Company Secretary best served by a Board diverse in skill, related decision and or discussion.
orfrom independent sources at the experience, background, gender and Intheevent of a material change to the Companys expense.
The principles of the policy are circumstances relating to an authorized taken into account by both the Board and conflict, the Director concerned is the Nomination & Governance Committee required to inform the Nomination & in their consideration of potential Board Governance Committee and the members, consistent with the Groups Chairman of the Board.
Additional disclosure conflicts are reviewed annually and at relating to diversity within Shire is made such other times as is necessary by the on pages 38 and 39.
Nomination & Governance Committee, which reports on its findings to the Board.
Details on Directors interests in transactions can be found on page 109.
Shire Annual Report 2017 65 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Induction, development and evaluation Upon appointment to the Board, all Directors undergo a formal induction program that is tailored to their individual skills, knowledge andexperience: Board induction program Objectives: To facilitate each Directors familiarization with the Companys business, strategy, and governance framework, as well as their own duties and responsibilities.
Core program Induction meetings Bespoke program Directors duties and responsibilities Members of the Board Board committee responsibilities Strategy and technical operations Company Secretary Site visits Research and development Members of the Executive Committee Executive remuneration Corporate governance and reputation Members of management and subject-matter Global taxation Risk management, compliance and internal specialists Commercial operations control Corporate brokers and external advisors Investor relations Financial reporting In addition to undergoing an initial induction, as part of the annual Board performance evaluation each Director discusses with the Chairman their individual development requirements with a view to ensuring that their skills, knowledge, and experience are regularly refreshed, and that their familiarity with the Companys business is maintained.
A standing schedule of training topics enables Directors toundertake, as required, detailed development initiatives focused on matters specific to the Company and its operating environment.
The 2017 Board performance evaluation was undertaken internally, led by the Chairman with the support of the Company Secretary, andcovered the performance of the Board, its committees and members, and was aligned with the principles of the Governance Code.
Board performance evaluation Key areas of focus Information and support Independence, diversity and succession planning Time management Collective skill and experience Effective governance Delivery and communication of strategy Individual meetings Chairmans performance Evaluation and review Board committees The Chairman discussed with The Senior Independent Director The Chairman led a performance The Chairman of each Board each Non-Executive Director solicited the views of fellow evaluation and effectiveness review committee held performance and theirindividual performance, Directors with respect to the with the Board based on the effectiveness discussions with training needs, and overall performance of the Chairman, Directors feedback their committee members Boardeffectiveness andprovided her with constructivefeedback 66 Shire Annual Report 2017 Key strengths, and areas of focus for 2018, were identified as follows: Strengths 2018 areas of focus Culture of positive engagement and constructive debate Develop collective Board awareness of corporate Appropriate Board committee structure and governance matters prevalent in the UK composition, with each committee possessing the Streamline the flow of information from management to necessary skills and experience to perform effectively the Board and its committees, including the manner in Appropriate balance of support and challenge between which support is provided at meetings the Board and members of management Continue to improve the flow of information between Board committees Enhance communication of strategy to investors and other stakeholders Areas of focus for 2017, identified during the 2016 internal Board performance evaluation, and related progress are as follows: 2017 areas of focus Progress The Boards approach to reviewing corporate strategy The Board has refined the way it considers matters Succession planning for management and Nonofstrategy, including broadening its deliberations and Executive Directors allocating more time for dedicated discussion The Board oversaw an independent talent assessment ofmembers of management, prioritizing their ongoing development and refining succession plans for second and third-tier management and the skills required at executive level.
The Board also sought to broaden its awareness of suitable candidates for potential appointment as Non-Executive Directors through dedicated interactions with external search consultancies and networking initiatives Shire Annual Report 2017 67 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Accountability Risk management and internal control Risk management and internal controls develops and executes a risk-based The Board is responsible for Shires risk relating to financial reporting auditplan covering areas of financial, management and internal control systems, The Groups internal control program compliance, and operational risk across which include the processes for identifying, related to financial reporting ICFR is thevarious Group functions and geographic evaluating, mitigating, and monitoring the aligned with the COSO Framework.
Results of these audits, together principal risks faced by the Group.
These comprises a combination of manual, with results of ICFR testing, are regularly systems are developed in furtherance of the automated, preventative and detective reviewed by the Audit, Compliance & Risk Companys strategy and in accordance with controls, as well as underlying IT controls ACR Committee which, along with applicable regulatory guidelines including the for key financial systems, which are management, assesses the ongoing Internal Control Integrated Framework documented, tested, and reported on effectiveness of the ICFR against the COSO 2013, issued by the Committee of throughout the year.
The ICFR takes into Framework.
Furthermore, an established Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway account key policies such as the process of escalation enables the ACR Commission COSO Framework, and the Controllers Accounting Manual and the Committee andthe Board to review material Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Delegation of Authority matrix, as well as matters on a timely basis asthey arise.
Risk Management, Internal Control and pervasive entity level controls including Related Financial and Business Reporting.
those relating to integrity and ethical values, Shires risk management and internal control adherence to codes of conduct, and the framework has been in place for the duration Boards oversight of internal control and of the financial year covered by, and to the organizational structure.
In addition, on date of the approval of, this Annual Report.
anannual basis the Internal Audit function Monitoring and review The Board, supported by the ACR Committee, is responsible for the ongoing monitoring and review of the Groups risk management andinternal control systems.
In doing so, the Board: agrees, on an annual basis, a scheduled monitoring program and identifies those aspects that will be overseen, onits behalf, by the ACR Committee ensures that considerations of risk feature within its wider discussions, including those concerning the Companys business model and strategy reflects on the determination, identification, assessment, and mitigation of the Companys principal risks, enabling the Board to continually evaluate whether the risk management and internal control systems remain appropriate Following completion of the Baxalta acquisition, specific audit and assurance activities were undertaken with respect to the legacy Baxalta organization, with its principal business risks and risk management systems factored into Shires Enterprise Risk Management program and biannual enterprise risk assessment.
In addition, the Board has taken into consideration risk management and internal controls implementation, effectiveness, and integration as part of its wider post-transaction strategic review.
In addition to its ongoing appraisal, the Board is responsible for undertaking an annual review of the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal control systems.
This is achieved through: dedicated discussion concerning key aspects of the Companys risk management and internal control regime, including its operation and integration, managements oversight and related reporting, risk appetite, culture, and other aspects pertinent to the affairs of the Company reflection on key matters that have arisen during the year and the Companys ability to respond appropriately to internal and external developments as they arise, drawing on the Boards more-regular discussions and feedback from the ACR Committee evaluation of the principal features of the risk management and internal control systems, their composition relative to Shires strategic direction and conclusions as to their overall effectiveness Following its review in respect of the 2017 financial year and the period up to the approval of this Annual Report, the Board neither identified, nor was advised of, any failings or weaknesses within the Companys risk management and internal control systems that were considered material to the Group as a whole.
Further details on Shires risk management framework can be found on pages 18 and 19.
68 Shire Annual Report 2017 Going concern The Directors Report covering pages 2 to 113 and 184 to 198 includes the following information relating to the Group: financial position, including cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities business activities together with factors likely to affect future development, performance and financial position objectives, policies and processes for managing capital financial risk management objectives details of hedging activity and exposures to credit and liquidity risk Details of the Groups financial instruments are disclosed in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus, theyconsider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Viability statement For the purpose of assessing ongoing viability, the Board considered the Companys prospects over a four-year period.
This period is consistent with the relative focus within the Companys Long Range Plan the LRP, which underpins the Groups investment and planning processes, supports the implementation of the Companys strategy and enables the prioritization of our key strategic drivers: growth, innovation, efficiency, and people.
The LRP includes the evaluation of key sensitivities that relate to certain of the Companys principal risks and uncertainties as outlined on pages 18 to 21, including the realistic availability and effectiveness of mitigating actions, with a view to determining their potential impact on the Companys financial position, ability to deliver on strategy and, ultimately, its viability.
The sensitivity analysis considers the Companys future cash flows and funding requirements, including the ability to repay outstanding debt and other obligations, the contingent value rights held by the former shareholders of Dyax, maintaining compliance with ongoing loan covenants, the sustainability of the Companys dividend policy, and its strategy for reinvesting in long-term growth.
The sensitivity analysis assumes that debt maturing within the four-year period will be repaid from operating cash flows.
Specific scenarios considered during the year included increased pricing pressure in the U. S. and Europe, competition pressure on our Hematology franchise, lower market share for strategic products, general demand decrease and the failure of strategic pipeline programs, such as SHP643 lanadelumab.
In addition to evaluating the LRP, as part of its wider assessment of ongoing viability the Board considered: its assessment of the Companys principal risks and uncertainties as outlined on pages 18 to 21 its monitoring and review of the Companys risk management and internal control systems as outlined on page 68 reporting and assurance that it receives from its committees, members of management and the Groups externalauditor the impact of significant projects, strategic developments and other significant commitments on the Companys riskprofile, including the acquisition of Baxalta in 2016, and the establishment of separate Rare Disease and Neuroscience divisions in 2018 Having regard to each of these considerations, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the four-year period of its assessment.
In drawing this conclusion, the Boards assessment did not include the impact of undertaking other strategic initiatives, including the possible separation and independent listing of each of the Rare Disease and Neuroscience divisions.
Shire Annual Report 2017 69 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Relations with shareholders The Board is committed to maintaining open and constructive dialogue with shareholders, helping to ensure a common understanding of strategic objectives, matters of governance and of the Companys performance.
The principal points of contact for major shareholders are the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the Companys Investor Relations team, with the views of investors communicated to the Board as a whole.
During the year the Group engaged with shareholders through the media below: Meetings with Digital application Corporate responsibility Results announcements shareholders The Shire IR Briefcase app is reports and engagement and presentations The Chairman, Chief regularly updated with news The Companys website has The Company communicated Executive Officer, Chief and presentations and adedicated Responsibility its performance to Financial Officer, the provides access to the section where Shires Annual shareholders and analysts Chairmen of the Board Companys latest Annual Responsibility Review is through quarterly financial committees and members Report.
posted along with regular results announcements, ofmanagement engaged updates on programs, eachaccompanied by an withmany of Shires major policies, and activities.
explanatory webcast and shareholders and their Q&A session provided by Website representative bodies to theChief Executive Officer, The Companys website Healthcare conferences receive views on matters the Chief Financial Officer www.
com provides Representatives of the material to the Company and andother members of information about the Group Company engaged with its operations.
and is regularly updated with shareholders and potential included the ongoing corporate and regulatory investors at many conferences integration of Baxalta, the news, IR events and other held throughout the year at Companys strategy and information related to the Financial reporting which presentations and other financial targets, and the Companys operations.
The Group published half reference materials were proposed 2018 Directors andfull-year reports and filed made available.
In quarterly Form 10-Qs and addition, a meeting with Annual General Meeting anannual Form 10-K in members of the Investor The Companys Annual Investor Relations accordance with obligations Forum was held at the General Meeting was held in department arising from its equity listings Companys London office, Dublin on April 25, 2017.
The Groups Investor on the London Stock with topics of discussion Shareholders were invited to Relations department Exchange and the NASDAQ including capital allocation: attend and vote on resolutions regularly engages with Global Select Market, and its Board composition, and also to meet with shareholders and potential debt listing on the New York responsibilities and its role in members of the Board.
investors, including through Stock Exchange.
business development: and itsdedicated mailbox: succession planning.
