Audit Committee Report SUMMARY OF THE ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board.
The Audit Committees terms of reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure Rule 7.1 and the UK Code.
The terms of reference are considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then referred to the Board for approval.
A copy of the terms of reference is available upon request from the Company Secretary.
The main roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are: assess whether the Annual Report and Interim Report are fair, balanced and understandable: overseeing the Companys policy on auditor tenure and the requirement to externally re-tender the services every ten years: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained therein: reviewing the Groups internal financial controls including liaising with the Investment Adviser who reviews the systems and internal controls of service providers and, unless expressly addressed by the Board itself, the Groups internal control and in concert with the Risk Committee the risk management systems: making recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, on the appointment of the external auditor and the approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor: reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: reviewing the Groups accounts: developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit rm: and reporting to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities.
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any matters on which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and make recommendations on the steps to be taken.
COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The members of the Audit Committee are: Christopher Spencer Chairman Theresa Grant Helen Green Talmai Morgan Guido Van Berkel See pages 20 to 21 for biographical details of the current Audit Committee members.
MEETINGS The Audit Committee shall meet not less than three times a year and at such other times as the Audit Committee Chairman shall require.
Any member of the Audit Committee may request that a meeting be convened by the Secretary of the Audit Committee.
The external auditor may request that a meeting be convened if it is deemed necessary.
Other Directors and third parties may be invited by the Audit Committee to attend meetings as and when appropriate.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Audit Committee Chairman shall attend each Annual General Meeting of the Company and shall be prepared to respond to any shareholder questions on the Audit Committees activities.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2017 49.
Audit Committee Report continued SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING RISKS The Audit Committee considers the following significant risk in relation to the financial statements: Fair value of investments JLIF is required to determine the fair value of the investments.
Whilst there is an active market for investments of this nature there is not a suitable listed, or other public market in these investments against which their value can benchmarked.
As a result, a valuation is performed based on a discounted cash ow methodology in line with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
The calculation of the fair value of the investments carries elements of risk, mainly in relation to the assumptions and judgements made with respect to: the determination of appropriate macroeconomic assumptions underlying the forecast investment cash ows: the impact of project specic matters to the forecast cash ows for each investment: the impact of potential changes to tax legislation on forecast Portfolio cash ows: the determination of appropriate discount rates for each investment that is reective of the current market conditions: the determination of appropriate sensitivities to apply to meet the required disclosures: the underlying project financial models may not reect the underlying performance of the investment: the cash ows from the underlying financial models may not take into account current known issues: the updates performed on the underlying financial models may result in errors in forecasting: major maintenance lifecycle is a significant cost in some investments with judgement around timing and quantum.
This can have a significant impact on forecast cash ows: and terms and costs of the future renancing of senior debt on certain projects.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the Investment Advisers assumptions have been reviewed and challenged for: the macroeconomic assumptions, including comparison of these assumptions to observable market data, actual results and prior year comparatives: and the build-up of the discount rates for consistency and reasonableness, benchmarking against market data and peers and projectspecic items.
The Audit Committee is also satisfied that the Portfolio valuation and associated disclosures have been appropriately calculated, ensuring that the investments are brought on balance sheet at fair value and that the independent valuation carried out by an independent rm has been reviewed and challenged by the Audit Committee and that the fair value of the investments has been challenged by the Auditor.
INTERNAL AUDIT The Audit Committee shall consider at least once a year whether or not there is a need for an internal audit function.
Currently, the Audit Committee does not consider there to be a need for an internal audit function at the Group level.
However, internal audits of the underlying PPP projects are performed periodically by the Investment Adviser who will report findings to the Audit Committee and Risk Committee.
Audit Committee Report continued EXTERNAL AUDIT Deloitte LLP has been the Companys external auditor since launch in 2010, and this is its eighth consecutive annual audit.
As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee concluded that Deloitte acted in accordance with its terms of reference.
The Audit Committee assessed the quality and the effectiveness of the audit process.
To arrive at this conclusion, the Audit Committee reviewed: the scope of the audit, the audit fee and the external auditors fullment of the agreed audit plan: the degree of diligence demonstrated by them in the course of their interaction with the Board, the Audit Committee and the Investment Adviser: the external auditors assessment of the Groups financial statement risks: and the report highlighting the matters that arose during the course of the audit and the recommendations made by the external auditor.
The Audit Committee notes the revisions to the UK Code introduced by the Financial Reporting Council in April 2016 and the AIC Code issued in July 2016 and in particular the recommendation, in each, to put the external audit out to tender every five to ten years.
The Audit Committee has also noted the requirements of The Competition and Markets Authority formerly the UK Competition Commission with respect to external auditor services and retendering.
The Audit Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness and independence of the audit process and as such recommends to the Board that Deloitte LLP be re-appointed as external auditor for the year ending 31 December 2018.
Given the Audit Committees previous recommendation that the external auditor role be retendered every nine years with the Audit partner changing every five years it has recommended a re-tendering of the external audit services, for appointment in respect of the Companys 2019 year-end accounts onwards.
NON-AUDIT SERVICES The Companys policy is for the Audit Committee to review, scrutinise and challenge as necessary the scope of any proposal for the external auditor to provide services to the Company other than audit services.
Having undertaken this review, the Audit Committee is required to form a judgement on the ability of the external auditor to provide such services without compromising its independence and objectivity from the Company, and therefore its ability to continue to perform the role of external auditor effectively.
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the external auditors ability to provide non-audit services, specically a review of the Companys interim accounts.
The Audit Committee concluded that this would not compromise the external auditors independence and objectivity from the Company.
ACTIVITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee met on three occasions during the period 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
Key matters considered at these meetings included but were not limited to: review of the appointment of the external auditor: review of the effectiveness of the external auditor: review of the external audit fees: consideration and agreement of the terms of reference of the Audit Committee for approval by the Board: review of the proposed accounting policies and format of the Financial Statements: review of the audit plan and timetable for the preparation of the Report and Financial Statements: and review of the 2016 Annual Accounts Report and Financial Statements and the 2017 Interim Report.
APPROVAL On behalf of the Audit Committee Christopher Spencer Chairman of the Audit Committee 23 March 2018
