Governance Additional governance information Dividends Directors Liability insurance and indemnification Subject to the provisions of the Companies Appointment and replacement In the year under review, the Group Act, the Company may by ordinary Directors may be appointed by the Company maintained an insurance policy for its resolution, from time to time, declare by ordinary resolution or by the Board, which Directors and Officers in respect of liabilities dividends not exceeding the amount may appoint any individual either to fill a arising out of any act, error or omission recommended by the Board.
Subject to the vacancy or as an additional member of the whilst acting in their capacity as Directors Companies Act, the Board may pay interim Board, subject to subsequent election and orOfficers.
Qualifying third-party indemnity dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, annual re-election by the Companys provisions were also in place during the year whenever the financial position of the shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors are under review for the benefit of Directors in Company, in the opinion of the Board, typically appointed for a term of two years.
relation to certain losses and liabilities that justifies its payment.
Re-appointment ofNon-Executive Directors they may potentially incur tothird parties in following the expiration of their term of the course of their duties.
These remain in The Board may withhold payment of all appointment is subject to Board approval.
force at the date of this report.
orany part of any dividends or other The Board may appoint Directors for such monies payable in respect of the shares Interests in material contracts period and on such terms as it may from a person with a 0.25 percent interest Other than the insurance and indemnity determine and may also revoke or terminate as defined in the Articles if such person provisions disclosed under Liability any such appointment.
has been served with a restriction notice insurance and indemnification above, as defined in the Articles after failure to The Companys Articles of Association andDr.
Ginsburgs stated interest below, provide the Company with information theArticles provide that at each Annual none of the Directors had a material interest concerning interests in those shares General Meeting AGM all those Directors in any contract of significance to which theCompany or any of its subsidiary required to be provided under the Articles.
who have been appointed by the Board undertakings was a party during the since the last AGM, or who held office at Shire has put in place income access periodunder review.
the time of the two preceding AGMs and sharearrangements that enable who did not retire at either of them, or who shareholders to elect to receive their David Ginsburg royalty payments held office with the Company, other than dividends from a Group company resident relating to co-invention of patents executive office, for a continuous period for tax purposes in the UK.
Further mergeragreement with Baxalta ofnine years or more at the date of the Dr. Ginsburg, a Non-Executive Director information is available inNote 26 to meeting, shall retire from office and may ofthe Company, is the co-inventor of two theconsolidated financial statements.
offer themselves for re-election by the patents: i no.
US8597910 relating to In respect of the six months to December members.
Notwithstanding the provisions thevon Willebrand Factor : and ii no.
31, 2017, the Board resolved to pay an in the Articles, in accordance with the UK US8394373 relating to ADAMTS13.
interim dividend of 29.79 U. S. cents 2016: Corporate Governance Code, all Directors Assuch, he is entitled to receive royalties 25.70 U. S. cents per Ordinary Share.
will be subject to annual re-election.
forthe use of those patents.
Dr. Ginsburg Together with the first interim dividend assigned the von Willebrand Factor patent Powers payment of 5.09 U. S. cents 2016:4.63 U. S. to the Boston Childrens Hospital and the Subject to the provisions of the Companies cents per Ordinary Share, this represents ADAMTS13 patent to the University of Jersey Law 1991, as amended the total dividends of 34.88 U. S. cents 2016: Michigan.
These assignments are subject Companies Act, the Articles and 30.33 U. S. cents per Ordinary Share for the toordinary course commercial terms.
directions given by the Company in general year ended December 31, 2017.
Theassignee institutions on-licensed the meeting by special resolution, the business patents to a subsidiary of Baxalta, prior to ACS HR Solutions Share Plan Services of the Company is managed by the Board its acquisition by the Company, which in Guernsey Limited the Trustee, trustee which may exercise all the powers of the return paid royalties to both institutions.
of the Shire Employee Benefit Trust the Company whether relating to the Theinstitutions paid a proportion of those Trust, has waived its entitlement to any management of the business of the royalties to, among others, Dr. Ginsburg.
dividends that become due and payable, Company or not.
In particular, the Board Following Shires acquisition of Baxalta, from time to time, in respect of shares or may exercise all the powers of the Company asubsidiary of the Company is now the other securities which are registered in the to borrow money and to mortgage or originator of the royalty payments received name of the trustee or its nominee s. Total charge all or any part of the undertaking, by Dr. Ginsburg.
Moreover, as a result of dividends waived by the Trustee during the property and assets present and future receiving the royalty payments, Dr. Ginsburg year amounted to 253,888.31. and uncalled capital of the Company and, was considered to be interested in the subject to the Companies Act, to issue merger agreement pursuant to which Shire debentures and other securities, whether acquired Baxalta on June 3, 2016.
This outright or as collateral security, for a debt, interest was disclosed to shareholders prior liability or obligation of the Company or of to completion of the transaction.
Shire Annual Report 2017 109 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report G Go ov vern erna an nc ce e Additional governance information continued As at December 31, 2017, the Trust held Shares Restrictions on transfer of shares 0.11 percent of the issued share capital of Share capital There are no restrictions on the transfer the Company excluding treasury shares As at the year ended December 31, 2017, ofshares in the Company, except i that on trust for the benefit of participants in the the Companys issued share capital certain restrictions may, from time to time, Companys employee share plans.
The comprised 917,140,094 Ordinary Shares be imposed by laws and regulations for voting rights in relation to these shares are of5 pence each of which 7,357,283 example insider trading laws : and ii exercised by the Trustee.
The Trustee may Ordinary Shares were held in treasury.
pursuant to the Listing Rules of the UK vote or abstain from voting in any way it Financial Conduct Authority whereby Rights and obligations attaching thinks fit and in doing so may take into certain Directors and employees of the toshares account both financial and non-financial Company require the approval of the The rights and obligations attaching to the interests of the beneficiaries of the Trust or Company to deal in the Companys Ordinary Shares are set out in the Articles, their dependents.
Historically the Trustee Ordinary Shares.
which are available on the Companys has not exercised its right to vote.
The Articles may Voting Purchase of own shares only be amended by special resolution of It is the Companys practice to hold a poll At its AGM held on April 25, 2017, the the members of the Company.
on every resolution at general meetings.
Company was authorized, until the earlier Every member present in person or by Variation of rights of July 24, 2018, or the conclusion of the proxy has, upon a poll, one vote for every Subject to the Companies Act, rights 2018 AGM, to make market purchases of share held by him.
In the case of joint attached to any class of shares may be up to 90,625,090 of its own Ordinary holders of a share the vote of the senior varied with written consent of the holders Shares.
Further details regarding who tenders a vote, whether in person or ofnot less than two-thirds in nominal value purchases by the Company of its own by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the issued shares of that class shares can be found in Note 26 to the of the votes of the other joint holders and, calculated excluding any shares held in consolidated financial statements.
for this purpose, seniority shall be treasury or with the sanction of a special determined by the order in which the Substantial shareholdings resolution passed at a separate meeting names stand in the register of members As at the year ended December 31, 2017, the ofthe holders of those shares.
At each inrespect of the joint holding.
Company had been notified of the following such separate general meeting, except interests in its issued Ordinary Share capital anadjourned meeting, the quorum shall Restrictions on voting pursuant to DTR 5 of the Disclosure betwo persons holding or representing No member shall, unless the Board Guidance and Transparency Rules: byproxy not less than one-third in nominal otherwise decides, be entitled to attend value of the issued shares of that class orvote at any general or class meeting in Number Percentage calculated excluding any shares held respect of any shares held if any call or of Ordinary of issued 1 intreasury.
other sum payable by that member remains Shares share capital unpaid.
Also, a member may not be entitled 2 BlackRock, Inc. 71,248,018 7.92% Issuance of shares to attend or vote if served with a restriction Subject to applicable statutes and subject notice as defined in the Articles.
1 Excluding treasury shares to and without prejudice to any rights 2 On January 29, 2018, BlackRock, Inc. submitted attached to existing shares, shares may The Company is not aware of any a Schedule 13G filing confirming its beneficial ownership, as of December 31, 2017, of beissued with such rights and restrictions agreements between holders of securities 71,984,405 Ordinary Shares.
as the Company may by special resolution that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
decide or, if no such resolution has been The Company maintains an American No further interests have been disclosed passed or so far as the resolution does Depositary Receipt ADR program in tothe Company as at the date of this notmake specific provision, as the Board theU.
S. Each American Depositary Share Annual Report.
Subject to the Articles, the ADS represents three Ordinary Shares.
Companies Act and other shareholders AnADS is evidenced by an ADR issued by rights, unissued shares are at the disposal Citibank, N. A. as Depositary, and is listed of the Board.
on the NASDAQ Global Select Market.
Each ADS holder is entitled to the financial rights attached to such shares although the ADR Depositary is the registered holder of the underlying Ordinary Shares.
110 Shire Annual Report 2017 Earnings guidance Change of control takeover The $5,000 million Baxalta Inc. notes are The following extracts were published by andcontracts senior unsecured obligations and, with the Company during the year in its quarterly As set out in the Directors Remuneration the exception of the $375 million Floating earnings releases: Policy on page 93, it is the Companys Rate Notes due 2018, may be redeemed policy that contracts of employment should at Baxalta Inc. s option at the greater of February 16, 2017 The Non GAAP not provide additional compensation or i 100 percent of the principal amount diluted earnings per ADS forecast severance as a result of a takeover.
plus accrued and unpaid interest or assumes a weighted average number However, provisions of the Companys ii the sum of the present values of the of914 million fully diluted ordinary shares remaining scheduled payments of share plans may cause unvested awards outstanding for 2017. interest and principal discounted to the tovest in the event of a takeover.
date of redemption on a semi-annual Our U. S. GAAP diluted earnings per ADS The following significant agreements basis at the applicable treasury rate outlook reflects anticipated amortization, contain provisions entitling counterparties asdefined plus an incremental margin, integration and reorganization costs.
to exercise the following rights in the event plus, in either case, accrued and unpaid 1 of a change of control of the Company: U. S. GAAP Non GAAP interest.
The Baxalta Inc. notes also Full year 2017 Outlook Outlook contain a change of control provision Under the $2,100 million credit facility Diluted earnings $6.95 $14.60 that may require that Baxalta Inc. offer agreement dated December 12, 2014, per ADS $7.55 $15.20 topurchase the Baxalta Inc. notes at a between, amongst others, the Company price equal to 101 percent of the and a number of its subsidiaries, Barclays May 2, 2017 The Non GAAP diluted principal amount plus accrued and Bank PLC as the facility agent and the earnings per ADS forecast assumes a unpaid interest to the date of purchase banks and financial institutions named weighted average number of 914 million under certain circumstances.
therein as lenders, upon a change of fully diluted ordinary shares outstanding control any lender may, following not for 2017.
On September 23, 2016, Shire lessthan 30 days notice, cancel its Acquisitions Investments Ireland Our U. S. GAAP diluted earnings per ADS commitments and require prepayment Designated Activity Company SAIIDAC, outlook reflects anticipated amortization, ofits participation in any outstanding issued senior notes with a total integration and reorganization costs.
For these purposes, achange of aggregate principal value of $12,100 control occurs if any person or group of 1 million SAIIDAC Notes, guaranteed by U. S. GAAP Non GAAP persons acting in concert gains the ability Full year 2017 Outlook Outlook Shire plc and, as of December 1, 2016, to control more than half the votes at a by Baxalta.
SAIIDAC used the net Diluted earnings $6.95 $14.60 general meeting of the Company or holds proceeds to fully repay amounts per ADS $7.55 $15.20 more than half the equity share capital of outstanding under the January 2016 the Company.
Awaiver of the mandatory August 3, 2017 Non GAAP EPS has Facilities Agreement which was used to prepayment provision would require been upgraded by raising the midpoint finance the cash consideration payable theconsent of each lender under the ofour guidance range by 10 cents to related to the Companys acquisition of agreement.
As at February 16, 2018, an $15.00, driven by cost discipline and Baxalta.
The SAIIDAC Notes are senior amount of $60 million was outstanding accelerated synergy capture.
unsecured obligations and may be under the agreement.
redeemed at SAIIDACs option at the The diluted earnings per ADS forecast greater of i 100 percent of the principal Under the $5,600 million term facilities assumes a weighted average number of amount plus accrued and unpaid interest agreement dated November 2, 2015, 914 million fully diluted ordinary shares or ii the sum of the present values of between, amongst others, the Company, outstanding for 2017. theremaining scheduled payments of Morgan Stanley Bank International Limited Our U. S. GAAP diluted earnings per interest and principal discounted to the and Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch ADSoutlook has been updated to reflect date of redemption on a semi-annual acting as mandated lead arrangers and ongoing integration activities, which has basis at the applicable treasury rate bookrunners, upon achange of control accelerated the recognition of synergies, asdefined plus an incremental margin, any lender may, following not less than and the change in fair value of contingent plus, in either case, accrued and unpaid 30days notice, cancel its commitments consideration for SHP643 lanadelumab interest.
The SAIIDAC Notes also contain and require prepayment of its participation resulting from the positive topline Phase a change of control provision that may in any outstanding loans.
require that SAIIDAC offer to purchase purposes, achange of control occurs the SAIIDAC Notes at a price equal to ifany person or group of persons acting 1 U. S. GAAP Non GAAP 101 percent of the principal amount inconcert gains the ability to control Full year 2017 Outlook Outlook plusaccrued and unpaid interest to morethan half the votes at a general Diluted earnings $5.65 $14.80 thedate of purchase under certain meeting ofthe Company or holds more per ADS $6.05 $15.20 circumstances.
than half the equity share capital of the Company.
Awaiver of the mandatory October 27, 2017 We are reiterating prepayment provision would require our guidance from Q2 2017. theconsent of each lender under the The diluted earnings per ADS forecast agreement.
As at February 16, 2018, an assumes a weighted average number of amount of $1,200 million was outstanding 914 million fully diluted ordinary shares under the agreement.
Shire Annual Report 2017 111 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Additional governance information continued AB Biosciences Inc licensing agreement Capitalized interest 1 U. S. GAAP Non GAAP On January 25, 2018, Shire entered into During the year ended December 31, 2017, Full year 2017 Outlook Outlook alicensing agreement with AB Biosciences the amount of interest capitalized by the Diluted earnings $5.65 $14.80 Inc AB Biosciences.
The license grants Company amounted to $76.4m.
per ADS $6.05 $15.20 Shire exclusive worldwide rights to Branches developand commercialize a recombinant The realized earnings in respect of the 2017 Details of branches of group subsidiaries immunoglobulin product candidate.
financial year were: can be found in Note 30 to the Underthe terms of the agreement, consolidated financial statements.
1 Full year 2017 U. S. GAAP Non GAAP ABBiosciences will grant Shire an exclusive, worldwide license to its intellectual property Information required under 9.8.
4 R Diluted earnings relating to its pan receptor interacting of the Listing Rules LR per ADS $14.05 $15.15 molecule program.
ABBiosciences will Growth against Location receive an upfront license fee payment and 2016 financial year 1,006% 16% Information within Annual is eligible to receive contingent research, Requirement Report 2017 The U. S. GAAP diluted earnings per ADS development, and commercialization Details of information required was $8.00 or 132 percent higher than the milestone as well asroyalty payments.
18 R Pages 111-112 most recently published guidance, with the Political donations Details of interest capitalized by variance primarily due to an unforecasted the Company Page 112 During the year ended December 31, 2017, net credit to income taxes due to U. S. tax Shire made political donations equal to Details of any contract of 1 reform.
The Non GAAP diluted earnings significance in which aDirector anaggregate amount of $35,000 2016: per ADS was in line with the most recently is, or was, materially interested Page 109 $34,250.
These donations were made published guidance.
Further commentary Details of any arrangement tothe supporting associations of various on the performance of the Company during under which a shareholder has political state candidates within the U. S. the year can be found starting on page 44. waived, or agreed to waive, who had demonstrated support for anydividends Page 109 1 For a reconciliation of Non GAAP financial improving patient access to medicines measures to the most directly comparable Where a shareholder has andother medical treatments.
The measure under U. S. GAAP, see pages 179 to 183. agreed to waive donations were made pursuant to futuredividends, details of such commitments and arrangements already Post year-end events waiver togetherwith those inplace at Baxalta prior to its acquisition relating to dividends which The following important events affecting by Shire.
In accordance with Shires arepayable during the period theCompany or its subsidiaries occurred policyconcerning political donations under review Page 109 between December 31, 2017, and the date andexpenditure, it is anticipated that no of this report: further political donations will be made.
Other information requirements set out inLR Neuroscience strategic review 9.8.
4 R are not applicable to the Company.
On January 8, 2018, Shire announced thatthe first stage of its strategic review ofits neuroscience business was completed.
The Board concluded that the neuroscience business warrants additional focus and investment and that there is a strong business rationale for creating two distinct business segments within Shire: a Rare Disease segment and a Neuroscience segment.
The Company expects to report the operational performance metrics of each segment separately beginning with the first quarter of 2018.
