AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Ren Mdori Dear shareholder Chairman of the Audit Committee 2017 has been a challenging year for Petrofac, not least because of the increased focus on compliance matters and related risk management and internal control activities.
Throughout the year, the Committee supported the Board in considering adherence with these matters.
In support of the Companys strategic objective to focus on the core, the Committee also worked with senior management to ensure the historical lessons learned from operational and execution challenges could be embedded across the Group.
Petrofac continues to operate in challenging environments and it is essential that the Group maintains a defined and established system of risk management and internal control procedures.
COMMITTEE SUMMARY To this end, the Committee maintained a keen oversight on key areas of risk management and internal controls throughout the Role of the Committee year.
It is felt this will ensure that future growth can be supported Monitors the integrity of the Group and Companys financial by a developed and embedded risk management culture, which statements, any formal announcements relating to the Groups promotes sound business practices, even in tougher external financial performance, and reviews significant judgements, environments.
During the year, the Committee had responsibility estimates or other accounting matters concerning the Group for compliance oversight until the creation of the Compliance and and Companys financial statements Ethics Committee.
Going forward, the Compliance and Ethics Reviews the effectiveness of risk management and internal Committee will assume responsibility for compliance oversight, control systems, including going concern and viability statements, however the Committee will continue to be involved in any and provides assurance to the Board compliance matter raised in relation to financial controls.
Monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function Further progress was made during 2017 to develop the risk management processes and the internal controls framework, Manages the appointment, independence, effectiveness to ensure the Group could deliver its strategic objectives.
The and remuneration of the Groups external auditor, including Committee is encouraged by the changing focus for internal compliance with the non-audit services policy control procedures and is supportive of the process improvements Approves the remuneration and terms of engagement of the being introduced across the Group as a result of the work external auditor and makes recommendations to the Board completed by both functional and operational management.
regarding their re-appointment The Committee is confident that these control enhancements will provide greater assurance and oversight of project risk Advises the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities and considers whether the Annual Report and Accounts, taken throughout the organisation.
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable As in previous years, the Committee was also focused on the Terms of reference integrity of the Groups financial reporting activities.
In considering The Committee reviewed its terms of reference during the year to the financial statements for 2017, the Committee concentrated on incorporate the transfer of some responsibilities to the Compliance revenue and margin recognition for significant contracts, cash flow and Ethics Committee.
Copies are available on our website.
management and the carrying value of our IES assets.
The Membership and attendance at meetings held in 2017 Committee concluded that management had adopted an 1 appropriate approach in all significant areas.
Members Meetings attended eligible 2 Ren Mdori 4 4 The Committee will continue to work together with the Board Thomas Thune Andersen 4 4 and the other Board Committees to monitor and review the Matthias Bichsel 4 4 effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control George Pierson 4 4 framework.
In addition, focus will continue to ensure that the Members who left during the year Meetings attended eligible provisions of the UK Code continue to be met in all aspects.
3 Jane Sadowsky 2 2 1 All members of the Committee are considered independent in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code.
2 Ren Mdori is considered to have recent and relevant financial experience in compliance with the UK Code.
3 Jane Sadowsky stepped down from the Committee on 18 May 2017.
In addition to the Committee members, the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Group Head of Internal Audit, Group Financial Controller, Group Head of Risk, as well as the external auditor are invited to attend Committee meetings.
The Group Head of Compliance, Group Head of Legal and external Legal Counsel also attended meetings by invitation during the year.
82 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Governance The Committee met four times during the year, coinciding with key The Committee reported to the Board in February 2018, as part of points in the Companys financial reporting cycle.
In May 2017, its year-end process, that the Group continues to operate a sound Jane Sadowsky stepped down from the Board and, as a system of controls and, when taken as a whole, confirmed that it consequence, left the Committee.
There are currently three considers the Annual Report and Accounts to be fair, balanced members of the Committee and their details are set out on page and understandable, providing shareholders with the necessary 69.
The Committee believes it remains well positioned to challenge information to assess the Groups performance and position, and debate the performance and relevance of the Groups risk business model and strategy.
Key issues discussed by the management and internal controls as well as the significant Committee are reported to the Board after each scheduled financial reporting judgements and estimates.
As reported on meeting and this practice will continue, thus ensuring any page 81, this will be my last report as Committee Chairman, significant matters are considered and addressed appropriately.
as I will be required to step down from the Committee when I take over the Company Chairmanship from Rijnhard at the end of the Ren Mdori Annual General Meeting in May 2018.
My successor will be David Chairman of the Audit Committee Davis, who as noted on page 7 will join the Board in May 2018.
28 February 2018 Following his appointment, and in consultation with the Nominations Committee, the Committee will review its membership and any proposed recommendations will be submitted to the Board for consideration and approval.
PRINCIPAL MATTERS CONSIDERED DURING THE YEAR BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The principal matters reviewed and considered during the year were as follows: FEBRUARY MAY AUGUST NOVEMBER Internal control Key Risk Review EY report on control themes KRR and risk management framework assurance and observations from the systems Internal controls update audit for the year ended Code of Conduct Internal audit progress report 31December 2016 Insurance programme Declaration Report EY report including 2017 renewal update Internal audit transformation audit plan update and new Compliance update, plan and review of Internal Third Party Anti-Bribery and engagement letter including 2017 plan Audit Charter Corruption internal audit report Internal audit full-year report Adoption of IFRS 15 and review Controls Improvement Compliance update, including and proposed 2017 programme of IFRS 9 new financial Programme review of Anti-Bribery and instruments standard Key Risks Register KRR and Corruption Compliance EY half-year report and Group Finance update risk management systems Framework audit planning report for the full year Ernst & Young EY full-year Tax Residence review Annual tax review report including letter of Impairment report representation regarding the carrying amount of IES assets 2016 Group and Company financial statements and 2017 half-year results announcements and announcement, including all relevant reports Impairment report regarding the carrying amount Proposed Interim of IES assets dividend payment Going concern and viability Reviewed the Committees statement review terms of reference Non-audit services Key Risk Review transactions and fees Interim Tax update IFRS 15 revenue recognition standard Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 83 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Activities during the year Committee considers how effectively risks have been identified: The Committee assists the Board in the effective discharge of its how they have been mitigated and managed: whether actions are responsibilities for financial reporting, internal control and risk being taken promptly to remedy any failings or weaknesses: and management.
As set out in our Directors statements on page whether the causes of the failing or weakness have indicated poor 106, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of Group decision making or a need for more extensive monitoring or a and Companys financial statements, in accordance with reassessment of process effectiveness.
These provide the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Committee with a balanced assessment of the Groups principal risks and the effectiveness of internal control systems.
The Group has an internal control and risk management framework in place, which includes policies and procedures to The effectiveness of our risk management and internal controls is ensure that adequate accounting records are maintained and founded on our enterprise risk management ERM and internal transactions are accurately recorded.
This ensures that the Group control frameworks, which are further detailed on page 27.
During and Companys financial reports, including the integrity of the 2017, we continued to improve our risk management systems by financial reporting process and communications to the market, introducing additional controls to our project risk review processes give a clear and balanced assessment of the Group and and we extended the risk reviews to ensure there is increased Companys financial performance and position.
In addition to the cross-management input.
We enhanced our assurance process principal matters considered during the year, as set out on page further for our E&C projects through the expansion and further 83, the Committee also reviewed the key judgements, estimates development of a stage-gate approach, with additional and other accounting matters concerning the 2017 Group and improvements introduced to project controls.
Our risk Companys financial statements as well as the financial statements management systems continue to evolve, with operational themselves and this Annual Report and Accounts, at the processes becoming more systematic, particularly within beginning of 2018. our E&C business unit.
Internal controls and risk management During the year, the Company revised a number of complianceThe Board is responsible for establishing the Groups overall risk related controls, including the formation of a new Committee.
appetite and retains overall responsibility for enterprise risk and The Compliance and Ethics Committee will have direct oversight for ensuring that the Group has in place an adequate system of of key compliance and ethical risks.
It will now also be responsible internal control.
However, in accordance with the requirements for the Groups Speak Up programme, working closely with this of the FRCs Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control Committee in the event that concerns are raised in relation to and Related Financial and Business Reporting, the Committee alleged breaches of a financial nature.
As a result, reports has the delegated responsibility of monitoring and reviewing the previously submitted to the Committee by the Group Head of integrity and effectiveness of the Groups overall systems of risk Compliance will now be submitted for consideration by the management and internal controls.
It also provides the Board Compliance and Ethics Committee.
The Committee is content that with the assurance that risk management and internal control the Compliance and Ethics Committee will monitor the Groups systems, as a whole and including strategic, financial, operational, compliance framework of controls effectively.
and compliance controls, are sufficiently robust to mitigate the principal risks which may impact the Group.
Internal audit The Group Head of Internal Audit attends all Committee meetings, The Groups Key Risk Register KRR captures and assesses the at which his reports are considered and discussed in detail.
The principal risks facing the Group and this forms part of the Groups Committee also meets separately with the Group Head of Internal framework for determining risk and risk appetite.
This document is Audit, without executive management being present, to discuss, updated quarterly and highlights any recent movements in among other matters, managements responsiveness to internal exposure, thereby allowing the Committee to recognise and audit recommendations and the effectiveness of the internal audit review the mitigation and management of new or changing risks process.
The Group Head of Internal Audit also has direct access on a regular basis.
The KRR is considered at both Committee and to the Committee Chairman and meets with the external auditor Board level throughout the year and further details are included whenever required.
within the Strategic Report on pages 26 to 33.
The Groups annual internal audit programme was considered Regular management reports support robust assessments of and approved by the Committee in February 2017.
The risk-based the principal risks facing the Group, including their impacts on programme was developed further during the year, taking into the enterprise and its future sustainability.
In order to provide its account the Groups principal risks and identifying where they assurance to the Board, the Committee receives regular updates primarily occur in the business.
In approving the audit programme, from the Group Head of Enterprise Risk, Group Head of Internal the Committee considered the Groups principal key risk register Audit, Group Financial Controller, Group Treasurer and Head of and mapped the proposed audits accordingly.
It was Tax and Group Head of Compliance.
Recognising the need for recommended that primary focus should remain on a number of a systematic approach to be taken for managing risk, additional key areas, including: overarching management controls such as reports are also provided by senior management, including the Enterprise Risk Management Process: controls designed to financial counterparty risk assessments, controls improvement prevent non-compliance with laws and regulations: project level plans, health and safety processes, security, and information controls, such as bid preparation, engineering and contract technology.
In reviewing each of the submitted reports, the management and financial controls: and IT security.
Regular 84 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Governance progress reports were provided to the Committee, detailing key Treasury findings of audits undertaken in the period under review.
Where As part of its remit, the Committee considers the Companys significant areas of concern were highlighted, the Committee compliance with the Sovereign, Counterparty and Financial challenged management and, where required, action plans Market Risk SFMR policy, a copy of which is available at were agreed to address matters raised, with follow-up reviews www.
This SFMR policy is monitored on a monthly arranged.
During 2017, 54 internal audit assignments were basis by the Treasury Management Committee, which considers a carried out.
Where new audit findings were identified, agreed number of risk exposures, including interest rate, foreign exchange management actions in response to any Group level findings, rate, commodity pricing and counterparties, that could impact the were reported to the Committee, thus enabling progress to be Group.
The Committee is satisfied that the existing policies remain monitored and any trends to be identified.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the financial included: gaps in the controls to manage the segregation of duties risks associated with the liquidity of the Company.
It was satisfied in the Groups ERP system: incomplete compliance due diligence with the report from management that following completion of a for some third parties: weaknesses in the facilities infrastructure number of scenarios, the Company had adequate resources in within the UK and Sharjah IT data centres: and gaps within the place to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, financial assurance role in the budgeting and planning processes.
with robust policies in place to manage Group solvency and These findings were carefully considered by the Committee, liquidity risks.
Commodity price risk and the Companys hedging with management given direction to ensure the necessary steps policy were kept under review throughout the year.
The Committee were taken to mitigate any issues.
noted the ongoing funding initiatives put in place during the year, including the utilisation or extension of existing facilities or the During 2016, and as previously reported, a sub-committee was introduction of new facilities.
The Committee was reassured that established by the Board to oversee an internal independent the Group Treasury team had implemented a global cash investigation into allegations in the media relating to the historical management project across the Group to centralise and reduce provision of services to the Company by Unaoil.
Following the cash held by individual businesses within the Group.
completion of this internal investigation in 2016, Group Internal Audit was tasked with assessing the adequacy of the current Insurance programme controls environment in relation to the management of the risk of The Petrofac global insurance programme incorporates insurance bribery, corruption and or fraud when contracting with third policies designed to cover the types of insurable risks associated parties.
The scope of this audit focused on the standards, policies with an oil field services provider.
The primary focus of the insurance and procedures designed to manage these risks in both high and programme is to ensure that these policies will respond in line with low risk locations and a report on the outcome was submitted to our expectations and support our risk transfer philosophy.
The scope of the initial audit was subsequently extended to include a review of existing policies, During 2017, several policies entered the final year of a two-year due diligence procedures as carried out on third parties working long-term agreement.
The Company continued, however, to with, and for, the Company, and payment related processes, compare premium rates with the market generally, to ensure that including invoice verification and oversight controls.
terms remained the most competitive available.
Key insurer relationships continued to be strengthened and policy limits, Reports on the work carried out by Internal Audit, which included deductibles and wordings reviewed to ensure that the optimum a number of second line of defence assurance reviews, were balance remained between our potential insurable risk exposures, delivered to the Committee throughout the course of the year, with policy coverage and premium spend.
For example, cover was Group, Region and Project level findings reported accordingly.
extended under the Companys energy policy to allow a standalone windstorm policy to be lapsed, without affecting To assist Group Compliance, Internal Audit was also requested coverage, but at a significant premium saving to the business.
to assist in the investigation of reports raised from the confidential Claim scenario workshops continued during 2017, which resulted whistleblowing line, especially where they related to alleged in the incorporation of further wording enhancements into our financial and internal control breaches.
As noted above, the existing programme.
These workshops remain an integral part of responsibility for the Companys Speak Up process was the global insurance programme and greatly assist with gaining transferred to the Compliance and Ethics Committee during important insight into policy coverage and understanding how the year and further details of the work completed in this regard insurers are likely to respond to claims, based on hypothetical, are set out on page 89. but nonetheless realistic loss scenarios.
Assurance At the year end, and as required by the UK Code, formal assurance is provided to the Board that effective governance, risk management and internal control processes are in place, to ensure that the Group will continue to be viable for at least the next three years.
This assurance covers all material controls, including strategic, financial, operational and compliance controls.
Further details on the overall control processes are set out on page 84.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 85 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Significant judgements The Committees role is to assess whether the judgements or estimations made by management in preparing the financial statements are reasonable and appropriate.
Set out below are what we consider to be the most significant accounting areas that required a high level of judgement or estimation during the year, and how these were addressed: Focus area Why this area is significant Role of the Committee Conclusion Revenue and The quantification and timing of the The Committee reviewed the reasonableness The Committee margin recognition recognition of revenue and margin from of judgements made regarding: the cost to concluded that the including on contracts, including fixed-priced complete estimates: the timing of recognition quantification and timing fixed-price engineering, procurement and construction: of variation orders: and the adequacy of of revenue and margin engineering, operations and maintenance, and IES contingency provisions to mitigate contract recognition continues to procurement and arrangements, is an important driver of specific risks for projects where there have be compliant with IFRS construction the reported business performance of been significant delays and pursuance of requirements and that contracts: the Group.
There is a risk that revenue is a claim was possible.
Consideration was the judgements made operations and inappropriately recognised, for instance, also given to the assessments made in are reasonable.
The maintenance: and variable consideration that is not probable relation to the recognition of liquidated Committee will continue Integrated Energy and or cannot be measured reliably or cost damage provisions.
to monitor this focus Services IES to complete estimates that are inaccurate, area going forward.
The Committee held discussions with contractual which would lead to financial misstatement.
executive management and received regular arrangements internal audit reports into the operating effectiveness of internal controls relevant to these judgements.
The external auditor also challenged management on the key drivers of revenue and margin recognition, with particular attention given to variation orders, cost-to-complete and liquidated damages, and reported their findings to the Committee.
Goodwill, asset It is important to assess regularly the IES impairment test results were presented The Committee was impairment and appropriate carrying amount of the Groups to the Committee and Board at the year and satisfied that reasonable fair value changes assets through a robust impairment testing half-year end.
These tests were based on and appropriate judgement in IES assets and process, particularly as the potential rigorous assessments performed by the IES and estimates were JSD6000 amounts involved are material to the Groups finance team, checked by the external auditor applied by management reported net profit and financial position.
and subsequently reviewed by the to the asset impairment Estimating the recoverable amount of assets Committee.
Asset impairment testing was tests and fair value in performing an impairment test requires considered as part of the year-end review re-measurement of IES significant judgement to ensure the estimates process, together with forward oil and gas assets and the process used are reasonable and appropriate, often prices, forecast production levels, operating and outcome were under conditions of significant uncertainty.
expenditure and capital expenditure for each compliant with the Impairment tests are often sensitive to minor IES asset.
In addition, as part of the Santuario relevant IFRS requirements changes in assumptions, for instance and Greater Stella Area GSA business while ensuring that the production profiles, forward oil and gas combinations, the judgements and estimates appropriate impairment prices and capital expenditure plans, which used in the fair value re-measurement of IES and fair value adjustments have a consequent impact on whether an assets were evaluated by the Committee.
The were recognised in impairment charge is recognised or not in Committee also reviewed the judgement to the Annual Report the consolidated financial statements.
The reclassify the JSD6000 as an asset held for and Accounts.
same significance is attached to judgements sale as well as the estimates used in the and estimates can be applied to the fair impairment test that resulted in an impairment value re-measurement of IES assets.
Taxation The wide geographical spread of the The tax positions within the Group were The Committee was Groups operations and the increasingly reviewed by the Committee to ensure that satisfied that Group tax complex nature of local tax rules in the Groups effective tax rate, tax provisions issues were being different jurisdictions increases the risk of and the recognition of deferred tax asset effectively monitored and misstatement of tax charges.
Management assumptions continue to be appropriate.
is required to make a number of difficult Taxation issues were discussed with senior The changes within the judgements around uncertain tax exposures management, and reports outlining key tax global tax landscape given the commercial structure of individual issues, including the changes introduced mean that the Company is contracts, the increasing activity of the through the enhanced global transparency continuing to work on its relevant tax authorities, and the reporting requirements and the new VAT ability to respond quickly recoverability and valuation of deferred regulations in the GCC states were reviewed.
to the enhanced reporting tax assets, which are supported by The external auditor also reported to the requirements, and that its future taxable profit forecasts.
Committee on the findings of their audit tax positions appropriately of the Groups tax charges and provisions.
reflect the impact of increased activity from tax authorities and regulators.
86 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Governance External auditor To ensure compliance with this policy, the Committee reviews the EY, the Companys external auditor since October 2005, provided Groups cumulative non-audit spend and, furthermore, gives prior the Committee with reports and advice throughout the year.
approval to the appointment of EY, should the nature or size of the In accordance with the UK Competition and Markets Authoritys proposed work require it.
Taking into account reports from both Statutory Audit Services Order, with which the Company complied management and EY, the Committee is satisfied that EYs with voluntarily, a full audit tender was completed during 2016, objectivity and independence was not impaired by any non-audit with the Company inviting four firms to participate.
Following work undertaken by them during the year and confirms there completion of the tender, the Committee recommended the were no breaches to the policy during 2017.
In addition, EY has re-appointment of EY as the Companys Statutory Auditor and confirmed that it was compliant with APB Ethical Standards in this became effective for the 2017 audit.
The Committee remains relation to the audit engagement.
satisfied as to the auditors effectiveness and, in making this assessment, had due regard of their expertise and understanding Historically, EY have provided advice and in-country tax of the Group, their resourcing capabilities, culture, independence compliance services as it was felt that, given EYs knowledge of and objectivity.
The Committee also took into account the Group and their presence in our core regions, they were the observations made by executive management in addition most appropriate provider of this work.
However, under the current to their own interaction with EY throughout the year.
policy, such work is only permitted with the prior approval of the Committee, and only in relation to Group entities incorporated The Committee met with the auditor without management present outside the European Union.
Details of the fees in respect of audit to discuss any significant issues, not least the conduct of the audit, and non-audit related services can be found on page 135 and in in advance of the full and half-year results.
In addition, the note 4e to the financial statements.
Committee Chairman maintained regular contact with the lead audit partner outside the formal Committee meeting schedule, The non-audit spend for the year, as a percentage of the overall not only to discuss formal agenda items for upcoming meetings, audit fee, was 32.4% 2016: 31.6%, with the majority of costs but also to review other significant matters.
relating to two specific operational projects and an impact assessment in respect of the introduction of VAT charges in UAE.
Each year, EY set out their proposed audit strategy and scope to Towards the end of 2017, EY were appointed, following completion ensure that the audit is aligned with the Committees expectations.
of a competitive tender process, to assist the Company with a This is carried out with due regard to the identification and strategic project.
The Committee reviewed and approved the assessment of business and financial statement risks that could scope of this project and the work to be undertaken by EY and impact the audit and continuing developments within the Group.
were satisfied that the independence and objectives of the During 2017, the audit scope included the delivery of key projects external auditor was not impaired.
and the financial close-out process of major contracts nearing completion: the ongoing contract renegotiations in IES, particularly Non-audit services policy in Mexico and Malaysia: and the continuing consideration of The external auditor is automatically prohibited from carrying out options related to the JSD6000 project.
In addition, EY undertook work which might impair their objectivity as defined by reference work in relation to the SFO investigation primarily to determine to the FRCs Revised Ethical Standard 2016 Part B Section 5. whether the Companys public disclosures were, and continue to The Chief Financial Officer CFO will seek approval from the be, consistent with the requirements of the ongoing investigation Committee before appointing the external auditor to carry out and that the entity level control environment remains effective.
a piece of non-audit work where: At year end, a report of the work carried out by the auditor the fee is US$50,000 or above: or was provided to the Committee detailing areas of audit risk, total non-audit fees for the year are approaching 50% of the the findings of which were reviewed and considered by average of the Group fees paid in the last three consecutive theCommittee.
Non-audit services The external auditor will only be appointed to do types of audit To safeguard the objectivity of our external auditor and to ensure work permitted within and outside the EU as set out in the policy.
the independence of the audit is not compromised, the Company The Company will not seek, other than in exceptional cases, to has a non-audit services policy that provides clear definitions of rely on the more flexible regime permitted outside the EU.
services that our external auditor may and may not undertake.
This policy was amended at the end of 2016 and became The CFO may appoint the external auditor to carry out other applicable with effect from 1 January 2017.
A copy of this policy types of permitted non-audit work as listed in the policy, subject can be found on at www.
to the policy provisions and provided the fee is below $50,000.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 87
