01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2017 41.
Environmental, Social and Governance Policy The JLIF Board and its Investment Adviser, John Laing Capital Management Limited JLCM, are committed to environmentally and socially responsible investing and understand the need to carry out our activities in a sustainable manner.
JLIF recognises the environmental, social and economic needs Also at the project, a food co-operative has been opened to enable of the communities in which it works and looks for suitable residents meeting certain eligibility criteria to access cheaper opportunities to engage and support communities, by using food.
In return, they must participate in certain employability the skills, time and financial support of its staff and those of and money advice programmes in order to help improve their the Investment Adviser.
The commitment to corporate social situation over the longer term.
The co-operative is run entirely responsibility CSR is delivered through programmes directly by volunteers and there are currently 67 registered customers.
supported by JLIF and through the activities of JLCM and JLIFs Two of our projects were nominated for and won awards in 2017. other partners who manage the projects and provide facilities The Miles Platting Social Housing project was chosen as the management services to the Portfolio assets.
JLIF actively winner for the Best Operational Project category at the industrys encourages its partners to engage with the local communities Partnerships Awards.
All the judges agreed that the project in which our projects are located.
It is the engagement of these demonstrated great partnership working between the different teams that operate our assets on a daily basis and support the parties and had fantastic engagement with the end users, in this communities in which they operate that makes the greatest case the residents.
Our North Staffordshire Hospital project came difference.
A number of the CSR activities that have been first in the Partners in Healthcare category at the 2017 Premises undertaken during 2017 are detailed in the following section.
We are pleased that the good work being done at these projects has been recognised.
Community Engagement In 2017, we expanded our sponsorship to the Princes Teaching Institute to include five more of our schools projects, in addition to the North Swindon Schools project.
The new schools projects covered by our sponsorship include the Leeds Schools, Peterborough Schools, Newham Schools, Eneld Schools and Highland Schools, Eneld projects.
The Princes Teaching Institute helps teachers rediscover their love of their subject, inspiring them to bring the latest thinking into their classrooms and supporting them to make lasting improvements in what and how they teach.
The Institutes membership programmes bring passionate teachers together and encourage them to make rigorous curriculum choices, to teach beyond the test and to forge links with like-minded schools and academic institutions.
The Princes Teaching Institute estimates that JLIFs contribution will enable the support of 120 teachers and affect the teaching of over 19,000 children from all backgrounds and of all abilities.
Our expanded sponsorship of the scheme adds a further 13 schools to those currently covered.
At our Miles Platting Social Housing project, a number of initiatives were undertaken with the local community and project partners to celebrate the projects 10-year anniversary.
These included design competitions with a local school, the burial of a time capsule in the grounds of the community centre containing items that represent Miles Platting throughout the 10 years, as well as the making of a documentary lm featuring local residents, amongst others.
In addition, along with our delivery partner Adactus Housing Association and client Manchester City Council, we agreed to set aside the 2017 benchmarking exercise with the savings made being reinvested in the refurbishment of the Victoria Mill Community Centre and covering the running costs for the next five years.
The centre, which includes an outreach library service, offers activities to all age groups and, as part of the works, the Miles Platting Bee Garden was opened in memory of the victims of the Manchester Arena attack.
During 2017, a contractual variation at our Peterborough Hospital John Smeaton Academy, Cooperative Academy, Carr Manor project resulted in the opening of a new radiotherapy unit, High School, South Leeds Academy and Shakespeare Primary providing two additional linac bunkers and a linear accelerator.
putting forward two acts to perform before a large audience and The project companys management team led an initiative to judging panel, with each act including up to 20 pupils.
This engage service providers and local schools to brighten the walls years event was on an even bigger scale than last years and with artwork, with the aim of taking the patients minds away was another huge success.
The venue for the event was the from the treatment and illness.
The project company purchased 1,000-seater New Dock Hall at the Royal Armouries Museum in three large Perspex picture frames, which house multiple pictures, Leeds.
The event was linked to Leeds City Councils Children and one for each linac bunker.
Three local schools were approached Young Peoples Plan, and was open to all pupils including those to create artwork and to name each of the bunkers.
Children with special educational needs and provided the opportunity to whose art was chosen to be featured were invited to attend the participate in an event in front of their peers.
The event also helps opening of the new radiotherapy unit.
instil positive behaviours, promote working as a team, physical activity a number of the acts included dance routines and foster Also at our Peterborough Hospital project, the management team relationships between pupils from different schools.
Participation engaged with Heltwate School, a local school that provides in previous events like this has also been shown to help improve services to children with special educational needs.
The school the social and emotional well-being of the pupils who take part, had a large allotment area that was overgrown and had sat unused helping them to feel that they have a voice and inuence.
The for a long period of time.
A campaign was started involving local event received critical acclaim from both those who took part businesses to provide materials fencing, plants etc.
and labour and those forming part of the audience.
The work was completed over three weekends, led and co-ordinated by members of our project We would like to congratulate every one of the pupils that took companys management team.
part, and particularly No Limits from Ralph Thoresby School, that was awarded first place.
Kia from the Cooperative Academy At our Leeds Schools project, we once again sponsored, came a close second, with Loudness is Sadness from Carr organised, compared and funded a Leeds Got Talent red carpet Manor High School claiming third place.
event for pupils to showcase their talents.
The event is run as a talent show, with each of the five schools Ralph Thoresby School, Leeds Got Talent This years Leeds Got Talent show was even greater and grander than last years.
Students from five secondary schools enjoyed showing off their talents in front of their peers and a panel of judges.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2017 43.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement Materiality JLIF is an investment company holding equity and subordinated Carbon Trust Certication Limited has veried that all material debt interests in its underlying investments.
The approach that it non-conformities identied during the sampling performed on has used to consolidate its greenhouse gas GHG emissions the footprint submitted have been closed and that no material reects this structure and aggregates JLIFs equity share of errors, omissions or misrepresentations remain.
In collating its data, JLIF has Scope 1 GHG emissions represent JLIFs share of direct considered the GHG emissions from the facilities that it manages emissions from the project facilities, typically through the for the public sector.
However, JLIF does not have direct control consumption of gas.
Scope 2 emissions are JLIFs share of over the energy usage of the facilities it manages as these are indirect emissions from the project resulting from the generation controlled by their public sector end-users.
As such, JLIF has of purchased energy.
limited ability to directly inuence or reduce the energy 2017 2017 consumption of the facilities.
15 16 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Source tC0 e tC0 e m 2 2 Carbon Trust Certication Limited has veried that John Laing Scope 1 27,586 0.02 Infrastructure Fund Ltd has reported a carbon footprint of Scope 2 80,445 0.07 106,660 tCO e in accordance with the measurement 2 requirements of the Carbon Trust Standard and in accordance Total 108,031 0.09 with the principles of the WRI WBCSD GHG Protocol.
2016 2016 17 16 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Source tC0 e tC0 e m 2 2 Scope 1 29,745 0.03 Scope 2 98,180 0.09 Total 127,925 0.12 In demonstrating our environmental stewardship, JLIF also Our footprint has been veried for the period of 1 July 2016 participates in the public reporting of its GHG emissions through to 30 June 2017 and certication corresponds to the CDP formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Our responses following boundary: from 2013 onwards can be reviewed on the CPD website, Organisational Boundary www.
All global investments comprising the Portfolio at the start of the period veried, less social housing.
Operational Boundary Equity approach over Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions Electricity, Gas and Fuel Oil.
15 In order to ensure the accurate collation and verication of data the GHG emissions above represent JLIFs equity share of annual emissions from the underlying asset portfolio for the period 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017.
As such, these are not consistent with the time period of the rest of the financial statements being 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017.
Assets acquired during the financial statements period are excluded from the GHG emissions data reported.
16 2 CO tonnes per m of Net Asset Value.
17 In order to ensure the accurate collation and verication of data the GHG emissions above represent JLIFs equity share of annual emissions from the underlying asset portfolio for the period 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2016.
As such, these are not consistent with the time period of the rest of the financial statements being 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016.
