Corporate Governance The Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules Disclosure Rules of the UK Listing Authority UKLA require companies listed on the London Stock Exchange Main Market to disclose how they have applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code, as updated in April 2016, and applicable to reporting periods beginning on or after 17 June 2016, can be viewed at www.
The related Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code, issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC in February 2013 the AIC Code, provides specic corporate governance guidelines to investment companies.
The AIC issued their revised code for Guernsey-domiciled member companies in July 2016.
The FRC has confirmed that AIC member companies who report against the AIC Code and who follow the AICs Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide will be meeting their obligations in relation to the UK Code and the associated disclosure requirements of the Disclosure Rules.
The Company is also subject to the Guernsey Financial Services Commission GFSC Finance Sector Code of Corporate Governance the Guernsey Code, which applies to all companies registered as collective investment schemes in Guernsey.
The Code comprises Principles of Guidance, and provides a formal expression of good corporate practice against which shareholders, boards, and GFSC can better assess the governance exercised over companies in Guernseys finance sector.
The GFSC has confirmed that companies that report against the UK Code or the AIC Code are also deemed to meet the requirements of the Guernsey Code.
The Board of JLIF has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code addresses all the principles set out in the Main Principles of the UK Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specic relevance to JLIF.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Code, provides better information to shareholders.
The Board recognises the importance of a strong corporate governance culture.
The Board has put in place a framework for corporate governance that it believes is appropriate for the Company.
The Company complied throughout the reporting period with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the UK Code, except as set out below.
The UK Code includes provisions relating to: the role of the chief executive: executive Directors remuneration: including establishment of a remuneration committee and the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide and in the UK Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to JLIF, as it has no Executive Directors, employees or internal operations.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
AIFM DIRECTIVE For the purposes of the AIFM Directive, the Company is a self-managed non-EU AIF and as such, neither it nor the Investment Adviser is required to seek authorisation under the AIFM Directive.
The Board retains responsibility for the majority of the Companys risk management and portfolio management functions, and performs a number of its management functions through the various committees described below.
The Board delegates certain activities to the Investment Adviser, but actively and continuously supervises the Investment Adviser in the performance of its functions and reserves the right to take decisions in relation to the investment policies and strategies of the Company or to change the Investment Adviser subject to the terms of the Investment Advisory Agreement.
The Board retains the right to override any advice given by the Investment Adviser if acting on that advice would cause the Company not to be acting in the best interests of investors, and more generally to provide overriding instructions to the Investment Adviser on any matter within the scope of the Investment Advisers mandate.
The Board also has the right to request additional information or updates from the Investment Adviser in respect of all delegated matters, including in relation to the identity of any sub-delegates and their sphere of operation.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2017 45.
Corporate Governance continued THE BOARD The Board consists of six Non-Executive Directors, all of whom are independent of the Companys Investment Adviser.
As the Company has no Executive Directors, the provision of the UK Code relating to the combining of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive officer does not apply to the Company.
Directors details are contained in pages 20 and 21, which set out the range of investment, financial, and business skills and experience represented.
The Chairman is an independent non-executive Director.
The Board meets at least four times a year and, should the nature of the activity of the Company require it, additional meetings may be scheduled, sometimes at short notice.
Between meetings, there is regular contact with the Investment Adviser and the Administrator and the Board requires to be supplied in a timely manner with information by the Investment Adviser, the Company Secretary and other Advisers in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
All Directors of the Company are subject to annual re-election at the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The tenure of Directors is expected to be between six and nine years to allow for phased board appointments and retirements.
This process will take account of any changes to the Boards composition arising from the need to ll a casual vacancy.
During 2017, Paul Lester resigned, having fullled the role of Chairman since launch, and was replaced as Chairman by David MacLellan.
In May 2017, Theresa Grant was appointed to the Board.
Ms Grant has been Chief Executive of Trafford Council, Manchester since 2011, where her responsibilities have included leading multi-million pound programmes of change for Infrastructure & Transport and Employment & Skills in the Greater Manchester region.
Her experience and insight in this regard was an important consideration in her appointment.
The Board has a continued commitment to ensure there is an appropriate diversity of skills, gender, knowledge and experience among the Directors in order to maintain the strong leadership of the Company.
A Committee of the Board meets regularly to review the composition and diversity as well as consider succession planning.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors are available for inspection from the Companys registered ofce.
Performance and Evaluation The Board has adopted a process to review its performance on a regular basis and such reviews are carried out internally on an annual basis and through external facilitation every three years.
This annual evaluation of the Board, the Audit Committee, Risk Committee, Nomination Committee and individual Directors takes the form of self-appraisal questionnaires and discussions to determine effectiveness and performance in various areas.
In November 2015, the Board engaged Optimus Group Limited Optimus, a Guernsey based independent consultancy, to carry out an external evaluation.
This involved meeting with the Board of Directors and the completion of a questionnaire by each Director as well as meetings with representatives from JLCM and the Administrator, reviewing key Board documentation, and evaluating Board and committee structures.
Optimus reported its findings at the first scheduled Board meeting in 2016, concluding that the JLIF Board has a high standard of Corporate Governance and is compliant with the Codes being the UK Code, the Guernsey Code and the AIC Code.
The next external evaluation will take place in mid-late 2018.
Any new Directors receive an induction that includes spending time with the Administrator, Company Secretary and Investment Adviser to understand their functions, and site visits to one or more of the Companys projects.
All Directors are provided with relevant training as necessary.
Duties and Responsibilities The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall management of the Company.
The Board has adopted a set of reserved powers that set out the particular duties of the Board.
Such reserved powers include decisions relating to the determination of the Investment Policy and approval of investments, strategy, capital raising, statutory obligations and public disclosure, financial reporting and entering into any material contracts by the Company.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and Administrator, who are responsible to the Board for ensuring that board procedures are followed and that the Board complies with Guernsey Law and applicable rules and regulations of the GFSC and the London Stock Exchange.
Where necessary, in carrying out their duties, the Directors may seek independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
The Company maintains appropriate Directors and Ofcers liability insurance in respect of legal action against its Directors on an ongoing basis.
The Board has responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and which enable it to ensure that the financial statements comply with The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 as amended.
It is the Boards responsibility to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment, which extends to interim and other price-sensitive public reports.
Investment Advisory services are provided to the Company by John Laing Capital Management Limited JLCM.
The Board is responsible for setting the overall investment policy and monitors the action of the Investment Adviser and Operator at regular Board meetings.
The Board has also delegated administration and company secretarial services to Estera International Fund Managers Guernsey Limited but retains accountability for all functions it delegates.
Corporate Governance continued Committees of the Board The Board has deemed it unnecessary to establish a remuneration committee as, being comprised of six Non-Executive Directors, it considers that such matters may be considered by the whole Board.
The Company has established an Audit Committee, chaired by Mr Spencer, which operates within clearly dened terms of reference and comprises five Non-Executive Directors: Mr Spencer, Ms Grant, Ms Green, Mr Morgan, and Mr Van Berkel, whose qualications and experience are noted on pages 20 and 21.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year at times appropriate to the financial reporting calendar.
Further details regarding its duties and responsibilities can be found in the Audit Committee Report.
The Company has also established a Nomination Committee.
This is chaired by Mr MacLellan and comprises three Non-Executive Directors: Mr MacLellan, Mr Spencer and Mr Morgan.
A copy of the terms of reference is available upon request from the Company Secretary.
The duties of the Nomination Committee include regularly reviewing the structure, size and diversity of the Board, keeping under review the leadership needs of the Company, leading the process for Board appointments and identifying suitable candidates.
Before any appointment is made to the Board, the Nomination Committee is required: to evaluate the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Board and, given this, prepare a description of the experience and capabilities required for the particular appointment: and identify candidates other business interests that may result in a conict of interest and the candidates other significant commitments.
In identifying suitable candidates, the Nomination Committee is required to: consider the use of open advertising or the services of external advisers to facilitate the search: consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds: consider candidates on merit and against objective criteria and with due regard for the great importance and benets of Board diversity, including gender: and consider whether candidates are likely to have sufficient time available to devote to the position.
The Nomination Committee is also required to ensure that, on appointment to the Board, each Director receives a formal letter of appointment stating clearly, what is expected of them in terms of time commitment, committee service and involvement outside Board meetings.
The Company has also a Risk Committee, chaired by Ms Green and comprising Mr Spencer, Mr Morgan and Mr Van Berkel.
The Risk Committee, which reports to the Board, is mandated to review the effectiveness of the Companys and that of the Investment Adviser, Administrator and other third party service providers as it deems t internal control policies and procedures for the identication, assessment and reporting of risks.
The Risk Committee liaises with the Audit Committee and vice versa as appropriate.
Scheduled meeting attendance Audit Nomination Risk Board Committee Committee Committee Meeting Meeting Meeting Meeting max 4 max 3 max 2 max 4 Paul Lester resigned September 2017 3 n a n a n a David MacLellan 4 n a 2 n a Theresa Grant appointed May 2017 2 2 n a n a Helen Green 4 3 n a 3 Talmai Morgan 4 3 2 3 Christopher Spencer 4 3 2 3 Guido Van Berkel 4 3 n a 4 A total of two other unscheduled Board meetings and fourteen other unscheduled Committee meetings were held during the year for specic purposes which were attended by some but not all of the Directors.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2017 47.
Corporate Governance continued INTERNAL CONTROL AND FINANCIAL REPORTING The Board is responsible for the Companys systems of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, and has established a set of ongoing processes designed to meet the particular needs of the Company in managing the risks to which it is exposed.
These processes have been in place throughout the year ended 31 December 2017 and up until the date of this Report.
The process is based on a risk-based approach to internal control.
It considers the key functions carried out by the Investment Adviser and other key service providers, the various activities undertaken within those functions, the risks associated with each activity and the controls employed to minimise those risks.
A residual risk rating is then applied.
A regular report is provided to the Board highlighting material changes to risk ratings and then a formal review of these procedures is carried out by the Audit Committee on an annual basis.
By their nature, these procedures will provide a reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
At each Board meeting, the Board also monitors the Groups investment performance and activities since the last Board meeting to ensure that the Investment Adviser and Operator adhere to the agreed Investment Policy and approved investment guidelines.
Furthermore, at each Board meeting, the Board receives reports from the Company Secretary and Administrator in respect of compliance matters and duties performed by them on behalf of the Company.
The Board considers that an internal audit function specic to the Company is unnecessary and that the systems and procedures employed by the Investment Adviser and Operator, including their own internal audit functions, provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal control, which safeguards the Companys assets, is maintained.
The Investment Advisers internal auditor reports directly to the Audit Committee on JLIF matters, including any significant findings from their audit of the Investment Advisers own procedures and controls, as well as those of the underlying SPVs.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Company welcomes the views of shareholders and places great importance on communication with its shareholders.
Senior members of the Investment Adviser make themselves available at all reasonable times to meet with principal shareholders and key sector analysts.
The Chairman and other Directors are also available to meet with shareholders if required.
Reports on the views of shareholders are provided to the Board on a regular basis.
The Board is also kept fully informed of all relevant market commentary on the Company by the Investment Adviser.
All shareholders can address their individual concerns to the Company in writing at its registered address, while the Annual General Meeting of the Company provides a forum for shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the Directors and the Investment Adviser.
