Risk Committee Report Risk is uncertainty of outcome and represents either a threat to or an opportunity for a businesss success either its business model, reputation or financial standing.
Risk is therefore closely monitored by JLIF, and risk management is embedded in its culture and that of its advisers.
While it is not possible to entirely eliminate all risk, it is possible to manage risk through a process of identication, review and mitigation, either to reduce the likelihood of a risk materialising, or in the event that a risk should materialise, to reduce any adverse impact.
JLIF has a dedicated Risk Committee to lead its risk management activities.
While the Investment Adviser manages the risks facing the Company on a day-to-day basis, the Board managed via its Risk Committee retains ultimate responsibility.
Risk identication, review and mitigation Risk management is a continuous process as the risks facing JLIF evolve.
New risks can emerge and risks previously identied can change either in their probability of occurrence or potential impact.
With this in mind, the Company maintains a risk register that is reviewed by the Risk Committee on a quarterly basis.
This is designed to identify the principal risks facing the Company, and employs a red-amber-green system, which is based on assessment of the probability and impact of each risk identied.
The assessment is made both preand post-mitigation.
Risks classied as Red are considered very likely to occur and to have the potential to affect signicantly the Companys business prospects in the event of occurrence.
Risks classied as Amber are considered to have a medium likelihood of occurrence, with a medium potential impact should they materialise.
Risks classied as Green have a low likelihood of occurrence, and a low potential impact should they materialise.
This system is intended to help JLIF prioritise and focus its risk mitigation strategies and controls.
JLIFs risk register covers six main areas of risk: 1 Economic: 2 Political: Risk Identification 3 Operational: 4 Financial: 5 Taxation: and Our risk 6 Compliance and Legal.
Risk Risk process Assessment Reassessment Mitigation Plan 01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2017 13.
Pre-Mitigation Post-Mitigation Reputational 8 Risk Risk Rating Risk Rating Risk Rating Economic Exchange rates l l l Interest and deposit rates l l l Equity market sentiment l l l Political Pressures on contract terms and or early termination l l l Change in political environment affecting PPP projects l l l Operational Competition for assets l l l Counterparty and demand risk l l l l l l Supply chain l l l Asset availability l l l Lifecycle risk l l l Performance of the Investment Adviser l l l Cyber risk Financial l l l Portfolio valuation l l l Renancing risk Taxation l l l Changes to tax legislation and rates OECD Base Erosion and profit Shifting BEPS initiative l l l Compliance Regulatory compliance and change l l l and Legal Contractual Risk l l l 8 Mitigating actions are described in further detail in the text that follows.
Pre-Mitigation Post-Mitigation Reputational Risk Description Rating Mitigation Rating Risk Economic Exchange At 31 December 2017, JLIF held nine l JLIFs policy since launch in November 2010 has been l l rates investments denominated in currencies not to hedge the balance sheet value of its non-Sterling other than Sterling.
However, JLIF does make use of foreign Euro, Canadian Dollar and US Dollar.
exchange forward contracts to hedge non-Sterling cash Altogether, these investments comprised ows.
Further detail on JLIFs policy and use of such 28.0% of the Portfolio Value.
There is a contracts in 2017 can be found in section 3.3.
5. risk that uctuations in exchange rates JLIFs investment policy requires at least 50% of the reduce the Sterling-value of the cash Portfolio to be UK-based at any time, limiting exposure ows received from the investments, to this risk.
affecting the valuation of such projects JLIF can draw on its revolving credit facility in the local and JLIFs dividend cover.
currency and repay borrowings from its portfolio of assets At 31 December 2017, JLIF had of the same currency, thereby creating a natural hedge.
Euro-denominated drawings on its revolving credit facility of 46.9 million.
There is a risk the Sterling-value of this liability increases due to exchange rate movements.
Interest JLIF has exposure to interest rates through l JLIFs own cash deposits are generally minimal given its l l and deposit its own cash deposits, those of the project approach to raising new capital.
rates SPVs in which JLIF is a shareholder, the The senior debt at the underlying projects is typically hedged interest payments on debt at the underlying using interest rate swaps.
projects, and borrowings on JLIFs JLIF has no long-term structural gearing and the periods in revolving credit facility.
which the revolving credit facility is drawn are typically Changes to interest rates can reduce interest relatively short.
income or increase interest payments.
Sensitivities to changes in deposit rates are included in the Investment Adviser Report.
Equity There is a risk that, due to disruption to l The Investment Adviser and JLIFs Corporate Broker monitor l l market equity markets, the Company is unable to market sentiment and will not recommend drawing signicantly sentiment raise new capital and therefore unable to on JLIFs revolving credit facility if it is considered likely that repay debt drawn on its revolving credit subsequent capital raising could be problematic.
facility used to finance new acquisitions.
Furthermore, if JLIF was unable to raise new capital, outstanding borrowings could be repaid using distributions from JLIFs Portfolio or by divestment of interests in projects.
Pre-Mitigation Post-Mitigation Reputational Risk Description Rating Mitigation Rating Risk Political Pressures There is a risk that political and financial l JLIF and the Investment Adviser engage regularly with l l on contract pressure could result in certain public-sector HM Treasury and other governmental PPP-related bodies terms counterparties seeking to use contractual in order to remain aware of policy developments and to and or early provisions to extract a financial benefit or represent the interests of the Company.
termination to voluntarily terminate a project.
In the event of voluntary termination, equity investors benefit from compensation provisions that, in the majority of cases, ensures that market value is received.
As at 31 December 2017, JLIF estimates it would receive approximately 87% of its UK portfolio value in the extreme and unlikely event that all of its UK projects were voluntarily terminated.
JLIFs UK portfolio comprises 56 projects spread across seven sectors and approximately 50 different UK public sector counterparties.
Each of JLIFs UK acute hospital projects benefit from contracts where the voluntary termination provisions dictate market value be paid to investors.
Any voluntary termination of a project by the public sector client would also require the repayment of senior debt as well as the cost of the make whole or Spens clauses attached to the senior debt.
The approximate par value of the senior debt across JLIFs UK portfolio as at 31 December 2017 was 4.7 billion.
The Company is a signatory of the Code of Conduct for Operational PFI PPP contracts in the UK, which sets out the basis on which public and private sector partners agree to work together to make savings in operational PPP contracts.
Change in Concession based PPP projects form the core l JLIF closely monitors the political environment in l l political of JLIFs investment focus.
A shift in political countries in which it invests or is considering investing environment policy away from the PPP model could to gauge political support for PPP.
While in the UK affecting compromise JLIFs ability to access new political support for the PPP model is currently particularly PPP projects projects and impact the way it engages with low, the model remains popular and continues to have public-sectors clients.
It could also adversely strong political support in many other markets around affect the Companys share price and affect the world.
JLIFs investment policy allows it to invest the ability to raise new equity funds.
globally giving it the exibility to target markets where there is a pipeline of opportunities.
Additionally, under JLIFs current investment policy, it has the option of investing up to 10% of its Total Assets by value in projects that are not strictly PPPs but that have a substantially similar risk prole and characteristics.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2017 15.
Pre-Mitigation Post-Mitigation Reputational Risk Description Rating Mitigation Rating Risk Political continued Competition There is a risk of imbalance between the l JLCM is an experienced Investment Adviser with l l for assets demand from capital seeking investment in significant knowledge of the infrastructure market and PPP infrastructure projects and the supply appoints a team of external advisers to undertake due of projects to which to deploy that capital can diligence on assets prior to investment in order to be deployed.
Where demand exceeds supply, establish a fair market valuation.
this has the effect of increasing asset pricing.
JLCM seeks to establish bi-lateral investment opportunities There is a risk that JLIF over-pays for an asset by developing long-term relationships with potential or that JLIFs ability to continue to deliver vendors and co-shareholders in order to avoid competitive the returns it targets is challenged, thereby auction processes.
limiting the growth of the Fund.
JLIF also benets from two First Offer Agreements with John Laing Group plc giving it the right of first offer over a significant portfolio of infrastructure projects.
JLIFs current investment policy provides it with scope to invest up to 50% of the Portfolio by value in projects located outside of the UK.
This gives it the ability to operate in markets that are not characterised by the same degree of competition as the UK, where better value may be more readily achievable.
The Investment Adviser maintains a global view with respect to originating new investment opportunities.
Operational Counterparty There is a risk that one of JLIFs clients has l With a Portfolio of 65 assets and approximately 60 different l l and demand financial difficulties and is unable to meet its public sector counterparties, JLIFs exposure to any risk payment obligations as they fall due, thereby single counterparty is low.
adversely affecting project cash ows.
JLIFs investment policy dictates that it invests only in In respect of JLIFs investment in the jurisdictions where public sector or government-backed Connecticut Service Stations project, where obligations carry a satisfactory credit rating and where some of the revenue is related to the level of contract structures and their enforceability are reliable.
usage, there is risk that, for reasons outside Prior to making an investment in a project with demand of the control of the project company, this risk, JLIF undertakes detailed interrogation of the key may be less than forecast assumed at the factors that drive demand, including engaging third party time of investment, thereby adversely experts.
JLIFs Investment Policy currently limits the affecting project cash ows.
percentage of Total Assets invested in projects with revenues exposed to demand risk to no more than 15%.
Supply The projects in which JLIF invests have l The wide range of different sub-contractors used across l l chain agreements with sub-contractors to provide JLIFs Portfolio reduces the reliance on and exposure to facilities management and SPV management any single sub-contractor.
Supply chain diversication is services.
There is a risk sub-contractors considered on a frequent basis by the Company and prior underperform, or go into administration or to any new investment.
The pie charts at the end of this receivership, adversely affecting project Risk Committee Report show the range of sub-contractors services, and ultimately project cash ows.
to which JLIF has exposure.
In the event of having to replace a In the event of poor performance by a sub-contractor, sub-contractor, there is a risk that an the sub-contracts include provisions allowing the SPVs to appropriate replacement may only be pass-down deductions penalties to the sub-contractors, found at a higher cost, which may not and ultimately to terminate and replace with another be recoverable.
The terms of the construction sub-contracts include a defects liability period DLP, typically of 12 years duration, during which the construction sub-contractor remains liable for any latent defects that arise related to the construction of the asset s. JLIF Limited 16.
Pre-Mitigation Post-Mitigation Reputational Risk Description Rating Mitigation Rating Risk Operational continued Asset The revenues received by the projects in l Unavailability can be caused by a number of factors but is l l availability which JLIF invests are predominantly most likely to be caused by underperformance of a service dependent on the relevant infrastructure delivery partner.
Through its director representation on each being available for use.
In the event an asset of the SPV boards, JLIF is able to monitor operational is deemed either wholly or partially performance and to identify and correct any trends early.
unavailable, deductions can be enforced by Contractual provisions allow performance deductions the public-sector counterparty, adversely to be passed-down to the sub-contractor at fault, affecting project cash ows and potentially although such provisions may include caps relating to resulting in termination of a project.
As discussed above, ultimately a sub-contract may be terminated for continued poor performance and replaced.
Lifecycle During the life of a project, there are a l While in some projects this risk is passed-down in full to l l risk number of items that will need replacing sub-contractors, on other projects lifecycle adequacy risk e. g. elevators, air conditioning equipment, is retained by JLIF.
As part of JLIFs due diligence prior to ooring etc.
There is a risk that the actual investment in a project, it appoints experienced technical cost of replacement is greater than the advisers to advise on the lifecycle cost prole within the forecast budgeted cost or the actual timing financial model used to derive JLIFs valuation of the of replacement is sooner than expected.
Benchmarking is also undertaken against other similar projects within JLIFs Portfolio to verify further the adequacy of the forecast lifecycle cost prole.
Performance The success of the Company depends in l The Investment Adviser has a strong record of l l of the large part on the skill and ability of the accomplishment of investing and managing infrastructure investment Investment Adviser to identify, acquire and projects.
JLCM, being a wholly-owned subsidiary of adviser manage JLIFs investments.
Unlike some of John Laing Group plc, has access to the depth of the Companys peers, the Investment Adviser resource provided by its parent company, as well as is owned by a corporate group, John Laing robust policies, procedures, compliance systems and risk Group plc, and accordingly, John Laing not controls.
John Laing Group plc has significant personnel the Company has responsibility for setting from which to draw to provide the services under the the Investment Advisers strategy and Investment Advisory Agreement.
In the event of continued remuneration structures, as well as being the underperformance by the Investment Adviser, JLIF has beneciary of the profits of the Investment the ability to serve notice and to replace JLCM.
A performance deterioration by the Investment Adviser would have a material impact on the Companys performance.
Cyber risk There exists an increasing threat of l JLIF, the Investment Adviser and the SPVs IT providers l l cyber-attack in which a hacker or computer have procedures in place to mitigate cyber-attacks and virus may attempt to access the IT systems business continuity plans.
Data is separately stored on of the Group, the Investment Adviser or one multiple servers, which is backed-up regularly.
IT controls of the SPVs, and attempt to destroy or use are regularly reviewed, including by external specialist IT this data for malicious purposes.
While companies, to ensure they remain robust and provide a these systems are unlikely to be the deliberate sufficient level of protection.
target of a cyber-attack, there is a possibility that it could be targeted as part of a random or general act.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2017 17.
Pre-Mitigation Post-Mitigation Reputational Risk Description Rating Mitigation Rating Risk Financial Portfolio The principal component of the investments l An independent verication exercise of the methodology, l l valuation of the Company is its Portfolio of PPP assets.
discount rates and assumptions used by JLCM is JLCM is responsible for preparing a fair market performed by a leading third-party valuer and an opinion value of the Portfolio, which is presented to provided to the Board.
The methodology and assumptions and approved by the Board.
There is a risk are also subjected to significant external audit scrutiny that the valuation is not a fair reection of and challenge.
the market valuation i. e. the Portfolio is overThe financial models are subject to audit by external or under-valued.
This risk is a function of the accountancy rms, which is designed to identify and financial models, both at the Portfolio and remove errors.
As a control, JLCM also reviews the project level, on which the valuation is based, actual performance of investments against past projected which may contain off-market assumptions performance, with significant deviations indicating a or calculation errors, thereby resulting in requirement to review a model for inaccuracies or errors.
Renancing The majority of projects in JLIFs Portfolio l JLIF takes advice from the Investment Adviser and from l l risk have in place long-term debt broadly independent experts familiar with project finance and the matching the duration of the concessions.
However, certain macroeconomic However, the Connecticut Service Stations P3 and political conditions, such as currently exist in project has senior debt maturing in 2023.
Catalonia, are outside of the control of the Company.
In addition, while the two Barcelona Metro Projects with this risk are therefore valued at a higher Stations projects have long-term debt in place, discount rate to compensate for the additional degree both include terms that require the use of of risk retained by equity.
equity distributions to pay down debt which strongly encourage renancing.
There is a risk that renancing cannot be achieved at forecast rates and costs, or at all, adversely affecting the distributions received by JLIF and hence the valuation of such projects, and dividend cover.
Taxation Changes There is a risk that changes to the tax rules l JLIF works closely with expert tax advisers and adopts l l to tax or rates across the jurisdictions in which JLIF what it believes to be a conservative position with regard legislation invests could result in JLIF, or the SPVs in to tax planning.
The geographic diversication of JLIFs or rates which JLIF invests, having to pay more tax, Portfolio provides an inherent degree of mitigation adversely affecting either the distributions against this risk.
received from the Portfolio or distributions paid to shareholders in JLIF.
OECD Base In recent years, there has been a significant l At around the Companys AGM in May a resolution will l l Erosion shift in investor sentiment and the global tax be put to shareholders regarding proposed amendments and profit environment with the potential to materially to the Companys Articles allowing for board and general Shifting affect existing offshore structures resulting in meetings to be held in the UK, with a view to the BEPS increased tax costs, and increased scrutiny Company becoming UK tax resident and a UK initiative and challenge from tax authorities.
Pre-Mitigation Post-Mitigation Reputational Risk Description Rating Mitigation Rating Risk Compliance and Legal Regulatory JLIF is required to comply with various l JLIF and the Investment Adviser monitor regulatory l l compliance applicable regulation, including that UK Listing developments and seek independent professional advice and change Rules as well as rules relating to the Guernsey in order to manage compliance with changing regulatory Financial Services Commission.
Where appropriate, JLCM participates in that failure to comply with any of the relevant consultation processes to ensure that the views of the regulation could result in financial penalties Company are heard by the legislature.
and or a negative reputational impact.
l Contract The projects in which JLIF invests rely on l Such contracts have been entered into usually only after l risk complex contractual arrangements.
There is lengthy negotiations and with the benefit of external legal a risk that such contracts do not operate as advice.
Prior to investing in a project, JLIF engages legal intended, are incomplete, contain unanticipated advisers when undertaking due diligence to understand liabilities, are subject to interpretation the risks retained by the SPV.
contrary to JLIFs expectations or otherwise JLIF seeks to mitigate the risk of over-paying by fail to provide the protection anticipated.
undertaking a structured due diligence process, with There is a risk that due diligence does not the support of independent expert advisers with strong reveal all the facts and circumstances of a market knowledge, and often with familiarity of the particular project, resulting in over-paying specic project itself.
Exposure to Facilities Management Sub-Contractors, Exposure to Construction Sub-Contractors, by value, 9 10 by value, as at 31 December 2017 as at 31 December 2017 Other Hitachi Other Laing ORourke 13% 13% 18% 17% Johnson Controls 4% 5% ThyssenKrupp 15% Wates 13% 12% 3% Serco Sir Robert McAlpine 1% 3% Hitachi 6% 3% 3% 2% 13% Amey 13% 5% Expired % 5% OR&L 6% 5% PCL Westcoast CYMI-EMTE 6% 2% 12% 5% 12% 5% Skanska 4% Centerplan 7% 7% Dragados 6% 12% Amey Sodexo Carillion 10% 7% 9% Skanska Carillion 9% 9% 9 Percentages based on value of projects to which facilities management services provided.
Certain projects may be represented more than once where there is more than one facilities management provider.
10 The outer pie shows the total exposure to each construction sub-contractor.
The inner pie shows the remaining exposure, taking into account whether such projects remain within the latent defects liability period.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2017 19.
Long-Term Viability Statement The Directors have assessed the viability of the Company over The sensitivity analysis was premised on a number of the three-year period to December 2020, taking account of assumptions, including that the Companys revolving credit the Companys current position and the potential impact of facility remains in place and is available to provide short term the principal risks documented in the Risk Committee report.
finance for future acquisitions undertaken in the period, that Based on this robust assessment, the Directors have a there will be sufficient liquidity within the market to raise new reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to capital as and when required, that the Investment Adviser continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due continues on the same terms as those existing and that there over the period to December 2020. is no annual uplift in dividends paid to shareholders.
In making this statement, the Directors have considered and The Directors have determined that a three-year look forward challenged the reports of the Investment Adviser in relation to December 2020 is an appropriate period over which to to the resilience of the Company, taking account of its provide its viability statement.
This is consistent with the current position, the principal risks facing it including in outlook period used in economic and other medium term relation to tax and political support for PPP in severe but forecasts regularly prepared for the Board by the Investment possible scenarios, the effectiveness of any mitigating Adviser and is the outlook period generally used by the Board actions and the Companys risk appetite.
Where possible, in its consideration of any new strategies.
It is also considered sensitivity analysis has been undertaken to consider the an appropriate period over which to assess the economic potential impacts of such risks on the business model, and political environment in those countries in which the future performance, solvency and liquidity over the period.
These reviews consider both the market The sensitivity analysis undertaken considered the impact opportunity and the associated risks, principally the ability of a significant proportion of the Portfolio not yielding, which to raise third party funds and invest capital.
is a plausible consequence of a number of the principal risks The Directors view on the going concern status of the should they materialise, either in isolation or in parallel.
Company can be found in the Report of the Directors.
Leeds Combined Secondary Schools Leeds England Winner of the Best Operational PPP project award at the 2013 Partnerships Awards, the project comprised the construction of five secondary schools and one primary school providing teaching space for up to 5,000 pupils.
