OUR LEADERSHIP TEAM Responsibilities and experience 1.
AYMAN ASFARI LEADERSHIP TEAM SKILL SET Group Chief Executive Responsibility Works with the Board to set Oil and gas Engineering Operational strategic the strategy of the Group, and management takes ultimate responsibility for the operational and financial performance of Petrofac.
He also has a close involvement in the approach to corporate 90% 73% 90% responsibility, including health, safety, ethical standards, security and the environment.
Experience Joined the Group in 1991 to establish Petrofac International, 1 5 9 before which he led a major civil and mechanical construction business in Oman.
He has a wealth of oil and gas industry knowledge, a clear strategic vision, and an entrepreneurial track record.
ALASTAIR COCHRAN Chief Financial Officer Responsibility Heads up the financial management 2 6 10 of the Group, and also plays a significant role in setting its business strategy, including the drive to reduce capital intensity.
He is also responsible for managing the Companys relationships with financiers and investors.
Experience Joined Petrofac in 2016 from BG Group plc, where his responsibilities included corporate finance, M&A, 3 7 11 strategy and business development.
He began his career with KPMG before moving into investment banking with Barclays fide Zoete Wedd, Credit Suisse First Boston and Morgan Stanley.
MATTHEW BARTON Group General Counsel Responsibility Has responsibility for all Legal, 4 8 Compliance and Company Secretariat functions.
Ensuring that all colleagues have access to relevant, timely and commercially valuable legal advice, he also ensures that the Groups business is conducted in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations.
24 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Experience 6.
CRAIG MUIR Joined Petrofac in 2018 with Group Managing Director, Senior Vice President, Group Managing Director, more than 20 years experience, Engineering & Construction Operations Engineering Engineering & Production 13 of which are in General Counsel & Construction Services, Eastern Responsibility roles, both in the UK and the Hemisphere Has full operational and P&L Middle East.
He began his legal Responsibility responsibility for Petrofacs career in private practice, working With a background as a design Responsibility Engineering, Procurement and in London and Hong Kong before engineer, and strong project Focuses on leading and growing Construction portfolio in its core moving into the engineering and experience, he leads the the EPS business in geographies geographical markets including the construction industry.
operational teams across Oman, such as MENA, CIS and Asia Pacific.
UAE, Kuwait, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Saudi Arabia and Iraq.
In this role, His remit includes: engineering, Algeria and Iraq.
He also heads he ensures that Petrofac identifies procurement and construction 4.
DES THURLBY up the Groups Offshore Capital and implements opportunities management EPCm : operations Group Director of Projects business and is for incremental enhancements and maintenance: training: and all responsible for all Group technical Human Resources to its operational capabilities.
resources, including the three Responsibility Experience Experience Indian engineering centres.
Has overall responsibility for Joined Petrofac in 1997 and has Joined Petrofac in 2012 as MD Experience advising on all people aspects held several key operations and of Engineering & Consulting Joined Petrofac in 1995, and has of the business.
From 2014 he Services, where his responsibilities held various key roles covering developing a business-focused led the delivery of the strategically included the management of our diverse geographical locations people strategy, including significant BP Khazzan project in engineering service centres, and such as India, CIS and MENA, and succession planning, talent Oman and, from 2016 was SVP the creation of the new EPS Group.
led the Companys entry into Iraq.
management, leadership and Sponsor for Oman operations.
He has over 30 years industry He has more than 30 years of development, compensation, He has more than 20 years experience with companies such experience in the oil and gas sector.
key hires, performance culture industry experience.
ROB JEWKES Joined Petrofac in 2017.
He started Group Managing Director, Chief Corporate Chief Operating Officer, his career as a graduate trainee with Engineering & Construction Development Officer and Integrated Energy Services Ford Motor Company and spent Growth Group Managing Director, 25years in the automotive sector, Responsibility Western Hemisphere including six years as HR Director Responsibility Heads up the IES business, for Jaguar Land Rover.
He was also Has full P&L and stakeholder and has full responsibility for its Responsibility interim President of IMI China and responsibility for delivering the business portfolio.
Most recently As Chief Corporate Development Senior Vice President of Seadrill, E&C portfolio in Petrofacs strategic he has been charged with the Officer, he manages relationships an offshore drilling contractor.
These include re-shaping of this portfolio, with international and independent complementary geographies, including a number of divestments oil companies, and leads the identified for organic growth, such and contract migrations and the implementation of Group strategy.
GEORGE SALIBI as India, Southeast Asia, Subre-positioning of IES as a route As Group Managing Director, Group Chief Saharan Africa, and CIS, where the to the wider Petrofac services.
Western Hemisphere, he is Commercial Officer Group has a good understanding responsible for the long-term Experience of risks and the capacity to deliver.
growth of the EPS West business.
Responsibility Joined Petrofac in 2004 to build a Works with both the E&C and Experience Europe-based engineering services Experience EPS businesses, with an emphasis Joined Petrofac in 1992, and has business, before moving into IES Joined Petrofac in 2017, prior to on strategic partnerships, held a range of operational and where his emphasis has been which he spent 28 years with AMEC business development and management roles across the leveraging our engineering and Foster Wheeler and five years with acquisition, operational support Group.
Most recently, he was project management capability.
Regional Managing Director, He has over 35 years experience previous roles have included E&C with responsibility for all in oil and gas and was previously president of global oil, gas and Experience Petrofacs onshore operations CEO of Clough Engineering.
chemicals, and multi-market roles Joined Petrofac in 1998 and has in Kuwait, Iraq and Oman.
running the Americas, Northern held a variety of management and Europe and CIS regions.
He has also operational roles.
He headed up been a Co-Chair of Oil&GasUK.
some of the Companys most prestigious projects, including the US$3.7 billion Upper Zadco-750 contract in UAE.
Most recently he was Regional MD, covering the UAE, Oman, Algeria and Asia.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 25
