NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT Rijnhard van Tets Dear shareholder Chairman of the Nominations Committee 2017 has proven to be very busy for the Committee and, over the course of the year, a core focus has been on succession planning both at Board and senior management level.
This was coupled with reviewing the composition of the Board and its Committees.
In addition, as a result of the senior management changes which were effected in May, the Company undertook a Groupwide functional reorganisation programme commencing in June 2017.
This programme resulted in the Committee devoting considerable time to discussing both long and short-term management plans to ensure that the proposed and implemented changes could be managed effectively and efficiently.
Board changes COMMITTEE SUMMARY Following commencement of the Serious Fraud Office investigation, as detailed further on page 78, Marwan Chedid was Role of the Committee suspended as Chief Operating Officer on 25 May 2017.
As a result, Reviews the composition and structure of the Board he resigned from the Board.
During his five years on the Board, and its Committees Marwan contributed extensively to Board discussions and provided considerable industry and business knowledge for Identifies and recommends for Board approval suitable candidates to be appointed to the Board which the Board is appreciative.
Separately, on 18 May 2017, Jane Sadowsky chose to step down from the Board.
Considers the effectiveness of succession planning processes for the Group as well as specific succession plans for Directors and Earlier in the year, and with a view of improving gender diversity other senior executives taking into account diversity, experience, and enhancing overall Board expertise, the Committee knowledge and skills commenced an external search for a new Non-executive Director.
To facilitate this process to identify potential new Board Terms of reference candidates, the Committee retained the services of specialist The Committee reviewed its terms of reference during the year and changes were made to incorporate Committee membership changes.
The Committee confirms that Copies are available on our website.
the Company has no relationship with Korn Ferry that extends beyond executive searches for Board and senior management Membership and attendance at meetings held in 2017 positions.
The Board was pleased to announce the appointment 3 Members Meetings attended eligible of Sara Akbar, who joined the Board as a Non-executive Director Rijnhard van Tets 7 7 with effect from 1 January 2018.
Sara is very experienced within Andrea Abt 7 7 the oil and gas industry and has significant operational and project Thomas Thune Andersen 6 7 management capabilities.
She brings to the boardroom a unique Matthias Bichsel 7 7 insight into the Middle East environment, along with wide-ranging Ren Mdori 7 7 international experience, and the Board looks forward to working George Pierson 7 7 with Sara in the years to come.
In making any new appointment to the Board, the Committee considers the skills, industry 3 Members who left during the year Meetings attended eligible experience, diversity and capabilities of the existing Directors and 1 Ayman Asfari 2 2 identifies potential candidates who would best contribute to 2 Jane Sadowsky 2 2 maintaining a strong Board with complementary skills and 1 Ayman Asfari stepped down from the Committee in May 2017.
This ensures a highly competent Board that is the commencement of the investigation by the Serious Fraud Office.
effective and efficient to support Petrofacs future plans.
2 Jane Sadowsky stepped down from the Committee on 18 May 2017.
3 Directors may join meetings as guests if they are in the UK.
On such occasions, they are not included in the quorum of the meeting and do not participate in the On 30 August 2017 with the publication of the half-year results, formal business.
the Company announced that Thomas Thune Andersen had indicated his intention to leave the Board by the end of the year.
Board tenure Executive and Non-executive In preparation for this departure, he subsequently stepped down Director balance from his role as Senior Independent Director SID, a role which was assumed by Ren Mdori with effect from 1 September.
5 years 1 1 Executive 2 Thomas formally stepped down from the Board on 31 December Directors 3 1-2 years 2017 after seven years service.
During his tenure, Thomas led the Non-executive Remuneration Committee effectively and contributed significantly Directors 1 year to the Board.
On its behalf, I would like to thank him for his Non-executive 4 5 Chairman support, especially in recent times, and for being a valued member of the Board.
80 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Governance As a result of Thomas departure and Saras appointment, Diversity the Committee took the opportunity to review and refresh the As noted above, we were pleased to welcome a new female composition of each Board Committee at the start of 2018.
Non-executive Director to the Board at the start of 2018.
The Consequently, having served on the Remuneration Committee for appointment of Sara Akbar means that our female representation over two years, Matthias Bichsel replaced Thomas as Chairman on the Board is now 25%.
While we recognise this remains slightly of that Committee, and is joined by SaraAkbar as a member.
below the 33% target recommendation set out in the 2017 Ms Akbar was also appointed as a member of this Committee Hampton-Alexander Review to achieve by 2020, progress has with effect from 1 January 2018.
Further details of current been made towards this goal and with increasing overall diversity memberships are set out on pages 68 and 69. awareness.
The Committee is keen to reinforce that, in accordance with the Groups Diversity and Inclusion Policy, it gives As mentioned in my Chairmans Statement on page 6, I will be due regard to the balance of existing skills, knowledge, experience stepping down from the Board in May 2018 having served as a and diversity for all Board appointments.
It remains keen to ensure Director for 11 years, over three of which as Chairman.
Having that any appointment be filled by the best available candidate, notified the Committee of my intentions, a process was initiated to whose capabilities and background addresses the Boards needs, consider candidates with appropriate capabilities, knowledge, and irrespective of any other consideration.
The Company subsequently announced in December 2017 that Ren Mdori, our current Senior Independent Director Despite engineering continuing to be a predominantly maleSID, would be my successor and I am pleased to note that Ren dominated profession, the Company is committed to building its will take over the role of Chairman at the conclusion of our AGM diversity pipeline from the bottom up and this continues to be a in May2018, with Matthias Bichsel assuming the role of SID long-term plan.
While there remain fewer women than men in on the same date.
senior engineering roles generally, and recognising the leadership and pipeline recommendations published in the 2017 HamptonSuccession planning Alexander Review, the Company remains committed to building During the year, the Committee dedicated over a third of its time and developing our female talent pipeline.
Women currently reviewing and discussing succession planning, both on the Board account for 11% of our total workforce, with 18% representing our and at senior management level, and a further third discussing key workforce below age 30 and 6% over the age of 50.
We believe it organisational changes and people development.
This reflects the is therefore imperative that work continues to retain and improve importance the Committee places on these matters and ensured the higher gender ratios throughout the career lifecycle.
that unexpected changes could be managed without significant disruption to the Groups strategy or day-to-day operations.
A full A Diversity and Inclusion Policy has been in place across the breakdown of how the Committee spent its time during 2017 Group since August 2016.
This is applicable to all employees and is set out on page 72. its aim is to ensure equality of opportunity and fairness in all areas of employment.
Our policy is regularly reviewed to ensure equality The progression of our emerging talent is reviewed on an annual of opportunity and fairness in all areas of employment.
An basis, not only to check that appropriate processes are in place to e-learning training module on this policy was rolled out across the identify and monitor future potential leaders, but also to allow the Group during 2016 to ensure full understanding and consistent Committee to discuss such individuals.
One of the Companys application.
It is believed that this policy allows us to value the principal objectives is to build a strong talent pipeline and a key diversity of our employees while promoting an inclusive culture focus has been to develop employee skills and capability for the across our business.
Details of our Policy and current gender future.
Our Graduate Development Programme was implemented diversity statistics are set out on pages 51 and 69. in 2004 and whilst intake numbers have reduced in recent years, due to the unfavourable external market, over 50% of those Employee engagement graduates hired since 2014 have been retained within the Group.
Towards the end of 2016, an online survey was issued to all employees and further details on the results of this PetroVoices The Committee maintained active oversight of the Groups survey are included on page 51.
During the year the Committee functional capability during 2017 and remains committed to discussed the themes arising from the survey and considered the ensuring the Company has the most suitable individuals in the variances between prior survey results.
Progress has been made correct roles to ensure process enhancements are implemented, across the organisation during 2017 to respond to actions arising and effective internal controls are applied.
A functional review was from the employee engagement survey and work will continue also undertaken by the business during the second half of the year throughout 2018.
Periodic updates have been provided through with the aim of strengthening overall governance and controls and our internal employee communication channels and plans are in improving consistency, quality and oversight of the key services place to conduct a further survey during 2018. provided across the Group.
Rijnhard van Tets Board evaluation Chairman of the Nominations Committee In compliance with the UK Code, this years Board evaluation 28 February 2018 exercise was internally facilitated.
Full details of the process and outcome of this evaluation process are set out on page 75 and 76.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 81
