CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Corporate Governance Leadership The SID is available to shareholders to compliance Board organisation answer any questions or concerns that Good corporate governance is an essential We believe the governance framework, cannot be addressed by either the foundation for any company.
It sets the set out on page 67, underpins good Chairman or the Group Chief Executive tone as to how the Company operates governance practices and enables the and is also available to gather the opinions and behaves, both internally and externally.
Board to provide effective stewardship of and views of the Non-executive Directors.
It also defines the relationship between the the Company.
The Board is responsible The SID also provides additional support Board, senior management, employees for setting the Companys strategic aims to, and acts as a sounding board for, the and other stakeholders.
and providing leadership and guidance Chairman on board-related matters and to achieve its objectives.
additionally reviews the effectiveness of the The UK Corporate Governance Code Chairman as part of the annual Board Petrofac, with a premium listing on the Our Chairman is primarily responsible for evaluation.
The Chairman and SID maintain London Stock Exchange, is required the leadership and effectiveness of the regular contact between scheduled Board under the UKLA Listing Rules to comply Board, whilst maintaining a clear structure meetings and time is also set aside at each with the provisions of the UK Corporate that permits the Board to both challenge meeting for the Chairman to meet with the Governance Code 2016 UK Code.
He is Non-executive Directors without the The UK Code underpins the corporate accountable for promoting effective board presence of management.
governance framework for premium listed relationships and the participation of all companies and sets out a number of board members, to encourage a culture During the year, Thomas Thune Andersen main principles of good governance, of openness and debate and to enable stepped down as SID, following his with compliance with the UK Code resting the Board to fulfil all aspects of its role.
notification to the Board of his intention with the Board.
The UK Code is publicly It is essential that all Directors see the to leave at the end of the year.
Chairman as fair and impartial.
The replaced by Ren Mdori, who became relationships between the Chairman and SID with effect from 1 September 2017.
Each year, through this governance report, the Group Chief Executive and the Senior As noted in Rijnhard van Tets letter on we describe how the Company has Independent Director SID are of particular page 66, following Rijnhards departure complied with the UK Code principles and importance, as these three individuals from the Board, Ren will assume provisions during the period under review, represent the views of management and Chairmanship of the Company at the in line with the comply or explain model Non-executive Directors, respectively.
end of the 2018 Annual General Meeting, and detail any departures from any specific and Matthias Bichsel will assume the provisions.
The Board considers that the The Group Chief Executive is responsible role of SID.
Company complied in all material aspects for leadership and day-to-day management with respect to the Code for the full year of the Group and for the design and The combination of these meetings to 31 December 2017.
The Companys execution of Company strategy.
He is ensures that the Chairman is equally auditor, Ernst & Young LLP EY, are supported by his senior management informed about the views of both required to review whether the Corporate team, whose details are outlined on pages Executive Directors, representing senior Governance report reflects the Companys 24 and 25.
Together they are responsible management, and Non-executive compliance with the principles of the UK for proposing, developing and Directors, which assists in the setting of Code specified for their review by the implementing the Companys overall Board meeting agendas and ensures all UKLA Listing Rules, and to report if it does strategy, driving execution, growing Directors contribute through their individual not reflect such compliance.
No such markets and the client-base and and collective experiences.
Each of our report of non-compliance has been made.
Regular meetings Directors has a varied career history and between the Chairman and Group Chief considerable effort has been taken to Executive are held both before and after ensure that the Board has the right balance scheduled Board meetings.
These of skills, diversity and industry expertise.
meetings allow general matters to be Our Non-executive Directors are discussed and enable them to reach a encouraged to share their skills and mutual understanding of each others experience and each is well positioned to views, especially in matters where they support management, whilst providing may not be in agreement.
70 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Governance Board composition and roles At the date of this report, the Board has eight Directors comprising the Chairman, five Non-executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
Full biographies of each of our Directors in office at the date of this report are shown on pages 68 and 69.
Details of those Directors standing for election and re-election are also included in the 2018 Noticeof Annual General Meeting AGM.
Their key areas of responsibility are as follows: Position Role Chairman Leads the Board Ensures effective communication with shareholders, which allows interests to be Ensures effective communication represented at Board meetings flows between Directors Promotes an open forum to facilitate effective Ensures effective Board governance contribution, challenge and debate for all Directors Group Chief Implements strategy and objectives Develops proposals to present to the Board on Executive all areas reserved for its judgement and ensures Develops attainable goals and priorities the Board is fully informed of all key matters Leads and motivates management teams Develops Group policies for approval by the Board and ensures implementation Chief Financial Manages the Groups finances and is responsible Responsible for managing the financial risks Officer for financial planning of the Group and mitigating key elements of the Companys risk profile Responsible for presenting and reporting accurate and timely historical financial information, Develops and maintains relationships with key both internally and externally external stakeholders, including shareholders, lenders and credit rating agencies Develops and implements the Groups finance strategy and funding Senior Acts as a sounding board and confidant Meets with other Directors to appraise the Independent to the Chairman Chairmans performance annually, and on such Director other occasions as deemed appropriate Available to shareholders to answer questions that cannot be addressed by the Chairman Acts as an intermediary for other or Group Chief Executive independent Directors Non-executive Support executive management whilst providing Review the integrity of financial information Directors constructive challenge and controls Monitor the delivery of strategy within the risk Share skills, experience and knowledge from management framework set by the Board other industries and environments Bring sound judgement and objectivity to Have prime roles in the Board composition the Boards decision-making process and succession planning processes Secretary Acts as Secretary to the Board and Keeps the Board informed and consulted on to the Board its Committees all matters reserved to it, including all regulatory and governance matters Facilitates the Board evaluation and induction processes Available to individual Directors in respect of Board procedures and provides general Puts in place processes designed to ensure support and advice compliance with Board procedures Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 71 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED 1 BOARD PRIORITIES BOARD ACTIVITIES DURING 2017 To provide leadership and guidance to support 32% 25% the Companys strategic priorities.
To concentrate on compliance and risk management Strategy Financial matters, including Held formal strategy review processes and procedures to ensure they are fully external financial reporting days with management and Considered at length the Groups embedded across the Group.
received progress updates on financial performance, in light of To focus on flawless execution, maintaining our potential business prospects key contract progress and the at each meeting bidding discipline in order to secure new orders.
challenges of external trading conditions and the fluctuations Received presentations on To ensure succession plans are in place throughout of commodity prices new strategic opportunities the organisation.
Approved the Groups annual Received detailed operational and half-year financial statements updates, including, for example, and considered the Companys on the BP Khazzan project pre-close trading statements in Oman Kept the Companys financial reporting obligations under review Leadership MATTERS and people RESERVED FOR Approved the budget, five-year development THE BOARD business plan and funding plan.
Reviewed regular reports on performance against budget, forecast and market expectations Reviewed reports on the financial Project Strategy position and prospects of the approvals Group, including treasury management Reviewed and approved the refinancing of the Companys credit facilities Risk Financial matters, management including and internal external financial controls reporting Governance, including shareholder 1 As mentioned on page 78, a sub-committee of the Board was convened in May 2017 engagement to oversee the Companys response to the SFO investigation.
The activities and timespent by this sub-committee are not included in the activities breakdown noted above.
How the Board spent How the Audit Committee How the Nominations How the Remuneration its time during the spent its time during Committee spent its time Committee spent its time year % the year % during the year % during the year % 3 5 5 7 11 7 15 13 32 38 9 35 15 57 15 22 23 25 36 27 Strategic matters Risk management and internal Succession planning 2017 remuneration arrangements, control systems including grant of awards Financial matters Organisational change Financial reporting people development Review of share plans and Governance including performance conditions shareholder engagement External Audit, including non-audit Board composition services review Governance Other Risk management and Governance Other internal controls Governance matters, including Review of external environment audit tender process Project approvals Tax update Leadership and people development Compliance 72 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Governance Group Chief Executive's review See page 10 Group financial statements See page 107 22% 13% 5% 3% Governance, including Risk management Project approvals Leadership and In accordance with our Delegated shareholder engagement and internal controls people development Authorities framework, a number Regularly reviewed reports from Regularly reviewed the Groups Initial consideration of of contracts and other matters brokers and received an in-depth principal risks and approved corporate culture review requiring Board approval were presentation from house brokers the updated Enterprise Risk Approved organisational considered during the year.
Many of Management policy Discussed feedback from changes which were endorsed these projects remain at the bidding shareholder meetings held with Reviewed and revised the Boards by the Nominations Committee stage and further details will be the CEO, CFO and the Chairman Delegated Authorities framework Considered the Board evaluation provided as and when awarded Reviewed reports on regulatory Regularly reviewed significant findings, recommendations and Projects that were approved by the and governance matters impacting enterprise risks, including those actions to be put in place Board during the year and which the Group associated with HSSEIA, Reviewed the Non-executive have been awarded include the Compliance and IT, including Approved the Groups Modern Directors fees Duqm project in Oman, South cyber security Slavery Act Statement for Stream project in Turkey, and publication and agreed the Boards Regularly reviewed legal update Sakhalin Island project commitment to compliance with reports on matters impacting the Act throughout the business the Group and our supply chain Received extensive reviews of the Considered and approved lessons learnt exercises carried the updating of a number of out relating to the Laggan-Tormore Group-wide policies including and FPF1 projects the Dividend policy and the Social Media Standard Jersey Jersey The Jersey The India Netherlands Netherlands Denmark January February March April May June July August September October November December 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 2017 Director attendance during the year Physical Board Ad-hoc telephonic meetings attended Board meetings usually 4 Director Independent eligible to attend held at short notice Rijnhard van Tets Yes 7 7 6 6 Andrea Abt Yes 7 7 6 6 Matthias Bichsel Yes 7 7 6 6 Ren Mdori Yes 7 7 4 6 George Pierson Yes 7 7 6 6 5 Ayman Asfari No 7 7 3 6 Alastair Cochran No 7 7 6 6 Former Directors 1 Thomas Thune Andersen Yes 3 7 4 6 2 5 Marwan Chedid No 3 3 1 4 3 Jane Sadowsky Yes 3 3 3 3 1 Thomas Thune Andersen stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2017.
2 Marwan Chedid stepped down from the Board on 25 May 2017.
3 Jane Sadowsky stepped down from the Board on 18 May 2017.
4 Directors may join meetings as guests if they are in the UK.
On such occasions, they are not included in the quorum of the meeting and do not participate in the formal business.
5 Ayman Asfari and Marwan Chedid were recused from attending three meetings that were held at short notice in relation to the SFO investigation.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 73 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board meetings presentations also enable Directors In October 2017, the Board also visited the As a company incorporated in Jersey under to deepen their understanding of Petrofac Aberdeen office.
During this trip they met the Companies Jersey Law 1991, we at both a local and functional level, while with the management team and received endeavour to hold at least half of our physical gaining an awareness of specific nuances presentations from graduates and emerging Board meetings in Jersey each year.
At which may not always be obvious within talent on three key areas for the EPS West meetings that are held outside Jersey, we written reports.
Management is also given business unit.
The Board also had the arrange, where feasible, for the Board to be the opportunity to meet the Directors opportunity to visit the Petrofac Emergency given the opportunity to meet with informally during the year as the Board Response Centre.
As part of this trip, employees, clients, suppliers and partners, believes these meetings to be valuable Andrea Abt and Alastair Cochran as it is felt this allows the Board to gain a for personal development.
During their completed their Basic Offshore Training wider understanding of Petrofac.
As well as trips to India and Aberdeen in 2017, the BOSIET at the Petrofac Training facility the scheduled face-to-face meetings that are Non-executive Directors were given the in Aberdeen, which allowed them, along arranged each year, the Board also meets opportunity to meet graduates and with Rijnhard van Tets and other senior telephonically to review any items of business employees considered to be emerging management, to visit the FPF-1 floating that need to be addressed before the next talent, thereby providing them with the production facility, operated by us for Ithaca.
Dedicated strategy days, chance to speak with individuals who as well as site visits, also form part of our they would not ordinarily encounter.
Board appointment and selection annual programme of events.
This year These meetings also gave employees The Company has a formal, rigorous seven physical meetings were held, in the opportunity to present to and speak and transparent selection procedure addition to a number of ad hoc telephonic openly with Board members.
for the appointment of new Directors.
meetings that took place as a result of the The Nominations Committee, whose SFO investigation.
Board site visit membership is set out on page 80, Each year the Board aims to visit a Petrofac carefully considers Board composition The Companys scheduled Board meetings project site in conjunction with one of its throughout the year to ensure the right are generally held over two days, where scheduled meetings.
We believe this gives balance and mix of directors, taking into active debate is encouraged before any Directors the opportunity to gain a deeper account their experience, skills and Board decisions are taken.
All Directors are understanding of our operations, and to diversity.
Care is taken to understand the encouraged to be open and forthright in their recognise some of the challenges being existing external commitments of all approach.
We believe this boardroom culture faced on a day-to-day basis by our Non-executive Directors, who, on helps to forge strong working relationships, employees, in what can sometimes be appointment, are each made aware of the whilst enabling Directors to engage fully with difficult and remote locations.
need to allocate sufficient time to the the Company, and allowing them to make Company to discharge their responsibilities their best possible contribution.
In January 2017, the Board and members effectively.
Any changes to a Directors of senior management travelled to India, external commitments following To enhance their knowledge of the visiting both the Chennai and Mumbai appointment must be notified to the Board business further and allow the Board to see offices.
During the trip, they met with immediately in order that any potential the implementation of agreed strategy in engineering teams and graduates and conflict of interest, time commitment action, members of operational and received project progress and country challenge or residency status issues can functional management, one and two tiers update presentations from senior be considered.
A detailed report on the below director level, are usually invited to management from all three of our Indian activities of the Nominations Committee attend and present at certain Board and offices, including the New Delhi office.
It is felt these Re-appointment of Directors In line with the UK Code, all Directors, subject to continued satisfactory performance, seek re-appointment by shareholders at each AGM.
Both our Executive Directors have rolling service contracts, containing a notice period provision of 12 months by either party.
In addition, Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment that contain a termination provision of three months notice by either party.
The terms and conditions of appointment of all Directors are available for inspection by anyone at our registered office in Jersey and at our corporate services office in London.
These documents are also made available for inspection during the 30 minutes prior to Visit to FPF-1 floating production facility by Rijnhard van Tets, Andrea Abt and Alastair Cochran.
74 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Governance the start of our AGM each year.
Details arising from meetings are overseen by the Evaluation of Board effectiveness of the provisions set out in the service Company Secretariat and updated action The Board understands the benefits of contracts and letters of appointment are lists inform the agenda for the next annual performance evaluations and the detailed in the Remuneration Policy which scheduled meeting.
process is seen as an important means can be found at www.
com of monitoring progress against areas remuneration.
Director development and training previously identified for improvement.
The Company does not run a one-size-fits The Board believes these evaluations Effectiveness all training programme for Directors but is can provide a valuable opportunity to Role of the Board committed to providing continuing personal highlight recognised strengths and identify The UK Companies Act 2006 sets out a development training opportunities, tailored any weaknesses, thereby improving number of general duties to which all to each individual.
The Company provides effectiveness and driving improvements.
directors are expected to adhere.
As a Directors with the necessary resources to Jersey incorporated company, Petrofac is maintain and enhance their knowledge and At the end of 2016, in accordance with the not required to comply with this legislation: capabilities.
They are all encouraged to UK Code, the Board engaged the services of nevertheless, our Directors are informed by regularly update and refresh their skills and Mr John fide Leeuw, an independent facilitator UK practice and, in any event, act in good keep up to date with any relevant regulatory with no other connection to the Group, to faith to promote the long-term success of developments, and to attend any pertinent conduct an externally facilitated evaluation.
the Company for the benefit of our external seminars run by professional A final report, including recommendations, shareholders and other stakeholders.
During 2017, Directors received was prepared and submitted to the Board for The Board has been structured to ensure training through a mixture of formal and discussion and consideration in early 2017. that no single individual can dominate the informal seminars.
decision-making processes and we believe Following this external evaluation, the all Directors are able to work together in an All Directors are also required to complete Chairman led an internal review at the end atmosphere of openness, trust and mutual the Companys e-learning training of 2017, which consisted of one-to-one respect.
As a unitary Board, our Directors modules, which include: the Code of interviews with each Director and the share equal responsibility for all decisions, Conduct: Share Dealing Code: Anti-Bribery Secretary to the Board and the completion of with Directors collectively responsible for and Corruption Standard: and Health and a detailed questionnaire focusing on matters the strategic direction of the Company.
Training records for such as performance, interaction, dynamics It is felt that having an effective working Directors are maintained and these are and Board Committee performance.
This relationship between our Executive and reviewed during the annual evaluation rigorous process enabled the Chairman to Non-executive Directors provides a robust process.
Over the course of 2017, more assess individuals performance and governance framework, which is essential than 160 hours of training were recorded.
contribution, and identify development areas for the progression towards the Companys for individuals and the Board as a whole.
All Directors have access to executive management and further information, The overall outcome of the evaluation Information and support as is needed, to discharge their duties process was positive, albeit it was As part of our commitment to best and responsibilities fully and effectively.
acknowledged that the year had been practice, and as recommended by the UK Members of management present to dominated by the SFO investigation.
As a Code, we endeavour to provide information the Board and Committees on a range result of this exercise, the Board is satisfied to the Board in a timely manner and in a of operating and commercial matters, that it is operating effectively, with each form and of a quality appropriate to enable allowing closer interaction between Director performing well in respect of their it to discharge its duties effectively.
All Directors roles on the Board and its Committees.
are provided electronically through a are entitled to seek independent As well as confirming where improvements dedicated secure application, giving professional advice concerning the have been made, the evaluation identified Directors instant access to papers, as well affairs of the Company at the areas of focus for 2018.
The results of the as additional reference documentation.
most recent evaluation process were tailored approach to developing agendas is presented to the Board in February 2018. adopted for each meeting, with the majority As mentioned on page 74, to deepen of each agenda comprising non-recurring Directors understanding and knowledge of It is recognised that the Chairmans items, such as strategic matters or project Petrofac and its operations, the Board effectiveness is also vital to that of the specific and investment related undertook site visits to our Chennai, Board.
Accordingly, led by Ren Mdori as opportunities.
Operational and financial Mumbai and Aberdeen offices during the SID, an evaluation of Rijnhard van Tets was matters are reviewed and discussed at year.
Directors are also encouraged to visit carried out.
Ren consulted with each of the each meeting.
We believe the flexibility of other sites either individually or as part of other Directors for input and feedback on this approach allows Directors to engage their general induction programme and Rijnhards performance during the year.
effectively and encourages scrutiny and consequently a number of separate site The outcome of the evaluation was reported constructive debate, with Non-executive visits have been organised for individual back to the Chairman and it was confirmed Directors able to seek clarification from members of the Board, including trips to to the Board that Rijnhards Board management where required.
Any actions Algeria, Kuwait, Oman and Saudi Arabia.
leadership continued to be effective.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 75 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Improvement areas identified Areas of focus for 2018 Director induction In addition to considering the results of this Our induction process is intended to provide Strategy: Board meetings to allocate years evaluation, the Directors reviewed a broad introduction to the Group.
sufficient time for medium and longerprogress against the targets previously Individually tailored induction programmes term strategic discussions.
Consideration identified where the Board might improve are prepared for each new appointee, which to be given to the digital agenda, and these are set out below: is considered to be the optimal approach.
including the innovative and technological This allows the Company to account for Strategy: Plan deep dives into key developments being seen across differing requirements and to concentrate areas to help to define and determine a the sector.
on key focus areas, to ensure that each more focused strategic agenda.
Develop Succession planning: Clear Director is fully prepared for their new role, a roadmap for the future in terms of both succession plans to be established for taking their background and experience into business direction and geographical the Board and senior management team, consideration.
All new appointees spend focus.
Identify insights into innovation, ensuring diversity, in its widest sense, is time with each of the Executive Directors as market and technological developments.
taken into consideration as we look to well as senior members of operational and Consider what is needed to introduce develop employees for long-term functional management, both individually organisational and cultural change succession.
Detailed briefings are also across the Group.
Compliance and risk management: provided in order that they may quickly gain Risk management: Develop risk The approach to risk to be further a deeper understanding of Petrofac at an management processes further, to ensure developed, with the Groups compliance operational level.
A comprehensive induction they remain operationally effective.
Ensure framework strengthened, to ensure it is pack, which contains a wide range of the Board is aligned on the key risks followed consistently across the business.
materials, is provided to each new Director identified during the evaluation process Ensure the risks and challenges which prior to them joining the Board.
Each new and that the necessary mitigating may affect the business are included Director also attends a compulsory strategies are in place.
on each agenda to assist in decisionpresentation led by our external legal making processes.
Succession planning: Determine the advisors on the role and responsibilities of capabilities and competencies required being a UK-listed company director and, Culture and values: Ensure the both on the Board and within the senior depending on which committees they Company values, and the behaviours management team to embark successfully will join, presentations are provided by associated with them, are clearly on the agreed strategic journey.
Evaluate the Group auditors and remuneration understood and consistently applied and encourage greater interaction consultants.
Visits to operational sites and across the Group.
offices are also actively encouraged, either as part of scheduled Board meetings or as Financial planning: Maintain a firm focus independent trips.
on cash generation, working capital management and reducing capital As set out in our Nominations Committee intensity, whilst retaining a continuous report on pages 80 and 81, Sara Akbar emphasis on project planning and joined the Board on 1 January 2018. implementation.
A detailed programme is being arranged for her to be completed during the course of 2018.
THE DIRECTORS PERFORMANCE EVALUATION CYCLE Dealing with potential conflicts of interest Processes and procedures are in place in 2016 17 the event that any potential conflict arises External 2017 during a term of appointment.
Where such independent Board Issues raised were evaluation conducted.
reviewed by the Board conflicts arise, Directors are required to This included a detailed and matters arising questionnaire identify and declare any actual or potential identified and one-to-one conflict of interest, whether matter-specific interviews 2017 18 or situational, with notifications required to Internal Board be made by the Director concerned prior evaluation by Chairman completed.
This included to, or at, a Board meeting.
All Directors an anonymous have a duty to update the whole Board questionnaire and one-to-one of any changes in personal circumstances.
interviews The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to authorise conflicts AREAS which can be limited in scope and, during OF FOCUS 2017, all conflict management procedures FOR 2018 were adhered to, managed and reported effectively.
76 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Governance The Company also has procedures in The process of risk identification is both Code of Conduct and Speak Up place for Directors to have access to top-down and bottom-up.
This ensures The newly formed Compliance and Ethics independent external advice at the management are able to review and Committee is now responsible for reviewing Companys expense, where they judge challenge impacts and mitigations at each the adequacy and effectiveness of the it necessary in order to discharge level of the organisation, addressing the Groups compliance activities, which their responsibilities.
risks for which they are organisationally include the Companys Speak Up Policy.
The Groups Key Risk Register Further details of our Code of Conduct are Deeds of indemnity KRR aims to identify the principal risks provided on page 64.
The Compliance and In accordance with our Articles of facing the organisation and evaluates the Ethics Committee reviews the status of all Association, and to the maximum extent likelihood of incidence and impact on the investigations conducted as a result of any permitted by Jersey law, all Directors and Group, if such risks were to materialise.
alleged Code breaches received during the Officers of Petrofac Limited are provided The KRR enables the Board to assess year, and will liaise, as required, with the with deeds of indemnity in respect of and monitor the existence and likely Audit Committee, in the event the alleged liabilities that may be incurred as a result effectiveness of the actions that are breach is of a financial nature.
In addition, Petrofac has planned to manage and mitigate such details on the Companys Speak Up appropriate insurance coverage in respect risks, in order to avoid or reduce the impact activities are set out on page 65. of legal action that may be brought against of the underlying risk.
Neither the Security Companys indemnities nor insurance To facilitate the year-end process, the During the course of the year, the Board would provide any cover where a Director Audit Committee has the responsibility considered and discussed the continuing or Officer was found to have acted of assessing a detailed review of risk challenges faced in certain regions and fraudulently or dishonestly.
management and internal control international security as a result of transprocesses.
This is done in order to provide national terrorism.
Petrofacs Security Remuneration formal assurance to the Board on the function presented plans to continue Directors remuneration robustness, integrity and effectiveness of ensuring the safest possible travel and All remuneration matters for the Chairman, these systems and controls in relation to workplace for our staff.
At the same time, Executive Directors and key members of the Groups principal risks, including those in view of strained economic situations in senior management are determined by which may threaten the Groups strategy, many of our core territories, an initiative to the Remuneration Committee, whose business model, future performance, reinforce security awareness, in low and membership is set out on page 90. solvency and liquidity.
The processes medium risk environments, was put in Responsibility for setting the remuneration reviewed enable the Board to consider the place to mitigate expected rises in criminal payable to the Non-executive Directors risk management and system of internal activity often associated with increased resides with the full Board, albeit controls in place.
The Board is satisfied that austerity.
As a result of this work, all independent external advice is taken.
sound risk management and systems of projects have identified and trained a Non-executive Directors fees are reviewed internal controls have been in place across Security Focal Point to champion basic each year and further details are provided the Group throughout 2017 and as at the measures that protect the Companys staff on page 99.
A detailed report on the date when the 2017 financial statements and assets.
activities carried out by the Remuneration were approved.
Committee is provided on pages 90 to 101.
Crisis management Petrofac also seeks to ensure that a A crisis management improvement Accountability sound system of internal controls, based programme was initiated during 2017, Risk management and system on the Groups policies and guidelines, with particular focus on Business of internal control is in place in all material associate and Continuity Management and Digital Media The Board is responsible for monitoring and joint arrangement entities.
The next stage of development reviewing the effectiveness of Petrofacs risk companies, our systems of internal control will see improvements being made to management and systems of internal and risk management are designed to our suite of crisis management standards control.
Regular management reports are identify, mitigate and manage rather than and operational guidelines, along with received throughout the year, which outline eliminate business risk and can only ever associated training and exercises for all the Groups material enterprise risks.
provide reasonable, and not absolute, three tiers of our Emergency Response Additional reports are also received from assurance against material financial & Crisis Management ERCM command the internal and external auditors and Group misstatement or fraud.
Compliance to assist the Audit Committee, and ultimately the Board, in their annual A detailed report on the activities of the assessment of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee is provided on pages Groups risk management and system 82 to 87. of internal control.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 77 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Referral to Serious Fraud Office SFO During this time, the membership of an Relations with shareholders The Company reported in last years existing sub-committee of the Board, Shareholder engagement Annual Report and Accounts that in August originally established to oversee the internal The Board acknowledges its responsibility 2016, the Company had announced that investigation in 2016, was expanded.
to promote the success of Petrofac to its it had concluded an internal independent The remit of this new expanded submany stakeholders.
Petrofac encourages investigation commissioned by the Board committee was to be solely responsible for open and constructive engagement with into allegations in the media during 2016 the Companys engagement with the SFO shareholders as we believe that effective that related to the historical provision and to oversee the Companys response dialogue is key to understanding of services to the Company by Unaoil, to the investigation.
The Board comprised the Chairman, all Non-executive considered it appropriate to share the Directors and the Chief Financial Officer.
Shareholder sentiment has continued to be findings of this internal investigation with Given the scale of the SFO investigation, an area of significant focus during the year, the Serious Fraud Office SFO, in response this committee also engaged a senior particularly in light of the share price to the SFOs general request for information external specialist to oversee the Companys volatility experienced during 2017. in relation to its ongoing investigation into management of, and response to, the Discussions with our corporate brokers the activities of Unaoil.
have been held to further understand market pressures and to gain insight into On 12 May 2017, the Company was notified Petrofac is responding as constructively governance matters, in general, and by the SFO that it had commenced an as possible to the SFO investigation, succession planning in particular, from a investigation into Petrofac, its subsidiaries noting that the SFO also has access to shareholder perspective.
The Chairman and their officers, employees and agents.
other information in the context of its wider and Non-executive Directors each engage On the same day, Ayman Asfari and investigation.
The consequences of this with our shareholders as and when Marwan Chedid were arrested by the SFO, SFO investigation will be determined by required, while the Group Chief Executive questioned under caution and released the regulatory authorities and therefore and Chief Financial Officer maintain a without charge.
On 25 May 2017, the Petrofac is unable to predict their outcome, regular dialogue with institutional Company subsequently announced a although these could include the shareholders through a programme of number of decisions that had been put in prosecution of the Company and of one-to-one and other meetings throughout place to ensure Petrofac could retain its individuals.
As a result, the potential for the year, focusing on operational matters.
focus on its operations and clients, whilst fines, penalties or other consequences, Our Investor Relations team acts as a focal also ensuring the Company was able to including reputational damage and an point for contact with investors throughout continue to engage with the SFOs exclusion from bidding on certain the year and brokers research notes are investigation.
This included the restriction contracts, cannot currently be assessed.
regularly circulated to all Directors.
A formal to his operational duties for Mr Asfari and As the SFO investigation is ongoing, it is brokers report is circulated to Directors in the suspension of Mr Chedid as Group not yet possible to identify the timescale advance of each Board meeting.
As a consequence when these matters may be concluded.
of this, Mr Chedid resigned from the A programme of meetings with both Board with immediate effect.
existing and potential shareholders, as well as analyst and investor meetings, is scheduled each year by our Investor Relations team.
This programme includes presentations to institutional investors and research analysts, as well as question and answer sessions with stakeholders Our major shareholders In accordance with the FCAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR 5, as at 31 December 2017, the Company had received notification of the following material interests in voting rights over the Companys issued ordinary share capital: Number of ordinary Percentage of issued shares notified as at share capital as at Month 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 Ayman Asfari and family 62,958,426 18.20% Standard Life Aberdeen plc 27,829,742 8.04% Deutsche Bank AG 26,459,954 7.65% NTMS Investments Limited 18,134,399 5.24% Tosca Fund 17,990,073 5.20% As at the date of this report, Deutsche Bank AG had notified the Company, in accordance with DTR5, that their interests in ordinary shares had decreased below 5%.
78 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Governance following the publication of our full and There are no restrictions on the transfer Meetings held with shareholders half-year financial results.
These of ordinary shares in the capital of the by country presentations are also streamed via a live Company other than certain restrictions webcast for those unable to attend in which may, from time to time, be imposed 26 person and these continue to be available by law, for example, insider trading 24 on our website after broadcast.
In accordance with the EU management arrange calls and meetings Market Abuse Regulation certain Company with these groups following the release of employees, including all Directors, are 215 any trading updates to the market.
required to seek approval from the Company to deal in its securities.
The 2017 shareholder meetings Company is not aware of any agreements UK calendar between shareholders that may result in US and Canada Number of shareholder restrictions on the transfer of securities Europe Month meetings held during the year and or voting rights.
January 7 1 February 9 The Directors require express authorisation Shareholder splits ownership March 44 by holding % from shareholders to issue or purchase April 14 ordinary shares in the Company.
These May 33 authorities were granted by shareholders June 50 at the 2017 AGM.
The Group has no 38 July 6 current plans to exercise either of these 1 62 authorities and will propose to renew them August 8 at the 2018 AGM.
September 27 October 16 The Companys Articles of Association November 43 Retail may only be amended by special resolution December 8 Institutional at a general meeting of shareholders.
Total 265 Details relating to the rights and obligations 1 Including Full Year and Half Year Results.
Live webcast attaching to the Companys ordinary Shareholder splits ownership of analyst investor presentations replay available on by territory % shares are set out in the Companys our website.
11 Over 41% of meetings held were attended Annual General Meeting AGM by the Group Chief Executive and or the 18 Full details of this years AGM, which will be Chief Financial Officer.
held in London, are set out in the Notice of 61 10 Meeting which accompanies this report Shareholder communications and which is also available on our website.
Considerable emphasis is placed on As a matter of good practice, all resolutions communications with shareholders, UK will be conducted on a poll and the results whether they are institutional or private US and Canada will be announced to the market as soon shareholders.
Accordingly, financial reports Rest of Europe as possible after the meeting.
All and shareholder documents, regulatory Rest of world shareholders are invited to attend the market announcements, together with Companys AGM at which they have the recorded interviews, are all available on opportunity to put questions to the Board our website, which we believe allows and meet with those Directors who are shareholders to become more able to attend.
Shareholders who are informed investors.
unable to attend the AGM are invited to email questions in advance at Share capital agmquestions@petrofac.
As at the date of this report, the Companys issued share capital consisted I look forward to seeing as many of you of 345,912,747 ordinary shares, carrying one as possible at my final AGM as Chairman, vote each.
The total voting rights at the date when my colleagues and I will be available of this report are accordingly 345,912,747. to answer your questions.
The Companys ordinary shares are quoted on the London StockExchange.
Rijnhard van Tets Chairman 28 February 2018 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 79
