Nomination & Governance Committee The Committee is resolute in its mission to drive robust governance and strategic leadership ofthe Company, underpinned by rigorous succession planning.
Susan Kilsby Committee meetings are typically held before Key considerations and activities Committee Chairman scheduled meetings of the Board, with During the year and up to the date of additional meetings convened as required thisreport, the Committees principal Membership and meetings details of Committee members attendance considerations and activities were: As of the year end, the Nomination & can be found on page 64.
Atthe invitation of Governance Committee comprised five Chief Financial Officer succession the Committee Chairman, regular additional independent Non-Executive Directors In August 2017, Shire announced that meeting attendees included the Chief andthe Chairman of the Board.
JeffPoulton, Chief Financial Officer, would Executive Officer and members from the leave his position at the end of 2017, having Companys Human Resources, Legal and Date of Committee provided many years of valued service Company Secretariat functions.
Russell Reynolds 1 Susan Kilsby Feb 1, 2014 Role of the Committee Associates, an executive search consultancy Olivier Bohuon Feb 15, 2017 The Committees responsibilities include: with no other connection to the Company, William Burns Jun 27, 2011 was retained to lead the search for a successor.
The Committee considered David Ginsburg Dec 3, 2015 reviewing the size and internal and external candidates before Sara Mathew Feb 15, 2017 composition of the Board and making a recommendation to the Board.
Anne Minto Feb 8, 2012 its committees and making InNovember 2017, Shire announced that recommendations to the Board Thomas Dittrich would be appointed Chief 1 Susan Kilsby served as a member of the with respect to any changes Financial Officer, serving as an executive Committee prior to her appointment as Committee Chairman on April 28, 2016. member of the Board and as amember identifying, and nominating ofthe Companys Executive Committee.
forthe approval of the Board, Mr. Dittrich is expected to commence candidates for new Board hisrole on March 19, 2018.
The Board appointments and making appointed John Miller, Shires Senior Vice recommendations with President of Finance, as Interim Chief respect to the re-election Financial Officer, to serve until Mr. Dittrichs andreappointment of appointment becomes effective.
existingDirectors Non-Executive Director succession reviewing succession planning In accordance with the anticipated for Executive and Nonreduction in Board membership following its Executive Directors with a previous expansion linked to the Baxalta view to ensuring the long-term acquisition, and reflective of theBoards success of the Group commitment to the orderly refreshment of its collective skill and experience, in August making recommendations 2017, Shire announced that William Burns, tothe Board on matters of Senior Independent Director, and Anne governance, reputation, Minto, prior Chairman of the Remuneration culture and political activity Committee, would retire from the Board affecting the Company following the 2018 AGM.
The Board also maintaining the policy announced that David Ginsburg, Chairman concerning Directors conflicts of the Science & Technology Committee, of interest and monitoring would simultaneously retire, however, the adherence to that policy Board has agreed that Dr. Ginsburg will continue in service while it progresses its Shire Annual Report 2017 75 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Nomination & Governance Committee continued search for a new Non-Executive Director, Executive Committee succession Board appointments procedure specifically with scientific and or medical During the year the Committee reviewed Board composition is central to the experience.
In addition, the Board ongoing succession planning for the CEO, effective leadership of the Group: announced in February 2018 that Dominic CFO and other members of the Companys Blakemore, having been appointed Chief Executive Committee, with skills, prior to commencing any Executive of Compass Group plc on knowledge, and experience mapping search for prospective Board January 1, 2018, had decided to step down undertaken for each role.
With the positions members, the Committee following the 2018 AGM, and that a search of Head of Research & Development and reflects on the Boards balance for a new Non-Executive Director with Chief Human Resources Officer becoming of skills and experiences and comparable knowledge, insight, and vacant, potential successors were those that would be conducive experience was under way.
We also considered withrecommendations made to the delivery of the announced that Olivier Bohuon, an existing tothe Board.
An internal candidate, Companys strategy Non-Executive Director, was to be JoanneCordeiro wasappointed Chief appointed Senior Independent Director Human Resources Officer in August 2017, a recommendation is then following the 2018 AGM.
Andreas Busch made to the Board in respect wasappointed Head of Research and Board Committee changes of the core attributes sought Development and Chief Scientific Officer As part of its ongoing review of Board inJanuary 2018, joining from Bayer AG andcommittee composition, and in light an appropriately qualified where he worked for13 years.
ofthe appointment of Ian Clark to the search firm is engaged and Board in January 2017, the Committee informed of, amongst other Governance and culture recommended to the Board various things, the experience, The Committee reviewed various matters changes to committee composition, that technical skills and other concerning the development of governance were approved and became effective in capabilities sought, of the and culture, including the Companys February 2017 current Board committee timecommitment required Codeof Ethics, proposed changes to the composition is set out on pages 56 to 58. ofany appointee and of Companys Articles of Association as In addition, in August 2017, Al Stroucken, ShiresBoard Diversity Policy approved by shareholders at the 2017 an existing Non-Executive Director and AGM, the Companys ongoing compliance short-listed candidates are member of the Remuneration Committee, with the UK Corporate Governance Code interviewed by as many of the replaced Anne Minto as Remuneration and papers dedicated to corporate culture.
Committee members as is Committee Chairman.
Ms. Minto continues As part of its considerations, and in light of feasible, following which any to serve as a member of the Remuneration the ongoing development of the business, preferred candidate meets Committee to enable a period of transition the Committee recommended to the Board withother Directors until her retirement from the Board.
that its responsibilities be expanded to Furthermore, in October 2017, the Board encompass the oversight of culture-related approved the appointment of Sara Mathew strategic initiatives.
The Committees Terms the Board determines whether as Chairman of the Audit, Compliance of Reference were subsequently updated to to appoint a new Director &Risk Committee, replacing Dominic reflect this additional responsibility.
Blakemore who continues to serve as Board Diversity Policy amember of that committee.
In the context a continued external focuson diversity, Committee members participated in the wider Board review ofShires Board Diversity Policy.
Furtherdetails on the review, including a description of the policy, can be found on page 65.
In undertaking the review, the Committee and the Board reaffirmed their commitment to the promotion of diversity, both in executive and non-executive appointments and in recruitment practice throughout the Group.
Further details on diversity within Shire can be found on pages 38 and 39.
