Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Corporate Governance Nomination and Governance Committee Report Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the Nomination and With effect from 1 January 2018, SANNE has a Governance Committee Report for the year ended majority of Non-executive Directors, excluding 31 December 2017.
Our focus was to appoint an the Chairman.
Following the appointment of additional Non-executive Director to ensure a Mel Carvill, the Committee believes the current majority of Independent Directors, and to widen composition represents a strong and wellthe Committees remit specifically to include balanced Board with the necessary skills and Governance.
experience to manage and develop the Company, and recommends that each of the Directors be During the year the Committee commenced a elected or re-elected at the forthcoming Annual search for an additional Non-executive Director.
The Board decided to recruit an additional Succession planning was considered by the Non-executive Director with Channel Islands Committee and it has put in place a talent residency, as reported in the 2016 accounts.
programme for senior management development.
Rupert Robson It was also decided that the Audit and Risk r o t oo Committee would be separated and that the The Committee also decided that it should or o appointee would become Chairman of the newly widen its role to cover the Companys formed Risk Committee.
It was agreed that the corporate governance.
As the Group has grown appointee should have financial services, risk and this additional area of focus will provide an international experience.
The Board concluded opportunity to consider regulatory changes Our focus was that SANNEs knowledge of the Channel Islands and the application of SANNEs corporate employment market was significantly greater governance systems and processes.
During the to appoint an than that possessed by search firms traditionally year the Committee also reviewed its Diversity used for FTSE250 board-level appointments.
The Policy and this is available on our website additional NonBoard, therefore, decided to use internal search www.
resources to identify suitable candidates.
It was executive Director I would like to thank the other members of the agreed that there was no conflict of interest in Committee for their contribution and support using internal resources.
As Chairman of the Committee I to ensure a majority A shortlist of candidates was prepared, which will be available at the AGM to answer questions included a number of women.
The candidates about the work of the Committee during the year.
of Independent were considered and a shortlist presented.
Following a series of interviews, Mel Carvill Membership and attendance Directors, and was identified as having the requisite financial of the Nomination and services, international and risk experience to be to widen the Governance Committee a full contributor at the Board and to chair the Risk Committee.
As part of the selection process, Membership and attendance during the year was Committees remit Mel attended interviews with all the members of as follows: the Board and was appointed with effect from 1 specically to include January 2018.
His biography is set out on page 41.
Eligible to attend Attendance A resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming Governance.
Rupert Robson 4 4 Committee Phil Godley, an Executive Director, stepped down Chairman from the Board with effect from 1 January 2018 4 4 Nicola Palios and the Board has decided that his position will Andy Pomfret 4 4 not be replaced for the time being.
I would like to thank Phil for his significant contribution to Board The name of the committee was changed from Nomination to discussions in the years since the IPO.
Nomination and Governance on 7 November 2017 50 25754 23 March 2018 4:19 PM Proof 13 Sanne-AR2017 Front-proof13.
com Corporate Governance The role of the Committee Committee activities Committee effectiveness The Committees role and responsibilities include: during the year review The review was externally conducted and it Reviewing and nominating candidates for Considered the candidates for the role of reported that the Nomination and Governance both Executive and Non-executive roles: Non-executive Director: Committee runs effectively.
The Committee Managing the size, structure, knowledge, Members of the Committee were involved in received a very positive evaluation.
As with the skills and diversity, including gender diversity, the selection process of the Non-executive other Committees a rolling agenda will be in place of the Board when considering suitable Director: going forward.
The existing Board portal would candidates: include a range of governance publications for all Recommended to the Board that Mel Carvill the Committee members, which would also be Considering the Corporate Governance Code be appointed as a Non-executive Director helpful for the existing members of the Committee and regulatory change: and Chairman of the Risk Committee and to and when new Non-executive Directors join in the also serve on the Audit, Remuneration and Evaluating the Companys policy and future.
Nomination and Governance Committees: practices for executive talent management development and diversity: Discussed senior appointments and Director induction succession: An induction programme for the new NonUnderstanding the role and leadership needs executive Director was based upon the ICSA that are required by the business and to Considered the annual effectiveness review guidelines and tailored to SANNE.
Further review talent to ensure that the Company and that the Directors and the Chairman had information on this is included in the Corporate maintains the ability to compete and win sufficient time to discharge their roles: Governance Report on page 42. further market share: Discussed mentoring and the development Considering Director performance and of talent: and Mentoring and knowledge upon consideration recommending to Considered regulatory changes.
sharing Shareholders the election or re-election at The Committee wants to help develop the future the AGM: Diversity and inclusion leaders of the business and is involved in providing Succession planning: and guidance and expertise where appropriate.
There It is the Companys policy to ensure that proposed have been a number of mentoring meetings appointments and succession to the Board as Reviewing the balance and composition of between the Non-executive Directors and senior outlined by the Code, are based on merit and the Board.
In addition Following a review of the Terms of Reference in the Company seeks to ensure that it reflects November 2017, the role of the Committee was differences in culture, gender, skills, background, expanded to cover the companys governance.
regional and financial services experience and The Committee will therefore also focus on other qualities.
With this in mind, the Committee changes in corporate governance and changes reviewed its Diversity Policy.
A copy of the that need to be recommended to the Board.
Boards Diversity Statement is available on the companys website at www.
At The expanded Terms of Reference of the 31 December 2017, SANNE had one female Board Nomination and Governance Committee Rupert Robson member out of a Board of six Directors.
Shortlists are available on the Companys website Chairman of the Nomination and will contain male and female candidates and the www.
Governance Committee Board is focused on seeking to increase diversity.
Succession planning 21 March 2018 on the Board The Committee annually reviews its effectiveness and composition and its long-term succession planning.
The Committee considers the balance of skills, experience and independence.
One of the Committees key roles is to discuss succession planning to ensure that a pipeline of talent is developed within the business.
Ultimate responsibility for making senior management appointments rests with the Chief Executive Officer.
indd 51 23 03 2018 16:24:21 Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Corporate Governance Audit and Risk Committee Report I would like to thank the other Committee Dear Shareholder members for their support during the year and I The report outlines the activities and responsibility look forward to chairing the new Audit Committee of the Audit and Risk Committee the Committee, in 2018. on behalf of the Board and I am pleased to present my report for the year ended 31 Committee membership December 2017.
Committee Eligible During the year the Committee and the Board members to attend Attendance devoted time to assess the approach to the Andy Pomfret Groups controls framework, in order that the 6 6 Committee Group was well placed to respond to changing Chairman risks and our business environment.
It was Rupert Robson 6 6 decided that the Committees responsibilities Nicola Palios 6 6 should be separated.
The separate duties with regard to Risk will be carried out by a separate Risk Andy Pomfret Committee.
The Risk Committee took ownership Appropriate skills Chairm an of th e A udit an d o of this activity with effect from 1 January 2018. and experience The Audit Committee will continue to monitor Andy Pomfret and Rupert Robson have and review financial internal controls and risk appropriate relevant financial sector experience.
During the year management systems.
In addition, Andy Pomfret is a qualified Chartered At the request of the Board, the Committee Accountant and has held the positions of the the Committee and reviewed the contents of the Annual Report Finance Director and CEO in Investment Banking.
and Accounts and confirmed to the Board that Rupert Robson has served as Chairman of the Board devoted in its opinion the Report taken as a whole is financial services businesses and has extensive fair, balanced and understandable and provides experience of corporate finance and investment time to assess the information for Shareholders and investors to be companies.
Nicola Palios brings expertise from able to review the Groups financial performance, her experience as managing a partner of a firm approach to the business model and strategy.
providing legal and Alternatives administration.
The Board has determined that the Committee as During the year the Committees Terms of Groups controls a whole has competence relevant to the financial Reference were reviewed and updated.
The services sector in which SANNE operates and their new Audit Committees Terms of Reference are framework, in order to biographies are set out on pages 40 to 41. available on the Companys website at www.
have more exibility to On appointment to the Committee there is an appropriate induction, consisting of a review of The work of the Committee in 2017 is described respond to changing the Terms of Reference, previous Committee in detail in the table opposite.
It included advising papers, information on the Companys financial the Board on the half year results, the Annual risks and our business performance and operational risks and Report and Accounts, risk management and introductions to the Groups internal and external compliance.
auditors and key members of staff.
On 1 January 2018 Mel Carvill was appointed as The timetable of the Committee is linked to the an additional Non-executive Director and he will Groups reporting cycle, annual audit and financial chair the new Risk Committee.
I am delighted to reporting timetable.
At the invitation of the welcome Mel Carvill to the new Audit Committee Committee, the CEO, CFO, Chief Risk Officer and with effect from 1 January 2018.
Group Compliance Officer and representatives The addition of Mel will allow the Audit from Internal Audit attended meetings.
In addition Committee to be composed of entirely the Deloitte audit partner and senior manager independent Non-executive Directors with effect attended all meetings held in the year and other from 1 January 2018 and this ensures that going management are requested to attend meetings forward the Committee is in compliance with the during the year as required.
com Corporate Governance Keeping the Companys overall risk assessment processes under review Role and responsibility of the committee and ensuring that both qualitative and quantitative metrics are used: The role of the Audit and Risk Committee was authorised by the Board and its Setting a standard for the accurate and timely monitoring of large main duties in 2017 are listed below: exposures and certain risks, which the Company believes are of critical Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group importance: including its Annual and Half-Yearly reports, any interim management Reviewing and assessing the internal audit function, including oversight statements and other formal announcements relating to SANNEs of the work of internal audit with steps taken to address findings and financial performance.
The Committee reports to the Board on improve the control environment: significant financial reporting issues and judgements made: Reviewing the adequacy and security of the Companys arrangements Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys External for its employees and contractors to raise concerns about possible Audit recommending the auditors remuneration and assessing their wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters in line with independence and objectivity along with the effectiveness of the whistleblowing procedures: and external audit process: Reviewing the performance of the risk management function and the Advising the Board of the Companys overall risk appetite, tolerance compliance function and ensuring they have adequate resources.
and strategy and overseeing the risk exposures of the Company and its future risk strategy: 1 Topics discussed January March June September November Financial Statements and Reports Full Year results 2016 Impairment review Finance Going concern assessment Other acquisitions, EBT Half year results Compliance Compliance Report Policies and procedures Risk Management Risk Management Report Risk Appetite Risk mapping, risk matrix and scorecard Enterprise Risk Management External Audit Recommendation of re-appointment Auditor's report External Audit Plan and reporting Effectiveness review, audit quality Non-audit spend Internal Audit Internal Audit Reports Internal Audit Plan IT Security and information security Other Review of Terms of Reference Review of Whistleblowing Policy Committee Evaluation Regulatory update Review of non-audit spend Policy 1 Two meetings were held in March 2017.
indd 53 23 03 2018 16:24:22 Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Corporate Governance Audit and Risk Committee Report continued This process enabled the Committee and then the Board to confirm that the Fair, balanced and understandable 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole is fair, balanced and Assessment understandable.
As requested by the Board, the Committee has reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts in order to provide advice to the Board as required Risk management framework & governance by the Code that the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and The Board is responsible for ensuring the maintenance of SANNEs risk understandable and provides the necessary information for Shareholders management and internal control systems with regards to the principal risks and other users of the Annual Report and Accounts to enable them to assess facing SANNE in achieving its strategic objectives.
The Board has delegated the Groups position, performance for 2017 and its strategy and business.
In responsibility for monitoring the Companys risk management and internal order to make this assessment the Committee considered: controls systems to the Audit and Risk Committee including the annual review and reporting to the Board.
Guidance provided to each contributor to the Annual Report and Accounts: To assist with the assessment of risk management and internal controls, the Any changes required as a consequence of regulatory changes: Committee received regular reporting on the principal risks from the Chief Risk Officer and the internal audit reports on the adequacy of the control Input provided from pre year-end discussions with the auditors: framework of the areas under review from the Head of Internal Audit.
Input provided pre year-end from senior management and corporate functions: Throughout the year and up to the date of this report, SANNE has operated a system of internal controls that provides reasonable assurance of effective A review by senior management to ensure consistency and balance: operations covering all material controls including financial, operational Review conducted by the external advisers and the auditors based on and compliance controls.
A review of the effectiveness of SANNEs risk consistency and best practice: management and internal control systems has been carried out through the Review and consideration by the Committee and final sign-off work and operations of the Audit and Risk Committee and the effectiveness by the Board.
of the operation of the material controls has been reported to the Board.
Significant financial statement issues considered by the Committee Significant financial and reporting issue How the issue has been addressed Revenue recognition, accrued income and trade receivables Management maintains key controls over the largely quarterly billing cycles.
The timings of the billing cycle are arranged to minimise accrued income balances at key reporting dates and thus give greater certainty over income which is still to be converted into cash.
Management assesses the recoverability of all receivables at the year end and attest to the quality of assets considering past experience of the client, client type and liquidity issues of the client.
We agreed with managements assessment that no additional provision for losses or impairment either to accrued income or trade receivables was needed.
Evaluation of impairment of intangible assets including goodwill and useful We considered the results of managements impairment assessment life of intangible assets which reviews triggers for impairment around asset lives, valuation and verification of assets.
We considered the judgements taken in relation to asset lives and the methodology applied to consider asset verification and we were satisfied that no changes in treatment were needed.
With regards to Goodwill, we consider the judgements taken in relation to short and long term growth rates and discount rates used and we were again satisfied that no changes in treatment were needed.
Share based payments We have reviewed the methodology used for the accounting of share based payments and are comfortable with the assessment by management as to the number of shares expected to vest under the terms of the Performance Share Plan and Restricted Stock Awards.
In doing so we have reviewed and are satisfied with management judgments and expectations around the achievement of performance targets.
Accounting for acquisitions We have reviewed the judgements made and used by management in the allocation of the purchase price of the acquisition completed during the year.
We are satisfied that the overall allocations between goodwill and identifiable intangible assets are reasonable and also the estimated useful lives of customer and contract intangibles.
