Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Corporate Governance Composition of the Board The Board sets the Groups strategy for achieving long-term success and is responsible to Shareholders.
It is also responsible for the management, governance, controls, risk management, direction and performance of the Group The Board currently with effect from 1 January 2018 consists of the Non-executive Chairman, two executive Directors and three Non-executive Directors.
In accordance with the Code, the Company considers the Non-executive Directors with the exception of the Chairman to be independent.
The Chairman was independent at the time of his appointment.
Directors Rupert Robson Dean Godwin, ACIS Nicola Palios Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Non-executive Director Rupert Robson was appointed as a Non-executive As Chief Executive Officer, Dean is responsible Nicola Palios is a Non-executive Director of Chairman of Sanne Group plc in March 2015 and for delivering business strategies that underpin Sanne Group plc and Chair of the Remuneration is the Chair of the Nomination and Governance the long-term development of the service and Committee.
He has over 15 years She is an English Barrister and a Jersey Advocate.
experience in the international financial services He is also Non-executive Chairman of TP ICAP plc Having joined the Mourant Group in 1988 she industry and has extensive senior management and EMF Capital Partners and Non-Executive became Mourants youngest ever partner and experience having previously been Managing Director of Savills plc.
He has held a number of went on to hold the position of Chief Executive Director of State Streets Jersey business.
Client senior roles in financial institutions, most recently from 2003 until the sale of the group companies in service specialisms include capital markets Non-executive Chairman of Charles Taylor plc and 2010.
She now runs her own consultancy business transactions and corporate governance for Non-executive Director of London Metal Exchange offering a variety of services to the private equity multinational corporate institutions.
He is a Holdings Ltd, Tenet Group Ltd and OJSC Nomos industry, and holds a number of non-executive chartered secretary and holds an MSc in corporate Bank.
Prior to that he was Global Head, Financial directorships including Chairman of the States governance.
Institutions Group, Corporate Investment Banking of Jersey Development Company and is a Nonand Markets at HSBC and Head of European executive Director of Voxsmart Limited, a financial Insurance, Investment Banking at Citigroup Global services compliance software business.
com Corporate Governance Andy Pomfret, ACA Spencer Daley, ACA Mel Carvill, FCA, ACII, CF, FCSI Non-executive Director Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director Andy Pomfret is a Non-executive Director of Sanne As Chief Financial Officer, Spencer is responsible Mel is an independent Non-executive Director of Group plc, Senior Independent Director, Chair of for managing the financial strategy and operations Sanne Group plc and Chair of the new stand-alone the Audit Committee.
He has over 15 years experience Risk Committee.
in financial services organisations and is a skilled Most recently, he was Rathbones Chief Executive Mel is also a member of the Board of Directors practitioner in areas of financial restructuring, and chaired the Executive Committee which of Home Credit B. V. where he is responsible business transformation and acquisitions.
He was managed the day-to-day affairs of the Group.
He for governance, investor and public relations, previously Finance Director for State Streets AIS qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Peat, and brings significant financial services industry EMEA Private Equity and Real Estate alternative Marwick, Mitchell & Co. now KPMG.
Prior to experience having served as a member of the asset administration business.
joining Rathbones in July 1999, he spent over top management team of Home Credits parent 13 years with Kleinwort Benson as a corporate company, PPF Group, from 2009. financier, Venture Capitalist and latterly Finance Previously, Mel worked across a range of sectors Director of the investment management and including Generali from 1985 until 2009 where he private banking division.
Andy is also a Nonheld a number of senior positions including Head executive Director of ICG Enterprise Trust PLC, of Western Europe, Americas and the Middle Aberdeen New Thai Investment Trust Plc, Sabre East, Head of M&A and Head of International Insurance Group plc and Non-executive Chairman Regulatory Affairs, Head of Risk Management and of Miton UK MicroCap Trust plc.
