Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Corporate Governance Leadership Directors Non-executive Directors Independent advice The Board of Directors have their profiles on pages Non-executive Directors bring a strong There is a process in place, facilitated by the 40 and 41.
The Board comprises the Chairman, independent element and a breadth of skills Group Company Secretary to enable any Director two Executive Directors and three independent and experience to the Board.
The Non-executive to take independent professional advice at Non-executive Directors.
Directors bring constructive challenge and SANNEs expense.
This advice would be in relation are responsible for the effective running of to the performance of any aspect of their duties.
Board changes the Boards Committees.
They need to satisfy themselves that the Groups financial controls and Conflicts of interest After 2017 there were a number of changes made risk management are robust and effective.
to the composition of the Board.
Phil Godley In accordance with the Companies Jersey Law stepped down from the Board with effect from 1991, as amended, all Directors disclose to the Senior Independent Director 1 January 2018.
Mel Carvill was appointed as a Company the nature and extent of any interest of Non-executive Director with effect from 1 January Andy Pomfret is the Senior Independent Director the Director whether direct or indirect of which 2018, and chairs the new Risk Committee and has SID.
The SIDs role is to act as a sounding board the Director is aware in any transaction entered joined the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination for the Chairman, and to serve as an intermediary into, or proposed to be entered into, by the Group and Governance Committees.
for the other Directors when necessary.
He leads or any of its subsidiaries which conflicts, or may the Chairmans annual performance evaluation conflict, to a material extent with the interests The Board acknowledged that during the year it and brings independent judgement to the Board.
The Directors Register of Conflicts was not in compliance with the Code regarding of Interest is maintained by the Group Company its composition, as noted on page 47.
Following The SID is also available to Shareholders if Secretary and is reviewed by the Directors as a an extensive search, the appointment of a Nonthey have issues or concerns that have not standing agenda item at every board meeting.
executive Director has brought the Company into been resolved through the normal channels full compliance with the Code with effect from 1 of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Directors election January 2018.
Financial Officer, or for which such contact is and re-election inappropriate.
No matters of concern were raised Chairman by the Shareholders during the year and up to 23 In accordance with the requirements of the Code February 2018, being the latest practicable date B.
7.1, newly appointed Directors and all existing The Chairman, Rupert Robson, leads the Board, prior to the publication of this Report.
Directors will submit themselves for election provides direction and ensures that there is a clear and re-election respectively, at the 2018 Annual structure in place for the effective operation of Group Company Secretary General Meeting AGM.
The Board recommends the Board and its Committees.
He sets the agenda the election or re-election as appropriate of for Board meetings, and promotes effective The Group Company Secretary supports the each member of the Board based upon their skills, and constructive discussion at meetings.
He is Chairman in the delivery of Board and governance experience and contribution to the Board, and its responsible for ensuring that the Directors receive procedures.
In particular she assists with the Committees and their ability to bring long-term timely and accurate information.
induction of new Directors and the annual cycle Shareholder value.
of Board and committee meetings.
She supports In addition, the Chairman works with the Chief the smooth operation of governance by working Executive Officer to ensure strategies agreed by with the Chairman, and the Chairmen of the the Board are implemented.
He is a support for Committees.
She additionally provides support Board Induction the CEO whilst respecting the CEO's responsibility to the Chairman in ensuring compliance with Mel Carvill joined the Board on 1 January for managing the Group.
There is a clear division relevant legal and regulatory requirements.
She 2018 and was provided with: of responsibilities between the Chairman and arranges for the Directors to meet with executives, Chief Executive Officer, and this has been defined visit offices in the Group and provides information Access to the Group's portal for Board and was established when SANNE was listed.
and Committee Papers: The Board considered the time commitment The Group Company Secretary helps by providing Access to the Group Company of the Chairman, in light of his other time advice and services and keeps accurate records of Secretary: commitments, as noted in his biography on all meetings.
page 40 and concluded that he fully satisfied A list of key contacts, and his obligations to the Group.
There has been no meetings were arranged with key staff: change in his other time commitments since last A background briefing on key issues by year.
the Chairman: and A Board induction pack.
com Corporate Governance Board Effectiveness Role of the Board The Board is ultimately responsible for approving and overseeing the implementation of SANNEs strategy and ensuring appropriate systems of internal controls and risk management are in place.
The Board also reviews performance management, and ensures the business has the right resources in place throughout the Group to deliver long-term value to Shareholders and to ensure the business thrives.
Material acquisitions are decisions that are also reserved for the Board.
Other matters include the approval of the Annual Report and Accounts and Shareholder circulars, announcements and approval of share and other capitalisation issues and the approval of recommendations for a dividend.
How the board spent its time in 2017 During the year the Board considered a wide range of matters that included: Topics discussed January March May June September November December Strategy Budgets Business update Compliance Governance matters Committee Reports Divisional and regional plans Announcements Annual Report and Accounts, Half Year Results, the AGM Notice and dividends Dividends and dividend policy Acquisitions and integration Risk Management, internal controls Conflicts of Interest People matters including diversity Staff Survey Financial Performance Reappointment and election of Directors at the AGM Updates on governance, and legal matters Succession planning and talent development Board Evaluation and effectiveness review Investor Major Shareholder Information 43 25754 23 March 2018 4:19 PM Proof 13 Sanne-AR2017 Front-proof13.
indd 43 23 03 2018 16:24:20 Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Corporate Governance Board Effectiveness continued Board meeting attendance Board diversity The Board held 7 scheduled meetings during the year The Board supports the recommendations in the Code and ensures that diversity and gender are considered when making director appointments.
The Board seeks to ensure it has the right balance of independence, skills, and Eligible to attend Attended knowledge to enable it to meet its responsibilities.
Candidates are selected Rupert Robson 7 7 irrespective of background.
SANNE seeks to promote diversity.
Nicola Palios 7 7 Succession planning 7 7 Andy Pomfret Talent development and succession planning has been discussed by the 7 7 Dean Godwin Board, and in more detail at the Nomination and Governance Committee 1 during the year.
Progress has been made in establishing training to promote Phil Godley 7 7 and develop talent within the business.
Spencer Daley 7 7 Directors training 1 Phil Godley stepped down from the Board on 1 January 2018 Mel Carvill an independent Non-executive Director was appointed on 1 January 2018 Members of the Board are provided with regular updates and training in order to keep them up to date with industry and regulatory developments.
The Directors attendance at Committee meetings is disclosed in the separate In order to assist the Directors regulatory updates are provided at each reports of each Committee on pages 50 to 74. meeting and professional advisers also provide technical updates.
All Directors are free to attend seminars and briefings, at SANNEs expense, in The Board has met 7 times during the year under review, see table above.
areas considered to be appropriate for their own professional development Non-executive Directors communicate directly, and have had informal including governance and issues relevant to the Committees on which they sit.
meetings with Executive Directors and senior management between formal Board meetings.
Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board, Evaluation of Chairman and Directors and the Committees on which they sit, and to devote sufficient time to the Group to enable them to fulfil their duties as Directors.
Non-executive The SID led the Non-executive Directors and conducted a performance review Directors letters of appointment confirm the minimum number of days of the Chairman.
The review covered leadership, performance and overall each should be prepared to devote to the Group.
The time commitments contribution, all these factors were of a high standard, and the Chairman has required by the Non-executive Directors were discussed by the Nomination their full support.
and Governance Committee during the year and, taking into account external The Chairman met with each Director to discuss their contributions to Board commitments, it was felt that the Non-executive Directors committed and Committees.
Following the Chairman's review the Board confirmed, sufficient time to SANNE and were not unduly stretched by their commitments that in line with the Code, the Directors have sufficient time to discharge to other organisations.
their responsibilities and that any external appointments they hold do not distract from the time available to the Company.
The Board recommends Experience of the Board of Directors the Shareholders support the election or re-election of the Board at the forthcoming AGM in May 2018.
Financial Financial Experience Services Board of Directors experience Risk International Management 44 25754 23 March 2018 4:19 PM Proof 13 Sanne-AR2017 Front-proof13.
