com Corporate Governance Relationship with Accountability Nomination and Risk management and Shareholders Governance Committee internal controls The Group continues to maintain an active Oversight and responsibility and the dialogue with its key stakeholders, including recommendation of executive appointments is The Board is responsible for the review and institutional investors, to discuss issues relating provided by the Nomination and Governance assurance over the Groups systems of internal to the performance of the Group including Committee.
The Committee is also responsible controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The strategy and new developments.
The Nonfor succession planning and reviewing the overall Executive Directors and senior management are executive Directors are available to discuss any composition of the Board.
Governance oversight responsible for implementation and maintenance matter stakeholders might wish to raise, and and review is also provided by the Nomination of an effective system of internal controls.
The the Chairman and independent Non-executive and Governance Committee.
Board is also responsible for risk assessment and Directors will attend meetings with investors and management.
Remuneration Committee Remuneration strategy and incentives are The Board makes an assessment of the Our investors are kept up to date with regulatory reviewed and aligned to match the Groups maintenance of the systems of management and news releases through our regulatory news strategic aims by the Remuneration Committee.
The Board during the year delegated part service RNS and press releases.
Copies of the The Remuneration Committee sets and reviews of the responsibility for the review of this to the past regulatory news releases can be found on the executive pay and rewards.
Audit and Risk Committee, that then reported Groups website www.
Further information can be Executive Committee found in the Strategic Report on pages 8 to 33 Board visit and in the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee The Executive Committee operates under terms of The Board visited SANNE's office in South Africa, on pages 52 to 56. reference approved by the Board.
The Board has and had the opportunity to formally meet the sight of the minutes of the Committee.
The Directors were able to: The Board is responsible for presenting a fair, to support the Chief Executive Officer in the balanced and understandable position of the Receive presentations about the local running of the Group.
Group in the Annual Report and Accounts and the operations: half-year results.
A statement about this is made Administration Committee Meet office staff informally: and in the report of the Audit and Risk Committee on The Administration Committee comprises any pages 52 to 56.
Get an indepth view of the two Directors and deals with matters of a routine regional opportunities.
nature on behalf of the Board.
The decisions Board committees of the Committee are tabled at each Board As part of the governance framework the Board Information and support meeting.
has authorised Committees to ensure there is a The Chairman, aided by the Group Company focus on accountability.
The Committees meet Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that the Culture and ethics separately and regularly throughout the year.
Directors receive accurate and timely information.
The Board understands the importance of The Board has delegated the Groups strategic The Group Company Secretary compiles the promoting ethical conduct and integrity in its direction which is considered and approved by Board and Committee papers which are circulated leadership.
During the year the CEO has issued the Board to Dean Godwin, the Chief Executive to Directors in advance of the meeting via a communications to all staff on the subject of Officer.
Board papers are distributed culture and integrity.
Culture and integrity is in time to allow sufficient time for review.
The promoted in the staff handbook and reinforced Audit and Risk Committee Group Company Secretary also ensures that through regular communication.
The Board has delegated a number of any feedback or suggestions for improvement responsibilities to the Audit and Risk Committee, on Board papers is fed back to management that was responsible during the financial year and standard reporting evolves to incorporate for overseeing the Companys financial reporting suggested amendments and enhancements.
With effect from 1 January 2018, During the year the Board and Committees separate Audit and Risk Committees have had specific governance discussions.
Terms of Reference for both focus on the Modern Slavery Act, Market Abuse Committees can be found on our website at Regulations and gender pay gap reporting.
indd 45 23 03 2018 16:24:20 Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Corporate Governance Board Effectiveness continued Board Evaluation Process The Board appointed Prism Boardroom part of Prism CoSec Prism, to conduct its first external evaluation and this was carried out in accordance with B.
Prism Boardroom, also provides regulatory updates and ad hoc advice on Company Secretarial matters to SANNE.
The evaluation reviewed the Board, and its Committees.
The methodology of the evaluation and its scope were discussed and agreed with the Chairman.
The participants were the Board members and the Group Company Secretary.
Questionnaires were used to explore the Board and Committee relationships, composition, effectiveness, leadership, roles and development.
One to one interviews explored these issues in more detail and also considered culture, technology and the board processes for developing strategy, dealing with acquisitions and managing risk.
The evaluation followed a number of stages as outlined below.
Board and The questionnaire was sent to each participant accompanied by a note confirming the process to be followed for the Committee 1 external evaluation.
Questionnaires Each Board member and the Group Company Secretary met with the evaluator and discussed key themes.
2 The evaluator met with each participant to discuss the issues listed and any points from the questionnaire requiring clarification, and reviewed with the Chairman.
One to One Meetings 3 A report was prepared by Prism and discussed with the Chairman.
A final report was sent to all participants.
Evaluation Report 4 The report and its recommendations were considered at the Board meeting in January 2018.
Board Discussion 5 The Group Company Secretary prepared an action plan for the Board and its Committees.
Action Plans Key outcomes are listed in the table below.
In addition the evaluation observed that the Board dynamics were good, the Board is led by a skilled Chairman, who is appreciated by the Directors and he has a good working relationship with the CEO.
Board Effectiveness Review Matters Considered Observations Actions taken Additional time could be dedicated to the discussion of Action was already being taken.
The Group Meeting Topics strategy.
The papers and the discussion were observed and Company Secretary will provide a rolling agenda and discussions commented as being of a high quality at the Strategy to ensure sufficient time would be allotted.
Some matters were already in progress and the subject of stakeholder voice had already been More time could be given to the further consideration of considered by the Nomination and Governance culture.
Committee and will be tabled again in 2018.
Recommendations were made for more horizon scanning A plan has been created for all Committees to Committees of governance matters.
ensure that any feedback topics are considered in the year.
Stakeholder issues should be further discussed once the new FRC guidance has been finalised.
Committee Papers Opportunity to reduce the length of papers in a few General advice would be provided to those instances.
submitting papers on the intranet and feedback provided, if needed, following initial submission.
Overall papers were of a good quality, providing the right information.
There was a good score overall and no issues to highlight.
The Company has already taken action to Board Effectiveness Some minor opportunities for improvement were highlighted implement the suggestions.
All items raised and the board would adopt the suggestions.
will be tracked and monitored by the CEO and Group Company Secretary.
com Corporate Governance Directors Report The Directors present their report and audited financial statements for the Group for the year ended 31 December 2017 the Financial Statements.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance code As a premium listed company on the London Stock Exchange we are committed to comply with the Code, which is available on the FRC website at www.
During the year the Group has complied with the provisions of the Code with the exception of Section B.
1.2 as explained below: Non-compliance explanation Code provision Requirement of changed position At least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should From 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017, the B.
1.2 comprise Non-executive directors determined by the Board Company had a Chairman and two independent to be independent Non-executive Directors and three executive Directors.
From 1 January 2018, Mel Carvill was appointed as a Non-executive Director and Phil Godley stepped down as an Executive Director.
With effect from 1 January 2018 the Company was compliant with the Code Diversity Equality and diversity are fundamental values supported by SANNE.
The Group is an equal opportunities employer and encourages diversity.
We are committed to ensuring disabled people are afforded equality of opportunity in respect of entering and continuing employment with us.
The Group aims to provide training opportunities that are identical, as far as possible, for disabled and non-disabled employees.
The Board recognises that diversity in our people brings a range of perspectives and skills that make the Company stronger and also reflects our customer base.
SANNE considers applicants for all roles regardless of gender, ethnicity, religion and age.
Applicants are all treated equally and there is a diverse workforce.
We respect individuals and their rights in the workplace and, with this in mind, specific policies are in place to prevent or, where issues are raised, address harassment and bullying and to ensure equal opportunities.
We recognise the benefits of encouraging diversity throughout the business and believe that this will contribute to our continued success.
All appointments are made based on merit and are measured against specific objective criteria including the skills and experience needed for the position.
We are committed to increasing the participation of women at the Board, Executive Committee and senior management level.
The Board's diversity policy can be found on the Company's website at www.
Political donations SANNE has not made any donations to any political party.
Statement of directors responsibilities Our statement on Directors Responsibilities has been provided on page 75 of this Report.
Material interest in shares Up to year-end being 31 December 2017 and as at 23 February 2018, being the latest practicable date before the publication of the report, the following disclosures of major holdings in voting rights have been made to the Group pursuant to Rule 5 DTR.
As at 23 February 2018 Shareholder % interest in voting rights Standard Life Aberdeen plc 13.84 Aviva plc and its subsidiaries 9.98 Kames Capital Plc 6.25 1 BlackRock, Inc 5.46 1.
On 31 December 2017, BlackRock, Inc's % interest in voting rights, as notified to the company, was 5.77%.
Other statutory information Directors and officers insurance The Company maintains appropriate levels of Directors and officers insurance as well as professional indemnity cover for all its operational businesses and engagements.
Material Contracts The Company is not party to significant agreements which take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control following a takeover bid apart from credit facilities with banks.
The total amount owing under these facilities is shown in note 22 on page 111.
