GOVERNANCE | Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report Applica le Corporate Governance Codes The Board of the Company has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code, by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide, both published in February 2013 and last amended in July 2016.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK Code as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Code, will provide more relevant information to shareholders.
Copies of the AIC Code and the AIC Guide can be found atwww.
On 1 January 2012, the Guernsey Financial Services Commission s GFSC Finance Sector Code of Corporate Governance came into effect and was amended in February 2016.
The GFSC has stated in its Code that companies, which report against the UK Code or the AIC Code, are deemed to meet their Code, and need take no further action.
Corporate Governance Statement Throughout the year ended 31 December 2017, the Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code, except where explanations have been provided.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Code, the Board considers the following provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, being an externally managed investment company.
In particular, all of the Companys day-to-day management and administrative functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company has no executive directors, employees or internal operations.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of the following provisions of the following provisions: the role of the chief executive executive directors remuneration internal audit function The Directors believe that this Annual Report and Financial Statements Annual Report presents a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Company complies with the corporate governance statement requirements pursuant to the FCAs DTR by virtue of the information included in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report together with information contained in the Strategic Review and the Directors Report.
24 | NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED GOVERNANCE | Corporate Governance Report Our Governance Framework Chairman - William Frewen Responsibilities: The leadership, operation and governance of the Board, ensuring effectiveness, and setting the agenda for the Board.
More details are provided below.
The Board Members of NB Global Floating ate Income Fund Limited: William Frewen Chairman, Richard Battey, Rupert Dorey and Sandra Platts - all independent non-executive Directors.
Responsibilities: Overall conduct of the Company's business and setting the Company's strategy.
The Company Secretary, Carey Commercial Limited, through its representative acts as Secretary to the Board and Committees and in doing so it: assists the Chairman in ensuring that all Directors have full and timely access to all relevant documentation: will organise induction of new Directors: and is responsible for ensuring that the correct Board procedures are followed and advises the Board on corporate governance matters.
MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT REMUNERATION AND NO INATION AUDIT AND RISK CO MITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Members: Members: Members: Richard Battey Chairman Sandra Platts Chairman Sandra Platts Chairman Rupert Dorey Richard Battey Richard Battey William Frewen Rupert Dorey Rupert Dorey Sandra Platts William Frewen William Frewen Responsibilities: Responsibilities: Responsibilities: The provision of effective governance To review performance of all service To ensure the Board comprises over the appropriateness of the providers including the Investment individuals with the necessary skills, Company s financial reporting including Manager.
knowledge and experience to ensure that the adequacy of related disclosures, the the Board is effective in discharging its performance of the external auditor, and responsibilities and oversight of all the management of the Company s matters relating to corporate governance, systems of internal financial and and to review the on-going operating controls and business risks.
appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy.
The Board, chaired by William Frewen who is responsible for its leadership and for ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role, currently consists of four non-executive Directors.
The biographical details of the Directors holding office at the date of this report are listed on page 18, and demonstrate a breadth of investment, accounting and professional experience.
Mr Battey as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee acts as Senior Independent Director when necessary.
Flowever, the Board considers that all the Directors have different qualities and areas of expertise on which they may lead where issues arise and to whom concerns can be conveyed.
The balance and independence of the Board is kept under review by the Remuneration and Nomination Committee, details of which can be found on page 37.
25 | NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED GOVERNANCE | Corporate Governance Report Board Inde en ence and Composition The Chairman and all Directors are all considered independent of the Company s Investment Manager, the Company Secretary, the Administrator and Sub-Administrator.
The Directors consider that there are no factors, as set out in the AIC Code, which compromise the Directors independence and that they all contribute to the affairs of the Company in an adequate manner.
The Board reviews the independence of all Directors annually.
D rectors Appointme t No Director has a service contract with the Company.
Directors have agreed letters of appointment with the Company, copies of which are available for review by shareholders at the Registered Office and will be available at the 2018 AGM.
William Frewen, Richard Battey and Sandra Platts have served since incorporation of the Company.
Rupert Dorey has served since 1 March 2015.
Any Director may resign in writing to the Board at any time.
In accordance with the AIC Code, as a FTSE 250 company, all Directors will be subject to re-election annually by shareholders.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee reviewed the independence, contributions and performance of all Directors together with results of the 2017 external Board Evaluation, which described the directors as conscientious and effective and independent in thought and action and have determined that it is in the best interests of the Company to propose that all Directors are proposed for re-election.
Tenure of Non-Executive Directors The Board has adopted a policy on tenure that is considered appropriate for an investment company.
The Board does not believe that length of service, by itself, leads to a closer relationship with the Investment Manager or necessarily affects a Directors independence.
The Boards tenure and succession policy seeks to ensure that the Board is well balanced and will be refreshed by the appointment of new Directors with the skills and experience necessary to replace those lost by Directors retirements or as identified for the strategy of the Company.
The Board seeks to encompass relevant past and current experience of various areas relevant to the Companys business.
Directors are expected to devote such time as is necessary to enable them to discharge their duties.
Other business relationships, including those that conflict or may potentially conflict with the interests of the Company, are taken into account when appointing Board members and are monitored on a regular basis.
The dates of appointment of all Directors are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report and a summary on shareholder elections is provided below.
D TE FIRST ELECTED BY YEARS FROM FIRST CONSIDERED TO BE SH REHOLDE S ELECTION TO 2017 AG INDEPE fide T BY THE BOARD William Frewen June 2012 6 Yes Sandra Platts June 2012 6 Yes Richard Battey June 2012 6 Yes Rupert Dorey June 2015 3 Yes Succession The Board acknowledges that some market participants believe that directors should not be considered independent after 9 years of service and look to balance the tenure of the directors on the Board.
Richard Battey, William Frewen and Sandra Platts have each served for 7 years since appointment.
The Board has agreed to implement a process of rotation to replenish the Board over the coming years to ensure a smooth transfer of knowledge and encourage diversity in length of tenure on the Board 26 | NB GLOBAL FLOATING R TE INCOME FUND LIMITED GOVERNANCE | Corporate Governance Report Re-election of Directors All directors submit themselves for re-election at the AGM to be held on 13 June 2018.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee confirmed to the Board that the contributions made by the Directors offering themselves for re-election at the 2018 AGM continue to be effective and that the Company should support their re-election.
Board Diversity The Board considers that its members have a balance of skills and experience which are relevant to the Company.
The Board supports the recommendations of the Davies Report and notes the recommendations of the Parker Review into ethnic diversity and the Hampton-Alexander Review on gender balance in FTSE leadership.
The Board believes in the value and importance of diversity in the boardroom but it does not consider it is appropriate or in the interests of the Company and its shareholders to set prescriptive targets for gender, ethnicity or nationality on the Board.
At 31 December 2017, the Board had 25% female representation.
The Board continues to focus on encouraging diversity of business skills and experience, recognising that directors with diverse skills sets, capabilities and experience gained from different backgrounds enhance the Board.
Board Responsibilities The Board meets at least four times each year and deals with the important aspects of the Company s affairs including the setting and monitoring of investment strategy, and the review of investment performance.
The Investment Manager takes decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual investments, in line with the investment policy and strategy set by the Board.
The Investment Manager together with the Company Secretary, Administrator and Sub-Administrator also ensures that all Directors receive, in a timely manner, all relevant management, regulatory and financial information relating to the Company and its portfolio of investments.
Representatives of the Investment Manager attend each Board meeting, enabling Directors to question any matters of concern or seek clarification on certain issues.
Matters specifically reserved for decision by the full Board have been defined and a procedure adopted for Directors in the furtherance of their duties to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
This is available on the Company s website www.
Conflict of Interests Directors are required to disclose all actual and potential conflicts of interest to the Board as they arise for consideration and the Board may impose restrictions or refuse to authorise conflicts if deemed appropriate.
The Directors have undertaken to notify the Company Secretary as soon as they become aware of any new potential conflicts of interest that would need to be approved by the Board.
Only Directors who have no material interest in the matter being considered will be able to participate in the Board approval process.
It has also been agreed that the Directors will advise the Chairman and the Company Secretary in advance of any proposed external appointment.
None of the Directors had a material interest in any contract, which is significant to the Companys business.
The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 42 provides information on the remuneration and interests of the Directors.
Page 22 details Directors appointments on other listed companies.
Performance Evaluation The performance of the Board, its committees and the Directors was reviewed by the Remuneration and Nomination Committee in November 2017 with the assistance of external evaluator, Trust Associates Limited.
All Directors are members of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee and as such it is not considered necessary for the SID to lead the discussions, as all Directors participate.
The results were reviewed and discussed by the Committee whose Chairman reported to the Board.
No material areas of concern were raised and all suggestions made by Trust Associates Limited were considered by the Board.
As a result of the suggestions made in the 2017 Board performance evaluation, facilitated by the external evaluator, the Board has agreed: That all Directors are considered independent: All Directors should be proposed for re-election at the 2018 AGM: and The Board composition was diverse and appropriate in regards to skills, number, experience and gender.
27 | NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED GOVERNANCE | Corporate Governance Report Performance Evaluation continued In addition, the Remuneration and Nomination Committee excluding Mr Frewen received the results of the performance evaluation of the Chairman, undertaken by Trust Associates Limited, and it was agreed that the Chairman continued to be wellregarded and his knowledge of debt markets was very beneficial for the supervision of the portfolio by the Board.
The Board will continue to review its procedures, its effectiveness and development in the year ahead.
Induction Information an Professional Developme t Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the Company s policies, regulatory requirements and its internal controls.
Regulatory and legislative changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise along with changes to best practice from, amongst others, the Investment Manager, Company Secretary and the Auditor.
Advisers to the Company also prepare reports for the Board from time to time on relevant topics and issues.
In addition, Directors attend relevant seminars and events to allow them to continually refresh their skills and knowledge and keep up with changes within the investment company industry.
The Chairman reviewed the training and development needs of each Director during the annual Board evaluation process and is satisfied that all Directors actively keep up to date with industry developments and issues.
When a new Director is appointed to the Board, they will be provided with all relevant information regarding the Company and their duties and responsibilities as a Director.
In addition, a new Director will also spend time with representatives of the Investment Manager in order to learn more about their processes and procedures.
Independent Advice The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or more of the Directors feels it is necessary to take independent legal advice at the Companys expense.
A procedure has been adopted to enable them to do so, which is managed by the Company Secretary.
In emnities To the extent permitted by the Law, the Companys Articles provide an indemnity for the Directors against any liability except such if any as they shall incur by or through their own breach of trust, breach of duty or negligence.
Each Director has an Instrument of Indemnity with the Company.
During the year, the Company has maintained insurance cover for its Directors and Officers under a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy.
Relationship with t e Investment Manager, Company Secretar, A ministrator an Subdmin strator The Board has delegated various duties to external parties including the management of the investment portfolio, the custodial services including the safeguarding of assets, the registration services and the day-to-day company secretarial, administration and accounting services.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of services offered, including the control systems in operation in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board receives and considers reports regularly from the Investment Manager, Administrator, Sub-Administrator and Company Secretary along with ad hoc reports and information supplied to the Board as required.
The Investment Manager takes decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual investments.
The Investment Manager, Company Secretary, Administrator and SubAdministrator also ensure that all Directors receive, in a timely manner, all relevant management, regulatory and financial information.
Representatives of the Investment Manager, Company Secretary, Administrator and Sub-Administrator attend each Board meeting enabling the Directors to probe further on matters of concern.
A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the full Board has been defined and is reviewed annually, and a procedure adopted for Directors in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company within certain parameters.
The Directors have access to the advice and service of the corporate Company Secretary through its appointed representative who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Board, the Investment Manager, Company Secretary, Administrator and Sub-Administrator operate in a supportive, co operative and open environment.
28 | NB GLOBAL FLOATING R TE INCOME FUND LIMITED GOVERNANCE | Corporate Governance Report Sharehol er Engagement The Board believes that the maintenance of good relations with shareholders is important for the long-term prospects of the Company.
Since admission, the Board has sought engagement with shareholders.
Where appropriate the Chairman, and other Directors are available for discussion about governance and strategy with shareholders and the Chairman ensures communication of shareholders views to the Board.
The Board receives feedback on the views of shareholders from its Corporate Brokers and the Investment Manager, and shareholders are welcome to contact the Chairman, Senior Independent Director or any other Director at any time via the Company Secretary.
During the year the Company continued its quarterly investor update calls, which can be accessed via conference call or WebEx, details are published via an RIS.
The update calls are also made available on the Companys website at www.
Furthermore the Board welcomes the opportunity to meet with investors on a one-to-one basis, upon request.
The Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee will consult with shareholders should it be proposed to increase the current aggregate limit of annual Directors fees as set out in the Companys Articles.
The Board believes that the AGM provides an appropriate forum for shareholders to communicate with the Board, and encourages participation.
All Directors will attend the 2018 AG.
There is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the Chairman of the Board, the Senior Independent Director, and the Chairman of each of the Audit and Risk Committee, the Management Engagement Committee and the Remuneration and Nomination Committee at the AGM.
The Annual and Interim Reports, Key Information Documents, monthly fact sheets and monthly holdings are available to provide shareholders with a clear understanding of the Companys activities and its results.
This information is supplemented by the daily calculation and publication on the London Stock Exchange of the NAV of the Companys Ordinary Shares.
The Board is informed of relevant promotional documents issued by the Investment Manager.
All documents issued by the Company can be viewed on the website, www.
2018 AGM The 2018 AGM will be held in Guernsey on 13 June 2018.
The Notice for the AGM sets out the ordinary and special resolutions to be proposed at the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue.
It is the intention of the Board that the Notice of AGM be issued to shareholders so as to provide at least twenty working days notice of the meeting.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of the meeting and specifically related to the resolutions proposed are invited to do so by writing to the Company Secretary at the registered office address given on page 77.
Voting on all resolutions at the AGM is on a poll.
The proxy votes cast, including details of votes withheld are disclosed to those in attendance at the meeting and the results are published on the website and announced via a RIS Service.
Where a significant number of votes have been lodged against a proposed resolution being greater than 20%, the Board intends to identify those shareholders and further understand their views to address the concerns of the Companys shareholders.
The Board notes that any resolution which receives a high vote against it will be included in the Investment Associations Public Register.
The Public Register is an aggregated list of publicly available information regarding meetings of companies in the FTSE All-Share who have received significant shareholder opposition to proposed resolutions or have withdrawn a resolution prior to the shareholder vote.
Boar Meetings The Board meets at least quarterly.
Certain matters are considered at all quarterly board meetings including the performance of the investments, NAV and share price and associated matters such as asset allocation, risks, strategy, marketing and investor relations, peer group information and industry issues.
Consideration is also given to administration and corporate governance matters, and where applicable, reports are received from the board committees.
Directors unable to attend a board meeting are provided with the board papers and can discuss issues arising in the meeting with the Chairman or another non-executive Director.
29 | NB GLOBAL FLOATING R TE INCOME FUND LIMITED GOVERNANCE | Corporate Governance Report Attendance at scheduled meetings of the Board and its co mittees in the 2017 financial year REMUNERATION MANAGEMENT AD-HOC BOARD AUDIT AND RISK AND NOMINATION ENGAGE ENT BOARD MEETI GS CO MITTEE CO ITTEE CO MITTEE Number of meetings 4 7 3 1 1 during the year William Frewen1 4 0 3 1 1 4 3 3 1 1 Rupert Dorey Richard Battey 4 6 3 1 1 Sandra Platts 4 6 3 1 1 1 It is not deemed practical for Mr Frewen to travel to Guernsey for the adoc meetings which deal with items that are transactional in nature such as to approve dividends in line with the Company s dividend policy: he does, however, attend all quarterly board meetings.
Board Committees The Board has established an Audit and Risk Committee, a Management Engagement Committee and a Remuneration and Nomination Committee with defined terms of reference and duties.
Further details of these committees can be found in their reports on pages 31 to 37.
The terms of reference for each committee can be found on the Company s website www.
The Board has not established an Inside Information Committee as a quorum of the Board will review and determine any inside information and any delay to the disclosure thereof to meet the requirements of the EU Market Abuse Regulations.
For and on behalf of the Board William Frewen Chairman 9 April 2018 30 | NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED
