Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Corporate Governance Chairmans Introduction Dear Shareholder Culture In my capacity as Chairman, I am pleased to Good governance is at the heart of our business.
present the Corporate Governance Report.
Our culture is one of transparency and openness and we constantly seek to develop our governance The Board places considerable emphasis on framework to take into account the Groups corporate governance as it believes it will provide changing circumstances and developments in the the sustainable foundations for the continued wider governance environment.
Communications success and growth of the Group.
The Board is have been delivered to the organisation committed to building the Groups corporate to reinforce the required standards and governance framework to deliver the Groups professionalism throughout the business.
As we advised last year, a search was commenced Diversity for an additional independent Channel Islands SANNEs people are from wide and diverse based Director to Chair our new Risk Committee.
backgrounds, nationalities and ethnic and religious Details of how this search was carried out are in Rupert Robson groups.
With continued global expansion, diversity the report of the Nomination and Governance Chairm an amongst our colleagues has and will continue Committee on page 50. to increase as we foster international talent.
We I am delighted that we were able to announce the respect cultural differences, and learn about and appointment of Mel Carvill in December 2017. embrace these differences in each territory in The Board places Mel joined the Board on 1 January 2018. which we operate.
Details of our Board Diversity policy can be found on our website at www.
Governance Code emphasis on Our committees SANNE as a premium listed company on the The Committees have an important role in corporate governance London Stock Exchange is subject to the provisions supporting the Boards work.
They are provided of the UK Corporate Governance Code published with the resources they need to discharge their as it believes by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in April role, including administration support and access 2016 the Code.
The Code is publicly available to professional advisers.
Information about the it will provide at https: frc.
uk getattachment ca7e94c4- Committees can be found in this report on  UK-Corporatepages 50 to 74. the sustainable .
The Board has, as part of its role, focused on With one exception, SANNE complied with the foundations for the our corporate governance and after discussions Code throughout 2017.
Between 1 January 2017 agreed that the Nomination Committee extend its and 31 December 2017 the Group did not comply continued success brief to cover governance matters.
Accordingly, with the provision that required at least half it was renamed the Nomination and Governance of the Board to be independent Non-executive and growth of Committee, and has new Terms of Reference, Directors, excluding the Chairman.
However, which are available on our website.
This following an extensive search Mel Carvill was the Group.
committee will keep a close watching brief on selected.
Mel brings substantial financial services governance developments and external guidance experience and will provide great insight as we and report to, and advise, the Board on all strive to establish the Group as one of the leading relevant changes.
providers of alternative asset and corporate administration services.
In addition, it was agreed to have separate Audit and Risk committees following our Board Phil Godley also stepped down from the Board evaluation last year.
The new Risk Committee will on 1 January 2018 as an Executive Director and I report to the Board through Mel.
It will allow the wish to thank Phil for his huge contribution to the Group to have an enhanced focus on risk reporting Board.
The Audit Committee, chaired Following these changes, from 1 January 2018 by Andy Pomfret, will continue to review SANNEs SANNE has been compliant with the Code, with a internal controls and risk management systems majority of independent Non-executive Directors and to manage our audit plans.
We continually review our corporate governance and the following report covers our approach and provides insight into discussions held at the Board and its Committees.
com Corporate Governance Board effectiveness At the end of 2017 we undertook our annual I am grateful to all of our Shareholders for review of Board effectiveness working with their support.
Prism Communications & Management Ltd, who It has been another successful year for the interviewed all the Directors and observed our business.
We have further developed our Board meeting on 30 January 2018.
Overall the governance framework and built on our structure evaluation was positive and we have introduced to suit the needs of our business.
We will continue some changes to the way we operate together as to build a sustainable successful high growth a Board.
Further details on the external evaluation business.
Remuneration Nicola Palios, the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, presents the Committees report on pages 57 to 74.
The Remuneration Committee and the Board have monitored the effectiveness of the remuneration structure and practices to accommodate the needs and characteristics of a high growth successful business.
In particular, they have considered gender pay and share retention guidelines.
Shareholder communications Rupert Robson Chairman Our communication and engagement with Shareholders over the last 12 months included 21 March 2018 investor roadshows.
All Shareholders had the opportunity to engage with senior management either at these events, directly or at our Annual General Meeting.
The Non-executive Directors are available to discuss any matter Shareholders might wish to raise, and the Chairman and independent Nonexecutive Directors attend meetings with investors and analysts as required.
On an annual basis, I approach all our larger Shareholders to provide an opportunity for direct interaction.
