GOVERNANCE | Audit and Risk Committee Report Audit and Risk Committee Report Membership Richard Battey - Chairman Independent non-executive Director Sandra Platts Independent non-executive Director Rupert Dorey Independent non-executive Director William Frewen1 Company Chairman and independent non-executive Director 1 The Board belie es it is appropriate for the Company Chairman to be a member of the Audit and Risk Com ittee as he is deemed by the Board to be an independent non-executive Director.
Key Objectives The provision of effective governance over the appropriateness of the Company s financial reporting including the adequacy of related disclosures, the performance of the external auditor, and the management of the Company s systems of internal financial and operating controls and business risks.
Responsibilities Reviewing the Companys financial results announcements, Financial Statements and monitoring compliance with relevant statutory and listing requirements: Reporting to the Board on the appropriateness of the Company s accounting policies and practices including critical accounting policies and practices: Advising the Board on whether the Audit and Risk Committee believes the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy: Overseeing the relationship with the external auditor: Considering the financial and other implications on the independence of the auditor arising from any non-audit services to be provided by the auditor: Analysis of key procedures adopted by the Company's service providers: Reporting to the Board on the effectiveness of the Companys risk management framework: and Compiling a report on its activities to be included in the Companys Annual Report.
The Audit and Risk Committee members have a wide range of financial and commercial expertise necessary to fulfil the Audit and Risk Committees duties.
The Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, and has recent and relevant financial experience, as required by the AIC Code.
Therefore the Board has designated him as its financial expert on the Audit and Risk Committee.
Audit and Risk Committee Meetings The Audit and Risk Committee meets at least three times a year.
Only members of the Audit and Risk Committee and the Secretary of the Audit and Risk Committee have the right to attend Audit and Risk Committee meetings.
Flowever, representatives of the Investment Manager, Administrator and Sub-Administrator are invited to attend Audit and Risk Committee meetings on a regular basis and other non-members may be invited to attend all or part of the meeting as and when appropriate and necessary.
The Companys external auditor,  Cl LLP PwC is also invited to each meeting.
The Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee also met separately with PwC without the Investment Manager being present.
Main Activities during the Year The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board in carrying out its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting requirements, risk management and the assessment of internal financial and operating controls.
It also manages the Companys relationship with the external auditor.
Meetings of the Audit and Risk Committee generally take place prior to a Company Board meeting.
The Audit and Risk Committee reports to the Board as part of a separate agenda item, on the activity of the Audit and Risk Committee and matters of particular relevance to the Board in the conduct of their work.
The Audit and Risk Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Companys risk management framework in relation to the investment policy: assessment of the risks involved in the Companys business and how they are controlled and monitored by the Investment Manager: monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the risk management function of the Investment Manager, Administrator and the Sub-Administrator: reviews the risks associated with the valuation of investments: and reviews the Companys procedures concerning prevention and detection of fraud and to review the Companys arrangements for regulatory compliance.
31 I NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED GOVERNANCE | Audit and Risk Committee Report Main Activities during the Year continued The Board requested that the Audit and Risk Committee advise them on whether it believes the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company s performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit and Risk Committee s terms of reference were updated during the year and can be found on the Companys website www.
At its three meetings during the year, the Audit and Risk Committee focused on: Financial Reporting The primary role of the Audit and Risk Committee in relation to financial reporting is to review with the Investment Manager, Company Secretary, Administrator, Sub-Administrator and PwC the appropriateness of the half-year and annual Financial Statements concentrating on, amongst other matters: The quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices: The clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant financial and governance reporting requirements: Material areas in which significant judgements ha e been applied or there has been discussion with the external auditor: The review of the Viability Statement included in the Strategic Report: Whether the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy: and Any correspondence from regulators in relation to the quality of our financial reporting.
To aid its review, the Audit and Risk Committee considers reports from the Investment Manager, Company Secretary, Administrator, Sub-Administrator and also reports from the external auditor on the outcomes of their half-year review and annual audit.
Significant issues In relation to the Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2017, the following significant issue was considered by the Audit and Risk Committee: SIGNIFICANT ISSUE HOW THE ISSUE WAS ADDRESSED the valuation of the The Audit and Risk Committee analysed the investment portfolio of the Company in terms of Companys investments in estment mix, fair value hierarchy and valuation.
As explained in Note 2 the majority of the investment portfolio is at Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy which requires market corroborated inputs for the calculation of fair value.
The Audit and Risk Committee discussed in depth with the Investment Manager the appropriateness and robustness of the multi-sourced pricing information used.
The members of the Audit and Risk Committee had meetings with PwC, where the audit findings were reported.
PwC did not notify the Audit and Risk Committee of any reportable differences between the valuations used by the Company or custodian confirmation of holdings and the work performed during the testing process.
Based on the above review and analysis the Audit and Risk Committee confirmed that they were satisfied with the valuation of the investments.
Internal Controls and Risk Management The Audit and Risk Committee has established a process for identifying, evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the Company.
The process is subject to regular review by the Board and accords with the UK Code.
The Audit and Risk Committee is responsible overall for the Companys system of internal financial and operating controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risks of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit and Risk Committee receives reports from the Investment Manager on the Companys risk evaluation process and reviews changes to significant risks identified.
The Board has undertaken a full review of the Company s business risks, which have been analysed and recorded in a risk report, which is reviewed and updated regularly.
The Board receives each quarter from the Investment Manager a formal report which details the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk including those that are not directly the responsibility of the Investment Manager and which reports the details of any known internal control failures.
32 | NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED GOVERNANCE | Audit and Risk Committee Report Internal Controls an Risk Management continued The Investment Manager has established an internal control framework to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance on the effectiveness of the internal controls operated on behalf of its clients.
The effectiveness of the internal controls is assessed by the Investment Manager s compliance and risk department on an ongoing basis.
The Boards assessment of the Companys principal risks and uncertainties is set out on pages 13 to 15.
External Audit The effectiveness of the external audit process is dependent on appropriate audit risk identification at the start of the audit cycle.
The Audit and Risk Committee received a detailed audit plan from PwC identifying their assessment of the significant audit risks.
For the 2017 financial year the significant audit risks identified were in relation to the risk of management override of controls and the risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
These significant risks were tracked through the year and the Audit and Risk Committee challenged the work performed by the auditor to test both the risk of management override of controls and the risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
In addition, the Audit and Risk Committee focused on understanding the work performed over the valuation of investments.
The Audit and Risk Committee assess the effectiveness of the audit process in addressing these matters through the reporting received from PwC at both the half-year and year end.
In addition, the Audit and Risk Committee seeks feedback from the Investment Manager, Company Secretary, the Administrator and Sub-Administrator on the effectiveness of the audit process.
For the 2017 financial year, the Audit and Risk Committee was satisfied that there had been appropriate focus and challenge on the significant and other key areas of audit risk and assessed the quality of the audit process to be good.
During the year, the Committee performed its annual review of the independence, effectiveness and objectivity of the external auditor.
The Committee concluded that the effectiveness of the external auditor and the audit process were satisfactory and recommended to the Board the reappointment of PwC as external auditor for the 2018 financial year.
Appointment and Independence The Audit and Risk Committee considers the reappointment of PwC, including the rotation of the audit partner, and assesses their independence on an annual basis.
PwC is required under applicable Ethical Standards to rotate the audit partner responsible for the audit every seven years.
The current audit partner has overseen the audit of the Company for the five financial years to 31 December 2017.
PwC has been the Companys statutory auditor since its stock exchange listing in 2011 and has to date audited all seven financial years to 31 December 2017.
The Company is incorporated in Guernsey, and therefore despite being listed on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange and being in the FTSE350 Index, it is not required to comply with The Statutory Audit Services for Larger Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014 the Order which came into force in the UK on 1 January 2015.
The Audit and Risk Committee does however keep these developments under review when determining policy on audit tendering and therefore the Company will seek to comply with the provisions of the Order.
The Company is guided by the EU Audit Regulations and EU Audit Directive to put the external audit out to tender at least every ten years.
As this year is the seventh for publishing the Companys Annual Report and the Company has not yet completed a competitive tender process for auditor appointments, the Company is presently minded that it will complete such a tender process in respect of the audit of the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2020.
The Company presently believes that this is in the best interests of shareholders in view of the quality and level of service presently being provided by PwC.
Having carried out a review of the performance of PwC for this current financial reporting period, it is currently expected that PwC will remain in office and a resolution to reappoint them for the 2018 audit will therefore be proposed at the AGM.
In its assessment of the independence of the external auditor, the Audit and Risk Committee receives details of any relationships between the Company and PwC that may have a bearing on their independence and receives confirmation that the external auditor is independent of the Company.
The Audit and Risk Committee approved the fees for audit services for 2017 after a review of the level and nature of work to be performed, and after being satisfied by PwC that the fees were appropriate for the scope of the work required.
33 | NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED GOVERNANCE I Audit and Risk Committee Report External Audit continued Non Audit Services To safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditor from becoming compromised, the Audit and Risk Committee has a formal policy governing the engagement of the external auditor to provide non-audit services.
No material changes have been made to this policy during the year.
The external auditor and the Directors have agreed that all non-audit services require the pre-approval of the Audit and Risk Committee prior to commencing any work.
Fees for non-audit services are tabled annually so that the Audit and Risk Committee can consider the impact on external auditor s objectivity.
The external auditor was remunerated 115,500 for audit and assurance related services rendered in 2017.
Of this amount, 89,500 was in relation to the year-end audit and 26,000 was in relation to the procedures performed in respect to the half-year review.
No non-audit services were undertaken by PwC for the Company during the year.
The Audit and Risk Committee is satisfied with the effectiveness of the audit provided by PwC, and is satisfied with their independence.
The Audit and Risk Committee has therefore recommended to the Board that PwC be reappointed as external auditor for the year ending 31 December 2018, and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
The auditor, PwC, has indicated willingness to continue in office.
Accordingly, a resolution proposing the reappointment of PwC as our external auditor will be put to the shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Audit and Risk Committees choice of external auditor and we do not indemnify our external auditor.
Audit an Risk Comm ttee Evaluation The Audit and Risk Committees activities formed part of the Board evaluation performed in the year.
Details of this process can be found under Performance evaluation on page 27.
34 | NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED
