Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Corporate Governance Directors Report continued Information set out in the Strategic Report The following information has been included in the Strategic Report: Information about our people page 47 : An indication of likely future developments in the business of the Company pages 8 to 33 : Risk management pages 22 to 26. Dividend The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 8.4p per ordinary share which will be recommended for approval at the AGM be paid on 15 May 2018 to Shareholders on the register at the close of business on 3 April 2018.
Share capital The issued share capital of the Group and the details of movements in share capital during the year are shown in note 20 on page 110 of the Financial Statements.
The holders of the shares are entitled to receive dividends when declared, to receive a copy of the Annual Report and Accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
A waiver of dividend exists in respect of 2,610,246 unallocated shares held by Sanne Fiduciary Services Ltd as the trustee of the Sanne Employees Share Trust EBT or of The Trust as at 31 December 2017.
The rights attached to the shares are provided by the Companys Articles of Association, which may be amended or replaced by means of a special resolution of the Company in a general meeting.
The Directors powers are conferred on them by Jersey Company law and by the Articles of Association.
Shares are admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange and may be traded through the CREST system.
Allotment of shares At the AGM held in 2017 the Shareholders generally and unconditionally authorised the Directors to allot relevant securities up to two-thirds of the of the nominal authorised share capital.
It is the Directors intention to seek the renewal of this authority in line with the guidance issued by the Investment Association.
The resolution will be set out in the notice of the AGM.
At the AGM in 2017 the Directors were also empowered by the Shareholders to allot equity securities of up to 5% of the Companys issued share capital for a transaction which the Board determines to be an acquisition or other capital investment as defined by the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles.
In 2017 SANNE agreed to acquire Luxembourg Investment Solutions S. A. and Compliance Partners S. A. and as part of the transaction it agreed to pay part of the consideration in shares.
The transaction completed on 6 February 2018.
In line with the guidance of the Pre-emption Group it is the Board's intention to propose that an additional special resolution be passed at the AGM to allow the Company to allot equity securities up to a further 5% of the Company's issued share capital for transactions which the Board determines to be an acquisition or other capital investment as defined by the Pre-emption Group's Statement of Principles.
Purchase of own shares The Shareholders approved the authority for the Company to buy back up to 10% of its own ordinary shares by market purchase until the conclusion of the AGM to be held this year.
The Directors will seek to renew this authority for up to 10% of the Companys issued share capital at the forthcoming AGM.
This power will only be exercised if the Directors are satisfied that any purchase will increase the earning per share of the ordinary share capital in issue after the purchase and accordingly, that the purchase is in the interest of Shareholders.
Articles of association The Company's Articles of Association set out its internal regulations and cover the rights of Shareholders, the appointment of Directors and the conduct of Board and general meetings.
Copies of the Articles of Association are available upon request from the Group Company Secretary, and at SANNEs AGM.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors The Directors who held office at the date of the approval of this Directors' report confirm that so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditor is unaware and each Director has taken all the necessary steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's auditor is aware of that information.
Subsidiaries SANNE operates through various subsidiaries in a number of different countries.
The subsidiaries list is available on page 108.
com Corporate Governance Listing rule compliance For the purposes of DTR 4.1.
8 R the required content of the management report is included in the Strategic Report and this Report.
4 R the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4 R listing can be found in the following locations.
Section Location 1 Amount of Interest Capitalised Not applicable 2 Publication of unaudited information LR 9.2.
8 R Not applicable 3 N A Section removed by the FCA handbook Not applicable 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes Directors Remuneration Report pages 57 to 74 5 Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Page 110 8 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash in relation to Not applicable major subsidiary holdings 9 Any participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary undertaking Not applicable 10 Any contracts of significance Page 47 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable 12 Shareholders' waiver of dividends Disclosed on page 48 13 Shareholders' waiver of future dividends Disclosed on page 48 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable Constructive use of the AGM The Board uses the AGM to communicate with Shareholders.
The Chairman of each of the Boards Committees will be present to answer questions put to them by Shareholders.
Proxy appointment forms for each resolution provide Shareholders with the option to direct their proxy vote on resolutions or to withhold their vote.
All votes are counted by SANNEs Registrars and the voting results will be announced through the RNS, and made available on our website www.
Annual General Meeting Electronic copies of the notice of the third AGM to be held on 3 May 2018 at 11.30am at our offices in 13 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT can be viewed or downloaded from the Companys website, www.
At that meeting, Shareholders will be asked to vote separately on the Annual Report and on the Report on Directors Remuneration.
Separate resolutions will also be proposed on every substantive issue.
A poll will be held on each resolution to ensure that the votes of the Shareholders unable to attend the meeting are taken into account, and results of the voting will be placed on our website as soon as possible after the meeting.
Auditor Following a review the Board proposes that Deloitte LLP are reappointed as the SANNEs auditor.
A resolution proposing this will be put to the AGM.
Dean Godwin Chief Executive Officer On behalf of the Board of Sanne Group plc 21 March 2018 49 25754 23 March 2018 4:19 PM Proof 13 Sanne-AR2017 Front-proof13.
