38 GOVERNANCE The Board looks to encourage a culture of strong governance across the business, and continues to adopt the principles of good governance by adhering to the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board is collectively responsible to the Companys shareholders for creating andpreserving the long-term success and performance of the business.
The key principles of the codeare outlined below: LEADERSHIP The Board provides leadership either directly or through the operation of its Committees.
The Chairman is ultimately responsible for the make-up and composition of the Board to best deliver the business strategy.
ACCOUNTABILITY The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the risk management and internal controls and has delegated the responsibility to ensure compliance with the new code to the Audit & Risk Committee.
EFFECTIVENESS The Board sets the strategic objectives and approves and monitors performance against budgets and forecasts.
An evaluation process is regularly undertaken to ensure Board members have the necessary skills in place.
Being effective also means maintaining relationships and continued engagement with shareholders.
REMUNERATION The role of the Remuneration Committee is to determine and maintain a fair reward structure that attracts the right talent and incentivises Directors to deliver its strategic objectives and maintain stability of management.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 GO VERNANCE AT WORK 39 GVC CONTINUED ITS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE JOURNEY IN 2017 LEE FELDMAN CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD VC continued its corporate month.
On completion of the acquisition, governance journey in 2017.
PaulBowtell, Ladbrokes Corals CFO, will G Will Whitehorn was appointed the join the GVC Board and succeed Paul Miles Senior Independent Director in March 2017, as the Combined Groups CFO.
The Board to enhance the Boards knowledge and looks forward to working with Paul Bowtell decision-making process and to comply as we face exciting times ahead, integrating with the UK Corporate Governance Codes the two businesses and driving revenue recommendation.
Will is an experienced growth.
I would like to take this opportunity to independent non-executive director who has thank Paul Miles for his positive contributions served as a senior independent director for to GVC which included an extensive another FTSE 250 listed company.
renancing programme and the Ladbrokes Coral acquisition and wish him well in his In June 2017 the Board appointed a new next endeavour.
I would also like to thank Independent Director, Jane Anscombe, who Norbert Teufelberger, who stepped down as was also appointed the new Chair of the a Non-executive Director at the beginning of Remuneration Committee.
She has more February having served his agreed two-year than 30 years of experience in the gaming, term following GVCs acquisition of bwin.
leisure and entertainment sector, primarily as Norbert provided valuable insight into the LEE FELDMAN an equity research analyst.
party business, following the takeover NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD background and extensive knowledge of ofthat group, and the gaming industry.
8 March 2018 the gaming sector have proved invaluable in strategic discussions at the Board level and Following the Ladbrokes Coral acquisition, bringing the remuneration policy and incentive GVC is expected to become a member arrangements in line with comparable FTSE of the FTSE 100 Index in the summer, an 250 companies.
This included dispensing impressive development given that GVC was with certain contractual termination terms for AIM listed just over two years ago with a myself and the CEO which pre-dated GVC market capitalisation of 280m.
The Board becoming Premium Listed, removing the only appreciates that with scale comes greater remaining area of non-compliance with the scrutiny and expectation from the Companys UKCorporate Governance Code.
stakeholders, so the Board continues to focus on enhancing its governance practices.
To this During the year the Board also amended the end, the Nominations Committee is in the membership of the Audit, Nominations and process of interviewing candidates for new Remuneration Committees to take account independent non-executive director positions of the new appointments and improve the and the Board is looking forward to making independence of these important bodies.
an announcement in due course.
The Board Reports from each committee follow is also in the process of establishing a Social my report.
Whilst GVCs 2018 will be another milestone year for GVC.
management and operations regard corporate Having announced a recommended offer social responsibility as a key pillar of activity to acquire the Ladbrokes Coral Group just supporting a growing and sustainable before Christmas, GVC and Ladbrokes Coral business, the Board wants to establish a shareholders overwhelmingly approved dedicated body, separate from the Audit the transaction on 8 March 2018.
We now Committee to oversee the Groups policies, await the final regulatory approvals and processes and controls.
expect the acquisition to close in the next 40 GOVERNANCE | BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED LEADERSHIP: EXPERIENCE A C R O SS TH EB O AR D LEE KENNETH PAUL JANE FELDMAN ALEXANDER MILES ANSCOMBE Non-executive Chief Chief Independent Chairman of the Board Executive officer Financial officer Non-executive Director Lee joined the GVC Group in December Kenneth joined GVC as its Chief Paul joined GVC in February 2017 Jane joined the GVC Board in June 2004 and became Chairman in 2008.
On the asChief Financial officer.
She has more than 30 years of Heis the Managing Partner of Twin Lakes re-domiciliation of Gaming VC Holdings Accountant, Paul has held a number experience in the gaming, leisure and Capital, a private equity rm focused on S. A. to the Isle of Man and its renaming of senior finance roles in regulated entertainment sectors, primarily as an branded consumer products, media and as GVC Holdings plc, he became a industries, encompassing international equity research analyst.
She retired from business services.
From 2008 to 2015, Director of GVC Holdings plc in January and online operations.
Previous roles equity research in spring 2017 having he was also the Chief Executive officer 2010.
He was formerly Finance Director, include Group Financial Controller at been a gaming and entertainment analyst of Aurora Brands: the owner of both then Managing Director, of the European insurance group RSA Group plc and at Edison Investment Research since MacKenzie-Childs and Jay Strongwater, operations of Sportingbet plc, which Acting Group Finance Director of Phoenix its formation in 2003.
Prior to that she the iconic American luxury home he joined in 2000.
He is a member of Group plc, the FTSE 250 life assurance was an independent equity research furnishings and personal accessories the Institute of Chartered Accountants operator.
Paul joined Wonga as Chief analyst from 1999 to 2003, and before companies.
Lee was appointed the Chief of Scotland and previously worked for Finance officer in 2014 as a key member that a leisure sector analyst at Investec Executive officer of Aurora Brands when GrantThornton UK LLP.
of an executive team brought in to Henderson Crosthwaite from 1998 to Twin Lakes led the acquisition of the restructure the business.
Prior to this Jane served as the business.
He is also a member of the Director of Investor Relations at Carlton Board of Directors of LRNCorporation Communications plc from 1997 to 1998, and TLH Beauty LLC.
Prior to co-founding having joined from The Rank Group plc Twin Lakes, Lee wasa partner in where she was the Director of Investor Softbank Capital Partners.
Relations between 1993 and 1997. and J. D. from Columbia University.
From 1981 to 1993, Jane was an equity research analyst at fide Zoete & Bevan Nominations Committee Chairman and then Barclays fide Zoete Wedd, where Remuneration Committee she was a director of BZW Research Ltd. Jane has a first class BA honours degree in Philosophy, Politics and Economics from Brasenose College, Oxford.
Remuneration Committee Chair Nominations Committee GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 41 KARL PETER STEPHEN WILL DIACONO ISOLA MORANA WHITEHORN Independent Independent Independent Senior Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Independent Director Karl joined the GVC Board as a NonPeter Isola joined the GVC Board in 2016 Stephen Morana joined the GVC Board Will joined the GVC Board on 23 March executive Director in December 2008, following the move to the Main Market on 2 February 2016 and is widely 2017.
Will is the Deputy Chairman having previously served on the Board of the London Stock Exchange as an recognised for his e-commerce expertise, and Senior Independent Director at of Directors of Gaming VC Holdings expert in gaming law and regulation particularly as a specialist in the online Stagecoach Group plc, an independent S. A.
He holds a Masters Degree in with experience advising numerous gaming sector having spent ten years Non-executive Director of Purplebricks Management and is currently the Chief e-commerce clients.
Peter Isola is the as part of the management team at Group plc and a Non-executive Executive officer of Fenlex Corporate Senior Partner of ISOLAS, Gibraltars Betfair plc.
Stephen joined Betfair in Director of AAC Microtec AB.
He is Services Limited, a corporate service longest established law rm.
He is a 2002, becoming Chief Financial officer also a member of the First Minister provider based in Malta.
He is also a Gibraltarian, domiciled in Gibraltar, and in 2006 and also served as Interim of Scotlands GlobalScot Business non-executive director of various trading in 1982 was called to the Bar of England Chief Executive officer in 2012.
After mentoring network, Vice-President and holding companies as well as other and Wales and also Gibraltar.
Peter Betfair, Stephen spent over three years of the Chartered Institute of Logistics online gaming companies.
He is actively has worked in the gaming and financial at Zoopla Property Group Plc as Chief and Transport and Chairman of the involved in the hospitality industry.
Karl services sector all of his professional life Financial officer, where he helped them Scottish Gallery and Scottish Event is also a director of a number of Maltese and is widely recognised and respected join the FTSE 250 in June 2014.
Previously, Will joined subsidiaries of the GVC Group to which as a leading expert in gaming and joined the Board of GVC following the the Virgin Group in 1987 and served as Fenlex Corporate Services Limited also regulation.
Peter is a former President of successful acquisition of bwin.
party Group Public Relations Manager and provides certain administrative services.
the Gibraltar Chamber of Commerce and digital entertainment plc and the enlarged as Brand Development and Corporate He is a Maltese citizen.
advises the Government of Gibraltar on a Groups move to the Main Market of the Affairs Director, as well as being a number of committees in both financial London Stock Exchange.
Stephen was founding director of Virgin Games, before Audit Committee services and gaming.
He is also a director until recently a Non-executive Director being appointed as President of Virgin of a number of Gibraltar regulated and Audit Committee Chairman of Galactic from 2007 to 2011.
He is also rms in financial services, gaming and boohoo.
com plc, the high growth fast a former Non-executive Chairman of e-commerce including the Gibraltar fashion business.
Stephen is a member Next Fifteen Communications Group International Bank, Callaghan Insurance of the Institute of Chartered Accountants plc, Crowd Reactive Limited and Speed Brokers and Broadband Gibraltar Limited.
in England and Wales and an alumnus Communications Agency Limited, He was appointed a Commissioner to the ofthe executive management programme and was a member of the Science & Gibraltar Financial Services Commission at INSEAD.
Technology Facilities Council STFC in March 2017. until 2012, chairing its Economic Impact Audit Committee Chairman Advisory Board and was a Non-executive Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee director of STFC Innovations Limited.
Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee 42 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED LEADERSHIP: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW HOW IS THE BOARD ORGANISED AND DOES IT OVERSEE MANAGEMENT?
CEO CFO Runs the Companys business.
Ensures future business decisions are grounded in solid financial criteria.
Proposes and develops GVCs strategy and overall commercial objectives in conjunction Provides insight and analysis to support withthe Chairman.
the CEO and senior executive team.
Responsible, with the senior executive team Leads key initiatives in finance that for implementing the decisions of the Board supportoverall strategic goals.
MANAGEMENT Funds, enables and executes the strategy Promotes and conducts affairs of GVC setby the CEO.
with the highest standards of integrity, Develops and defines the overall strategy probityand corporate governance.
Manages the leadership team and promotes Presents the organisations progress on thestrategic mission and goals to all strategic goals to external stakeholders.
Engages with external stakeholders to explain the corporate goals and progress of the business strategy.
CHAIRMAN Oversees the effective running of the Board.
Ensures that the Board as a whole plays a full and constructive part in the development and determination of GVCs strategy and overall commercial objectives.
Acts as a guardian of the Boards decision-making.
Promotes the highest standards ofintegrity, probity and corporate governance throughout the Company and particularly at Board level.
Oversees the effective engagement with the Companys various stakeholders.
SID NED As well as performing the normal duties Constructively challenges and contributes expectedof a NED, the SID also: to the development of strategy.
Is available to shareholders if they have Scrutinises the performance of management concerns which contact through the in meeting agreed goals and objectives and Chairman, CFO or CEO has failed to resolve monitors the reporting of performance.
or for which contact is inappropriate.
satisfies themselves that financial information Leads the NEDs in evaluating performance is accurate and that both controls and the ofthe Chairman, taking into account the systems of risk management are robust viewsofExecutive Directors.
Maintains sufficient contact with shareholders Is responsible for determining appropriate to understand their issues andconcerns.
l evels of remuneration of Executive Directors and has a prime role in succession planning, Performs such other tasks and responsibilities appointing and where necessary removing as may be contemplated by the code or best senior management.
practice from time to time.
OVERSIGHT GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 43 THE ROLES ON THE BOARD The graphic below illustrates how the Board executes its duties through a structured cascade of responsibilities across the Group.
KEY STAKEHOLDERS: SHAREHOLDERS CUSTOMERS SUPPLIERS PARTNERS REGULATORS GOVERNMENTS SPORTS LABELS GAMES LABELS US BUSINESS NON-CORE BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY IMPLEMENTATION OUR EMPLOYEES GUIDANCE AND INSTRUCTION SENIOR EXECUTIVE TEAM DAY-TO-DAY MANAGEMENT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE DELEGATION BOARD As can be seen from the diagram above, the division of responsibilities financial reporting interim and annual financial results and interim between the Chairman and Chief Executive is clearly established and management statements : their respective roles are set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
dividend policy: The Board currently comprises of eight Directors and their biographies Shareholder circulars, convening of shareholder meetings and stock are set out on pages 40 and 41. exchange announcements: The Directors have adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved approval of the Groups remuneration policy following to the Board, setting out which issues must be referred to the Board recommendations from the Remuneration Committee : for decision.
These can be categorised into a number of key areas including but not limited to: approval of the Groups risk management and control framework and the appointment re-appointment of the external auditors following long-term business plan, strategy, budgets and forecasts: recommendations from the Audit Committee : and restructuring or reorganisation of the Group and material acquisitions approval of the Groups policies in relation to corporate and social and disposals: responsibility, health and safety and the environment.
the Groups finance, banking and capital structure arrangements: In addition, the Board has adopted a delegation of authority mandate approval of capital expenditure and financial guarantees above which sets out the levels of authority for the Executive Directors and certain levels: employees below Board level to follow when managing the Groups business day-to-day.
44 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED EFFECTIVENESS: GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Tenure and succession How does the Board ensure it is effective?
To ensure the independent Directors continue to be independent Composition in character and judgement, the UK Corporate Governance Code The Board has a majority of independent Non-executive Directors.
recommends that Non-executive Directors should not serve for Drawing on their various backgrounds and extensive executive and more than nine years from the date on which they are first elected business experience, the Non-executive Directors engage with by shareholders.
The tenures of the current directors deemed by the Executive Directors, who manage the day-to-day business, in theBoard to be independent are as follows: formulating the direction and strategy of the Company.
The Nonexecutive Directors oversee the implementation of this strategy and Director First election Tenure challenge management when appropriate.
In accordance with the Jane Anscombe Appointed after the 2017 AGM 0 UKCorporate Governance Code, a majority of the Directors, excluding Karl Diacono 2009 9 the Chairman, are deemed to be independent, helping to ensure the Company is run in the interests of all shareholders.
The Chairman was Peter Isola 2016 2 deemed to be independent on appointment.
Stephen Morana 2016 2 CHAIRMAN Will Whitehorn 2017 1 LEE FELDMAN Regular Meetings Independent Non-independent During 2017 the Board had four scheduled meetings for March, June, Jane Anscombe Kenneth Alexander September and December, however, owing to the Ladbrokes Coral Karl Diacono Paul Miles acquisition negotiations the December meeting was cancelled and the Directors convened for an update in January 2018.
Attendance at Peter Isola these 2017 meetings was as follows: Stephen Morana Meetings Meetings Will Whitehorn entitled actually Director to attend attended Knowledge and experience The Directors have a wide range of backgrounds and extensive Kenneth Alexander 3 3 knowledge of many sectors: Jane Anscombe 1 1 Accountancy Karl Diacono 3 3 Electronic payments Lee Feldman 3 3 Entertainment Peter Isola 3 3 Finance and investment Paul Miles 3 3 Gaming Stephen Morana 3 3 Norbert Teufelberger 3 3 Healthcare Will Whitehorn 2 2 Insurance Law and regulation These meetings covered the following areas of business: Property The appointment of two new independent : Retail Regular reports from the Executive Directors: Technology Regular reports from the senior executive team on operations, business integration, product development, regulatory Transport developments, litigation and investor relations: Diversity 2016 audited Annual Report and results announcement: The Board is also diverse geographically, with nationals from the USA, UK, Gibraltar and Malta.
This aids the Boards discussions The acquisition of Ladbrokes Coral: and decision-making process given our businesses operate in Bolt-on acquisition opportunities: international markets.
The disposal of the Turkish-facing business: Over the last seven years there has been general encouragement for companies to appoint more women to company boards, in recognition Preparing for the 2017 AGM: that more than half the worlds population is female and they may Renancing the Group through the debt market: promote a better board decision-making process, with more insightful Block listing shares in regard to various share plans: and and balanced deliberations.
The GVC Board supports the rationale for seeking greater gender diversity on boards of directors and considers Reports from the Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration this diversity matter during the recruitment process.
appointed Jane Anscombe and it is GVCs aim to have at least two women serving on the Board in the next twelve months, although the Board is mindful that gender is one of a handful of key areas of consideration and the Board will always focus on a candidates experience, knowledge and skills as critical selection drivers.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 45 In addition to the scheduled meetings described above, 16 ad hoc The Company Secretary is available to all Directors to offer guidance Board meetings were also convened at short notice in 2017, to deal and advice on corporate governance, company law and share plan with the following matters: matters.
The Company Secretary presents a report at each Board meeting updating the Directors on share capital and shareholder Debt renancing: changes, Group corporate structure changes and corporate M&A: governance developments.
GVCs Head of Legal is also available to all Directors to provide advice on general legal and regulatory issues.
Investment to support partypoker growth: In addition, a formal procedure has also been adopted allowing Approving an EGM notice proposing an updated remuneration policy Directors to seek independent professional advice where they believe and new incentive plans: and it is necessary in order for them to full their duties to the Company.
Board committees are also authorised by the Board under their terms Disposal of Headlong Limited.
of reference to retain external advice as required for each committee Board meetings are usually held in Gibraltar, where the Groups gaming tocarry out its duties.
The Companys Articles of Association In accordance with best practice, the Board conducts an evaluation prohibit any Board or Board Committee meeting from being held in the of the performance of the Board, its committees, individuals and the United Kingdom.
For the 2017 evaluation process, the Directors followed Meetings without Executive Directors present the process described in the chart below.
A third party advisory rm, The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that the Chairman Lintstock Limited was engaged to facilitate the exercise.
Next year meets with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors the Board will undertake an interview-based evaluation process, but present at least once a year.
This meeting will happen in connection in accordance with the Codes recommendation, the Board will retain with the annual Board performance evaluation process, however, such a rm to support the annual evaluation process at least once it is not unusual for the Chairman to conduct these meetings more every three years.
frequently, particularly if the Company is contemplating a significant A list of evaluation questions is drawn up by Lintstock in consultation with the transaction.
The Chairman reports back to the full Board any Chairman and Company Secretary.
Any questions relating to the performance recommendations arising from these meetings.
of the Chairman of the Board are set by Lintstock and the Company Secretary consulting with the SID.
How does the Board decide on making changes to itsmembership?
The Board has adopted a formal and transparent procedure for the The questions are circulated to the Directors via a secure website and are answered online.
appointment of new Directors by appointing a Nominations Committee to lead the process of appointment and make recommendations to the Board.
The Nominations Committee also advises the Board on its structure, size, composition and matters of Director and senior Lintstock collates the results and reports the results to the Chairman and the feedback on the Chairmans performance to the SID.
A report is then circulated management succession.
A report from the Nominations Committee to the Board.
on its work appears on pages 48 to 50.
How do Directors develop in the role andfull The Chairman discusses the results The SID meets with the Non-executive their duties?
ofthe Board, individual and committee Directors to review the results of A full induction programme is provided to new Directors, which is performance evaluations with the the evaluation of the Chairmans specically tailored to the needs and experience of the new Director Board and with individual Directors performance.
The SID then discusses and the committees on which they sit.
The programme provides where necessary.
Possible options with the Chairman these results for addressing any issues arising and any further feedback from the corporate governance information provided by the Company Secretary from the review are considered and .
which is both general in nature e. g. UK Corporate Governance Code, action agreed.
remuneration best practice and specic to the Company e. g. the risk register, etc.. New Directors may also meet with the Companys external auditors and advisers as part of the induction process.
After the induction programme from time to time the Company Secretary noties Directors of courses and seminars conducted bycorporate governance bodies and professional advisers that Directors may nd helpful.
Working with the Chairman the Company Secretary ensures good information ows within the Board and its committees and between senior management and the Non-executive Directors.
The Company Secretary is the guardian of all Board procedures and advises the Chairman and other Directors when required.
Agendas and accompanying reports are prepared for each Board or committee meeting and circulated via a secure data-room in advance of each meeting.
Between scheduled meetings, Directors are updated on business developments with email reports, management accounts andregulatory updates and, where necessary, the Chairman of the Board or the Chairman of a committee will convene a conference callto discuss and reach agreement on material urgent matters.
46 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED EFFECTIVENESS: GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Throughout the year the Chairman, CEO, CFO and Head of Investor What came out of the first performance Relations meet with shareholders on request or via organised investor evaluationprocesses?
roadshows supported by GVCs brokers, as well as by attending and presenting at industry and investor conferences.
During 2017 there Matters identied Action taken were more than 270 such meetings, hosted in the UK, mainland The Non-executive Directors gaining More senior managers to be invited to Europe and the US.
more exposure to members of the present at Board or committee meetings The Senior Independent Director is also available to shareholders if senior management team they have concerns which contact through the Chairman, CEO or CFO Developing stronger relationships The Non-executive Directors to meet fails to resolve or if contact is inappropriate.
amongst the Non-executive Directors more frequently outside the formal to enhance general understanding Board and committee meeting Major shareholders also have the opportunity to meet newly appointed andcohesion schedule.
The Chairman to oversee this Non-Executive Directors should they wish, but in practice our Greater consideration of the risks A presentation on the risks connected shareholders have not to date taken up this offer.
associated with the Groups to the Groups technology to be made technology at a Board meeting in 2018 by the COO, Who are GVCs major shareholders?
CTO and Head of Information Security As at 21 February 2018, GVCs major shareholders were: More Board meetings The Board will increase the number % of Issued Share of scheduled Board meetings in 2018 Number of Capital Total Voting from4 to 5 and will keep the matter Shareholder shares Rights under review Aberdeen Standard Investments plc 40,787,132 13.43 How does the Board oversee financial reporting Capital Group 22,259,158 7.33 and internal controls?
Old Mutual Global Investors 20,806,106 6.85 The Board is required to present a fair, balanced and understandable Janus Henderson Investors 17,813,821 5.86 assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
BlackRock 12,454,525 4.10 This responsibility to present a fair, balanced and understandable Marathon Asset Management 9,566,935 3.15 assessment extends to interim and other price-sensitive public reports and reports to regulators, as well as to information required to be Note: presented by statutory requirements.
The Board is also responsible As at 21 February 2018 the Company had 303,784,807 shares in issue.
for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing Eachshare carries the right to one vote.
to take in achieving its strategic objectives and as a consequence it has to maintain sound risk management and internal control systems.
When is the Annual General Meeting AGM ?
The Board has appointed a committee of independent Directors, Wednesday 6 June the Audit Committee to monitor these areas and report and make A separate notice convening the AGM in Gibraltar will be dispatched recommendations to the Board.
Please see the Audit Committee to shareholders more than 20 working days before the AGM.
The AGM Report on pages 51 and 55. notice will describe each item of business, which will be dealt with by its own separate resolution.
All the Directors will each stand for How does the Board decide what Directors re-appointment and there will be separate resolution proposed for andemployees should be paid?
The Board is responsible for setting the levels of remuneration for the All Directors will be present at the AGM to answer questions from those Executive Directors and the senior executive team.
It is required to set shareholders that attend.
remuneration as to be sufficient to attract, retain and motivate directors of the quality required to run the Company successfully, but should In accordance with best practice, the Chairman will exercise his avoid paying more than is necessary for this purpose.
The Board has discretion under the articles and call for all resolutions to be decided delegated these remuneration matters to a committee of independent on by a poll vote rather than a show of hands.
The voting results will Non-executive Directors, the Remuneration Committee.
The Directors be announced via a regulatory news service and published on GVCs Remuneration Report prepared by the Remuneration Committee corporate website shortly after the AGM closes.
The fees paid to the Non-executive Directors are a matter for the Board on a recommendation from the Does the Company comply with the Executive Directors.
How does the Board engage withshareholders?
During 2017 the Company complied with the Codes recommendations except in two respects: The Company keeps shareholders informed of business developments via its Annual Report, half-year statement and trading update Until 23 March 2017 the Board had not appointed a Senior announcements.
In addition, other price sensitive information is publicly Independent Director.
Following the appointment today of Will disclosed via a regulatory news service.
All these items of information Whitehorn the Company complied with this recommendation: and are available on the Companys corporate website, www.
As previously disclosed to shareholders and as set out in the The website also contains other information about the Group and Directors Remuneration Report on page 56, in certain termination its business.
scenarios the Chairman and the CEO were entitled to two years notice in respect of remuneration and bonus payments.
These contractual obligations were entered into prior to the Company GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 47 obtaining a Premium Listing and the Code being applicable Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and to the Company.
These two-year notice provisions have now Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, beenremoved.
a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
A fair presentation also GVC consequently complies with all the recommendations of the Code.
requires the Directors to: Has the Company allotted or acquired select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: anyofitsshares during 2017?
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner During the year the Company issued a total of 10,458,246 new that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable Ordinary Shares as a result of Directors and employees exercising information: various Company share plan awards.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Are there any other statutory or good state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as practicedisclosures?
adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures Customer and creditor payment policy disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and The Group is committed to prompt payment of customer cash-out requests and maintains adequate cash reserves to cover customer provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic withdrawals and balances.
Normally payments will be made to requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand customers within seven days of receiving a customer instruction.
In the the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on case of other creditors, it is the Groups policy to agree terms at the the entitys financial position and financial performance.
outset of a transaction and ensure compliance with such agreed terms.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting In the event that an invoice is contested then the Group informs the records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups transactions supplier without delay and seeks to settle the dispute quickly.
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial Going concern statements comply with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for affect its future development, performance and position are set out in taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud this Annual Report in the sections preceding this governance report.
In addition, the Directors at the date of this The financial position of the Group, its cashow, liquidity position and report consider that the financial statements taken as a whole, are fair, borrowings are set out in the aforementioned section.
In addition, notes balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary to the financial statements on pages 88 to 118 includes the Groups for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial and strategy.
risk management objectives: details of financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Financial statements are published on the Companys website in accordance with legislation in the United Kingdom governing the The Group has considerable financial resources together with a large preparation and dissemination of financial statements, which may number of players and long-term contracts with a number of corporate vary from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The maintenance and customers and suppliers across different geographic areas and integrity of the Companys website is the responsibility of the Directors.
As a consequence, the Directors believe the Group is well The Directors responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity of the placed to manage its business risks successfully in the context of the financial statements contained therein.
12 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Directors confirm to the best that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue of their knowledge: in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the the Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance Annual Report.
with IFRS and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit and loss of Statement of Directors responsibilities the Group: and The Directors have elected to prepare the Annual Report and the financial statements for the Company and the Group in accordance the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the performance of the business and the financial position of the Group European Union IFRS.
and the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The Directors are responsible under applicable law and regulation for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with Directors report reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group, Together with the reviews of the CEO pages 6 to 8 and CFO for safeguarding the assets and for taking reasonable steps for the pages 30 to 33, this corporate governance section pages prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
38 to 69 constitutes the Directors Report for the year ended International Accounting Standard 1 revised requires that financial 31 December 2017. statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash ows.
This requires the LEE FELDMAN faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the denitions and recognition criteria CHAIRMAN for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International 8 March 2018 48 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED ACCOUNTABILITY: NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT How many times did the Nominations Who are the members?
Committee meet in 2016 and who attends?
LEE FELDMAN CHAIRMAN The Nominations Committee met twice in 2017 and all members were present or in attendance by telephone.
JANE ANSCOMBE APPOINTED 20 JUNE 2017 The Company Secretary attends all Nominations Committees to record WILL WHITEHORN APPOINTED 20 JUNE 2017 meetings and provide advice to the Directors.
PETER ISOLA STEPPED DOWN 20 JUNE 2017 The CEO is normally invited to attend each meeting and the Head STEPHEN MORANA STEPPED DOWN 20 JUNE 2017 of HR may be invited to attend from time to time to participate in discussions about succession planning.
With the exception of the Chairman, all the members aredeemed independent by the Board.
Lee Feldman What has the Nominations Committee wasdeemed independent when appointed Chairman of beendoing?
Following the retention of Heidrick & Struggles in 2016 to nd What does the Nominations Committeedo?
candidates with the necessary knowledge and expertise to take on the Senior Independent Director SID role, the Nominations Committee The Board has adopted a formal and transparent procedure for recommended in early 2017 the appointment of Will Whitehorn.
the appointment of new Directors to the Board by appointing a The Board reviewed and accepted the recommendation and the Nominations Committee to lead the process of appointment and appointment took effect on 23 March 2017.
Heidrick & Struggles make recommendations to the Board.
The Nominations Committee follows best practice and adopts the Voluntary Code of Conduct for also advises the Board on its structure, size, composition and Executive Search Firms.
matters of Director and senior management succession.
The Nominations Committee reviewed the succession plan for The terms of reference for the Nominations Committee are available Directors and senior management during the year and commentary on GVCs corporate website at.
onthis review can be found below.
The Nominations Committee also made recommendations to the Board regarding the re-appointment of the Directors standing for re-appointment at the 2017 AGM see the 2017 AGM notice.
Conscious of general political and cultural expectations for greater gender diversity on boards of directors, the Nominations Committee decided to identify female candidates with the necessary skills, https: gvc-plc.
com wp-content uploads 2017 07 Nominationknowledge and expertise to join the Board as an independent Committee-tor.
Ideally candidates should have a skill-set that would allow them to be considered as the new Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
When the recruitment process began, theNominations Committee learnt of the availability of a newly retired gaming analyst, Jane Anscombe.
Janes analytical background and extensive knowledge of the gaming sector made her an exceptional candidate for consideration, on the basis she would be able to grasp the complexities of remuneration arrangements and consider them in the context of the peculiarities of the fast moving online gaming industry.
Despite having no listed company board experience, the Nominations Committee believed that an extensive induction process would give her the requisite governance background and she would bring a fresh and robust approach to overseeing executive remuneration, a topic that has become ever more challenging to navigate over the last few years.
Weighing up these considerations the Nominations Committee decided not to use a third party search rm or to advertise the role and proceeded to recommend Janes appointment to the Board.
The Board shared the same views as the Nominations Committee and Jane was appointed an independent Non-executive Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee on20 June 2017.
The belief of the Nominations Committee and the Board have been borne out in the skilful way Jane went on to manage the consultation with major shareholders on updating the remuneration policy and introducing new incentive plans.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 49 In light of the recent departure of Norbert Teufelberger, certain tenure The Nominations Committee is following the selection process set considerations mentioned below and the future increased scale of the out below: Group following the acquisition of Ladbrokes Coral and the anticipated The Nominations Committee agrees The Nominations Committee decides entry of GVC into the FTSE 100 later this year, the Nominations a specication for the independent on which search and selection rm to Committee has begun a process to recruit three new independent Non-executive Director role.
Non-executive Directors, one of whom may become the new Senior Independent Director.
The Nominations Committee has agreed the types of characteristics it will be looking for from candidates and The recruitment rm presents With the role specication the these include: a long-list of candidates with searchand selection rm look biographies for the role which forsuitable candidates.
significant PLC board experience: is reviewed by the Nominations Previous exposure to regulated industries: Committee and the candidates narrowed down toashort-list.
Experience of leading large-scale technology development and platform integration: Experience of multi-channel, consumer facing business models: The recruitment rm ascertains the Candidates interviewed by the chosen candidates availability and Nominations Committee members, Demonstrates an international and strategic outlook: interest in the role and arranges who then feedback to the Chairman.
interviews with the Nominations The candidates also meet with the Shows an understanding of the special, entrepreneurial, innovative Committee members.
CEOto give them the opportunity culture of GVC: and to ask questions about the Groupsbusiness.
Displays good coaching and inuencing skills, with a modern approach to business management.
In addition, given the Company is domiciled outside the UK, the The Board considers the The Nominations Committee meets business is international in nature and the articles prevent Directors recommendations from the and decides on which candidates from participating in Board business from within the UK, the search NominationsCommittee and torecommend for appointment to process is focused on candidates who are resident outside the UK.
resolveswhether to make an the role.
appointment or refer the recruitment The Nominations Committee is also keen that at least one of the process back to the Nominations chosen candidates is female to increase the number of women Committee for furtherwork.
In reality it is challenging recruiting for non-executive positions in the Three recruitment rms were considered for the search and The Zygos gambling sector.
A significant number of candidates identied in the Partnership recently acquired by Russell Reynolds Associates was first round of the selection process usually respond that they do not chosen by the Nominations Committee.
wish to be considered further and this is usually due to the perceived risks and in some instances more general reservations associated The Zygos Partnership follows best practice and adopts the Voluntary withthe sector.
Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
Once the Nominations Committee has concluded the process described then any appointment will be announced via a regulatory news service and published on the GVC website.
Throughout any recruitment process the Nominations Committee operates within the parameters of the Companys diversity policy.
The diversity policy ensures the Group engages trains and promotes employees on the basis of their capabilities, qualications and experience.
The policy forbids discrimination or pressure to discriminate by its employees or others acting on the Groups behalf or their employees, contractors or customers in respect of age, sex, sexual orientation, race, ethnic origin, marital status or civil partnership, nationality, disabilities, political or religious beliefs, or on any other criteria unrelated to an individuals ability to perform the duties.
The policy also sets out how the diversity guidelines impact recruitment, selection and promotion, learning and development, the management of part-time workers and individual employee responsibilities for ensuring enforcement and compliance with the policy.
Owing to the breadth of diversity existing across the Group, diversity ratios or objectives have not been set.
50 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED ACCOUNTABILITY: NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Has the Nominations Committee reviewed theGroups succession plans?
During the year the Nominations Committee reviewed a formal succession plan for the Directors and members of the senior management team.
The plan covers short-term emergency cover in the event someone is incapacitated or unavoidably unavailable on a temporary basis and also long-term succession should an individual leave the Group.
The succession plan is a live document, which will be updated following the completion of the Ladbrokes Coral acquisition and then reviewed by the Nominations Committee in the second half of 2018.
Has the Nominations Committee made any recommendations regarding the re-appointments at the 2018 AGM?
In March 2018 the Nominations Committee met and reviewed the proposed re-appointments at the 2018 AGM of: 1.
Will Whitehorn Based on the basis of experience, performance, skills and , and also in light of the results of the 2017Board evaluation results, the Nominations Committee advised the Board that it is appropriate to recommend each of the Directors forre-appointment.
This year Karl Diacono reaches his ninth anniversary since first being elected to the Board by GVC shareholders.
Whilst the Board continues to regard Karl as exercising independent judgement in fullling his non-executive role, it is planned that he will step down from the Board in 2019.
As disclosed above, the Board is seeking to appoint over the next twelve months three new independent Directors who are resident outside the UK.
Until all these roles have been lled, Karl a Malta resident will continue to serve as a Director to facilitate the Boards compliance with GVCs quorum requirements for conducting Board business.
In the event the acquisition of Ladbrokes Coral completes in the next month, Paul Miles will step down as a Director and CFO and is succeeded by Paul Bowtell, the CFO of Ladbrokes Coral, who, in accordance with GVCs Articles of Association will stand for re-appointment at GVCs 2018 AGM.
A biography for Paul Bowtell can be found on page 219 of GVCs prospectus dated 9 February 2018 available at www.
com and will also be included in the 2018 AGM notice of meeting.
LEE FELDMAN CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE 8 March 2018 GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 51 ACCOUNTABILITY: AU DI T COMMITTEE REPORT The Audit Committee also oversees corporate social responsibility Who are the members?
matters and in this respect ensures that the Group has policies and effective controls regarding the following: STEPHEN MORANA CHAIRMAN compliance with the gaming and financial services licences held by KARL DIACONO the Company or any of its subsidiaries: PETER ISOLA STEPPED DOWN 20 JUNE 2017 gambling licence probity matters: WILL WHITEHORN APPOINTED 20 JUNE 2017 anti-money laundering: Stephen Morana is a qualied chartered accountant, the fairness and integrity of the Companys gaming and trading andisregarded as the Audit Committee member with systems and the process for managing any challenges to the fairness recentandrelevant financial and industry experience.
and or integrity of these systems: and privacy and data protection.
What does the Audit Committee do?
The terms of reference for the Audit Committee are available on GVCs Monitors the integrity of GVC Holdings PLCs financial statements corporate website at: and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance and reviews, and challenges where https: gvc-plc.
com wp-content uploads 2017 07 necessary, the actions and judgements of management in relation Audit-Committee-tor.
pdf to the half-year and annual financial statements before these are How many times did the Audit Committee submitted to the Board for final approval.
Makes recommendations to the Board concerning any proposed, new or amended accounting policy.
The Audit Committee met in March and September in 2017 and attendance was as followed: Meets with the external auditors post-audit at the reporting stage to discuss the audit, including problems and reservations arising Attendance and total number from the audit, and any matters the auditor may wish to discuss ofmeetings to which the Director in the absence of GVC management, where appropriate.
Director was entitled to attend Recommends the audit fee to the Board and sets Groups policy Stephen Morana 2 2 on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
Karl Diacono 2 2 Considers and makes recommendations to the Board about Peter Isola 1 1 theappointments of the internal audit executive and the external Will Whitehorn 1 1 auditors as well as the re-appointment of the latter.
Monitors and reviews the internal audit programme and its The Audit Committee was also scheduled to meet in December 2017, effectiveness.
however the meeting was cancelled owing to the Boards negotiations to acquire Ladbrokes Coral Group plc.
The Audit Committee members Ensures co-ordination between the internal audit and risk instead had a telephone meeting in December with the external management department and the external auditors, and that auditors, CFO, Internal Audit Executive and Company Secretary to the internal audit department is adequately resourced and has review the plan for the audit of the 2017 annual results.
The Company Secretary attends all Audit Committee meetings to take Considers any major audit recommendations and the major the minutes and advise the Directors where required.
The Internal Audit findings of internal investigations and managements response Executive and external auditor also attend every Audit Committee inthe absence of management, where appropriate.
meeting and during the year the Audit Committee did periodically Monitors and reviews GVCs systems for internal control, financial meet with these individuals without any GVC management present.
The Chief Executive officer CEO, Chief Financial officer CFO, and senior members of the finance function are normally invited to attend Reviews the individual internal audit reports covering the various each meeting.
areas and activities of the business.
Assess and reports on the Groups viability in line with the UKCode requirements, prior to being submitted to the Board forapproval.
52 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED ACCOUNTABILITY: AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED In respect of the financial statements and accompanying reports Who is responsible for the preparation ofthe fortheyear ended 31 December 2017, the Company has followed GVC financial statements?
In doing so the Directors confirm that they have reviewed the complete 2017 Annual Report and considered The Board is ultimately responsible for presenting a fair, balanced and that taken as a whole, the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable assessment of GVCs position and prospects, which extends understandable and provides the information necessary for GVCs tothe half-year and annual nancialstatements.
shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business modeland strategy.
What significant issues did the Audit DELEGATION Committee consider in relation to the 2017nancial statements and how were The Head of Investor The Company Secretary theseaddressed?
Relations coordinates with the Chairman of the with the CEO, CFO and Board and the Chairmen Throughout the course of the year, the Audit Committee determined GVCs finance department, Chairman the preparation of the various Board led by the CFO, prepares the following areas of the financial statements were of significant of any statements Committees, prepares the financial statements.
These issues were discussed with management and the on GVCs position, the corporate governance external auditors to ensure that the required level of disclosure is performance, business statements and all Board provided and that appropriate rigour has been applied where any model and strategy.
Acquisition accounting EXTERNAL REVIEW During the year, the GVC Group completed the acquisition of Cozy Games and acquired the majority of the trade and assets of Zatrix, as explained in note 28 to the financial statements.
The Audit Committee GVCs external auditors audit the annual financial accounts and review the halfreviewed the judgements made in connection with the accounting year accounts together with any business or corporate governance commentary.
treatment, to determine whether the assets and liabilities recognised A report to Audit Committee is prepared.
in the financial statements are carried at an appropriate fair value.
The Committee reviewed the underlying judgements and forecasts used to determine the fair value of intangible assets.
The Audit COMMITTEES REVIEW Committee satisfied itself that the approach taken by the Group was appropriate and in accordance with IFRS 3: Business Combinations.
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets The Audit Committee reviews the draft For the Annual Report the The Audit Committee also considered the judgements made in financial statements and accompanying Remuneration Committee and relation to the valuation methodology adopted by management to statements and meets with the external Nominations Committee review auditors to review their report.
The Audit theDirectors Remuneration Report support the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets to Committee proposes amendments and Nominations Committee determine whether there was a risk of material misstatement in the and makes recommendations to the Reportrespectively, propose carrying value of these assets and whether impairment should be Board and also approves the Audit changesand make recommendations recognised.
The Committee considered the assumptions, estimates Committees Report.
and judgements made by management to support the models that underpin the valuation of intangible assets in the balance sheet.
Business plans and cashow forecasts prepared by management BOARD REVIEW supporting the future performance expectations used in the calculation were reviewed, which also form part of the Groups viability statement as presented on page 35.
The impairment review was also an Board reviews the financial statements, accompanying reports and area of focus for the external auditor, who reported their findings recommendations from its committees and makes changes to the disclosure to the Committee.
The Committee satisfied itself that no material where appropriate.
impairments were required to the carrying value of goodwill or other intangible assets.
AUDITOR SIGN-OFF External auditors carry out final report and sign-off the audit report Annual Report or review report half year results.
BOARD APPROVAL AND PUBLISH The Board approves the year-end financial statements and disclosures and the half year report and these are then released to the stock exchange and published on GVCs corporate website.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 53 Provisions for legal and regulatory compliance Who are the external auditors and how The Directors keep abreast of all known or potential regulatory or longhave they been appointed?
legal claims against the Group that may arise from the Groups During the year ended 31 December 2017, Grant Thornton UK LLP operations.
The Directors receive frequent updates from the Groups was appointed under an engagement letter to act as auditor to enable Head of Legal, Compliance & Secretariat and external legal counsel.
the Company to meet its obligations to prepare financial statements During theyear, Audit Committee reviewed the likelihood of the in accordance with the Listing Rules.
Grant Thornton UK LLP were outcomes of various claims lodged against the Group and or its Board appointed after running an external audit tender process in the first members as disclosed in note 27 to the financial statements, with halfof 2017. special focus applied on the tax audit assessment from the Greek Audit Centre for Large Enterprises.
Grant Thornton UK LLP were originally appointed in 2010 just after the Companys domiciliation from Luxembourg to the Isle of Man.
Legal and tax advice was received from the Groups Greek professional A member rm of the Grant Thornton network, Grant Thornton Lux advisers and this sets out that the Groups subsidiary has strong S. A. previously held ofce as the Companys auditors, since 2008. grounds to appeal the Assessment and it will, therefore, le an appeal.
Since their initial appointment, their re-appointment has been approved In the interim, to enable the Groups subsidiary to continue to trade by shareholders each year at the AGM.
Shareholders approved the normally, it intends to enter into a payment scheme with the relevant re-appointment of the external auditors at the 2017 AGM with 97% of authority whereby funds are paid to that authority and held on account the votes cast voted in favour of the re-appointment.
A resolution will subject to agreement with that authority of approximately 7.8m be proposed at the 2018 AGM to re-appoint Grant Thornton LLP as a month over the next 24 months.
The Board strongly disputes the theexternal auditors.
basis of the Assessment calculation, believing the assessed quantum to be widely exaggerated and is confident in the grounds of appeal.
What is GVCs policy on putting the Until those proceedings can advance further, the Directors do not feel that it is appropriate to estimate what potential liability may arise.
The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that FTSE 350 As there have been no material developments with the other cases companies put their external audit out to tender at least once every disclosed in note 27 to the financial statements, the Audit Committee ten years.
The EU Audit Regulation, effective across all Member States issatised that no provisions other than those outlined in note 20 to from the 17 June 2016, enforces mandatory audit rm rotation after thenancial statements, are necessary at this present time.
Should any aperiod of maximum tenure, set at ten years.
of these cases develop materially during the course of 2018, the Audit Committee will consider if any provision needs to be made in respect The current external auditor has served the Company since 2008. ofthe relevant cases.
Taking into account the Financial Reporting Councils advice on companies transitioning to putting the external audit out for tender Taxation to comply with this recommendation, the EU Regulation and the During the year, the Board reviewed the Groups tax strategy timing ofthe audit partner rotation, the Board decided on the management process and considered whether it was aligned with recommendation from the Audit Committee to bring forward the the Groups commercial strategy, approach to corporate governance, external audit tender into 2017.
The conclusion of the audit tender the attitude to risk and the Groups business models.
The Board process has been put on hold until after the completion of GVCs reviewed and adopted the Groups UK Tax statement available on: acquisition of Ladbrokes Coral.
The external audit will be put out http: www.
com archive UK Tax Statement.
pdf and a new fortender at least once every ten years.
Anti-Tax Evasion Policy in line with the changing tax environment.
Owing to the dynamic nature of the online gaming sector and the The Audit Committee have adopted an Auditor Rotation and Groups business in particular, the Board has decided to review the Tendering Policy, which follow the above mentioned recommendations Groups tax strategy and management and will meet with the Groups and regulation.
Director of Tax at least once a year.
Derivative Financial Instruments During 2017 the Group has entered into a marketing services agreement with its principal ofine tournament partner with the purpose of organising and promoting series of live poker events under the PartyPoker Live brand to look to increase trafc to partypoker.
As part of entering into this agreement the company has entered into aput and call arrangement in respect of the entire issued share capital of the company set up by its ofine partner dedicated to this agreement, which is exercisable by the Group or its partner on completion of the 5 year agreement.
The Audit Committee reviewed the valuations and working models to arrive at the value of the options.
A range of scenarios were considered for the EBITDA of the business based on a balance of likely outcomes considering that there is a high range of potential pay outs, depending on the business growth of partypoker.
The Audit Committee have satisfied themselves that the put option has been valued appropriately as disclosed in note 12 to the financial statements.
54 GOVERNANCE CONTINUED ACCOUNTABILITY: AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED How was the audit tender process performed?
How did the Audit Committee go about In June 2017, having considered proposed changes to the UK assessing the effectiveness of the Corporate Governance Code and the recommendations of the externalaudit process?
Financial Reporting Council, the Company announced its intention to put the external audit engagement for the 2017 financial year out to The Audit Committee is committed to ensuring that the external tender.
The process the Company followed is outlined below.
audit process remains effective on a continuing basis.
In particular, throughout the year the Audit Committee paid specic attention to RFP development A request for proposal document was thefollowing areas: developed following consultation between the chairman of the Audit Committee and Reviewing that safeguards put in place by the incumbent auditor the Chief Financial officer and distributed against independence threats are sufficient and comprehensive: to four audit rms in May 2017.
Ensuring that the quality and transparency of communications with Expressions of interest received Having received the request for proposal the external auditors are timely, clear, concise and relevant and that document, each of the participant any suggestions for improvements or changes are constructive: audit rms completed a condentiality undertaking and a conict of interest Exercising professional scepticism, including but not limited declaration and afrmed its intention to, looking at contrary evidence, the reliability of evidence, the torespond.
appropriateness and accuracy of management responses to queries, Preliminary meetings A preliminary meeting was held with considering potential fraud and the need for additional procedures eachof the participants.
and the willingness of the auditor to challenge management assumptions: and Data room access Access was then granted to historic information held within an externally hosted Considering if the quality of the audit engagement team is sufficient virtual data room throughout June2017.
and appropriate including the continuity of appropriate industry, Meetings with GVC A series of meetings and conference calls sector and technical expertise including new areas of activity by seniormanagement were held during June-July 2017 between the client and changes in regulation or professional standards the participant audit rms and members and whether it has exercised sufficient objectivity to mitigate any of the Group finance leadership team, independence and familiarity threats.
company secretariat and other members of management in order to supplement the Feedback is provided to the external auditor at every instance by the data room material.
Audit Committee and through one-to-one discussions between the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the audit rm partner.
Written proposals A written response to the request for proposal was received from participant What non-audit services did Grant Thornton audit rms in early July 2017 together with a preliminary indication of the provide in 2017?
rms independence to act as the The Audit Committee has established a policy regarding the Groupsauditor.
appointment of external auditors to perform non-audit services for Evaluation and assessment During July 2017, these proposals were the Group and keeps this under continual review, receiving a report oftheproposals assessed and scored against the Groups at each Audit Committee meeting.
This policy dictates that in the weighted evaluation criteria by the Group Companys financial year, the total fees for non-audit services provided Finance Director, the Group CFO and the by the external auditors, excluding non-audit fees for due diligence for Chairman of the Audit Committee.
acquisitions and other specic matters noted below, should not exceed High-level meetings During July 2017, additional meetings were 70% of the average of the total fees for audit services they provided in held between participant audit rmsand the preceding three-year period.
In the year ended 31 December 2017, the chairman of the Audit Committee and, the total non-audit fees as a percentage of the audit fees paid to the separately, the Chief Financial officer.
Presentations At the end of July 2017, participant In addition to their statutory duties, Grant Thornton LLP is also auditrms made a final presentation of their overall proposals and confirmed employed where, as a result of their position as auditors or for their their independence to act as the specic expertise, they either must, or the Audit Committee accepts Groupsauditor.
they are best placed to, perform the work in question.
This is primarily work in relation to matters such as shareholder circulars, Group Recommendation to the Board In light of the discussions to acquire borrowings, regulatory lings and certain business acquisitions and bythe Audit Committee Ladbrokes Coral, the Audit Committee put a final decision on the external audit of the disposals.
In such circumstances the Audit Committee will separately Company on hold, but recommended to review the specic service requirements and consider any impact the Board that Grant Thornton UK LLP be on objectivity and independence of the auditors and any appropriate selected as the Groups external auditor for safeguards to this.
As such the Audit Committee believes it appropriate the 2017 financial year.
for these non-audit services to be excluded from the 70% cap Board decision The Board accepted the calculation set out above.
In the year ended 31 December 2017, the  total fees paid to the external auditors in respect of due diligence for atitsSeptember 2017 meeting.
The Company has previously adopted a policy on external auditor independence to help ensure the independence of the current external auditors is not compromised.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 55 Does GVC have an internal audit department Is there a whistleblowing policy?
The Group adopted and published a formal whistleblowing procedure by which employees can, in confidence, raise concerns about possible The Internal Audit & Risk Management IA function facilitates and improprieties in financial or other matters.
This procedure is set out advises on the Groups risk process, for which the Companys Board in the Groups employee handbooks having first been reviewed and isultimately responsible.
approved by the Audit Committee.
The mission of the IA function is to provide independent, objective The Company seeks the highest ethical standards in carrying out its assurance and consulting services designed to add and protect various business activities, and corrupt practices of any sort will not be value by improving the Groups operations.
IA assists the Group tolerated.
The Company is committed to tackling malpractice and it is to accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined the personal responsibility of every employee of the Group to manage approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk and reduce the risk of malpractice in their business.
management, control and governance processes.
The Company actively encourages individuals, where they believe that Through its work, IA provides assurance to the Board, through the malpractice has taken place, to make protected disclosures either Audit Committee that effective and efficient control processes are internally to the Audit Committee or externally through the outsourced in place to identify and manage business risks that may prevent the service provider, Expolink.
Employees will be protected where they business from achieving its objectives.
The scope of this work includes: have reasonable grounds to believe that their employer, another Providing assurance to the Board and executive management that worker or a third party has committed serious malpractice and make effective systems and controls are in place and are being operated to adisclosure in good faith.
manage all significant risks within the financial and business systems The Group has a written policy available to all employees on the operated within the Group: Groups intranet and approved by the Audit Committee, which sets out Assisting the business in fullling its corporate governance the type of disclosure which is protected and also species to whom responsibilities: disclosures should be made and the process that will be followed.
Supporting operational management by providing best practice The Audit Committee is satisfied that robust and appropriate advice on internal controls, including practical recommendations to arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent mitigate control weaknesses identied during the review process: investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
Promoting effective control at reasonable cost and assisting management generally in the pursuit of value for money e. g. by STEPHEN MORANA providing practical recommendations to improve the efficiency of CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE thenancial and business processes operated by the business : and 8 March 2018 Carry out ad-hoc investigations based on any allegations made through the Whistleblowing Policy or as requested or directed by theAudit Committee and or executive management.
The sections on risk management outlined on pages 34 to 37 illustrate how IA supports the business through driving improvements to GVCs control environment and adding value in core business areas in the context of the Groups risk prole.
The Board, with the support of the Audit Committee, has completed its annual review of the effectiveness of the internal system of control, and is satisfied that it is robust and in accordance with best practice.
In doing so the Directors acknowledge that GVCs system of internal control can only reduce the probability that business risks might impede the Company in achieving its objectives, it cannot eliminate these risks and can therefore provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
56 REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION: DIREC TORS REMUNER ATION REPORT for the year ended 31 December 2017 Standardising our Policy PART A ANNUAL STATEMENT FROM THE Against this backdrop, the Remuneration Policy which was approved REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIR by shareholders at the Companys 2017 AGM did not contain any incentive elements other than the annual bonus for the new CFO, Dear Shareholder because of the subsisting options granted under a legacy plan.
At that As the Chair of the Remuneration Committee the Committee, I time, the Committee felt that putting in place a new framework would am pleased to present the Boards report on remuneration policy have been premature given the evolving external environment around and practice for the year ended 31 December 2017.
This is my first executive remuneration, and it was minded to wait until the 2018 AGM.
report since becoming Chair in June 2017, taking over from Karl Subsequently, it became clear to the Committee that it needed to seek Diacono.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank Karl greatly approval for a revised Remuneration Policy as soon as possible in for his hard work and commitment to the role.
order that: As an Isle of Man incorporated company, GVC is not formally There was no delay in moving to a UK best practice framework: and required to comply with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations Appropriate incentive awards could be in place at the point legacy 2013 the Regulations.
However, the Committee has voluntarily awards are due to nish vesting in August 2018 to provide ongoing chosen to adopt the Regulations and associated voting incentivisation and retention of key senior executives.
requirements in full, and we hope that you nd the resulting report clear and transparent.
Looking ahead to 2018 Given the above, a new Policy was approved by shareholders at Structure of the report the December 2017 General Meeting.
As a Committee, we believe Part A: Annual Statement from the Remuneration Committee that this Policy represents a substantial change to the approach Chair pages 56 to 59 outlines the key remuneration to remuneration at GVC.
Looking forward to 2018, there is now a developments at GVC during 2017, including performance framework in place that reects best practices, including: context for the year, and looks ahead to 2018.
Annual bonus and long-term incentive structures aligned with Part B: Directors Remuneration Policy at a glance pages UK-listed practice: 60to 63 summary of the remuneration framework in place for Deferral of half of the annual bonus into shares for three years: and Executive Directors at GVC, as approved by shareholders at our 2017 General Meeting, and how this aligns with our approach A two-year holding period following the three-year performance forall our employees.
period on awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan: Part C: Annual Report on Remuneration pages 64 to 69] CEO and Chairman contracts which no longer contain non-standard presents remuneration outcomes for 2017, and how we intend cessation of employment and change of control provisions: toapply the Policy in 2018.
Minimum shareholding guidelines that are positioned at above-market For 2017 we have adopted a much simpler approach to our levels: and Directors Remuneration Report.
We hope that our shareholders Malus and clawback provisions.
will welcome this straightforward and transparent report.
We recognise that some shareholders have had challenges with Our journey some of our decisions, and the voting outcomes for the Remuneration The last few years have been extremely busy for GVC, and the Policy and the Annual and Deferred Bonus Plan resolutions at the Company has transformed the size and scope of its operations.
2017 General Meeting were lower than we would have hoped for.
Exceptional and sustained performance has taken GVC from I engaged with a number of our major shareholders ahead of the an AIM-listed company with a market capitalisation of less than 2017 General Meeting to understand their views as the proposals 285m three years ago, to a 2.7bn FTSE 250 company at the end were developed, and would like to thank them for the helpful and of 2017.
Subject to completion of the Ladbrokes Coral transaction, constructive feedback received.
As a Committee, we value the it is likely that GVC will enter the FTSE 100 in summer 2018 and our importance of good relationships with our shareholders, and we took employee numbers will jump from circa 2,800 to over26,800.
the range of views that we heard into account when considering our new Remuneration Policy.
The extent and pace of growth has meant that our remuneration arrangements have also had to undergo significant changes.
The Committee has at all points sought to balance our wish to move to UK best practice remuneration and corporate governance standards, with a recognition of the level of change that this entails for management and employees over a short period.
We have been able to achieve such growth at pace because we have a highly talented senior team, and there is a critical need to retain key talent to drive future growth in an industry that is currently extremely competitive.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 57 The feedback from the consultation with shareholders demonstrated strong support for the direction and structure of the Companys future remuneration practices.
However, we understand that some of our shareholders were concerned about the quantum of the incentive opportunities under the 2018 framework.
The Committee recognises that these are above mid-market levels in UK companies of a similar financial size as at the end of 2017, but would emphasise that: GVCs success in recent years has been driven by our small high-performing executive team, whose retention is crucial to the continued success of the business: Given the international focus of the online gaming industry and relatively small talent pool across both public and private companies, a competitive level of remuneration is critical to the retention of this exceptional team indeed the overall levels of remuneration offered by the new framework took account of recent first-hand recruitment experiences: and The incentive opportunities under the new Policy represented a substantial reduction from Executive Directors previous packages.
It should be noted that the legacy arrangements will continue to work through the total remuneration to be reported for 2017 and 2018.
The following chart shows for each element of the remuneration the position at the beginning of 2017 and the position following approval of the revised Remuneration Policy in December 2017.
It is clear that for the CEO and the Chairman the new Policy represents a substantial reduction in their overall levels of pay.
REMUNERATION BEFORE AND AFTER THE IMPLEMENTATION OF NEW POLICY 30,000 Base salary Fees 25,000 Pensions and benets 20,000 Legacy options 15,000 Annual bonus 10,000 LTIP 5,000 Loss of ofce contractual provisions 0 Beginning of 2017 New policy for 2018 Beginning of 2017 New policy for 2018 Beginning of 2017 New policy for 2018 CEO CFO Chairman When putting the Policy into practice, the Committee hopes to demonstrate that significant out-turns under our incentive plans will only be available for delivering stretching levels of performance that create value for our shareholders, continuing the alignment that has been demonstrated over recent years.
Performance highlights for 2017 Looking back to 2017, it was another year of strong performance for the Group.
The Executive Directors and senior management team have continued to drive the Groups strategy to extend its position in the sports betting and gaming sectors.
In addition, the acquisition of Ladbrokes Coral which was announced in December 2017 will give the Combined Group leading positions in key global markets through industry leading online and retail brands, highly regarded and complementary management and personnel and supported by market leading proprietary technology.
The highlights of our 2017 performance included: Net Gaming Revenue including discontinued up 13% to 1,008.0m 15% in constant currency : Clean EBITDA including discontinued up 33% to 274.2m: Adjusted continuing profit Before Tax 178.7m vs 58.9m in 2016: Dividends of 34c declared in respect of the 2017 annual results: Completion of the integration of the GVC and bwin.
party businesses: and A recommended offer to acquire Ladbrokes Coral Group plc.
58 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION: DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED This is all reected in the 52% total shareholder return that GVC delivered during 2017, which continues the outstanding performance against our peers and the wider market since joining the LSE Main Market.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN: GVC VS FTSE 250 GVC Holdings 240 FTSE 250 220 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 Feb-2016 May-2016 Aug-2016 Nov-2016 Feb-2017 Aug-2017 Nov-2017 May-2017 Source: Datastream Remuneration decisions for 2017 Annual bonus The CEOs bonus for 2017 was based on performance against EBITDA targets, while the CFOs was based on Net Gaming Revenue NGR.
As seen elsewhere in the Report and Accounts, EBITDA and NGR are both key financial measures for the business and delivery of these targets is closely correlated to the creation of shareholder value.
Due to the strong performance which GVC delivered in 2017, the top end of the performance ranges were exceeded and the plans will pay out at 100% of the maximum annual bonus opportunity see pages 63 to 64 for further information.
Double-digit revenue growth in the Groups sports betting and gaming brands drove the financial performance, with the capturing ofthe bwin.
party synergies pushing further growth in Clean EBITDA.
The EBITDA performance range set under the bonus was based on the budget agreed by the Board at the beginning of the financial year and consensus forecasts at that time.
They were set in advance contingent on receiving shareholder approval for the Annual and Deferred Bonus Plan at the December 2017 General Meeting, following which the Committee could offer formal participation to the CEO.
Long-term incentives As part of their legacy arrangements, a portion of the share option awards held by the Chairman, CEO and CFO vested in tranches in February, May, August and November 2017.
This out-turn reected significant share price out-performance of the FTSE 250 since the options were granted see graph above.
It is recognised that the quantum of the awards, coupled with strong share price growth over the vesting period, has resulted in a large single gure for total remuneration for these Directors in 2017.
As detailed above, this reects previous practice atGVC, which going forward has been replaced by a new, more conventional, framework that will result in lower levels of total remuneration once allof the legacy awards have vested.
Chairmans fee The Chairman has historically been rewarded in a similar way to the Executive Directors and he has participated in the Companys incentive arrangements.
This reected that the scope of the role and time commitment is well in excess of the normal level for a chairman.
He is closely involved in strategy implementation, and in considering and executing potential acquisitions.
Nevertheless, going forward we wished to align the remuneration of the Chairman more closely with UK corporate governance good practice by removing any performance elements and providing an approach based solely on fees.
To recognise i the fundamental shift in the way the Chairman was to be remunerated, ii the fact he voluntarily renounced his non-standard contractual provisions, and iii a much greater level of commitment than is standard for the role, an additional one-off fee of 950,000 was paid in 2017 which, after deductions for local taxes, had tobe invested in GVC shares that are subject to forfeiture.
The forfeiture risk on 50% of the shares falls away on the second anniversary ofpayment and on the balance on the third anniversary.
In addition, the annual fee for the role was increased to 350,000 from 1 January 2018.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 59 Our Directors are substantial shareholders in GVC As at 31 December 2017 the value of the CEOs and Chairmans shareholdings were 17.56m and 6.79m respectively.
These represent 2,342%of the CEOs annual basic salary and 1,940% of the Chairmans current annual fee.
These shareholdings represent much larger holdings by value than the stock held by the CEOs and chairmen of other listed online gaming companies and demonstrate that the CEOs and Chairmans interests are closely aligned with those of GVCs other shareholders.
CFO Paul Miles also met and exceeded the new shareholding guideline at 31 December 2017 via his vested GVC options.
Prospective acquisition of Ladbrokes Coral On 22 December 2017, GVC announced a recommended offer to acquire Ladbrokes Coral.
This was overwhelmingly approved by both companies shareholders on 8 March 2018 and the transaction is expected to close within the next month.
It is anticipated that the Combined Group will join the FTSE 100 in the summer of 2018.
The current intention is that on completion the Committee will review the remuneration arrangements for senior executives at Ladbrokes Coral, with a view to harmonising these with the GVC approach over time.
In doing so the Committee will be helped by the fact that GVC now has anewincentive structure, aligned with the practices usually adopted by FTSE 100 companies.
Conclusion GVC has been growing at pace in recent years and its remuneration arrangements have evolved accordingly.
The Committees primary objective for 2017 was to have in place at the end of the year a Remuneration Policy which is aligned with UK best practice corporate governance for 2018.
This objective has been achieved, and we hope that shareholders can recognise the substantial progress that has been made when looking at the arrangements as a whole.
JANE ANSCOMBE CHAIR OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 8 March 2018 60 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION: DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED PART B OUR REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE The Companys Remuneration Policy was approved at the General Meeting on 14 December 2017.
The full Remuneration Policy can be found on pages 20 to 30 of the Notice of the General Meeting http: www.
The table below presents a summary of the Policy along with how the Policy is to be implemented in 2018.
Element Revised Remuneration Policy Operation in 2018 BASE SALARY An Executive Directors base salary is set on appointment and reviewed The CEO received a 2.5% salary increase effective annuallyor when there is a change in position or responsibility.
14December 2017 the date of the 2017 General Meeting and the CFO received a 2.1% salary increase When determining an appropriate level of salary, the Committee considers: effective from 1 January 2018.
Remuneration practices within the Group: As a result, the salaries for the Executive Directors The general performance of the Group: for2018 will be: Salaries within the ranges paid by the companies in the comparator Kenneth Alexander 750,000 p. a. : and group used for remuneration benchmarking when the Committee Paul Miles 357,350 p. a. determines it is appropriate to carry out a benchmarking exercise : Any change in scope, role and responsibilities: The experience of the relevant Director: and The economic environment.
Individuals who are recruited or promoted to the Board may, on occasion, have their salaries set below the targeted policy level until they become established intheir role.
Subsequent increases in their salary may be higher than normal until the target positioning is achieved.
BENEFITS The Executive Directors receive private health insurance, life insurance Benets in line with the Policy.
For reference, the total andaccommodation allowances.
value of benets received in 2017 was as follows: Kenneth Alexander 2,438: and Paul Miles 4,102.
PENSION The Company does not currently have a separate pension arrangement Executive Directors will receive the following: for Executive Directors.
It does however provide the opportunity for all Kenneth Alexander Nil opted out of pension employees toparticipate in a Company-provided pension in line with scheme : and .
Paul Miles 1% of salary receives minimum statutory Company contribution.
ANNUAL AND DEFERRED BONUS PLAN THE ABP Awards made annually based on the achievement of a combination of financial The Executive Directors will have the following and non-financial performance measures.
Half of the bonus is paid immediately maximum bonus opportunity for 2018: following the end of the financial year, while half is deferred into shares which CEO 250% of salary: and will vest at the end of three years subject to continued employment.
Maximum annual incentive opportunity of 250% of salary for CEO and 200% Bonus subject to performance against Clean EBITDA ofsalary for CFO.
targets, with half of any bonus earned being deferred Threshold and target performance are equal to 25% and 60% of the maximum into shares for three years.
Malus and clawback provisions apply.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN THE LTIP Annual awards of conditional awards or nil-cost options, which vest after The Executive Directors will receive the following threeyears subject to achievement of performance measures.
For awards awards for 2018: granted toExecutive Directors, a two-year holding period on a net basis CEO 300% of salary: and follows the three-year vesting period.
Maximum opportunity of 300% of base salary for the CEO and 250% Awards subject to achievement of stretching ofbasesalary for the CFO.
performance conditions to be determined by Threshold performance is equal to 25% of the opportunity granted, theCommittee.
performancebelow which will result in zero vesting.
There is straight-line vesting between threshold performance and maximumperformance.
Awards vest based on performance against stretching targets,  performance period.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 61 Element Revised Remuneration Policy Operation in 2018 SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES Executive Directors are subject to formal shareholding requirements, ensuring Shareholding guidelines remain in force for 2018. that their interests are closely aligned to those of Shareholders.
These are currently 400% of salary for the CEO and 200% for the CFO.
The shareholding should be built up over a five-year period and maintained untilretirement, and until an Executive Director meets their shareholding requirement they are required to retain 50% of the post-tax amount of vested shares from the Company incentive plans.
Adherence to these guidelines is a condition of continued participation in the equity incentive arrangements.
CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NED FEES 1 Non-executive Directors are paid an annual fee and additional fees for Fees for 2018 are: chairmanship and membership of committees.
Chairman fee 350,000: The Chairman receives an all-in fee and does not receive any additional NED base fee 100,000: compensation for membership of committees.
Senior Independent Director fee 155,000: and Fees are reviewed annually.
Audit and Remuneration Committee Chair Fee25,000.
With the exception of the Chairman for the reasons detailed on page 58, the NED fees are unchanged from 2017.
In addition, Norbert Teufelberger received an annual fee of 175,000.
Norbert was the former CEO of bwin.
party and his role on the Board was to help with the integration of bwin.
party into the Group and with implementation of the post-completion plan.
He also advised on the Groups strategy in German-speaking markets.
The appointment was for an initial term of two years and he stepped down from the Board on 2 February 2018.
How is our Policy aligned with that for our employees?
The Company believes in fairness throughout the organisation.
The Company operates a number of general principles applied to all levels.
They are as follows: We will provide a competitive package compared to the relevant market for each employee: We will ensure all employees share in the success of the business through an element of performance-based pay: and We ensure a transparent and fair cascade of remuneration throughout the Group.
The following table sets out our approach in more detail: Principles Details A competitive pay package We position ourselves as a market competitive employer in relation to the external market.
Our policy is to ensure that employees receive a fair living wage for their location.
An opportunity to share inoursuccess We operate all-employee bonus plans based on Company performance, whereby all employees are aligned to similar measures see table below.
A tailored benets offering GVC provides a exible benefit scheme that include insurance and health cover, and retail andchildcare vouchers to support a positive work-life balance.
An opportunity to save for thefuture Reective of our workforce prole whereby a large proportion are young, pension contributions are provided at the statutory level with greater emphasis placed on base pay.
This is in line with theremuneration approach for ExecutiveDirectors.
Training and  We have an established programme of training and development, building capability across alllevels of the Group, andwe hope to gain accreditation under the Investors in People Framework during 2018.
Our new development framework allows us to better benchmark our talent and drive all training, development and succession planning activities.
A diverse and inclusive workplace We pride ourselves on the diverse and varied background of our employees.
We are a highly diverse and culturally-rich organisation, with our workforce comprising 59different nationalities.
62 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION: DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The following table sets out details of our incentive plans operated through the organisation.
Principles Participation from 2018 Summary ALL-EMPLOYEE All employees except the Executive Directors A financial target is set at the beginning of the year, typically net gaming BONUSPLAN revenue growth: and For 2017, the target was exceeded and employees received cash bonuses in Q1 2018.
ABP AND LTIP The Senior Executive Management Team As set out on page 60. may participate in these two plans PART C ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION The 2017 Annual Report on Remuneration contains details on the remuneration paid and awarded to Directors during the financial year ended 31 December 2017.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2016 and the Regulations.
Anadvisory resolution to approve the Annual Report on Remuneration and the Annual Statement will be put to shareholders at the AGM on6 June 2018.
Directors remuneration for the year ending 31 December 2017 Single gure remuneration table audited The remuneration of Directors showing the breakdown between components with comparative gures for the prior financial year is shown below.
Figures provided have been calculated in accordance with Regulations.
Further information on the component elements is provided insubsequent sections.
Taxable benets comprise a car allowance, housing allowance, private medical and life insurance.
Kenneth Alexanders annual variable remuneration includes both the cash and deferred share element of 2017 bonus.
Lee Feldmans Chairman fee for 2017 includes an additional one-off fee of 950,000 which following deductions for local taxes, had to be invested in GVC shares that are subject to forfeiture.
The forfeiture risk on 50% of the shares falls away on the second anniversary of payment and on the balance on the third anniversary.
On 2 February 2018 Norbert Teufelberger stepped down as a Director having served his two-year term.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 63 Notes to the single gure remuneration table The Committee recognises that the single gures of total remuneration shown for several individuals are substantial.
This primarily relates to legacy awards of share options made under the 2015 LTIP at the time of the acquisition of bwin.
The plan was approved by shareholders with a strong level of support as part of the acquisition.
Under the 2015 LTIP, individuals received awards of share options upon completion of the acquisition on 2 February 2016, which vest in tranches over the 30 months to August 2018.
The single gure values for total remuneration shown above reect the growth in share price over this period, and the strong alignment with other shareholders that this provides.
The following chart illustrates this, showing how for the CEO 85% and 60% of the single gure values for 2017 and 2016, respectively, are as a result of share price growth over the relevant periods.
PROPORTION OF SINGLE FIGURE REMUNERATION AS A RESULT OF SHARE PRICE GROWTH m 25,000 22,188 20,662 20,000 60% 15,000 11,170 86% 10,000 60% Remuneration resulting from share price growth 5,000 40% 1,696 Remuneration not resulting from share price growth 40% 14% 56% 0 44% 2017 2016 2017 2016 CEO CFO As discussed in the statement by the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, the remuneration framework at GVC has developed rapidly overthe last couple of years as the Company has grown.
Going forward the structure of the incentive framework is aligned with UK best practice.
The framework under the new Policy will result in lower levels of total remuneration from 2019 once all of the legacy awards have vested.
2017 Annual Bonus Kenneth Alexander CEO Under the terms of the Remuneration Policy approved by Shareholders at the General Meeting, Kenneth Alexander had a 250% of salary bonus opportunity for the 2017 financial year.
The EBITDA targets were set in advance and based on the budget agreed by the Board at the beginning ofthe financial year and consensus forecasts at that time, notwithstanding that his participation was formalised late in the year due to having towait for shareholder approval.
The EBITDA target was met in full for 2017 and as a result the bonus paid out at 100% of maximum, to be delivered 50% in cash and 50% inshares deferred for three years.
As a result, Kenneth Alexander received 913,750 in cash and will receive an award of 100,576 shares calculated based on the three-month average share price ending on 31 December 2017, as shown in the table below.
Annual bonus Threshold Target Maximum value for performance performance performance Threshold Percentage required 25% required 60% required 100% and Maximum of Maximum Percentage of Performance of maximum of maximum ofmaximum Actual performance performance salary bonus condition Weighting pay-out pay-out pay-out performance % of max achieved achieved Clean EBITDA 100% 239m 252m 265m 274.2m 25% 100% 100% 250% TOTAL 1,827,500 64 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION: DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED PART C ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION continued 2017 Annual Bonus Paul Miles CFO Following his appointment in February 2017, Paul Miles was eligible for an annual bonus opportunity in respect of 2017.
His maximum opportunity was 100% of base salary, subject to performance against a Net Gaming Revenue growth target.
The target was met in full for 2017 and as such the full cash bonus was payable, as shown in the table below.
Annual bonus value for Threshold Percentage Threshold Target Maximum and maximum of maximum Percentage of Performance performance performance performance Actual performance performance salary bonus condition Weighting required required required performance % of max achieved achieved Net Gaming 100% 1,002m 1,002m 1,002m 1,008m 350,000 100% 100% Revenue growth 100% TOTAL 350,000 Legacy LTIP arrangements vesting in 2017 During the year ended 31 December 2017, a portion of the awards granted under legacy arrangements vested.
All options are subject to the same single performance condition, namely that GVCs Total Shareholder Return TSR must rank at median or above against the FTSE 250.
Each tranche of the award has the TSR condition reviewed from the date of grant until the relevant vesting date.
To the extent that the TSR condition isnot met at that time, it shall be tested in the next quarter and at the end of the 30-month vesting period.
Richard Cooper left GVC on 28 February 2017 and upon leaving forfeited all unvested option awards over a total of 2,932,691 shares.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 65 Arrangements for the Chairman Lee Feldman received a cash bonus of 879,806 in respect of 2017, being the difference between the exercise price on his share options of4.67, and the issue price of 4.22 for the 4 9ths of the award that vested in the year.
The higher exercise price was due to certain limitations associated with the grant of options to individuals subject to US federal income taxes.
Lee Feldman is required to reinvest half of the cash bonus aftertaxes into GVC shares.
In addition, Lee Feldman received a one-off payment of additional fees of 950,000 which after the deduction of applicable taxes has to be invested in GVC shares: these shares are subject to a risk of forfeiture: the forfeiture risk on 50% of the shares will be removed on the second anniversary of the date of payment with the risk removed on the third anniversary subject solely to continuing to hold ofce as a Director.
He is no longer eligible to participate in the Companys incentive arrangements under the new Policy, and he now has a 12-month notice period with the only entitlement being to fees over the notice period his previous cessation of employment provisions included two years fees and bonus 2015 being the reference year incertain circumstances.
Share awards granted during the year The table below sets out details of the awards granted following the December 2017 General Meeting under the new LTIP.
Awards were made in December 2017 to ensure that following the 2018 grant there would be two subsisting cycles of awards in place prior to the final vesting ofthelegacy share options in August 2018.
Vesting is dependent on three-year performance against stretching EPS and relative TSR targets.
Percentage of Maximum award vesting percentage of at threshold face value that Basis on which Face value Shares performance could vest Performance Name Award type award made ofaward awarded % % conditions Kenneth Alexander LTIP Annual 1,827,500 242,587 25% 100% Relative TSR and EPS equally weighted Paul Miles LTIP Annual 700,000 94,339 25% 100% Relative TSR and EPS equally weighted The awards were granted on 28 December 2017.
The performance period is 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2019 and the conditions are set out below.
Awards will vest, subject to the level of performance achieved, on 28 December 2020.
The share price used to determine the face value was 927.50p.
Performance condition Weighting % of award Performance target Vesting schedule RELATIVE TSR VS. FTSE 250 50% Median of Comparator Group 25% Median to Upper Quartile Straight-line interpolation between 25% and100% Upper Quartile of Comparator Group 100% EPS CUMULATIVE EPS 50% Threshold 180 cents 25% OVER3YEAR PERIOD Threshold 180 cents to Maximum 214 cents Straight-line interpolation between 25% and100% Maximum 214 cents 100% 3.
Payments to past Directors or for loss of ofce audited During the year, the former Group Finance Director, Richard Cooper received 223,000 as a payment in lieu of notice.
In line with the normal vesting schedule, 1 9th of Richard Coopers option award vested in February 2017 prior to his departure.
The remaining unvested awards 6 9ths lapsed on his departure.
Director Date appointed Arrangement Notice period unexpired term K Alexander February 2007 Service contract 12 months P Miles 28 February 2017 Service contract 12 months L Feldman December 2004 Letter of appointment 12 months J Anscombe 20 June 2017 Letter of appointment: three-year period Remaining period K Diacono December 2008 Letter of appointment: three-year period Remaining period P Isola 2 February 2016 Letter of appointment: three-year period Remaining period S Morana 2 February 2016 Letter of appointment: three-year period Remaining period W Whitehorn 23 March 2017 Letter of appointment: three-year period Remaining period 66 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION: DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 4.
Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests Shareholding and other interests at 31 December 2017 audited Directors share interests are set out below: Number of Total interests Total vested Total interests Total interests beneficially subject to interests subject to Total interests at 31 December 1 Director owned shares % of salary fees conditions unexercised conditions unexercised 2017 K Alexander 1,898,788 2341.84% 0 0 2,932,692 0 4,831,480 P Miles 0000 116,667 233,333 350,000 L Feldman 734,141 1940.23% 0 0 1,466,345 0 2,200,486 J Anscombe 1,406 9.08%0000 1,406 K Diacono 0000000 P Isola 0000000 S Morrana 0000000 N Teufelberger 755,276 3992.17% 0 0 28,571 28,572 812,419 W Whitehorn 0000000 Shareholders should note that as at 31 December 2017 the value of the CEOs and Chairmans shareholdings were 17.56m and 6.79m respectively.
These represent 2,342% of the CEOs annual basic salary and 1,940% of the Chairmans current annual fee.
These  much larger holdings by value than the stock held by the CEOs and chairmen of other listed online gaming companies and demonstrate that the CEO and Chairmans interests are closely aligned with those of GVCs shareholders.
The CFO Paul Miles also met and exceeded the new shareholding guidelines at 31 December 2017 in respect of his vested but unexercised options.
Between 31 December 2017 and the date that this report was signed off, no share options were exercised.
A further 1 9th of the share options vested in February 2018 resulting in the movement of share options from Total interests subject to conditions to Total interests unexercised.
CEO pay versus performance Total Shareholder Returns and CEO remuneration since obtaining main market listing on 1 February 2016 The graph below shows the value of 100 invested in GVC Holdings PLC since obtaining main market listing on 1 February 2016 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 index.
The FTSE 250 index has been chosen on the basis that GVC is part of the index asof31 December 2017.
GVC HOLDINGS VS FTSE 250 VS FTSE 350 GVC Holdings 240 FTSE 250 220 FTSE 350 Travel and Leisure Index 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 Feb-2016 May-2016 Aug-2016 Nov-2016 Feb-2017 May-2017 Aug-2017 Nov-2017 Source: Datastream GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 67 The Company has chosen to compare its performance from 1 February 2016 against the FTSE 250 as this was the point at which the Company existed in its current form.
December 2017 December 2016 December 2015 K ALEXANDER K ALEXANDER K ALEXANDER Role CEO CEO CEO Single gure of total remuneration m 20.66 22.19 4.69 Annual Bonus pay-out % maximum 100 LTIP vesting % maximum Legacy award vesting % maximum 100% 100% 100% Prior to the acquisition of bwin.
party and admission to the Main Market the size on a market capitalisation basis and complexity of the Company were substantially different and as such the Committee does not believe that historic remuneration has any meaningful comparative value.
The Committee has included the remuneration for 2015 to provide some basis of comparison and will continue to add years in the future until the requirements of the Regulations are satisfied in full.
Relative importance of the spend on pay The table below sets out the overall spend on pay for all employees compared with the returns distributed to shareholders.
significant distributions 2017 2016 % change Staff costs m 130.7 136.7 4.4 Distributions to shareholders m 141.0 0 100 7.
CEO pay versus all employees The following table sets out the change in the remuneration paid to the CEO from 2016 to 2017 compared to the average percentage change for employees.
The CEOs remuneration disclosed in the table below has been calculated to take into account base salary, taxable benets and annual bonus including any amount deferred.
The employee pay has been calculated using the annual salary, taxable benets and annual bonus.
The CEOs annual salary was increased to 750,000 on 14 December 2017 following the approval by shareholders of the updated Remuneration Policy.
68 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION: DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 8.
Consideration by the Committee of matters relating to Directors remuneration The Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board the remuneration policy for Executive Directors and the senior management and for setting the remuneration packages for each Executive Director.
The Committee also has oversight of the remuneration policy for all employees.
The written Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website and from the Company on request.
Number of meetings held during tenure Number of meetings MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE DURING 2017 Independent during the year attended 1 J Anscombe Yes 2 2 2 K Diacono Yes 2 2 3 L Feldman Yes 1 1 P Isola Yes 3 3 S Morana Yes 3 3 4 Will Whitehorn Yes 3 3 1.
Jane Anscombe was appointed to the Remuneration Committee and became the Chair on 20 June 2017.
Karl Diacono ceased to be a member of the Remuneration Committee on 20 June 2017.
On appointment as Chairman of the Board Lee Feldman was considered to be independent.
He ceased to be a member of the Remuneration Committee on 26 May 2017.
Will Whitehorn was appointed to be a member of the Remuneration Committee on 20 June 2017.
During the year, there were three scheduled Committee meetings.
The matters covered were: The comprehensive remuneration policy review and subsequent shareholder consultation exercise: Determining the payouts from the annual bonus arrangements for 2017: Determining the satisfaction of the periodic TSR performance conditions attaching to the outstanding legacy share option awards: and Approval of the 2017 LTIP awards and their associated performance conditions.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee met in February 2018 to consider the draft 2017 Annual Report on Remuneration, proposed 2018 salary increases for the CFO and senior executives, satisfaction of the performance targets for the general employee 2017 bonus and the CEOs 2017 Annual and Deferred Bonus Plan award and to consider the matters for the Committee to review in 2018.
None of the Committee members or attendees is involved in any Committee decisions from which they may nancially benefit personally otherthan as shareholders in the decisions made by the Committee and there are no conicts of interests arising from cross-directorships orday-to-day involvement in running the business.
The Chief Executive officer, Chief Financial officer and HR Director may attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee, but are not present when their own remuneration is being discussed.
The Company Secretary acts as the secretary to the Committee.
The Committee received external advice in 2017 from PwC in connection with remuneration matters including support with the review of the remuneration policy and shareholder consultation exercise, pay benchmarking and the provision of general guidance on market and best practice.
PwC are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operate under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The Committee reviewed the nature of all the other services provided during the year by PwC, which only included advice in respect of a tax assessment appeal in Greece, and was satisfied that no conict of interest exists or existed in the provision of these services.
The total fees paid to PwC in respect of services to the Committee during the year were 214,500.
Fees were determined based on the scope and nature of the projects undertaken for the Committee.
Implementation of the Remuneration Policy in 2018 The CEO, Kenneth Alexander, received an increase in his basic annual salary from 731,000 to 750,000 on 14 December 2017 when shareholders approved the updates to the Companys Remuneration Policy.
The CFO, Paul Miles, had his annual salary increased from 350,000 to 357,350 effective from the start of 2018.
Both salary increases are in line with the percentage increases received by other Gibraltar and UK employees in the Group.
Annual bonuses will be earned in line with the Remuneration Policy approved by our shareholders in December 2017.
The CEOs and CFOs bonus for 2018 will be based on performance against targets set by the Committee shortly after completion of the acquisition of Ladbrokes Coral.
The maximum opportunity for our CEO and CFO will be 250% and 200% of base salary respectively.
25% of the maximum opportunity will be payable for threshold performance and 60% will be payable for target performance.
One-half of any annual bonus earned will be deferred and awarded in GVC shares, which will vest after three years.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 69 Long Term Incentive Plan awards will be awarded to the CEO and CFO with a face value of 300% and 250% of base salary respectively.
To the extent that the performance tests are met over a three-year period, the net number of shares awarded will be subject to a further two-year holding period.
The performance conditions for these awards will be set by the Committee shortly after completion of the acquisition of Ladbrokes Coral.
25% of the award will vest for performance at threshold, increasing on a sliding scale to 100% vesting for maximum performance.
In view of the prospective transaction with Ladbrokes Coral, the Remuneration Committee will review the targets for outstanding incentives following completion of the transaction.
If the transaction proceeds, Paul Miles will be leaving the Board of GVC and his termination arrangements will be disclosed on the Companys website in due course.
Paul Miles will be succeeded by Paul Bowtell, Ladbrokes Corals CFO.
As disclosed in the GVC prospectus dated 9 February 2018, Paul Bowtell will be entitled to an annual salary of 656,000, representing a basic salary of 535,500 equivalent to his Ladbrokes Coral salary plus 120,500 in lieu of pension contributions he is entitled to under his service agreement with Ladbrokes Coral.
His participation in the Companys incentive plans will be based on his basic salary of 535,500.
Consideration of shareholder views The Remuneration Committee takes the views of the shareholders seriously and these views are taken into account in shaping remuneration policy and practice.
Given the disappointing level of support that the Annual Report on Remuneration received at the 2017 AGM, views expressed by shareholders were considered when designing the revised Remuneration Policy.
In particular, the Committee consulted its major shareholders and the main shareholder representative bodies on the revised Remuneration Policy to understand whether their concerns had been adequately addressed by the more traditional incentive structure and best practice policy features.
The Committee is grateful for the time taken to consider the Committee proposals and provide feedback.
At the end of the consultation, the majority of our major shareholders indicated they were supportive of the revised Remuneration Policy and the resolution passed at the 2017 General Meeting, albeit with a minority voting against the Policy, we understand predominantly due to the level of incentive opportunity.
Shareholder voting As explained above, the updated Directors Remuneration Policy was put to a binding vote at the General Meeting on 14 December 2017.
The voting result, together with voting outcome in respect of the adoption of the Annual and Deferred Bonus Plan and the 2017 LTIP were as follows: % of issued Votes % of Votes % of Votes cast share capital Votes Resolution for votescast against votescast intotal voted withheld To approve the updated 148,035,292 72.50 56,145,802 27.50 204,181,094 67.23 11,018 Directors Remuneration Policy To approve the GVC Annual 150,330,551 73.63 53,850,702 26.37 204,181,253 67.23 10,859 andDeferred Bonus Plan To approve the GVC 2017 LTIP 179,413,463 87.87 24,766,175 12.13 204,179,638 67.23 12,474 The 2016 Chairmans Annual Statement and the Annual Report on Remuneration were subject to an advisory vote at the AGM on 20 June 2017.
Below we outline the voting outcomes in respect of approving the Directors Remuneration Report and approving the Director Remuneration Policy on 20 June 2017.
% of issued Votes % of Votes % of Votes cast share capital Votes Resolution for votescast against votescast intotal voted withheld To approve the Directors 129,532,003 56.92 98,048,257 43.08 227,580,260 75.69 1,894 Remuneration Report To approve the Directors 205,214,885 90.17 22,361,595 9.83 227,576,480 75.69 5,674 Remuneration Policy JANE ANSCOMBE CHAIR OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 8 March 2018
