How we behave and how we're rewarded Review of the Audit Committee Report by Jacques Aigrain and reporting on the systems and key elements of risk management as they affect the Group and reviewing the Chairman of the Audit Committee risk map and framework for presentation to the Board.
Reviewing the Group Treasury policy with particular Audit Committee members and attendance focus on debtors, funding foreign exchange and during 2017 cash management and the continued ability of the Group to adopt the going concern basis in preparing Meetings eligible Meetings financial statements.
to attend attended Reviewing reports on any material litigation or Jacques Aigrain Chairman 7 7 regulatory reviews involving Group companies.
Sol Trujillo 7 7 1 Reviewing the Groups mergers and acquisitions strategy, Tarek Farahat 6 5 2 any significant acquisitions, the earnout payments profile Charlene Begley 4 3 1 Appointed to the Committee on 24 February 2017. review and integration processes and the debt financing 2 Retired from the Board on 7 June 2017. by the Group.
Reviewing the impact of and the Groups response to the malware attack which affected the Group in June 2017 Dear share owner and the Companys IT security strategy.
Reviewing the Groups tax position.
e held seven meetings during the year, which were Monitoring the accounting and legal reporting attended by Deloitte LLP, the Companys external requirements, including all relevant regulations of the auditor, the Companys Chairman, the Senior UK Listing Authority, the SEC and NYSE and the Jersey WIndependent Director, the Group Finance Director, Financial Services Commission and proposed changes the Director of Internal Audit, the Group Chief Counsel, to the UK Corporate Governance Code and future the Group Chief Accountant and the Company Secretary.
The Committee also held separate private meetings with the Overseeing continued compliance with Section 404 external auditor, the Director of Internal Audit, the Group of SOX, through regular status reports submitted by Chief Counsel and the Group Chief Accountant.
In addition the internal and external auditors.
to pre-meetings with the external auditors, as Chairman of Reviewing the Groups IT Transformation project the Audit Committee, I also have regular meetings with the and shared services initiatives.
Directors of Internal Audit, Tax, Treasury and the Group Reviewing issues raised on our Right to Speak helpline Chief Counsel and ongoing dialogue with the Group and the actions taken in response to those calls.
Finance Director and Group Chief Accountant.
I report to the Board, as a separate agenda item, on the activities Fair, balanced and understandable of the Committee at the following Board meeting.
A Sub-Committee of the Board including members of this Committee examined whether the Annual Report and Committee responsibilities and how they Accounts for 2017 was fair, balanced and understandable were discharged in 2017 and provided the information necessary for share owners The main matters we dealt with during 2017 were as follows: to assess the Groups position, performance, business Monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial model and strategy.
The Sub-Committee received an early statements and reviewing significant financial final draft of the report for review and comment, as well reporting judgements.
as a report from the Disclosure Committee as to the Reviewing internal controls and internal audit activities.
governance relating to compilation of the report.
The Board Assisting the Board in meeting its responsibilities in subsequently considered the report as a whole and discussed respect of carrying out a robust assessment of the the reports tone, balance and language for compliance principal risks affecting the Group and reviewing with these standards.
The Boards statement on the report is on pages 110 and 111.
86 WPPAnnual Report 2017 Financial reporting and significant The accuracy of forecasting the potential future financial judgements payments due under earnout agreements in respect of The management team make key decisions and judgements acquired businesses.
The Committee considered the in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
forecasting with management and the testing undertaken These key judgements were detailed in reports and by Deloitte and agreed that earnouts have been presentations by management to the Committee in respect accounted for on a consistent basis to previous periods.
of 2017 which were then examined by the Committee and The valuation of year-end provisions in respect of discussed with management.
The Committee received briefings Deloitte also reported to and discussed with the on the approach taken by management in assessing Committee whether suitable accounting policies had been the level of exposure across the Group and agreed adopted in the financial statements for the year ended 2017 it was consistent and appropriate.
and whether management had made appropriate estimates Accounting for the judgemental elements of and judgements.
remuneration, including pensions, bonus accruals, The areas of significant judgement considered by the severances and share-based payments.
The Committee Committee and how these were addressed are set out below agreed that the assumptions applied by management and reflect a number of the principal risk areas identified are reasonable.
by the Board on pages 25 to 29: The judgements made in respect of tax, in particular The assessments made for goodwill impairment.
the level of central tax provisioning.
The Committee The Committee confirmed, based on managements supported managements assumptions in both these expectations of future performance of certain areas and believe the current level of provisions is businesses, the level of goodwill impairment charges reasonable.
The going concern assessment and viability statement The judgements made in respect of the timing of and key forecast assumptions.
The Committee concur recognition and valuation of media volume income with managements going concern assumptions as set earned from media owners and amount to be retained.
The Committee received briefings from management on the appropriateness of the controls in place External audit and challenged management to demonstrate the Deloitte has been WPPs auditors since 2002.
The lead effectiveness of such controls.
partner rotates every five years and the latest rotation took The judgements made in respect of the release effect during 2015.
In 2017, the effectiveness of the audit of provisions related to other media income.
The process was evaluated through a Committee review of the Committee considered the testing undertaken by audit planning process and discussions with key members Deloitte and information from management to of the Groups finance function.
The 2017 evaluations support the judgements made and agreed those concluded that there continued to be a good quality audit were appropriate.
process and constructive challenge where necessary to The valuations of non-controlled investments and ensure balanced reporting.
The Committee held private listed associates, which are based on local management meetings with the external auditors and the Committee forecasts, recent third-party investment and other chair met privately with the external auditors before supporting information such as industry valuation meetings.
The Committee continues to be satisfied with multiples.
The Committee examined the valuations the performance of Deloitte and confirmed that Deloitte with management and considered the sample testing continues to be objective and independent.
The Committee of the investments performed by Deloitte and agreed recommends the reappointment of Deloitte at the AGM that the valuations were appropriate.
87 WPPAnnual Report 2017 How we behave and how we're rewarded Review of the Audit Committee The Committee considered the Groups position on its Committee composition and evaluation audit services contract in the context of the regulations The Committee and its members were formally assessed concerning the audit market.
Although there is no by the Nomination and Governance Committee as part immediate intention to tender the audit contract, the of the review of Committee composition in 2017 and as Company will re-tender at the latest by the 2022 year part of the evaluation process described on page 84 for end in compliance with the transitional arrangements their technical suitability to be members and also for its for competitive tender that require mandatory rotation overall effectiveness.
The Board has designated me as after the 2023 fiscal year-end.
the Committees financial expert for Sarbanes-Oxley Act The Company confirms that it has complied with SOX purposes and together with Tarek Farahat as having the Competition and Markets Authority final order on recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes mandatory tendering and Audit Committee responsibilities.
of the UK Corporate Governance Code and competence in accounting or audit for the purposes of DTR 7.1.
The Internal audit members of the Committee are considered by the Board The annual internal audit plan is approved by the to be independent and when considered as a whole, have Committee at the beginning of the financial year.
Progress competence relevant to the marketing communications against the plan is monitored through the year and any sector and have financial and or financial services changes require Committee approval.
Significant issues experience as set out on pages 68 to 70. identified within audit reports are considered in detail along with the mitigation plans to resolve those issues.
Terms of reference The Committee also considers the level of internal audit The Committees terms of reference, are reviewed annually resource to ensure it is appropriate to provide the right and most recently were reviewed and updated in December level of assurance over the principal risks and controls 2017 to reflect the FRCs updated guidance on Audit throughout the Group.
I hold pre-meetings with the Committees and can be viewed on the Companys Director of Internal Audit and regular update meetings, website at wpp.
to ensure the internal audit function has adequate standing and is free from management restrictions Jacques Aigrain and has direct access to the Audit Committee if needed.
24 April 2018 Non-audit fees The Committee has established a policy regarding nonaudit services that may be provided by Deloitte, which prohibits certain categories of work in line with relevant guidance on independence, such as ethical standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board and SEC.
The prohibited categories of work include advice on remuneration and on tax services being provided by Deloitte in the EU and a general default to an alternative provider elsewhere subject to adherence to regulations.
Other categories of work may be provided by the auditors if appropriate and if pre-approved by the Committee, either as individual assignments or as aggregate amounts for specified categories of services.
All fees are summarised periodically for the Committee to assess the aggregate value of nonaudit fees against audit fees.
The level of fees for 2017 is shown in note 3 of the financial statements on page 131.
