Review of the Companys governance and the Nomination and Governance Committee Report by Roberto Quarta During 2017, the Senior Independent Director agreed role descriptions for different succession scenarios, based Chairman of the Nomination on the views of all of the Non-Executive Directors and and Governance Committee the Executive Directors.
The Board has held senior management and Group Chief Nomination and Governance Committee Executive succession planning reviews and has met with members and attendance during 2017 the senior management teams of all of the major operating companies within the Group both formally and informally Meetings eligible Meetings and, in many cases, the tier of managers below to continually to attend attended update their knowledge of the diversity of the pipeline of Roberto Quarta Chairman 4 4 1 internal candidates and reassess the succession plans.
Charlene Begley 3 2 Following the resignation of the Group Chief Executive Ruigang Li 4 1 on 14 April 2018, the Board has implemented the succession Daniela Riccardi 4 4 plans it had in place in the event of a sudden departure and Hugo Shong 4 3 has appointed me as Executive Chairman and two Chief Sally Susman 4 4 1 Retired from the Board on 7 June 2017.
Operating Officers, Mark Read and Andrew Scott.
The Board has commenced the recruitment process for a new Group Chief Executive with the assistance of an Dear share owner external search firm which had already been working with the Board and which will consider both the pool of internal Committee responsibilities and how they were candidates already identified and external candidates.
discharged in 2017 The recruitment process will be conducted in a timely and efficient manner.
he principal focus of the four meetings of the Committee in 2017 were: Changes to the Board and Committees Succession planning for the Group Chief Following the retirement of Tim Shriver and Charlene Begley T Executive and senior management and review at the 2017 AGM and the appointment of Tarek Farahat of the tenure and independence of the to the Audit Committee on 24 February 2017 and Nicole Non-Executive Directors.
Seligman to the Compensation Committee on 14 December Review of the composition of the Board Committees, 2017 and to the Nomination and Governance Committee consideration of the relevant experience of Tarek Farahat on 17 April 2018, the composition of our three main to join the Audit Committee and Nicole Seligman to join Committees is as follows: the Compensation Committee.
Nomination and Board evaluation and training for Non-Executive Committee Audit Compensation Governance composition 2017 Committee Committee Committee Directors.
Roberto Quarta l Chair l Jacques Aigrain Chair l l Succession planning Tarek Farahat l I have held regular discussions with share owners in 2017 Sir John Hood Chair l on the issues of succession and compensation as well Ruigang Li l as cybersecurity and data privacy.
We have continued Daniela Riccardi l to respond to their request for greater transparency of Nicole Seligman l l reporting and integration of the Board evaluation process Hugo Shong l with succession planning.
The Board has for some time had a strategy in Sally Susman l place for an agreed or foreseen departure of the senior Sol Trujillo l management team including the Group Chief Executive The Senior Independent Director, Nicole Seligman, and Group Finance Director and also in the event of customarily attends all Board Committee meetings.
83 WPPAnnual Report 2017 How we behave and how we're rewarded Review of the Companys governance and the Nomination and Governance Committee Board and Committee evaluation Independence The annual evaluation of the Boards and all Committees The independence of each Non-Executive Director is effectiveness has been conducted internally by the Senior assessed annually by the Board.
The Board has confirmed Independent Director following the  that all of the Non-Executives standing for re-election at evaluation concluded in 2016. the 2017 AGM continue to demonstrate the characteristics Each director completed a confidential questionnaire of independence.
and then held separate conversations with the Senior Independent Director and individual directors considering Time commitment the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees and Letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors do an assessment of my performance as Chairman.
The not set out a fixed time commitment for Board attendance discussions also considered the progress made by the Board and duties but give an indication of the likely time required.
and directors in implementing the recommendations of the It is anticipated that the time required by directors will previous evaluations.
The recommendations and agreed fluctuate depending on the demands of the business actions from this years evaluation will be published on and other events.
Development Diversity On joining WPP, Non-Executive Directors are given The Board confirms its commitment to diversity, including an induction which includes one-to-one meetings with gender, at all levels of the Group.
The Boards policy on management and the external auditors, briefings on the diversity commits WPP to increasing diversity across its duties of directors of a Jersey company, the Share Dealing subsidiaries and supports the development and promotion Code, WPP Code of Conduct and the UK Corporate of all talented individuals.
As at 31 December 2017, Governance Code.
The induction also covers the Board women comprised 25% of the WPP Board and 30% of Committees that a director will join.
Non-Executive Directors, including the Senior Independent All directors are fully briefed on important developments Director.
Nine different nationalities were represented on in the various business activities which the Group carries the Board, with a broad spectrum of skills, backgrounds out worldwide and regularly receive extensive information and experience which are disclosed in detail on pages concerning the Groups operations, finances, risk factors 68 to 70.
The Board intends to restore and, if possible, and its people, enabling them to fulfil their duties and improve upon the diverse nature of the Board following obligations as directors.
The directors are also frequently Charlene Begleys retirement in 2017. advised on regulatory and best practice requirements The Group published its UK gender pay gap data for which affect the Groups businesses on a global basis.
2017 in March this year for the first time which showed One Board meeting a year is held in a location other that in the UK the Group median gender pay gap is 14.6%.
In 2017, the Board met in Although this is below the national figure of 18.4% Office Delhi, where it received briefings from all the heads of National Statistics, UK median 2017, the data shows of the Groups Asia Pacific operations.
that there are fewer women at the senior executive level, where pay is highest.
Our aim is to make year-on-year improvements by pursuing the ultimate goal of equal representation at the most senior levels of the Group.
84 WPPAnnual Report 2017 Re-election Sustainability The directors submit themselves for annual re-election Paul Richardson, Executive Director responsible for at each AGM, if they wish to continue serving and are Sustainability together with the head of Sustainability, considered by the Board to be eligible.
Directors may be presented a comprehensive assessment of the Groups appointed by share owners by ordinary resolution or by sustainability performance and risks to the Committee the Board on the recommendation of the Nomination for 2017.
A more detailed sustainability review can be and Governance Committee and must then stand for read on pages 36 to 61 and in our 2017 Pro bono book re-election at the next AGM, where they may be to be published in May 2018. re-elected by ordinary resolution of the share owners.
Terms of reference Directors conflicts of interest The Committees terms of reference, which are reviewed The Board must consider and, if it sees fit, authorise with the Board annually and most recently in April 2017, situations where a director has an interest that conflicts, are on the Companys website at wpp.
or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company.
Any conflicts which are declared are considered for Roberto Quarta authorisation by those directors who have no interest 24 April 2018 in the matter being considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a conflict, the non-conflicted directors must act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the Company and they may impose limits or conditions when giving the authorisation.
Governance The Board is committed to ensuring there is a strong and effective system of corporate governance in place to support the successful execution of the Companys strategy.
During the period under review, we have fully complied with the provisions and applied the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
During the year, the Board was briefed on regulatory and corporate governance developments, including the proposed revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code and considered the impact of those revisions on the Company.
