62 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT REGULATION AND RESPONSIBILITY CONT.
PLAYER PROTECTION AND KEEPING CRIME PLAYER PROTECTION IN LIVE CASINO 6 OUT OF GAMBLING IN POKER PLATFORM Playtechs Live operations provides licensees ENABLING RESPONSIBLE Within the poker network, Playtech employs its with information about player behaviour that GAMBLING AND PLAYER analytical skills to proactively identify at-risk could indicate that players are at-risk.
As with PROTECTION iPoker, the Live Casino operation has very play and unusual betting patterns that could Playtech is committed to provide a safe, fun indicate a potential responsible gambling and limited access to personal information, but and empowering experience for consumers Lives customer support personnel have been or anti-money laundering issue.
Once the and has taken steps to enhance its responsible team identifies potential issues, it escalates trained to identify risky player behaviour and gambling capability in both the B2C and B2B these issues to licensees to take action.
In employ a machine learning application that operations.
During 2017, the Company updated analyses chat for phrases that could indicate 2016, iPoker started informing poker licensees its processes and launched advanced tools to of players whose financial returns fit a pattern a player is at risk.
identify and minimise harmful play, fraud and of sustained losses and sends a monthly money laundering risks.
The report provided Upon noticing such behaviour, the players must to the licensee is done so on an information be documented and reported to licensees.
Playtechs long-term strategic objective is to Prior to doing so, Customer Service personnel only basis and is to be used in conjunction with develop and offer best in class tools that can any existing responsible gaming procedures view the particular players chat and previous help raise standards in operations and across months sessions to evaluate if the player is the licensee already has in place.
Due to the the industry to: limited information available to iPoker, the team displaying problematic behaviour.
Customer cannot decide whether a player has a gambling Service then informs the licensee via email promote safer and responsible play: with a report table and chat excerpt as soon problem, but can help flag potential at risk play for licensees.
Licensees can then use the empower licensees and players with information from Live, along with all of the advanced customer engagement and The following table outlines the percentage gameplay and financial information that the responsible gambling tools to reduce of unique cases escalated to licensees on licensee holds, in order to further analyse the harm: and player behaviour and decide if and what further AML, collusion and responsible gambling improve the quality and use of data over the past three years.
ENABLING RESPONSIBLE GAMBLING AND Currently, Playtechs integrated management KEEPING CRIME OUT OF GAMBLING IN system IMS provides operators and licensees ESCALATIONS TO LICENSEES B2B B2C OPERATIONS with the latest responsible gambling protocols.
The governance, oversight and management The IMS includes controls to ensure fair AML of player protection measures in Playtechs B2C play through fraud-detection services and 0.07% operations were also subject to improvements responsible gambling tools for players.
During this period, Playtech also provides licensees with advanced data 0.09% 2016 completed an AML risk assessment for its analytics tools.
0.21% 2015 B2C operations, using the Gambling AntiMoney Laundering Groups methodology.
To build on Playtechs market-leading position, As a result of the assessment, Playtech has the Company acquired BetBuddy, a leading Collusion enhanced its operational procedures relating responsible gambling analytics solution 1.51% 2017 to VIP & high-risk players, e-wallets and provider, in late 2017.
With this acquisition, customers changing personal details online.
Playtech will be able to more seamlessly 0.94% 2016 The AML risk assessment will be conducted provide its licensees with tools and data to 1.50% 2015 annually alongside a broader compliance risk promote safer play, identify and mitigate atassessment.
During 2018, Playtech will continue risk behaviour and improve the use of data to to enhance its AML monitoring, reviewing risks reduce harm.
RG and controls on a quarterly basis.
0.13% 2017 PLAYER PROTECTION AND GAME DESIGN In addition, the operations continued its reviews 0.05% 2016 In 2017, Playtech and BetBuddy conducted of players that exhibit significant increases an exploratory project to review how data N A 2015 and changes in deposits, wagering and analytics could be used to better understand gaming activity that could indicate AML gaming risks.
The team analysed the play and or responsible gambling risk.
of regular players across casino games and began developing a multi-year roadmap for sustainable game design.
Playtech is now exploring options for future advanced responsible gambling tools to assist game designers, licensees and players.
The first phase of work in 2018 will focus on additional data collection and game risk assessment, upon completion of which potential solutions and pilots will be developed.
63 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT USE OF RESPONSIBLE In October 2017, the Gambling Commission 7 of Great Britain and UKs Competition and GAMBLING TOOLS B2C TREATING CUSTOMERS FAIRLY Markets Authority CMA initiated a joint initiative Playtech is committed to treating its consumer to address concerns about consumer fairness and commercial customers fairly.
As one of by online gambling operators.
The focus of the Proportion of customers the largest suppliers of software to the gaming investigation was on unfair practices around self-excluding sector, we work hard to ensure our systems gaming sign-up and free bet promotions.
comply with all relevant requirements of the One of Playtechs wholly owned subsidiaries, 17.5% jurisdictions in which our licensees operate.
PT Entertainment Services Limited, gave 2017 14.7% undertakings to the CMA and made the 2016 4.4% All of Playtechs products undergo required changes to its operations.
Because 2015 comprehensive testing by independent third of the new CMA requirements, Playtech is parties.
As part of the certification process, our deploying the necessary changes within Proportion of customers games and their software engines including IMS to help our operations and licensees using RG tools the random number generators are regularly meet the new requirements.
tested and certified by leading industry bodies 29.8% to ensure consistency and fair play.
2017 9.8% 2016 3.3% In the B2C operations, Playtech is committed 2015 to advertising and marketing products fairly, providing players with clear and accurate Number of self-exclusions as a percentage information and easy access to customer of total unique customers within Playtechs services.
All customers have the option to B2C operations in the UK.
refer complaints to the Independent Betting RG tools comprise reality checks, time-outs and deposit Service IBAS, our independent Alternative limits.
In 2017, we reengineered our processes for bonus, In 2017, Playtech partnered with GamCare to promotion and advertisements to ensure deliver targeted responsible gambling training that they are developed and approved with across B2C operations, including customer three key principles in mind: Compliance, service staff, chat moderators, product leads, Transparency, Fairness.
VIP teams and senior managers.
This was complemented with efforts to improve awareness and adherence to responsible advertising and marketing practices, anti-money laundering and data protection.
