69 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE environments, including as Non-executive a General Member of the International 4 Director and Chairman of the Audit Masters of Gaming Law and was Chair ANDREW THOMAS Committee of Tesco Bank from 2012 to 2014. of the Isle of Man Gambling Supervision Commission from 2007-2012.
She is SENIOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Skills, competences and experience: currently a Partner and Team Leader Appointment to the Board: within the Intellectual Property and Paul brings a wealth of experience across a Science & Technology teams for variety of sectors, including in the financial Andrew was appointed to the Board in Appleby in the Isle of Man.
June 2012, shortly before the Companys admission to the Main Market.
Skills, competences and experience: Board Committees: Career: Claire is a recognised industry expert in Paul is Chair of the Risk & Compliance eGaming and technology law and regulation, Committee and sits on the Audit Committee, Andrew has enjoyed a career as an with over 20 years experience advising Remuneration Committee and Nominations accountant and businessman, much of gaming and financial services clients as Committee.
which has been within the leisure industry.
an in-house and private practice lawyer.
Andrew is currently Chairman of Randalls Limited, a family-owned pub company in 6 Board Committees: Jersey, where he lives.
Andrew previously JOHN JACKSON Claire sits on the Remuneration Committee, served as Chairman of The Greenalls Group Risk & Compliance Committee, Audit plc and as a Non-executive Director of a NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Committee and Nominations Committee.
number of private and public companies.
Appointment to the Board: He is the founding partner of the Cheshirebased accounting firm, Moors Andrew John was appointed to the Board in Thomas & Co. LLP.
Andrew is a member January 2016. of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales and a member of the Career: Institute of Taxation.
John is a qualified accountant and his previous roles include Group Chief Executive Skills, competences and experience: of Jamie Oliver Holdings Limited from 2007 Andrew combines many years detailed to 2015, Group Retail and Leisure Director experience of advising on taxation matters, of Virgin Group Limited from 1998 to 2007, with financial expertise both as a Chartered and Managing Director of Body Shop Accountant and sitting as a Non-executive International from 1988 to 1994.
He is Director of a number of publicly listed currently Non-executive Chairman of Wilko companies.
Holdings Limited, Non-executive Chairman of Game Digital PLC and Non-executive Board Committees: Chairman of Rick Stein Group.
Andrew chairs the Audit Committee, Skills, competences and experience: which oversees the work of the internal auditors and sits on the Remuneration, John brings a wealth of consumer industry Nomination and Risk & Compliance experience combined with a strong Committees.
He is also the Senior accountancy and financial background.
Board Committees: 5 John is Chair of the Remuneration Committee and sits on the Audit Committee, Risk & PAUL HEWITT Compliance Committee and Nominations NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Committee.
Appointment to the Board: 7 Paul was appointed to the Board in CLAIRE MILNE August 2015.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Career: Appointment to the Board: Paul is a qualified accountant, and his recent executive responsibilities included being Claire was appointed to the Board in July 2016. the Deputy Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer of the Co-Operative Career: Group from 2003 to 2007: and Finance Claire has a masters degree from The Johns and IT Director of the RAC plc from 1999 Hopkins University, Baltimore, is a member to 2003.
Since starting to build a portfolio of The Law Society of Scotland, a Manx of non-executive roles in 2007, Paul has Advocate and a Writer to Her Majestys helped many management teams adapt Signet.
She is a member of the Institute of their business models to respond to, and Directors, the Licensing Executive Society anticipate, changes in their regulatory and the Society for Computers and the Law, 70 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board is accountable to the Companys BOARD OPERATION INTRODUCTION shareholders for good governance and The roles of the Chairman Alan Jackson Responsibility for corporate governance the statement set out below describes and the Chief Executive Officer Mor Weizer lies with the Board, which is committed how the Group applies the principles are separated, clearly defined and their to maintaining high standards of corporate identified in the Code.
respective responsibilities are summarised governance and is ultimately accountable below.
The report which follows THE BOARD explains our most important governance Chairman processes and how they support the COMPOSITION Groups business.
In particular, we have Overall effectiveness of the running As at 31 December 2017, the Board applied the principles of good governance of the Board: comprised the Non-executive Chairman, advocated by the UK Corporate Governance Ensuring the Board as a whole plays a full the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Code the Code.
The Code applied part in the development and determination Financial Officer, and four independent to Playtech throughout the financial year of the Groups strategic objectives: Non-executive Directors.
The list of Directors ended 31 December 2017.
A copy of the Keeping the other Directors informed holding office during the year to 31 December Code is available at www.
uk Our-Work of shareholders attitudes towards 2017 and their responsibilities are set out Codes-Standards Corporate-governance UKthe Company: on pages 68 and 69.
Safeguarding the good reputation of the Company and representing it both With the exception of Andrew Smith who externally and internally: COMPLIANCE STATEMENT was appointed as an Executive Director Acting as the guardian of the Boards We continued to make improvements during and Chief Financial Officer on 10 January decision-making processes: and 2017, the Directors served throughout the the year both to our Board structure and our Promoting the highest standards of governance procedures and I am delighted financial year.
integrity, probity and corporate governance to be able to report that it is the view of throughout the Company and particularly the Board that the Company has been fully Ron Hoffman stepped down as an Executive at Board level.
compliant with the principles of the Code Director and Chief Financial Officer on 10 January 2017. during 2017.
Chief Executive Officer Claire Milne was appointed as a NonThe Non-executive Directors are all Executive leadership of the Companys executive Director on 8 July 2016.
Claire considered by the Board to be independent business on a day-to-day basis: is a recognised expert in eGaming and of management and free of any relationship Developing the overall commercial which could materially interfere with the technology law and regulation, with 20 years objectives of the Group and proposing and experience advising gaming and financial exercise of their independent judgement, developing the strategy of the Group in services clients as an in-house and private as explained above.
conjunction with the Board as a whole: practice lawyer and was, at the time of her Responsibility, together with his senior appointment, and continues to be, a Partner The Company Secretary acts as secretary management team, for the execution of the to the Board and its Committees and his and Team Leader within the Intellectual Groups strategy and implementation of Property and Science and Technology teams appointment and removal is a matter for the Board decisions: for Appleby Isle of Man LLC the Firm.
The Company Secretary Recommendations on senior appointments The Firm has provided, and continues to is a member of the Groups management and development of the management team: provide, regulatory and legal advice to team and all the Directors have access and to his advice and services.
the Company from time to time, however, Ensuring that the affairs of the Group are given the overall size of the Firm and the conducted with the highest standards of relatively small scale of fees received, this integrity, probity and corporate governance.
relationship was not considered to impact on her independence.
In addition, in order to reinforce her independence, it was agreed that following her appointment, Claire would Directors Name Title not be involved in the provision of advice Alan Jackson Non-executive Chairman by the Firm to the Group, her remuneration from the Firm would not be linked, directly Mor Weizer Executive Director, Chief Executive Officer or indirectly, to the receipt of fees from the Group, and that any potential residual Andrew Smith Executive Director, Chief Financial Officer conflicts will be managed carefully.
appointed on 10 January 2017 The Companys auditor, BDO LLP, is required Andrew Thomas Non-executive Senior Independent Director to review whether the above statement reflects the Companys compliance with the Paul Hewitt Non-executive Director Code by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing John Jackson Non-executive Director Authority and to report if it does not reflect such compliance.
No such negative report Claire Milne Non-executive Director has been made.
71 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE MATTERS CONSIDERED BY THE BOARD IN 2017 Month Material matters considered January Review of operations Appointment of Joint Broker Budget FY2017 February Review of the 2016 financial results and approval of the Annual Report and Accounts for 2016 Consideration of a final dividend Review of merger & acquisition opportunities Proposal on community engagement April Review of Asian Markets Review of merger & acquisition opportunities Review of Sun Bingo May Review of UK Market Review of operations Prepare for AGM and GM June Review of banking arrangements Review of Sun Bingo Review of tax planning Review of current trading August Review of interim results Consideration of interim dividend Review of tax planning October Full year forecast 2017 Update from management meeting Review of merger & acquisition opportunities November Trading Update Full year forecast 2017 Review of Asian Markets Review of Sun Bingo Board evaluation Review of GDPR 72 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORT CONT.
Board meetings are generally held at the HOW THE BOARD FUNCTIONS RESPONSIBILITY AND DELEGATION registered office of the Company on the In accordance with the Code, the Board The Chairman is primarily responsible for Isle of Man, although during the year a is collectively responsible for the longthe efficient functioning of the Board.
He meeting was held in each of Vienna, term success of the Company.
The Board ensures that all Directors receive sufficient Gibraltar and Milan.
provides entrepreneurial leadership for the relevant information on financial, business Company within a framework of prudent and corporate issues prior to meetings.
Directors are provided with comprehensive and effective controls that enable risk to be The Chief Executive Officers responsibilities background information for each meeting assessed and managed.
The Board sets the focus on co-ordinating the Groups business and all Directors were available to participate Companys strategic aims, and ensures that and implementing Group strategy.
Regular fully and on an informed basis in Board the necessary resources are in place for the interaction between the Chairman and decisions.
In addition, certain members Company to meet its objectives and reviews Chief Executive Officer between meetings of the senior management team including management performance.
ensures the Board remains fully informed of the Chief Operating Officer, the General developments in the business at all times.
Counsel, the Head of Regulatory and The Board meets regularly and frequently, Compliance and the Head of Investor with 9 meetings scheduled and held in 2017.
There remains in place a formal schedule Relations are invited to attend the whole or During the year, it was also necessary for of matters specifically reserved for Board parts of the meetings to deliver their reports the Board to hold one unscheduled Board consideration and approval, which includes on the business.
Any specific actions arising meeting by telephone in accordance with the the matters set out below: during meetings are agreed by the Board articles of association, in connection with the and a comprehensive follow-up procedure trading update announced in November 2017.
Approval of the Groups long-term ensures their completion.
objectives and commercial strategy: During the year, the Chairman met the other Approval of the annual operating and Details of the attendance of the Directors at Non-executive Directors in the absence of capital expenditure budgets and any meetings of the Board and its Committees the Executive Directors to re-confirm and changes to them: are set out in the table below.
take account of their views.
All Non-executive Major investments or capital projects: Directors have sufficient time to fulfil their The extension of the Groups activities into commitments to the Company.
any new business or geographic areas, or to cease any material operations: In addition to receiving reports from the Changes in the Companys capital structure Boards Committees, reviewing the financial or management and control structure: and operational performance of the Group Approval of the Annual Report and and receiving regular reports on M&A, legal, Accounts, preliminary and half-yearly regulatory and investor relations matters at financial statements: interim management the Board meetings, the other key matters statements and announcements considered by the Board during 2017 regarding dividends: are set out in the table on page 71.
Number of meetings Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Risk Alan Jackson 9 of 9 9 of 9 1 of 1 4 of 4 Mor Weizer 9 of 9 Andrew Smith 8 of 9 Claire Milne 9 of 9 4 of 4 9 of 9 1 of 1 4 of 4 John Jackson 9 of 9 3 of 4 9 of 9 1 of 1 4 of 4 Andrew Thomas 9 of 9 4 of 4 9 of 9 1 of 1 4 of 4 Paul Hewitt 9 of 9 4 of 4 9 of 9 1 of 1 4 of 4 73 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE Approval of treasury policies, including The Audit Committees report is set out In addition, PwC LLP, in their capacity as foreign currency exposures and use on pages 77 to 79 and details the Audit providers of co-sourced internal audit of financial derivatives: Committees membership, activities during services, and members of the Groups senior Ensuring the maintenance of a the year, significant issues that it considered management including the Chief Security sound system of internal control and in relation to the financial statements and Officer, the Chief Executive Officer, Chief risk management: how those issues were addressed.
The Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer Entering into agreements that are not in report also contains an explanation of how may be invited to attend meetings to present the ordinary course of business or material the Committee assessed the effectiveness of matters or for the Committee to have the strategically or by reason of their size: the external audit process and the approach benefit of their experience.
Changes to the size, composition or taken in relation to the appointment or structure of the Board and its reappointment of the auditors.
The primary responsibilities delegated to, Committees: and and discharged by, the Committee include: Corporate governance matters.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Review managements identification and The Remuneration Committee is responsible In addition, the Board has adopted a formal mitigation of key risks to the achievement for making recommendations to the Board delegation of authorities memorandum which of the Companys objectives: on Remuneration Policy for the Chairman, sets out levels of authority for employees in Monitor incidents and remedial activity: Executive Directors and senior management.
Agree and monitor the risk assessment programme including, in particular, changes The Directors Remuneration Report is The Board has delegated certain to the regulation of online gambling and the set out on pages 80 to 94 and contains responsibilities to a number of Committees assessment of licensees suitability: details the Remuneration Committees of the Board to assist in the discharge of its Agree on behalf of the Board and membership, activities during the year and duties.
The principal Committees currently continually review a risk management the policy on remuneration.
The Chairman are the Audit Committee, the Remuneration strategy and relevant policies for the Group, of the Remuneration Committee attends the Committee, the Risk & Compliance Committee including the employee code of conduct, Annual General Meeting to respond to any and the Nominations Committee.
The minutes anti-bribery policy, anti-money laundering questions that shareholders might raise on of each of these Committees are circulated policy and wider social responsibility issues: the Remuneration Committees activities.
to and reviewed by their members.
The Satisfy itself and report to the Board that the Company Secretary is secretary to each of structures, processes and responsibilities RISK & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE these Committees.
The terms of reference for identifying and managing risks are Under the Code, the Board is responsible for each of the Committees are available adequate: and for determining the nature and extent of to view on the Companys website Monitor and procure ongoing compliance the significant risks it is willing to take in www.
with the conditions of the regulatory achieving its strategic objectives.
The Board licences held by the Group.
should maintain a sound system of risk AUDIT COMMITTEE management and internal control systems The Audit Committees key objectives are Main Principle C. 2. the provision of effective governance over the appropriateness of the Groups financial The Risk & Compliance Committee is chaired reporting, including the adequacy of related by Paul Hewitt.
The other members of the disclosures, the performance of both the Committee are Alan Jackson Non-executive internal and external audit function, and Chairman, Andrew Thomas Non-executive the management of the Groups systems Director, John Jackson Non-executive of internal control, business risks and Director and Claire Milne Non-executive related compliance activities.
Ian Ince Head of Regulatory and Compliance and Robert Penfold Head of Internal Audit attend the Committee.
The Company Secretary, Brian Moore, is secretary to the Committee.
74 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORT CONT.
The Risk & Compliance Committee met A table setting out the principal significant The Nominations Committee has not set itself formally four times during the year and in risks identified by the Group including any formal targets for diversity, including addition held a number of conference calls with the oversight and input of the Risk & gender, and believes that appointments throughout the year, and a summary of the Compliance Committee and the mitigating should be based on merit, compared against key matters considered by the Committee actions that have been undertaken by objective criteria, with the ultimate aim during 2017 are set out below: the Group in relation to these is set out on of ensuring the Board has the right skills, pages 54 to 57 of this report.
knowledge and experience that enable it to Monitor the regulatory position in a number discharge its responsibilities properly.
of jurisdictions including those which are of NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE relative importance to the Group financially The Nominations Committee meets on The Board is required by the Code to and those where changes may represent an as-needed basis.
One formal meeting establish a Nominations Committee a risk or opportunity for the Group: was held in 2017.
The meeting focused which should lead the process for Board Consider the costs and regulatory on the consideration of candidates for the appointments and make recommendations requirements for the Group to seek relevant appointment of Executive Director and Chief for appointments to the Board.
A majority licences in newly regulating markets: Financial Officer.
This led, after a process of members of the Nominations Committee Applications by or on behalf of the involving the review of a number of potential should be independent Non-executive Group for licences in existing or newly candidates, to the appointment of Andrew Directors.
The Nominations Committees regulated markets: Smith in January 2017.
No external search key objective is to ensure that the Board Monitor developments in relation to consultancy was used in the appointment of comprises individuals with the necessary changes in the regulatory regime in the Andrew Smith: however, a list of candidates skills, knowledge and experience to United Kingdom and receiving reports in from a range of backgrounds was prepared.
ensure that it is effective in discharging relation to the likely impact on the Group The Nominations Committee went on to its responsibilities.
and the need for entities within the Group recommend Andrew Smiths appointment to apply for licences: as an Executive Director and Chief Financial The Nominations Committee comprises Alan Consider the overall effectiveness Officer of the Company having considered Jackson Chairman, Andrew Thomas, Paul of the compliance strategy and the in detail his skills, knowledge, experience Hewitt, John Jackson and Claire Milne.
regulatory risks to the Groups operations and contribution to the business in his and revenues: role as Head of Investor Relations.
The Nominations Committee reviews the Receive and consider reports on structure, size and composition of the discussions with, and the results DISCLOSURE COMMITTEE Board and its Committees and makes of audits by regulators: recommendations with regard to any The Disclosure Committee ensures accuracy Monitoring compliance with regulatory changes considered necessary in the and timeliness of public announcements of licences held in all jurisdictions and identification and nomination of new the Company and monitors the Companys adapting procedures, products and Directors, the reappointment of existing obligations under the Listing Rules and technology as appropriate: Directors and appointment of members to Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Review reports by PwC as external advisers the Boards Committees.
It also assesses UK Listing Authority.
Meetings are held on risk management: consideration of the the roles of the existing Directors in as required.
At the date of this report the risks identified from the Groups risk register office to ensure that there continues to Disclosure Committee comprises Andrew and of the effectiveness of actions taken be a balanced Board in terms of skills, Thomas Chairman of the Audit Committee, to mitigate such risks: and knowledge, experience and diversity.
The Andrew Smith Chief Financial Officer, Alex Consideration of the key risks associated Nominations Committee reviews the senior Latner General Counsel and Brian Moore with the Financials division.
leadership needs of the Group to enable it Company Secretary.
to compete effectively in the marketplace.
The Committee has been kept informed The Nominations Committee also advises the of any changes to the regulatory position Board on succession planning for Executive in any significant jurisdiction where the Director appointments although the Board Group, through its licensees, and Financials itself is responsible for succession generally.
division, may be exposed and updated on progress in relation to agreed action items on a regular basis.
The Committee can also convene meetings on a more frequent basis or as when matters arise, if it is determined that enhanced monitoring of a specific risk is warranted.
