64 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT REGULATION AND RESPONSIBILITY CONT.
8 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Playtech has approximately 5,000 people in 17 different countries and relies on diverse backgrounds, cultures and perspectives to remain successful.
We embrace people from different cultures, ethnicities, social backgrounds and beliefs.
Playtech recognises it must do more to attract, recruit, and promote a diverse workforce across all levels.
The Companys immediate focus is on creating and supporting a diverse pipeline of future leaders within the Company.
In 2017, Playtech took a number of steps to improve its recruitment, promotion, and mentoring practices and procedures to support our commitments.
These included testing blind CVs.
GIRLS IN TECH GIBRALTAR In addition to reviewing internal processes, EMPOWERING THE NEXT Playtech engaged with various diversity initiatives aimed at furthering inclusion and GENERATION OF WOMEN IN TECH equality within our markets and the gaming & technology sector.
Playtech is proud to support the launch The Gibraltar Finance Centre joined the of the Girls in Tech Gibraltar chapter, sponsors list and provided monetary Playtech initiated, engaged and joined initiatives aimed at empowering women and which opened its doors in early 2017. prizes for the top three places, with The chapter, which is part of a global first place receiving 2,000 in prize underserved segments of society to access network of 64 chapters across the money for their winning solution that and be successful in the digital economy.
For example, Playtech Estonia has continued to globe, was established to inspire, provided a complete and modern engage and empower women in solution to replace Childlines legacy support the Tech Sisters community, a nonprofit organisation with a vision to inspire, STEM fields.
call centre and management software.
This initiative provided positive and educate and encourage women and girls Throughout the year, the Gibraltar sustainable benefit in the future.
In 2017, Playtech was proud to host the kick-off of the Tech Sisters chapter delivered a wide range of events to facilitate exchange of Throughout the year, the Gibraltar Tartu chapter.
Playtech Estonia also participated in a government initiative called Choose IT: experiences and inspiring stories, chapter has attracted the attention to build new programming skills and and support of professionals in both an adult retraining programme aiming to give to help deliver solutions for social the public and private sector as well participants basic software developer skills.
Participants receive a basic intensive challenges.
as the Chief Minister of Gibraltar and the newly appointed Mayor.
training and internship in IT companies.
In 2017, Playtech Estonia was proud to welcome Through its two day programming Bootcamp, the chapter enabled 24 In addition, their work has caught the two such interns in the Playtech Tallinn office.
participants, with little to no technical attention of educational institutions In addition, Playtech Estonia participated in a government initiative aimed at improving knowledge, to deliver a fully functional who want to provide their students blog application: launching their own with the excitement and potential that employment opportunities in IT for people with partial disabilities and Playtech Estonia is also deployments of the software to the the STEM fields present to todays internet.
Not only did participants younger generation.
donating its expertise and hardware to a local learn new skills but a number are NGO that unites people with physical disability.
also contemplating continuing their education with a view towards changing their career to a technical focus.
The chapter also sponsored a Hacking for Humanity initiative to engage local communities and charities on their challenges in order to explore and create innovative and forward-thinking solutions for important causes.
Participating charities included Childline, Animals in Need and Understanding Gibraltar.
65 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 9 GENDER DIVERSITY WOMEN AS A GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS MANAGING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL PROPORTION OF TOTAL EMPLOYEES FOOTPRINT 31 DECEMBER 2017 Energy consumption kWh Playtechs environmental footprint is limited compared to that of our peers with industrial 14,610,623 2017 Employees operations.
However, Playtech recognises 13,368,090 2016 that the energy it consumes in offices and Males 12,278,517 2015 data centres creates greenhouse gases GHG 57.5% 2017 that contributes to climate change.
Climate 60.2% 2016 change remains one of the biggest challenges Scope 1 energy emission - gas facing humanity, and Playtech is committed Females Tonnes CO2e to reducing its GHG footprint by being as 42.5% 2017 efficient as possible.
To date, as a young but 287 2017 39.8% 2016 fast-growing business, Playtech has focused 220 2016 on strengthening its approach to energy data 221 2015 collection and analysis.
In the next phase, Senior Managers Playtech plans to identify energy hotspots Males within its operations and put in place plans Scope 2 emissions electricity 92.0% 2017 to reduce emissions.
and district heating Tonnes CO2e 92.0% 2016 10 6,651 2017 Females 7,176 2016 CONTRIBUTING TO LOCAL 8.0% 2017 COMMUNITIES 6,721 2015 8.0% 2016 Playtech people are at the forefront of innovation.
Together, employees have a wealth Total GHG emissions tonnes CO2e Directors of valuable skills and experience.
In 2017, Playtech began to develop and formalise a new 6,920 2017 Males program to support and encourage employees 7,396 2016 85.7% 2017 to use their skills to make a positive social 85.7% 2016 impact in the communities where the Company CO2 Intensity CO2e employee operates.
This program will be fully deployed Females in 2018, providing employees with support to 1.4 2017 14.3% 2017 connect with the causes they are passionate 1.5 2016 about, taking time off for volunteering as well as 14.3% 2016 contributing to individual and team fundraising.
1.3 2015 Employees are defined as the total number of employees on the payroll on the final day 2017 absolute data is an estimate based on of the calendar year 31 December.
99% actual data coverage by headcount.
The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 66 Senior Managers are defined as the top Using the latest Department for Environment, is approved by the Board of Directors 100 highest earning employees at Playtech.
Food & Rural Affairs DEFRA gas and district and signed on their behalf: 2016 figures have been restated to reflect heating conversion factors CO2e.
Using the latest DEFRA electricity conversion Directors are defined as Board Directors factor CO2e for all UK locations and the latest on 31 December.
International Energy Agency IEA conversion factors for all non-UK sites CO2.
Mor Weizer Chief Executive Officer Andrew Smith Chief Financial Officer 22 February 2018 66 66 PLA PLAYTECH PL YTECH PLC ANNU C ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT AND A T AND ACCOUNT CCOUNTS 2017 S 2017 S STRA TRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T SPOTLIGHT ESTONIA INCREASING ACCESS TO DIGITAL SKILLS AND CAPABILITIES Throughout 2017, Playtech offices around Throughout the year, Playtech Estonia the world dedicated their expertise, time and employees donated their time to host resources to building work with vulnerable workshops, teach, mentor, and host job groups, young people, public institutions and shadowing for students interested and or members of the local communities to build specialising in ICT.
These initiatives enabled the confidence and skills to be successful participants to learn more about hardware, in a digital economy.
PCs and ICT as well as career and internship opportunities in IT and encouraged to take an Playtech Estonia sponsored three of the internship work in this field.
Employees also largest ICT events in Estonia: Geekout, participated in curriculum reviews and served Nordic Testing Days and Topconf Tallinn as judges mentors in some tech-related as well as the largest startup festival contests, events and conferences.
In addition, Playtech Estonia sponsored Tartu HuviTERA programmers lab for the 2017 2018 academic year, which is dedicated to supporting young programmers.
In addition, smaller sponsorships and prizes were given out to local LAN events.
GOVERNANCE 67 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE The Board believes that high standards of corporate governance contribute to Playtechs performance and continued success.
Alan Jackson Chairman in relation to internal controls and processes.
protected by robust processes and DEAR SHAREHOLDER The historical Internal Audit Relationship procedures while providing an environment I am pleased to present Playtechs with  LLP PwC that fosters an entrepreneurial spirit that Governance Reports to shareholders.
remains in place and Playtech is therefore allows our senior management team and a co-sourced arrangement, with PwC employees to continue to deliver the year-onThis was a busy year for the Group during continuing to provide support to the Internal year growth that we have achieved in recent which time the Board has been able to Audit Team given their experience of the years.
This balance enables us to clearly provide strategic leadership and I would like Group and the specialist services they offer.
focus on the key risks facing the Group to pass on my gratitude for the enthusiasm but to be flexible enough in our approach and dedication which the Directors and We continued to listen to and understand to accommodate changes resulting from senior management have demonstrated.
the views of our shareholders.
In addition developments in our strategy or changes in We have continued to focus on ensuring to the usual processes, we met with the regulatory environment.
that we have an appropriate governance institutional shareholders, particularly framework in place.
The Board believes around our proposals for changes to our We have set out in the following sections that high standards of corporate governance Remuneration Policy which were approved how we seek to manage the principal risks contribute to Playtechs performance and at our general meeting in May, together and uncertainties facing the business with continued success and these standards are with results announcements and at different further details on our governance framework, central to the effective management of the investor conferences with a focus on the to explain how our corporate governance business and to maintaining the confidence strategic vision of the Group.
The Board continues to strive to ensure that The Annual General Meeting AGM is The Board has confidence in the future the Groups governance structure protects an important opportunity for the Board to of the Group and sees significant growth the sustainability of its businesses and the meet with shareholders, particularly those opportunities, and remains focused on communities in which it operates, while who may not otherwise have the chance looking for such opportunities in regulated maximising shareholder value and treating all to engage with the Board and senior and soon-to-be regulated markets.
The Board also sets the management.
Our 2018 AGM is scheduled continue to work closely with regulators in tone for the Company.
The way in which it for 10.00 am on 16 May 2018 at The Sefton various markets to ensure our compliance conducts itself, its attitude to ethical matters, Hotel, Douglas, Isle of Man and we look with local laws and regulations.
its definitions of success and the assessment forward to seeing you there.
of appropriate risk, all define the atmosphere Following the strengthening of our Internal within which the executive team works.
Alan Jackson Audit Team in 2016, we have continued Chairman with our commitment to having a dedicated The Board is cognisant of the need to strike in-house function and this underlines our a careful balance to ensure that shareholders 22 February 2018 focus on the increasing levels of complexity and other stakeholders are appropriately 68 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE TRUSTED LEADERSHIP BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Board Committees: 2 1 He chairs the Management Committee and ALAN JACKSON MOR WEIZER attends the Remuneration, Risk & Compliance NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER and Nominations Committees at the invitation of the Chairs of those Committees.
Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Alan was appointed to the Board in 2006 Mor was appointed as Playtechs Chief 3 on the Companys flotation on the Alternative Executive Officer in May 2007.
ANDREW SMITH Investment Market and became Chairman Career: in October 2013.
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Prior to being appointed CEO, Mor was Career: the Chief Executive Officer of one of the Appointment to the Board: Alan has over 40 years experience in Groups subsidiaries, Techplay Marketing Andrew was appointed as Playtechs the leisure industry.
From 1973 to 1991, he Ltd. which required him to oversee the Chief Financial Officer on 10 January 2017, occupied a number of positions at Whitbread, Groups licensee relationship management, having joined the Group in 2015. both in the UK and internationally, principally product management for new licensees as Managing Director of Beefeater Steak and the Groups marketing activities.
Before Career: Houses and also the Whitbread restaurant joining Playtech, Mor worked for Oracle for Having qualified as a solicitor with Ashurst division where he was responsible for the over four years, initially as a development in 2001, Andrew moved into investment creation and development of the Beefeater, consultant and then as a product manager, banking, first with ABN AMRO and then Travel Inn and TGI Friday brands and was which involved creating sales and consulting with Deutsche Bank, specialising in both responsible for Whitbreads international channels on behalf of Oracle Israel and the Technology and Leisure sectors.
In 1991, he founded Oracle Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
Andrew joined Playtech in 2015 as Inn Business Group plc, which was acquired Earlier in his career, he worked in a variety Head of Investor Relations.
He was of roles, including as an auditor and financial Chairman of The Restaurant Group plc from consultant for  Skills, competences and experience: 2001 until he retired from this position in and a system analyst for Tadiran Electronic Andrew brings a wealth of financial, 2016.
He stepped down from his role as Systems Limited, an Israeli company that capital markets and M&A experience Deputy Chairman and Senior Non-executive designs electronic warfare systems.
to the Board and has been integral to Director at Redrow plc in September 2014.
Playtechs operational and strategic Skills, competences and experience: progress since joining the business.
Skills, competences and experience: Mor is a qualified accountant and brings Having held several Board positions in both considerable international sales and Board Committees: an executive and non-executive capacity in management experience in a hi-tech Andrew sits on the Management Committee a variety of listed companies in the UK, he environment and extensive knowledge and attends meetings of the Audit Committee brings substantial experience of working in of the online gambling industry.
Until June and the Risk & Compliance Committee at the public and private companies, along with 2013 he was a Non-executive Director invitation of the Chairs of those Committees.
of Sportech PLC as the Companys representative, and resigned when Board Committees: Playtech disposed of its shareholding.
He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Risk & Compliance Committees.
