FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS GOVERNANCE REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT Corporate Governance Statement The Company is a member of the Association of Investment The following table sets out the Directors meeting attendance in Companies the AIC.
The Board has therefore considered the 2017. principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Directors attendance in 2017 Governance issued in July 2016 the AIC Code by reference to the Audit Management AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies issued and Risk Nomination Engagement at the same time the AIC Guide, both of which can be found Board Committee Committee Committee at theaic.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, No.
of meetings 4 3 1 1 addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance 1 Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in April 2016, C Russell 4 n a 1 1 which can be found at frc.
uk, as well as setting out additional T Clark 4 3 1 1 principles and recommendations on issues specific to investment M R Moore 4 3 1 1 companies.
The AIC Code also incorporates a framework of best 2 practice for Guernsey-domiciled member companies.
P Niven 2 1 1 1 P Marcuse 4 3 1 1 The Board considers that it is appropriate to report against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference P Cornell 4 3 1 1 to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance D Preston 4 3 1 1 Code.
In addition to the scheduled meetings detailed above, there were a further 12 Board Meetings and 2 Board Committee Meetings held In September 2011, the Guernsey Financial Services Commission during the year.
issued a Finance Sector Code of Corporate Governance the GFSC Code.
As the Company already reports against the AIC Code 1 C Russell is not a member of the audit and risk committee and the UK Corporate Governance Code it is deemed to meet the 2 Retired 31 May 2017 requirements of the GFSC Code and has therefore not reported further on its compliance with that code.
Individual Directors may, at the expense of the Company, seek independent professional advice on any matter that concerns Since all the Directors are non-executive, in accordance with the them in the furtherance of their duties.
The Company maintains AIC Code and the preamble to the UK Corporate Governance Code, the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code on the appropriate directors and officers liability insurance.
role of the chief executive and, except in so far as they apply to nonThe basis on which the Company aims to generate value over executive Directors, on Directors remuneration, are not relevant to the longer term is set out in its objective and investment policy as the Company, and are not reported on further.
A management agreement between the Company and FCIB sets out the matters over which the Managers The Companys Articles of Incorporation require all Directors to have authority and the limits beyond which Board approval must retire by rotation at least every three years.
However, in accordance be sought.
All other matters, including investment and dividend with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the UK Corporate policies, corporate strategy, gearing, corporate governance Governance Code the Board has agreed that all Directors will retire procedures and risk management, are reserved for the approval annually and, if appropriate, seek re-election.
of the Board of Directors.
The Board meets at least quarterly and The Boards policy on tenure is that continuity and experience are receives full information on the Companys investment performance, considered to add significantly to the strength of the Board and, as assets, liabilities and other relevant information in advance of Board such, no limit on the overall length of service of any of the Directors, meetings.
including the Chairman, has been imposed.
Throughout the year a number of committees have been in place.
The Board, which is composed solely of independent nonThose committees are the Audit and Risk Committee, the executive Directors, regularly reviews the independence of its Management Engagement Committee and the Nomination members.
All the Directors have been assessed by the Board as Committee.
The committees operate within clearly defined terms remaining independent of the Managers and of the Company itself: of reference which are available for inspection upon request at the each remains independent in character and judgement with no Companys registered office.
relationships or circumstances relating to the Company that are likely to affect that judgement.
Report and Accounts 2017 | 33 F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Audit and Risk Committee from the Chairman to each of the Directors.
The evaluation of the Chairman was led by the Senior Independent Director in The Report of the Audit and Risk Committee is contained on pages consultation with all the other Directors.
An external independent 35 to 36. board assessment was last carried out in 2015 and the next external assessment is scheduled to be completed during 2018.
Management Engagement Committee The Management Engagement Committee comprises all the Relations with Shareholders Directors and was chaired by Mr P Niven until his retirement at the AGM, this Committee is now chaired by Mr D Preston.
The Company proactively seeks the views of its shareholders and The committee reviews the appropriateness of the Managers places great importance on communication with them.
The Board receives regular reports from the Managers and brokers on the continuing appointment together with the terms and conditions views of shareholders, and the Chairman and other Directors meet thereof on a regular basis.
It also reviews the terms and quality of with major shareholders at least annually and make themselves service received from other service providers on a regular basis.
As stated in the Remuneration Report on page 37 to 38, the full available to meet shareholders when required to discuss any significant issues that have arisen and address shareholder Board determines the level of Directors fees and accordingly there concerns and queries.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting to be is no separate Remuneration Committee.
held on 6 June 2018 is set out on pages 69 and 70.
It is hoped that Nomination Committee this will provide a forum, both formal and informal, for shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the Directors and Managers of the The Nomination Committee comprises all the Directors and is Company.
The Annual Report and Notice of Annual General Meeting chaired by Mr C Russell.
The Board considers that, given its size, are posted to shareholders at least 20 working days before the it would be unnecessarily burdensome to establish a separate Annual General Meeting.
nomination committee which did not include the entire Board and believes that this enables all Directors to be kept fully informed of any issues that arise.
On behalf of the Board The committee is convened for the purpose of ensuring that plans are in place for orderly succession for appointments to the Board.
Appointments to the Board are based on merit, but in considering appointments the Nomination Committee also takes into account the ongoing requirements of the Company and the need to have Chris Russell a balance of skills, experience, independence, diversity, including Director gender, and knowledge of the Company within the Board.
The 16 April 2018 Committee is mindful of the recommendations of the Hampton Alexander Review improving gender balance in FTSE Leadership, in particular the recommendation that a Board should have at least 33 per cent representation by 2020 and this will be considered during the recruitment process for the next Non-Executive Director.
Whenever there are new appointments, these Directors receive an induction from the Managers and Company Secretary on joining the Board.
All Directors receive other relevant training, collectively or individually, as necessary.
During the year the performance of the Board, Committees and individual Directors was evaluated through an assessment process led by the Chairman.
The process involved the completion of questionnaires tailored to suit the nature of the Company, discussions with individual Directors and individual feedback 34 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited
