FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS GOVERNANCE REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT Report of the Audit and Risk Committee Role of the Committee In relation to the provision of non-audit services by the auditor, it has been agreed that all non-audit work to be carried out by the auditor During the year the Audit and Risk Committee comprised all the must be approved in advance by the Audit and Risk Committee and Directors except the Chairman of the Board, Mr C Russell.
The any special projects must also be approved in advance.
In addition Audit and Risk Committee is chaired by Mrs T Clark who is a to statutory audit fees of 67,000 2016: 65,000, PwC received Chartered Accountant with a current practising certificate from audit-related fees of 15,500 for the year 2016: 15,000 which ICAEW.
She qualified in 1985, and was Senior Audit Manager at related principally to a review of the interim financial information.
She held the position as Head of European Internal Audit The Audit and Risk Committee does not consider that the provision for Bank of Bermuda and in 1995 moved to Schroders C. I.
Limited of such audit-related services is a threat to the objectivity and as financial controller, before being promoted to Chief Executive in independence of the conduct of the audit.
As part of the review of auditor independence and effectiveness, The duties of the committee include reviewing the Annual and PwC have confirmed that they are independent of the Group and Interim Accounts, the system of internal controls, the viability of have complied with relevant auditing standards.
In evaluating PwC, the Company and the terms of appointment and remuneration of the Audit and Risk Committee has taken into consideration the the auditor,  CI LLP PwC, including its standing, skills and experience of the firm and the audit team.
It is also the forum through which Committee assesses the effectiveness of the audit process through PwC reports to the Board of Directors.
The committee meets at the reporting it receives from PwC in respect of both the half year least three times a year including at least one meeting with PwC.
and year end Report and Accounts.
The committee is satisfied that Audit and Risk Committee met on three occasions during the year PwC has provided effective independent challenge in carrying out its and the attendance of each of the members is set out on page 32. responsibilities.
In the course of its duties, the committee had direct access to PwC, senior members of the Investment Managers and the Property PwC have been auditor to the Group since the year ended Managers.
Amongst other things, the Audit and Risk Committee 31 December 2016 following a tender process in November 2015. considered and reviewed the following matters and reported thereon The current audit engagement partner Evelyn Brady, has now to the Board: served two years.
The Audit and Risk Committee recommends PwC for reappointment at the next Annual General Meeting.
the annual and half-yearly reports and accounts: the accounting policies of the Group: Internal Controls and Risk Management the principal risks faced by the Company and the effectiveness The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal of the Companys internal control environment: control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
It has therefore the effectiveness of the audit process and related non-audit established a process designed to meet the particular needs of the services and the independence and objectivity of PwC, their Company in managing the risks to which it is exposed, consistent re-appointment, remuneration and terms of engagement: with the internal control guidance issued by the Financial Reporting the policy on the engagement of PwC to supply non-audit Council.
services: As part of this process, a matrix has been created that identifies the implications of proposed new accounting standards and the Companys key functions, including those carried out by the regulatory changes: Managers and other service providers, and the individual activities the receipt of Report on Internal Controls in accordance with undertaken within those functions.
From this, the Board has AAF 01 06 for the period 1 November 2016 to 31 October identified the Companys principal risks and the controls employed 2017 from the Managers: and to manage those risks.
These are reviewed at each quarterly Board whether the Annual Report is fair, balanced and Meeting.
The Board also monitors the investment performance understandable.
of the Company against its stated objective and comparable companies and reviews the Companys activities since the last Board meeting to ensure that the Managers adhere to the agreed External Audit Process investment policy and approved investment guidelines and, if As part of its review of the scope and results of the audit, during necessary, approves changes to the guidelines.
In addition, the the year the Audit and Risk Committee considered and approved Board receives quarterly reports from the Company Secretary in PwCs plan for the audit of the financial statements for the year respect of compliance matters and duties performed on behalf of ended 31 December 2017.
At the conclusion of the audit, PwC the Company.
did not highlight any issues to the Audit and Risk Committee which would cause it to qualify its audit report, nor did it highlight A formal annual review of these procedures is carried out by the any fundamental internal control weaknesses.
PwC issued an Audit and Risk Committee.
The Committee has also reviewed the unqualified audit report which is included on pages 40 to 44.
Managers Report on Internal Controls in accordance with AAF Report and Accounts 2017 | 35 F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 01 06 for the period 1 November 2016 to 31 October 2017 that The Audit and Risk Committee has reviewed the need for an internal has been prepared for their investment company clients.
It has decided that the systems and procedures a report from independent external accountants, the report sets out employed by the Managers and the Company Secretary, including the Managers control policies and procedures with respect to the their internal audit functions and the work carried out by the management of their clients investments.
The effectiveness of these Companys external auditor, provide sufficient assurance that a controls is monitored by the Managers group audit committee sound system of internal control, which safeguards the Companys which receives regular reports from the Managers audit, risk and assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function specific to the compliance department.
Procedures are in place to capture and Company is therefore considered unnecessary.
evaluate failings and weaknesses and ensure that action would be taken to remedy any significant issues identified from this monitoring, which would be reported to the Board.
No significant failings or weaknesses in respect of the Company were identified in the year under review nor to the date of this report.
The depositary Trudi Clark provides quarterly reports to the Board and carries out daily Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee independent checks on all cash and investment transactions and is liable for any loss of assets.
16 April 2018 The review of procedures detailed above have been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, the Audit and Risk Committee and the Board is satisfied with their effectiveness.
These procedures are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and, by their nature, can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Significant Matters Considered by the Audit and Risk Committee in Relation to the Financial Statements Matter Action Valuation of the Investment Property Portfolio The Board and Audit and Risk Committee reviewed the outcomes The Groups property portfolio accounted for 96 per cent of its total of the valuation process throughout the year and discussed the assets as at 31 December 2017.
Although valued by an independent detail of each of the quarterly valuations with the Managers at firm of valuers, CBRE Limited, the valuation of the investment property Board Meetings.
The Managers liaise with the valuers on a regular portfolio is inherently subjective, requiring significant judgement by the basis and meet with them prior to the production of each quarterly valuers.
Errors in the valuation could have a material impact on the valuation.
The Board was represented at all of the quarterly valuation Companys net asset value.
Further information about the property meetings with CBRE Limited during the year, including the meeting portfolio and inputs to the valuations are set out in note 8 to the in advance of the production of the year end valuation.
this is the main area of audit focus and, accordingly, the Audit and Risk Committee receives detailed verbal and written reports from PwC on this matter.
PwC also attended the year-end valuation meeting.
