CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Ignis Fund Managers Limited was appointed as the experience with women now making up a third of Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM the Companys Board composition.
Consideration of the Company from 18 July 2014.
Following the of Directors fees and remuneration policy is takeover of Ignis Asset Management by Standard Life also undertaken by the Nomination Committee.
Investments Limited in 2014, the Board appointed The Nominations Committee met four times Standard Life Investments Corporate Funds during the year to consider the appointment of Limited as AIFM on 29 December 2015.
A summary Ms Littlejohns, the appointment of Mr Fowlds of the current contract between the Company and to consider the level of Directors fees.
and Standard Life Investments Corporate Funds Limited in respect of management services provided Property Valuation Committee is given in note 3 to the accounts.
The Property Valuation Committee comprises The Management Engagement Committee has all of the Directors and is currently chaired by considered the investment performance of the Mr Michael Ayre.
Committee members meet CBRE, Company and the capability and resources of the independent valuer to the Company, and the Investment Manager to deliver satisfactory representatives of Standard Life Investments at least investment performance.
They also considered twice a year and report back to the Board on the the length of the notice period of the investment process for arriving at independent valuations and management contract and the fees payable to the on any issues that arise in relation to this process.
Investment Manager, together with the standard of the other services provided.
Risk Committee Following this review, it is the Directors opinion Introduction The Board A management agreement between the Company that the continuing appointment of the Investment The Risk Committee was established on 21 September and its Investment Manager sets out the matters over Manager on the terms agreed is in the interests of 2016, comprises all of the Directors and was chaired which the Investment Manager has authority and the shareholders as a whole due to the strength and quality The Board has considered the principles and The Board consists solely of non-executive Directors by Mr John Robertson up to 31 March 2018 and limits beyond which Board approval must be sought.
of the management team, performance achieved and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate of which Mr Andrew Wilson is Chairman and Ms Littlejohns from 1 April 2018.
The Board All other matters, including strategy, investment and the Investment Managers commitment to the sector.
Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Mr Ken McCullagh is Senior Independent Director established the Risk Committee to ensure that dividend policies, gearing, and corporate governance Corporate Governance Guide for investment and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
All Directors proper consideration of risk is undertaken in all procedures, are reserved for the approval of the The Management Engagement Committee has also Companies AIC Guide both of which can be found are considered by the Board to be independent, with aspects of the Companys business on a regular Board of Directors.
The Board currently meets at conducted reviews of the Companys other service at www.
The AIC Code, as explained any potential conflicts considered at each Board basis.
The duties of the Risk Committee include least quarterly and receives full information on providers, rating each provider on communication by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set meeting with reference to the AIC Code.
The Boards the consideration of matters relating to the risk the Companys investment performance, assets, skills, technical and market knowledge, cost out in the UK Corporate Governance Code which policy on tenure is that continuity and experience profile of the Company, including an assessment liabilities and other relevant information in advance effectiveness and quality of staff.
Where appropriate, can be found at www.
uk, as well as setting are considered to add significantly to the strength of risk appetite, risk tolerance and risk strategy, of Board meetings.
In addition the Board has many the Investment Manager provided input.
The out additional principles and recommendations on of the Board and, as all Directors will be subject to and the regular review of principal risks, seeking ad hoc meetings and an annual strategy day.
outcome of these reviews has been satisfactory.
issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
re-election on an annual basis, it is not appropriate assurance that these risks are appropriately rated for the Board to have a limit on the overall length of and ensuring that appropriate risk mitigation is Board Committees Nominations Committee The Board considers that reporting against the service of any of the Companys Directors, including in place.
The Risk Committee also reviews the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, the Chairman.
Investment Managers risk processes and internal and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates controls, including those related to health and The Board has appointed five committees to cover The Nominations Committee comprises all the UK Corporate Governance Code, will provide an The Board also takes the view that independence is safety, and ensures that risk applying to property specific operations: Audit Committee, Management Directors and is chaired by Mr Andrew Wilson.
appropriate and satisfactory level of transparency not compromised by length of tenure on the Board acquisitions and disposals is fully considered.
Engagement Committee, Nominations Committee, The Nominations Committee considers appointments to shareholders.
and Mr Wilson, who has been a Director since 2006, The Risk Committee meets quarterly.
Property Valuation Committee and Risk Committee.
of new Directors, undertaking a thorough and open has not been compromised by length of service.
Copies of the terms of reference of each committee process involving, where appropriate, professional The Company has complied with the recommendations In considering this, the Board considered a number are available on the Companys website, or upon Directors Meeting Attendance Summary recruitment consultants and committee interviews of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of of factors including experience, integrity and request from the Company.
The Board performs a with candidates whose skills have been identified the UK Corporate Governance Code, except as set judgement of character.
detailed analysis of the various parts of the business as complementary to the existing Board.
The Board The table below sets out the number of Board and out below.
through the Committees and receives reports from and Committee are cognisant of the debate around Committee meetings all held during the year and Mr Robert Fowlds was previously Head of Real the Committee Chairman highlighting matters the recommendations of the Davies Report on the number attended by each Director post their The UK Corporate Governance Code includes Estate Investment Banking at JP Morgan Cazenove, requiring the Boards further attention or noting.
Women on Boards and the Hampton Alexander appointment date.
In addition to the above, there provisions relating to: the Companys broker, up until his retirement in Review and recognises the benefits of diversity were 15 ad hoc meetings held during the year.
He also has a senior advisory role Audit Committee in its broadest sense and the value this brings to All meetings were held outside the UK.
the role of the chief executive A.
1.2 : on a consultancy basis to CBRE who are also the the Company in terms of skills, knowledge and Companys valuer.
This role is in no way linked executive directors remuneration D. 1.1 and D. 1.2.
Information regarding the composition, to the valuation service provided by CBRE.
The responsibilities and activities of the Audit Board believe neither his existing role with CBRE, For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as Committee is set out in the Audit Committee given how independent this is of the Companys explained in the UK Corporate Governance Code, Management Board Audit Nominations Property Valuation Risk valuation process nor the previous role with Report on pages 4748. the Board considers these provisions are not relevant Engagement of Directors Committee Committee Committee Committee JP Morgan Cazenove, where his involvement in Committee to the position of the Company, being an externally the Companys affairs was limited, compromise Management Engagement Committee managed investment company.
In particular, all his independence and hence the Board believe of the Companys day-to-day management and Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Mr Fowlds is independent.
administrative functions are outsourced to third The Management Engagement Committee comprises parties.
As a result, the Company has no executive Andrew Wilson 4 4 3 3 2 2 4 4 5 5 4 4 all independent Directors of the Company and has The Board has a clear strategy in place to refresh directors, employees or internal operations.
The been chaired by Mrs Sandra Platts.
the Board on an ongoing basis and also undertakes Company has therefore not reported further in Directors evaluations set out in the Report of respect of these provisions.
Michael Ayre 4 4 3 3 2 2 4 4 5 5 4 4 The Management Engagement Committee has met the Directors.
The purpose of the Committee is to review the terms of the agreements with the Manager Ken McCullagh 4 4 3 3 2 2 4 4 5 5 4 4 During 2017, the Board engaged Spencer Stuart including, but not limited to, the management fee to carry out a search for two new Directors and and also to review the performance of the Manager Ms Littlejohns and Mr Fowlds were subsequently Sandra Platts 4 4 3 3 2 2 4 4 5 5 4 4 in relation to the achievement of the Companys appointed to the Board on 1 January 2018 and objectives.
These reviews have been conducted 1 April 2018 respectively.
during the year and the outcomes are noted opposite.
John Robertson 4 4 n a n a 2 2 4 4 5 5 4 4 New Directors follow an induction process, including input from the Investment Manager, Secretary and Corporate Broker, on joining the Board and all Directors receive other relevant training as necessary.
44 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts www.
