CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Continued The process is based principally on the Investment The AIFM has a permanent risk management function Composition Significant Issues statements and that a robust process of analysis Managers existing risk-based approach to internal to ensure that effective risk management policies had been followed.
In terms of existence of the control whereby a risk matrix is created that identifies and procedures are in place to monitor compliance properties, the Committee noted the procedures The Audit Committee comprises all Directors, At a planning meeting of the audit held with the the key functions carried out by the Investment with risk limits.
The AIFM has a risk policy which that the Manager has in place to ensure correct except for Mr John Robertson, and is chaired by auditor, the scope and timing of the audit were Manager and other service providers, the individual covers the risks associated with the management of approval and title to all properties held which The AGM of the Company Mr Ken McCullagh.
The committee operates within agreed and it was confirmed that the Directors had activities undertaken within those functions, the the portfolio and the adequacy and appropriateness include any property investment transaction well defined terms of reference which are available no knowledge of any fraud within the Company: provides a forum for risks associated with each activity and the controls of this policy is reviewed at least annually.
documentation having to be approved and signed on the Companys website.
Given the non-executive it was agreed that the significant issues in the audit employed to minimise those risks.
A residual risk by the Board irrespective of its value and the shareholders to meet and nature of the Board, the Committee also believe it is should be the valuations of the properties, the rating is then applied.
The risk matrix is regularly The Board has reviewed the need for an internal obligations on the Companys solicitors to ensure appropriate for the Chairman of the Company to sit accuracy of income recognition in the Company updated and the Risk Committee is provided with audit function.
The Board has decided that good and marketable title.
In addition, as part of discuss issues with the on the Audit Committee.
Within the membership of and taxation.
Set out below is how the Committee regular reports highlighting all material changes the systems and procedures employed by the the external audit, the Committee sought assurance the Committee, Mr Ken McCullagh, the Chairman considered these issues during its review of the Directors and Investment to the risk ratings and confirmation of the action Investment Manager and the Secretary, including from the auditor prior to sign off of the financial and Mr Michael Ayre are chartered accountants.
which has been, or is being, taken.
A formal annual both their internal audit functions and the work statements that the confirmation of all titles has Manager of the Company review of these procedures is carried out by the Risk carried out by the Companys external auditors, been included as part of the audit work undertaken.
Valuation of Properties: Responsibilities Committee and includes consideration of ISAE provide sufficient assurance that a sound system How was the issue addressed?
3402 and similar reports issued by the Investment of internal control, which safeguards shareholders Recognition of Rental Income: Internal Controls Manager and other service providers.
In addition, investments and the Companys assets, is maintained.
How was the issue addressed?
The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee the Board also receives quarterly updates from both An internal audit function specific to the Company are as follows: The valuation of properties is undertaken in the Compliance and Internal Audit departments of is therefore considered unnecessary.
The Board is responsible for the Companys accordance with the accounting policy disclosed The recognition of rental income is undertaken in the Investment Manager on areas that specifically system of internal control and for reviewing its review the Annual and Interim Accounts and in note 1 h to the accounts.
The process adopted accordance with the accounting policy disclosed affect the Company.
Compliance reports are also effectiveness.
The Board has therefore established Relations with Shareholders challenge where necessary the actions and in the valuation of the portfolio and the valuations in note 1 e to the accounts.
The Committee received from the administrator on a quarterly basis.
an ongoing process designed to meet the particular judgements of the Companys Investment Manager: themselves are considered by the Property considered the processes and controls the Manager needs of the Company in managing the risks to Valuation Committee, representatives of which The Company places great importance on has in place to ensure the completeness and Internal control procedures have been in place review and monitor the internal controls and which it is exposed, consistent with the guidance met the external valuer, along with the Investment communication with its shareholders and accuracy of income.
These include data input throughout the period and up to the date of approval risk management systems on which the Company in the Financial Reporting Council publication Manager, as part of the year end valuation process.
welcomes the views of shareholders.
The Manager checks, rent demand reconciliations and rent arrear of this Report, and the Board is satisfied with their Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control is reliant: The Chairman of this Committee reported to the and Broker of the Company meet existing and reconciliations.
In addition the Committee also effectiveness.
These procedures are designed to and Related Financial and Business Reporting.
Audit Committee in March 2018 and indicated that potential shareholders on a regular basis and the determine the terms of appointment of the considered the various reports provided by the manage rather than eliminate risk and, by their the following issues were discussed in the meeting auditor, together with its remuneration: Board receives regular reports on the views of Investment Manager and reviewed on a quarterly nature, can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, with the external valuers: shareholders from these meetings.
In addition basis during the year which included the following: assurance against material misstatement or to advise the Board on whether the Annual Report the Chairman, where possible, meets larger loss.
At each Board meeting the Board monitors and Accounts, taken as a whole are fair, balanced market review and outlook: shareholders annually and other Directors are portfolio yield summaries: the investment performance of the Company in and understandable and provide the information available to meet shareholders if required.
The AGM comparison to its stated objective and against the level of yields on properties within necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys movement in annualised contracted rent: of the Company and also the annual and interim comparable companies.
The Board also reviews the portfolio: performance, business model and strategy.
results presentations provides a forum, both formal the Companys activities since the previous Board quarterly income changes with details of lease and informal, for shareholders to meet and discuss letting activity within the portfolio: meeting to ensure that the Investment Manager activity in the quarter: The Audit Committee is also the channel through issues with the Directors and Investment Manager adheres to the agreed investment policy and approved which the auditor reports to the Board of Directors.
rental value and void changes: and rent collection percentages: of the Company.
investment guidelines and, if necessary, approves It meets at least three times a year to take account comparable evidence relating to the valuation changes to such policy and guidelines.
In addition, rental arrears: and of the requirements placed on audit committees Approved by the Board on 26 April 2018. of the properties.
at each Board meeting, the Board receives reports by the UK Corporate Governance Code and AIC detailed quarterly financial reporting from the Secretary in respect of compliance matters Code.
The Audit Committee considers any matters Andrew Wilson Ken McCullagh detailing out the main reason for revenue Particular focus was given to the underlying yields and duties performed on behalf of the Company which the auditor wishes to communicate to the Director Director movements in the quarter.
applied to a number of the properties and whether including conflicts of interest.
Audit Committee and, through them, to the Board they appropriately reflected the comparable of Directors.
This provides a forum for the external The Audit Committee concluded that, given the evidence, letting activity and the property market The Companys AIFM is Standard Life Investments auditor to give their views about significant as a whole.
Following this meeting and subsequent controls and reporting in place throughout the year, Corporate Funds Limited and its Depositary is qualitative aspects of the Companys accounting the rental income number included in the financial discussions with the Investment Manager, a value Citibank International Limited.
The Depositarys practices and to draw to the attention of the Audit statements of 69,826,000 was appropriate.
of 1,332,923,000 was agreed as the valuation of responsibilities include cash monitoring, safe Committee any significant difficulties that they the property portfolio as at 31 December 2017. keeping of the Companys financial instruments encountered during the audit, any substantial The Audit Committee considered the report by the and monitoring the Companys compliance with uncorrected misstatements, any disagreements Chairman of the Property Valuation Committee investment limits and leverage requirements.
with management and any other matters which along with a summary of the valuation and its key they felt it appropriate to raise.
The auditor attends movements by the Investment Manager and agreed two Audit Committee Meetings a year in person.
that this valuation was appropriate for the financial 46 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts www.
