qxp Layout 1 2 19 18 9:47 PM Page 58 SECTION 6 Corporate Governance Statement Introduction approaches to meeting the Code.
Companies which report The Board recognises the importance of a strong corporate against the UK Corporate Governance Code or the AIC Code governance culture that meets the listing requirements.
The are also deemed to meet the code.
The Directors have Board has put in place a framework for corporate determined that the Company will continue as a Guernseygovernance which it believes is appropriate for an investment registered closed-ended investment company.
company in line with the best practices in relation to matters Non-Mainstream Pooled Investments affecting shareholders, communities, regulators and other On 1 January 2014, certain changes to the FCA rules relating stakeholders of the Company.
With a range of relevant skills to restrictions on the retail distribution of unregulated and experience, all Directors contribute to the Board collective investment schemes and close substitutes came discussions and debates on corporate governance.
particular, the Board believes in providing as much transparency for investors as is reasonably possible to ensure As announced by the Company on 7 January 2014, following investors can clearly understand the prospects of the the receipt of legal advice the Board confirms that it conducts business and enhance liquidity of its shares while also the Company's affairs, and intends to continue to conduct preserving an appropriate level of commercial condentiality.
the Company's affairs, such that the Company would qualify for approval as an investment trust if it were resident in the AIFM Directive United Kingdom and such that Independent Financial The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive seeks to Advisers should therefore be able to recommend its Ordinary regulate alternative investment fund managers in this Shares to ordinary retail investors in accordance with the paragraph, AIFM and imposes obligations on managers FCA's rules relating to non-mainstream investment products.
who manage alternative investment funds in this paragraph, AIF in the EU or who market shares in such funds to EU The Board investors.
The Company is categorised as a self-managed Disclosure under Principle 5 of the AIC Code Non EEA AIF for the purposes of the AIFM Directive.
In order The Board consists of four non-executive Directors.
to maintain compliance with the AIFM Directive, the Company In accordance with Principle 2 of the AIC Code all of the needs to comply with various organisational, operational and non-executives are independent of the Investment Manager.
The Chairman, Helen Mahy, met the independence criteria of Association of Investment Companies the AIC Code Principle 1 upon appointment and has The Company is a member of the Association of Investment continued to meet this condition throughout her term of Companies the AIC and has considered the principles and service.
Although not a requirement of the AIC Code, in recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance accordance with guidance in Principle 1, the Board has a the AIC Code and has decided to follow the AICs Senior Independent Director, Shelagh Mason, who was Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the appointed as Senior Independent Director in 2013.
The Company has complied with the non-executive Directors, none of the Directors has a service recommendations of the AIC Code and in doing so the contract with the Company.
relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, The Articles of Incorporation provide that each of the except as set out below.
Directors shall retire at each annual general meeting in The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions accordance with Principle 3 of the AIC Code.
All four relating to the role of the chief executive, executive directors Directors intend to retire and offer themselves for re-election remuneration and the need for an internal audit function.
For at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2018. the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the The Board believes that long-serving Directors should not be UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers these automatically prevented from forming part of an independent provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company as majority of the Board upon reaching nine years service.
In it has no executive directors, employees or internal accordance with Principle 4 of the Code, if a Director has operations.
The Company has therefore not reported further served more than nine years, the Board will consider the in respect of these provisions.
issue of independence carefully on an annual basis as part of Guernsey regulatory environment the Board self-evaluation and will disclose its conclusions in The Guernsey Financial Services Commission the the Directors Report.
As the Company was formed in 2013 Commission has issued a Finance Sector Code of no Director has yet served for nine years or more.
A Director Corporate Governance the Guernsey code.
The Code who retires at an annual general meeting may, if willing to act, comprises Principles and Guidance, and provides a formal be reappointed.
The Directors are not subject to automatic expression of good corporate practice against which re-appointment.
shareholders, boards and the Commission can better assess The Board believes that the balance of skills, gender, the governance exercised over companies in Guernseys experience and knowledge of the current Board provides for finance sector.
a sound base from which the interests of investors will be The Commission recognises that the different nature, scale served to a high standard, although as the Company grows, and complexity of specic businesses will lead to differing 58 TRIG Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 248194 Renewable R&A pp054-pp062.
qxp Layout 1 2 19 18 9:47 PM Page 59 the Board may consider whether additional directors may be The Board recommends the re-election of each Director and suitable.
The Board has chosen to adopt a denitive policy supporting biographies are disclosed on page 52 of this with quantitative targets for Board diversity.
aspires to equal representation of men and women on the The Board is scheduled to meet at least four times a year and Board and from 1 March 2014 this was achieved.
However, between these formal meetings there is regular contact with gender, knowledge, skills, experience, residency and the Investment Manager and Operations Manager, the governance credentials are all considered by the Nominations Secretary and the Companys Joint Brokers.
The Directors Committee when recommending appointments to the Board are kept fully informed of investment and financial controls, and in formulating succession plans.
Notwithstanding this, and other matters that are relevant to the business of the the selection of the preferred individual to be invited to join Company that should be brought to the attention of the the Board will always be based on merit.
The Directors also have access, where necessary The Board requires the Investment Manager and the in the furtherance of their duties, to independent professional Operations Manager, to whom the day-to-day management advice at the expense of the Company.
of the Company is delegated, to present to them on their own diversity policies, targets and achievements as part of the review of the Managers carried out by the Management Engagement Committee.
The Chairman and members of each committee as at 31 December 2017 are as follows: Quarterly Management Market Board Audit Engagement Remuneration Nomination Disclosure meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 4 4 3 2 3 2 Meetings Attended: H Mahy 4 N A 3 2 3 2 J Bridel 4 4 3 2 3 2 S Mason 4 4 3 2 3 2 K Hammer 4 4 3 2 3 2 Helen Mahy is not a member of the Audit Committee and attends at the invitation of the Committee During the period a further 20 ad hoc Board Committee Performance evaluation meetings were held in Guernsey to deal with matters The Board evaluates its performance and considers the substantially of an administrative nature and these were tenure and independence of each Director on an annual attended by those Directors available.
The annual evaluation for the period ended 31December 2017 has been completed by the Chairman The Board considers agenda items laid out in the notice and and took the form of a questionnaire completed by all of the agenda of meeting which are circulated to the Board in Directors and additionally by the Managers and the Company advance of the meeting as part of the Board papers.
Secretary, including one-to-one interviews with each Director Directors may request any agenda items to be added that holding ofce as at 31 December 2017.
The questionnaire they consider appropriate for Board discussion.
Each Director that was completed covered Board effectiveness including is required to inform the Board of any potential or actual areas such as inclusion and diversity in accordance with the conicts of interest prior to Board discussion.
1 recommendations of the Parker Review.
For the evaluation of the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director discussed The Board constantly considers the Companys strategy with the results of a questionnaire with the Chairman following regard to market conditions and feedback from shareholders consultation with the other Directors.
The exercise confirmed received directly or from the Managers.
The investment that the Board runs well and effectively with an appropriate strategy is reviewed regularly with the Investment Manager.
level of balance and challenge.
The Board will consider Board meetings include a review of investment performance Directors succession planning during 2018. and associated matters such as health and safety, marketing investor relations, risk management, gearing, general administration and compliance, peer group information and industry issues.
1 The Parker review into the Ethnic Diversity of UK boards was published in October 2017.
TRIG Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 59 248194 Renewable R&A pp054-pp062.
qxp Layout 1 2 19 18 9:47 PM Page 60 SECTION 6 Corporate Governance Statement continued The Board continues to monitor training for Directors.
The financial management of the Company and existing portfolio Directors consider and report regularly their training needs as a whole, including the deployment of capital, management and their continuing professional development and training of the Groups debt facilities, hedging arrangements, the carried out.
The Board receives regular feedback from sourcing of new investments, preparing the semi-annual investors and sector analysts.
The Board continues to have a valuations, the statutory accounts, the management focus on risk management and controls.
accounts, business plans, presenting results and information to shareholders, coordinating all corporate service providers The independence of each Director has been considered and to the Group and giving the Board general advice.
each has been confirmed as being independent of the Company and its Managers.
The Operations Manager is responsible for monitoring, evaluating and optimising technical and financial performance The Board believes that the composition of the Board and its across the portfolio.
The services provided by the Operations Committees reect a suitable mix of skills and experience, Manager include maintaining an overview of project and that the Board, as a whole, and its Committees operations and reporting on key performance measures, functioned effectively during 2017 and since the launch of the recommending and implementing strategy on management Company in 2013.
The Board has employed the use of a of the portfolio including energy sales agreements, insurance, skills matrix to identify if there are missing competences and maintenance and other areas requiring portfolio-level confirmed that the existing Directors held the appropriate decisions, maintaining and monitoring health and safety and range of skills.
The skills matrix tool will inform the Directors in operating risk management policies.
The Operations Manager the recruitment of any additional or replacement Directors to also works jointly with the Investment Manager on sourcing the Company.
The Board considers its composition to be and transacting new business, providing assistance in due appropriate and hence no such recruitment is currently diligence of potential new acquisitions, renancing of existing considered necessary at this time.
The Board considers the assets and investor relations.
The Operations Manager does appropriateness of its composition each year.
not participate in any investment decisions taken by or on behalf of the Company or undertake any other regulated The Board is diverse in its composition and thought processes.
activities for the purposes of the UKs Financial Services and The Directors have a breadth of experience relevant to the Markets Act 2000.
The Directors believe that any changes to the Boards composition can be managed without undue Members of the Investment Managers and or the Operations disruption.
The members of the Board strive to challenge each Managers teams are also appointed as directors of the other constructively to make sure all issues are examined from Groups project companies and or intermediate holding different angles and the Board holds the Managers properly to companies and, as part of their role in managing the portfolio, account on their progress on inclusion and diversity.
they attend Board meetings of these companies and make appropriate decisions.
Material decisions are referred back to Delegation of responsibilities the TRIGs investment committee and or advisory committee The Board has delegated the following areas of responsibility: for consideration and determination, and the TRIG Board is The day-to-day administration of the Company has been consulted on key matters relevant to TRIGs strategy, policies delegated to Aztec Financial Services Guernsey Limited in or overall performance, both on an ad hoc basis where its capacity as Company Secretary and Administrator.
required and during formal reporting sessions, including all matters outside the Managers delegated authority.
The Investment Manager has full discretion within agreed parameters to make investments in accordance with the Committees of the Board Companys Investment Policy and has responsibility for The committees of the Board are the Audit Committee, the financial administration and investor relations, in addition to Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee, the advising the Board in relation to further capital raisings and Management Engagement Committee, and the Market the payment of dividends amongst other matters, subject to Disclosure Committee.
Terms of reference for each the overall supervision and oversight of the Board.
Among the Committee have been approved by the Board.
specic tasks of the Investment Manager are the overall The Chairman and members of each committee as at 31 December 2017 are as follows: Management Market Audit Remuneration Nomination Engagement Disclosure Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman J Bridel S Mason H Mahy H Mahy H Mahy Members S Mason H Mahy J Bridel J Bridel J Bridel K Hammer J Bridel S Mason S Mason S Mason K Hammer K Hammer K Hammer K Hammer 60 TRIG Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 248194 Renewable R&A pp054-pp062.
qxp Layout 1 2 19 18 9:47 PM Page 61 Nomination Committee The main terms of reference for the Committee are: The main terms of reference of the Committee are: to consider and decide whether information meets the denition of inside information and whether the Company regularly review the structure, size and composition required of the Board and make recommendations to the should announce immediately or whether it is permissible to delay the announcement: Board with regard to any changes including skills, knowledge and experience in accordance with Principle when disclosure of inside information is delayed, to 6 of the AIC Code : maintain all required records, monitor the conditions permitting delay and to provide any required notications give full consideration to succession planning for Directors taking into account the challenges and to the Financial Conduct Authority: opportunities facing the Company: and the committee should also consider the requirement for an announcement in the case of leaks of inside be responsible for identifying and nominating for the approval of the Board, candidates to ll Board vacancies information: and as and when they arise.
to ensure that effective arrangements are in place to prevent access to inside information The Nomination Committee met three times during 2017.
The Board is currently composed of 50% male and 50% female The Committee met twice during 2017. directors.
Relations with shareholders AIC Code Principle 19 Management Engagement Committee The Company welcomes the views of shareholders and The terms of reference of this committee are to review the places great importance on communication with its relationships between the Company and its main service shareholders.
The Investment Manager produces a regular providers, including their performance, compliance with their factsheet which is available on the Companys website.
contracts, and levels of fees paid.
Recommendations from Senior members of the Investment Manager and Operations the Committees review are given to the Board for Manager make themselves available, as practicable, to meet consideration and action.
with principal shareholders and key sector analysts.
Feedback from these meetings is provided to the Board on a The Management Engagement Committee met three times in regular basis.
The Board is also kept fully informed of all 2017 in accordance with its plan to review the performance relevant market commentary on the Company by the of the key service providers to the Group and the Company.
Companys Financial PR agency, as well as receiving relevant No material weaknesses were identied, some updates from the Managers and the Companys brokers.
recommendations were conveyed to certain providers, and the recommendation to the Board was that the current The Company reports formally to shareholders twice a year arrangements are appropriate and provide good quality and will hold an Annual General Meeting in Guernsey on services and advice to the Company and the Group.
The 10May 2018, at which members of the Board will be Committee convenes a planning meeting in August each year available to answer shareholder questions.
In addition, followed by a meeting in November of each year to review the shareholders receive written communications from the Investment Manager and Operations Manager, and a meeting Company either with documents enclosed or to notify them in February of each year to review the other service providers.
of new information available to view on the The Managers were duly considered at the meeting of the Companyswebsite.
Management Engagement Committee in November 2017 and no material issues were identied in connection with their Results of Extraordinary and Annual General Meetings are respective appointments.
announced by the Company promptly after the relevant meeting.
Additionally, other notices and information are Details of the activities of the Remuneration Committee and provided to shareholders on an ongoing basis through the the Audit Committee are set out in Section 7 and Section 8 Companys website in order to assist in keeping shareholders respectively.
All terms of reference for committees are informed.
The Secretary and Registrar monitor the voting of available from the Companys website or the Company the shareholders and proxy voting is taken into consideration Secretary upon request.
when votes are cast at the Annual General Meeting.
Market Disclosure Committee Shareholders may contact the Board via the Company The Committee has responsibility for overseeing the Secretary, whose contact details are found on page 102 of disclosure of information by the Company to meet its the Report and Financial Statements.
obligations under the Market Abuse Regulation and the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules and Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
TRIG Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 61 248194 Renewable R&A pp054-pp062.
qxp Layout 1 2 19 18 9:47 PM Page 62 SECTION 6 Corporate Governance Statement continued Broxburn battery storage 62 TRIG Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017
