qxp Layout 1 2 19 18 9:49 PM Page 66 SECTION 8 Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee has been in operation since the The Audit Committee meets the external auditor before and inception of the Company.
Chaired by Jon Bridel, it operates after their audit and has discussed with the auditor the scope within clearly dened terms of reference and comprises all of of their annual audit work and also their audit findings.
The auditor attends the Audit Committee meetings at which the the Directors other than the Chairman who is not a member annual and interim accounts are considered and at which in accordance with provision C3.1 of the UK Corporate they have the opportunity to meet with the Committee Governance Code.
It is also the formal forum through which without representatives of the Managers being present.
The the auditor reports to the Board of Directors and met four Audit Committee has direct access to the auditor and to key times in 2017 it meets at least three times annually.
senior staff of the Investment Manager and it reports its The main duties of the Audit Committee are: findings and recommendations to the Board which retains the ultimate responsibility for the financial statements of the giving full consideration and recommending to the Board Company.
for approval the contents of the half year and annual financial statements and reviewing the external auditors Membership report thereon including consideration of whether the The Chair of the Audit Committee, Jon Bridel, is a fellow of financial statements are overall fair, balanced and the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales understandable: and in addition serves as chairman of the audit committee for other listed investment companies.
Previously Jon worked in agreeing with the auditor the external audit plan including senior positions in investment, corporate finance and discussing with the external auditor the key risk areas commercial banking and was CFO of two private within the financial statements: multinational businesses.
The Board is satisfied that Jon has considering and understanding the key risks of recent and relevant financial experience as required under the misstatement of the financial statements and formulating UK Corporate Governance Code.
The other members of the an appropriate plan to review these and agreeing with Audit Committee are Shelagh Mason and Klaus Hammer.
The the Managers their processes to manage these risk qualications of the Audit Committee members are outlined in the Directors Biographies on page 52. areas: reviewing the Viability and Going Concern Statements significant Issues Considered and reviewing the work prepared by the Investment After discussion with both the Managers and the external Manager supporting these statements: auditor, the Audit Committee determined that the key risks of misstatement of the Companys financial statements related reviewing the draft valuation of the Companys to the valuation of the investments.
investments prepared by the Investment Manager and making a recommendation to the Board on the valuation: Valuation of Investments As outlined in Note 13 to the financial statements, the total reviewing the scope, results, cost effectiveness, carrying value of the investments at fair value excluding the independence and objectivity of the external auditor as fair value of TRIG UK at 31 December 2017 was 973.3m.
well as reviewing the effectiveness of the external audit Market quotations are not available for these financial assets, process and making any recommendations to the Board and as such, their valuation is undertaken using a discounted for improvement of the audit process: cash ow methodology.
This requires a series of material judgements to be made as further explained in Note 4 to the reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval financial statements.
the audit, audit-related and non-audit fees payable to the external auditor or their afliated rms overseas and the The valuation process and methodology were discussed by terms of their engagement: the Audit Committee with the Investment Manager at the time of the interim review, in November 2017 prior to the year-end reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys valuation process and again in February 2018 as part of the accounting policies: year-end sign-off process.
The Committee met with the ensuring the standards and adequacy of the internal auditor when it reviewed and agreed the auditors Group control systems: audit plan and also at the conclusion of the audit of the financial statements, in particular discussing the valuation to consider any reports or information received in respect process.
The Investment Manager carries out a valuation of whistleblowing: and semi-annually and provides a detailed valuation report to the Company.
The Company also engaged a third party valuation reporting to the Board on how it has discharged its expert to provide a valuation review for a sample of the duties.
investments as well as a review of valuation discount rates.
None of the members of the Audit Committee have any The expert provided a report to the Audit Committee that involvement in the preparation of the financial statements of confirmed that the valuations on the sample they reviewed the Company, as this has been contracted to the Investment were within a range of acceptable outcomes and that the Manager.
discount rates adopted were appropriate.
66 TRIG Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 248194 Renewable R&A pp063-pp075.
qxp Layout 1 2 19 18 9:49 PM Page 67 that there is a range of discount rates which could be Valuation of Investments key forecast applied.
The discount rate assumptions and the sensitivity of assumptions the valuation of the investments to this discount rate are set The Audit Committee considered in detail those assumptions out in the Valuation section of the Strategic Report.
that are subject to judgement that have a material impact on the valuation.
The key assumptions are: The Audit Committee discussed with the Investment Manager the process adopted to arrive at the selected valuation Power price assumptions discount rates which includes comparison with other market A significant proportion of the wind and solar projects transactions and an independent review of valuation discount income streams are contracted subsidy streams and rates by a third party valuation expert both at December 2016 power income under long-term PPAs: some of which and at December 2017 and satisfied itself that the rates have xed price mechanisms.
However, over time the applied were appropriate.
The external auditor explained the proportion of power income that is xed reduces and the results of their review of the valuation, including their proportion where the Company has exposure to consideration of the Companys underlying cash ow wholesale electricity prices increases.
Market projections, the economic assumptions and discount rates to participants expect electricity prices to increase in real the Audit Committee.
On the basis of their audit work there terms i. e. ahead of ination over the medium and long were no adjustments proposed that were material in the term.
The Investment Manager considers the forecasts context of the financial statements as a whole.
provided by expert energy advisors and adopts a prole of assumed future power prices by jurisdiction.
Further Internal Controls and Risk Management detail on the assumptions made in relation to power The Board is responsible for the Companys system of prices and other variables that may be expected to affect internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, and has these are included in the Valuation section of the therefore established an ongoing process designed to meet Strategic Report.
the particular needs of the Company in managing the risks to which it is exposed.
Macroeconomic assumptions The process is based on a risk-based approach to internal Macroeconomic assumptions include ination, interest control through a matrix which identies the key functions and tax rate assumptions.
The Investment Managers carried out by the Investment Manager, Operations Manager assumptions in this area are set out and explained in the and other service providers: the various activities undertaken Valuation section of the Strategic Report.
within those functions: the risks associated with each activity: Other key income and cost assumptions and the controls employed to minimise and mitigate those Other key assumptions include operating costs, facility risks.
A scoring based on 1 to 5 for Likelihood and 1 to 5 for energy generation levels and facility remaining operating Impact is used and these are multiplied together to give a life assumptions.
Mitigation is considered on a scale of 1 to 5 and this leads to a residual risk rating being derived.
The matrix is The Investment Manager has discussed and agreed the updated on an on-going basis and reviewed quarterly and the valuation assumptions with the Audit Committee.
In relation Board considers all material changes to the risk ratings and to the key judgements underpinning the valuation, the the action which has been, or is being, taken.
By their nature, Investment Manager has provided sensitivities showing the these procedures will provide a reasonable, but not absolute, impact of changing these assumptions and these have been assurance against material misstatement or loss.
reviewed by the Investment Manager and the Audit Committee to assist in forming an opinion on the fairness and At each Board meeting, the Board also monitors the Groups balance of the annual report together with their conclusion on investment performance and it reviews the Groups activities the overall valuation.
since the last Board meeting to ensure that the Investment Manager is adhering to the Companys Investment Policy and Valuation of Investments valuation approved investment guidelines.
The pipeline of new potential discount rates opportunities is considered and the prices paid for new The discount rates adopted to determine the valuation are investments during the quarter are also reviewed.
selected and recommended by the Investment Manager.
The Further, at each Board meeting, the Board receives reports discount rate is applied to the expected future cash ows for from the Company Secretary and Administrator in respect of each investments financial forecasts derived adopting the compliance matters and duties they have performed on assumptions explained above, amongst others, to arrive at a behalf of the Company.
valuation discounted cash ow valuation.
The resulting valuation is sensitive to the discount rate selected.
The The Board has considered the need for an internal audit Investment Manager is experienced and active in the area of function and it has decided that the systems and procedures valuing these investments and adopts discount rates employed by the Investment Manager, the Operations reecting its current extensive experience of the market.
It is Manager and the Administrator, including their own internal noted however that this requires subjective judgement and review processes and processes in place in relation to the TRIG Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 67 248194 Renewable R&A pp063-pp075.
qxp Layout 1 2 19 18 9:49 PM Page 68 SECTION 8 Audit Committee Report continued Company, provide sufficient assurance that a sound system The Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit, of internal control, which safeguards the Companys assets, its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of is maintained.
An internal audit function specic to the Group the audit-related, with particular regard to the level of nonis therefore considered unnecessary.
Total fees paid amounted to 371,680 for the period ended 31 December 2017 of which 89,490 related to The Board recognises that these control systems can only be audit and audit-related services to the Company and its designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to subsidiaries, TRIG UK and TRIG UK Investments, and achieve business objectives, and to provide reasonable, but 246,010 related to audit of the Groups project subsidiaries not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or and other audit-related services.
The only non-audit services loss, and relies on the operating controls established by the provided by Deloitte in the year to the Company and its Companys Administrator, the Investment Manager and the subsidiaries are in relation to the review of the interim financial Operations Manager.
The Board considers on a periodic statements at the half year 27,500, and other services basis whether further third party assurance is appropriate, amounting to 8,680. and reviews annually the proficiency of such controls in light of changes in the business and its environment.
European Union EU statutory audit legislation stipulates that fees for permissible non-audit services should not exceed The Investment Manager prepares management accounts 70% of the average audit fees paid by the group in the last and updates business forecasts on a quarterly basis, which three consecutive financial years following its implementation allow the Board to assess the Companys activities and in 2016.
Although it is not applicable to this reporting period review its performance.
The Board and the Investment as it only applies in the year ending 31 December 2020, the Manager have agreed clearly dened investment criteria, Audit Committee must monitor auditor independence and will return targets, risk appetite and exposure limits.
Reports on consider these criteria as part of this role.
these performance measures, coupled with cash projections and investment valuations, are submitted to the Board at Notwithstanding such services the Audit Committee each quarterly meeting.
considers Deloitte LLP to be independent of the Company and that the provision of such non-audit services is not a The Operations Manager prepares quarterly project threat to the objectivity and independence of the conduct of performance and project financial analysis, and highlights the the audit.
key activities performed and any specic new risks identied relating to the operating portfolio for consideration by the To full its responsibility regarding the independence of the Board.
external auditor, the Audit Committee considered: changes in audit personnel in the audit plan for the Appointment of the external auditor current period: Deloitte LLP was appointed to be external auditor for the TRIG Group on 19 September 2013, following a competitive a report from the external auditor describing their tendering process.
This process involved a review of the audit arrangements to identify, report and manage any proposals and interviewing and challenging each rm.
conicts of interest: and The objectivity of the external auditor is reviewed by the Audit the extent of non-audit services provided by the external Committee which also reviews the terms under which the auditor.
external auditor may be appointed to perform non-audit services.
The Audit Committee reviews the scope and results To assess the effectiveness of the external audit process, the of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and Audit Committee reviewed: objectivity of the auditor, with particular regard to any the external auditors fullment of the agreed audit plan non-audit work that the auditor may undertake.
In order to and variations from it: safeguard auditor independence and objectivity, the Audit Committee ensures that any other advisory and or consulting reports highlighting the major issues that arose during services provided by the external auditor does not conict the course of the audit: and with their statutory audit responsibilities.
the effectiveness and independence of the external Advisory and or consulting services generally only cover auditor having considered the degree of diligence and reviews of interim financial statements and tax compliance.
professional scepticism demonstrated by them.
Any non-audit services conducted by the external auditor outside of these areas which are above 20,000 in aggregate The Audit Committee notes the requirements of the UK in any period require the consent of the Audit Committee Corporate Governance Code and in particular the before being initiated.
The external auditor may not undertake requirement to put the external audit out to tender at least any work for the Company in respect of the following matters every ten years.
This is the fifth year of Deloittes appointment - preparation of the financial statements, valuations used in as the Companys auditor.
The Audit Partner for the Company financial statements, provision of investment advice, taking is David Becker and he has been in place for four years.
management decisions or advocacy work in adversarial situations.
68 TRIG Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 248194 Renewable R&A pp063-pp075.
qxp Layout 1 2 19 18 9:49 PM Page 69 The Audit Committee is satisfied with Deloittes effectiveness Audit Committee performance evaluation and independence as auditor having considered the degree During the year the Committee evaluated its performance of diligence and professional scepticism demonstrated by using a checklist provided by a leading audit rm.
As such, the Committee has not considered it Directors and the Managers completed the form and the necessary during this period to conduct a tender process for results were discussed at an Audit Committee meeting.
A few the appointment of its auditor for the year ended items of a minor nature arose and led to recommendations 31December 2018. that have been adopted.
Overall the nding of the evaluation was that the Audit Committee is sufciently skilled and The Audit Committee confirms that TRIG has complied with experienced and effective in carrying out its role.
the requirements of The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Interaction with the Financial Reporting Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Council Responsibilities Order 2014 since it became a member of the The FRCs Audit Quality Review team selected the audit of FTSE 350 Index on 18 December 2015 and up to the 2016 financial statements to review as part of their 31December 2017.
Deloitte were appointed as external 2017 18 annual inspection of audit rms.
The focus of the auditor in 2013 following a competitive process and the Audit review and their reporting is on identifying areas where Committee terms of reference are in line with the Order.
improvements are required rather than highlighting areas The Committee intends to conduct a full review of Deloitte performed to or above the expected level.
The Chairman of following the issue of these financial statements as it did in the Audit Committee received a full copy of the findings of the 2017 to ensure that the Committee considers all aspects of Audit Quality Review team and has discussed these with the auditors service and performance.
The outcome of the Deloitte.
The Audit Committee confirms that there were no review in May 2017 was positive and led to no material significant areas for improvement identied within the report.
concerns over the performance of the auditor.
The Audit Committee is also satisfied that there is nothing within the report which might have a bearing on the audit Having satisfied itself that the external auditor remains appointment.
independent and effective, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be reappointed as auditor for the period ending 31 December 2018.
TRIG Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 69
