STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE.
COM AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT LETTER TO SHAREHOLDERS Dear Shareholders, The Audit Committee exercises oversight of 888s financial reporting policies, monitors the integrity of the financial statements and considers the significant financial and accounting estimates and judgements applied in preparing the financial statements.
It also ensures that disclosures in the financial statements are appropriate and obtains from the external auditor an independent view of the key disclosure issues and risks.
The Committee has reviewed the narrative contained in this Annual Report and considers that sufficient information has been provided to give shareholders a fair, balanced and understandable account of the Companys business.
To achieve its objectives, the Committee works closely with the Board and Group management to ensure that all significant risks are considered on an ongoing basis, and that all communications with shareholders are properly considered.
A key responsibility of the Committee is to review the scope, nature and effectiveness of internal and external audits.
Internal audit work is conducted by Deloitte and the scope of their work is agreed with both management and the Audit Committee.
The Committee also monitors and reviews the key aspects of 888s external audit, which is conducted by EY.
In relation to risks and controls, the Committee ensures that these have been identified and that appropriate responsibilities and accountabilities have been set.
Amongst other things, during the year the Committee considered: The complex legal and regulatory environment in which 888 operates, together with changes in laws and regulations which may impact 888s business, sector and market.
888s exposure to corporation tax, VAT and gaming duties in various jurisdictions.
The carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets and related disclosures in the financial statements.
The adequacy of 888s IT systems and controls.
The adequacy of the systems and controls on which management relies.
The Boards assessment of risk and the risk register prepared by management.
The Viability Statement and going concern statement prepared by management.
Control and reporting issues relating to items identified in the UKGC licence review and ongoing engagement with regulatory bodies.
Updates regarding the Companys preparation for GDPR implementation in 2018.
Further information on the Committees responsibilities and the manner in which they are discharged is set out below and is available on 888s corporate website: corporate.
Going forward, I shall ensure that the Committee continues to acknowledge and embrace its role of protecting the interests of shareholders as regards the integrity of published financial information and the effectiveness of audit.
I shall also be available at the Annual General Meeting on 9 May 2018 to answer any questions and would like to thank my colleague on the Committee for his help and support.
Sincerely, Ron McMillan Chairman of the Audit Committee 20 March 2018 888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 77 GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued Committee composition Legal and regulatory environment The Committee comprises three members, Senior Independent 888 operates within an increasingly regulated marketplace Director Ron McMillan Chair, Independent Non-Executive and is challenged by regulatory requirements across all Director Zvika Zivlin and Independent Non-Executive Director areas of its business.
This creates risk for the Company as Anne fide Kerckhove.
Mr. Zivlin was appointed to the Board in non-compliance can lead to financial penalties, reputational March 2017 and Ms. fide Kerckhove was appointed to the Board damage and the loss of licences to operate.
Details of the in November 2017.
UKGC licence review referred to on page 18, and of actions taken by the Company to enhance its responsible gaming and Two members constitute a quorum.
The Committee requires other protections, are set out in the CEOs Strategic Report the inclusion of at least one financially qualified member with on page 08 and in the Corporate Responsibility Report on recent and relevant financial experience.
As part of this process, the Audit Committee received Chairman fulfils that requirement.
The Committee as a whole frequent updates from management and discussed the course is expected to have competence relevant to the online gaming of action in response to the UKGC licence review process and sector and all members of the Committee are expected to have its conclusion.
The Company manages its regulatory risk with an understanding of financial reporting, 888s internal control input from its legal advisors in order to operate its business in environment, relevant corporate legislation, the functions of compliance with relevant regulatory requirements.
During 2017, internal and external audit and the regulatory and compliance in connection with the UKGC licence review, the Company framework of the business.
Mr. Zivlin has extensive business commissioned a special report from its internal auditor, and industry experience through his various roles, Mr. McMillan Deloitte, as well as a special independent external audit report, has served in the past as the auditor of betting and gaming with respect to self-exclusion matters, in addition to having companies and Ms. fide Kerckhove has extensive entrepreneurial extensive discussion by the Audit Committee in conjunction and business experience as the founder of several business with management as to a significant stepping up of the control ventures.
Details of meetings of the Audit Committee are set environment to manage compliance, Anti-Money Laundering, out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 57. responsible gaming and customer protection as well as self-exclusion risk, with greater reporting and investment of The timing of Audit Committee meetings is set to resource.
The Company works with its lawyers to produce accommodate the dates of release of financial information at regular updates so that the Board and Audit Committee the half year and full year-ends and the approval of scope and understand what is happening in the regulatory landscape.
outputs from work programmes executed by the internal and external auditors.
During 2017, the Audit Committee received a detailed regulatory briefing from the Companys lawyers and In addition to scheduled meetings, the Chairman of the reviewed updates on the management of regulatory risk Committee met with the Chief Financial Officer and the from management, as well as reviewing the status of litigation internal and external auditors on a number of occasions.
involving 888 and the accounting for 888s obligations in the Although not members of the Committee, the Chairman, financial statements.
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer normally attend meetings together with representatives from the Taxation internal and external auditors.
The Board oversees and sets the Companys tax strategy and evaluates tax risk.
In undertaking this task the Company uses Responsibilities its legal and tax advisors.
During the year, the Companys The Committee is responsible for: legal advisors have kept the Audit Committee apprised of both existing and emerging tax risks and, where appropriate, Monitoring the integrity of 888s financial statements and these have been elevated to the Board for consideration in reviewing significant financial judgements and estimates in conjunction with 888s commercial strategy.
advance of these being considered by the Board: In 2017, the Board and Audit Committee again received a Reviewing internal financial controls and managements response to required corrective actions identified in both detailed tax briefing from the Companys lawyers regarding internal and external audit reports: direct and indirect tax obligations to which the Group may be exposed.
The Committee noted that the Group registered Monitoring and reviewing the role and effectiveness of the for taxes in relevant jurisdictions in order to ensure timely internal audit function, including activities and resources: reporting and payment on the correct basis, whilst reserving Overseeing the role and effectiveness of the external its position concerning contesting possible existence of a auditors, reviewing and monitoring their objectivity and liability in appropriate cases.
Some uncertainty remains as to independence and agreeing the scope of work and fees whether VAT is due in respect of certain services provided for audit and non-audit services: and by 888 to customers in some jurisdictions.
Historically, on the Assisting the Board in its consideration of relevant risk basis of legal advice received, the Board considered that cash factors and determining appropriate mitigation actions.
outflow in respect of VAT on services rendered to customers in Germany was not probable.
During 2017, in response Activities to an inquiry from the tax authorities in Germany about The key matters discussed by the Committee during the services provided prior to 2015, the Group provided year included the following: information in order to fulfil its statutory assistance and information obligations, to enable the appropriate tax authorities to form their own view regarding the likelihood of a VAT liability.
The Group obtained a thorough legal assessment and considered the tax position in respect 888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 78 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE.
COM of each service supplied and, given the uncertain legal The Company is proactive in ensuring that corporate and position, has taken a cautious approach by recording a operational risks are identified, assessed and managed by provision of US$45.3 million 39.6 million Euro in the 2017 identifying suitable controls.
A corporate risk register is consolidated income statement 2016: $nil in respect maintained which details: of some of these services, based on its estimate of probable amounts due.
The risks and impact they may have: 2.
Actions to mitigate risks: For further information, see notes 8 and 26 to the 3.
Risk scores to highlight the likelihood and implications financial statements.
The owners of risks: and Goodwill and intangible assets As set out in note 11 to the consolidated financial 5.
Target dates for actions to mitigate.
statements, 888 has significant goodwill and other intangible assets relating to the acquisitions of businesses and the A description of the principal risks is set out on pages 18 to 23. development of gaming platforms and software.
The Board has confirmed that it has carried out a robust The Audit Committee reviewed the cash flow forecasts assessment of the principal risks facing 888, including those supporting the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible which threaten its business model, future performance, assets including the key assumptions and estimates as well solvency or liquidity.
as the impact of the recent regulatory developments on the business, and satisfied itself that no impairments were required In addition to the matters described above, the work of the in relation to carrying values.
In addition, the appropriateness Committee during the year included: of the capitalisation of costs relating to the development of gaming platforms and software was reviewed in light of Reviewing the draft Interim and Annual Reports and reports received from management and the external auditor.
The accounting principles, policies and practices adopted Other accounting matters and the adequacy of related disclosures in the reports: As referred to in the external audit report on page 81, revenue 2.
The significant accounting issues, estimates and recognition and the capitalisation of development costs are judgements of management in relation to financial areas of material risk in relation to the preparation of the reporting: financial statements.
The Committee has considered the 3.
Whether any significant adjustments were required arising Groups accounting policies in these areas and the internal from the audit: controls which are in place, together with the outputs of 4.
Compliance with statutory tax obligations and the work performed by the external auditors, and has concluded Companys tax policy: that the Groups recognition of income and capitalisation of 5.
Whether the information set out in the Strategic Report development costs is appropriate.
was balanced, comprehensive, clear and concise and covered both positive and negative aspects of IT systems performance: and 888s IT systems are complex and predominantly developed 6.
Whether the use of alternative performance measures in-house.
The success of the business relies on the obscured IFRS measures.
development of IT platforms which are innovative and Meeting with internal and external auditors, both with appealing to customers.
In addition, the integrity and and in the absence of the Executive Directors.
security of the IT systems are vital from a commercial Overseeing the management of the Companys whistlestandpoint as well as to ensuring a robust control environment.
blowing procedures which contain procedures for the Committee to receive, in confidence, complaints During the year, the Audit Committee has reviewed reports and notifications on all operational matters.
from management on data security and disaster recovery Reporting to the Board on how it has discharged planning as well as reviewing the steps taken in connection its responsibilities.
with the UKGC licence review which are detailed on pages 08 Making recommendations to the Board in respect of its and 32. findings in respect of all of the above matters.
Reviewing the going concern position of 888 and the Internal controls and risk management Viability Statement set out on page 44.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that The Board considers that the processes undertaken by the the Company maintains a sound system of internal control.
Audit Committee continue to be appropriately robust and There are inherent limitations in any system of internal control and no system can provide absolute assurance against material effective and in compliance with the guidance issued by the misstatements, loss or failure.
Equally, no system can guarantee Financial Reporting Council.
Other than as arising from the elimination of the risk of failure to meet the objectives UKGC licence review and as more fully described on page 18, during the year, the Board has not been advised by the of the business.
Against this background, the Committee Audit Committee of, nor identified itself, any failings, frauds or has continued to help the Board develop and maintain an approach to risk management which incorporates risk appetite weaknesses in internal control which it has determined to be and tolerance, the framework within which risk is managed material in the context of the financial statements.
and the responsibility and procedures pertaining to application of the policy.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 79 GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued The Committee believes that appropriate internal controls External auditors are in place through the Group, that 888 has a well-defined EY has been the Companys external auditor since their organisational structure with clear lines of responsibility and a appointment in 2014.
The partners responsible for the external comprehensive financial reporting system.
The Committee also audit are Jose Julio Pisharello, a partner in EYs Gibraltar believes that the Company complies with the FRC Guidance on office, and Cameron Cartmell, a partner in EYs London Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and office.
Jose Julio and Cameron have been responsible for the Business Reporting.
audit since EY was appointed.
The Committee has reviewed the performance of EY, a process which involved all Board Performance of Audit Committee members and senior members of 888s finance function.
The The Audit Committees performance was evaluated as part conclusions reached were that EY continued to perform the of the Board evaluation carried out during 2017, as detailed external audit in a very professional and efficient manner, and on page 58. it was therefore the Committees recommendation that the reappointment of EY be put to shareholders at the Annual Internal auditors General Meeting to be held on 9 May 2018.
If reappointed, EY The Companys internal audit function is outsourced to will hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual General Deloitte.
The Audit Committee reviewed and modified the Meeting at which accounts are laid.
Given EYs short tenure internal audit plan in accordance with the principal risks to date, the Board has no present plans to consider an audit to 888s business as set out in the Risk Register.
It has also tender process.
The Committee notes and confirms compliance reviewed reports from Deloitte in relation to all internal audit with the other provisions of the Competition & Markets work carried out during the year and monitored response and Authority Order 2014 in respect of statutory audit services for follow up by management to internal audit findings.
past three years, the internal auditors have reviewed various aspects of 888s customer services and business operations, The Committee reviewed the reports prepared by the external finance, B2B and B2C activities, product technologies, human auditors EY on key audit findings and any significant resources and regulation.
In 2017, Deloitte issued reports on deficiencies in the financial control environment, as well as customer credits, payroll in various locations, access controls, the recommendations made by EY to improve processes and the management of regulatory audits, regulatory compliance controls together with managements responses to those reviews including a specific report on self-exclusion matters, recommendations.
Other than as a consequence of the UKGC implementation review of Board resolutions, implementation licence review, EY did not highlight any material internal review of internal audit recommendations generally and control weaknesses and management has committed to specifically regarding fraud and risk management, and making appropriate changes to controls in areas highlighted review of internal audit plan.
Whilst no critical issues were by EY.
identified by Deloitte, a number of matters were identified which required modifications to procedures and improved Non-audit work controls which either have been or are being implemented The Audit Committee remains mindful of the attitude by management.
This includes specifically the findings of the investors have to the auditors performing non-audit services.
special independent external audit report of self-exclusion The Committee monitors the appointment of the auditors for matters commissioned by the Board and the recommendations any non-audit work involving fees above US$0.1 million, with of which were accepted in full by management and have been a view to ensuring that non-audit work does not compromise or are being implemented.
The Committee has evaluated the the Companys auditors objectiveness and independence.
performance of Deloitte and has concluded that they provide From 2016, the Committee has committed to ensuring that constructive challenge and consistently demonstrate a realistic fees for non-audit services performed by the auditors will not and commercial view of the business.
exceed 70% of aggregate audit fees measured over a three year period.
In 2017, the external auditors carried out non-audit work for 888 involving fees in the aggregate amount of US$0.1 million 2016: US$0.3 million.
The non-audit work carried out in 2017 primarily comprised verification of data provided by the Company to third parties.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 80
