PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 01 Chairs Letter to Shareholders We are committed to creating sustainable value for all stakeholders.
The Board is focused on the principles of good governance and being Good4Business.
The Board would also like to extend its appreciation to Ngozi Dear Shareholder for the input and wise counsel which she has given to the Board I am pleased to report the Group has delivered a solid set of since 2012, both in respect of Nigeria but also more broadly, results for the year ended 31 May 2017, with profits before tax given her extensive international business experience.
We wish moving slightly ahead of prior year at 103.5m.
These results her well in the future and thank her for her commitment to have been achieved despite a significant year-on-year currency PZ Cussons.
devaluation in the Groups largest market Nigeria and general tough trading conditions in most of our operating markets.
The Board is committed to the principles of good governance, particularly as set out in the Financial Reporting Councils 2014 The Groups strategy of ongoing brand innovation and UK Corporate Governance Code.
This provides an effective renovation continues to underpin our ability to maintain or framework for how the Board should discharge its responsibilities grow our market share throughout all of the Groups major in respect of leadership effectiveness, remuneration, operating markets.
In Nigeria, our experience and flexibility to accountability and communication with Shareholders and ensure our products are sold in the right sizes and at the right howthe business is governed through the principal standing price points has enabled us to deliver a creditable result against committees.
The following pages discuss in more detail the the backdrop of a weaker currency and poor liquidity.
Boards various activities during the year, explaining the different roles of the committees and how wegovern Key highlights for the year include the successful on time our business.
completion of the three year project to implement a standard SAP solution across the Group.
This marks an important step Proposed change of auditor towards completion of the transformation agenda and During the year we initiated a formal competitive tender positions the Group well to deliver future growth.
process for our external audit engagement.
At our Annual General Meeting in September 2017, the Board will propose Our Board that Deloitte LLP will replace  LLP During the year there were a number of Board changes: asthe Groups statutory external auditor.
Full details of this inDecember 2016 our former Chair Richard Harvey and process can be found on page 31.
Non-executive Director Professor John Arnold each retired, whilst we welcomed Jez Maiden to the Board in November Dividend & outlook asaNon-executive Director and appointed him Chair of the The Board is pleased to declare a final dividend of 5.61p, Audit &Risk Committee in January 2017. marking 44 consecutive years that we have increased our dividend year-on-year.
Despite consumer confidence remaining On 25 July 2017, we announced the impending retirements of fragile in most markets, the Group remains well placed to Chris Davis, Group Chief Operating Officer, and Non-executive deliver full year expectations and, with a strong balance sheet, Director Ngozi Edozien.
Both will retire from the Board at the to pursue growth opportunities as they arise.
The Board wishes to express its thanks to Chris for his Caroline Silver significant contribution to PZ Cussons over the past 24 years Chair and for the leading role he played in the Companys recent 25 July 2017 business transformation programme.
On retirement, Chris will be returning to his native Australia and, on behalf of the Board and the wider business, I would like to wish him a long and happy retirement.
