PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 27 Report on Corporate Governance The Board is committed to meeting the standards of good The Executive Directors service contracts and the letters setting corporate governance as established by the Financial Reporting out the terms of appointment of the Non-executive Directors are Council.
In respect of the year ended 31 May 2017, the 2014 UK available for inspection at the Companys registered office during Corporate Governance Code the Code applied to the Company normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting.
but the Board has also taken appropriate account of the changes introduced by the new 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code Diversity which will apply to the Company for the first time in respect The Company supports the Code provision that boards should ofthe year ending 31 May 2018.
The Code is publicly available consider the benefits of diversity, including gender, when on theFinancial Reporting Councils website www.
making appointments and is committed to ensuring diversity not just at board level but also across the Companys senior This report, together with the Report on Directors management team, not least because it believes that the Remuneration in respect of remuneration matters, describes business benefits from the widest range of perspectives and how the Board applied the Code during the year under review.
The Companys aim, as regards the composition ofthe Board, is that it should have a balance of experience, Board evaluation skillsand knowledge to enable each Director, and the Board asa whole, to discharge their duties effectively.
Whilst the Company Composition and independence agrees that it is entirely appropriate that it should seek to have The size of the Board allows individuals to communicate openly diversity on its Board, it does not consider that this can be best and to make a personal contribution through the exercise of achieved by establishing specific quotas and targets and their individual skills and experience.
As at the date of this appointments will continue to be made based wholly on merit.
report, the Board of Directors has eight members comprising the Non-executive Chair, the Chief Executive Officer, two other Further details on diversity within the business are set out in Executive Directors and four other Non-executive Directors.
the Report of the Directors on page 6.
The names of the Directors together with their biographical details are set out on pages 2 to 3.
Performance evaluation Effectiveness reviews of the Board and its committees, The Non-executive Directors have been appointed for their including their composition, governance and performance, specific experience and expertise and are all considered to be arecarried out annually.
In compliance with good corporate independent of management and free from any business or governance practices, the 2017 review has been facilitated other relationship which could materially interfere with the externally.
The review was conducted by Ffion Hague of exercise of their independent judgement.
Independent Board Review who was appointed following aninterview selection process carried out by the Chair in Mr Nicolson is the Senior Independent Non-executive Director conjunction with the Company Secretary.
The review was a position which he assumed in January 2017 and in this undertaken on the basis of one-to-one interviews conducted capacity he is available to Shareholders if they have concerns with each of the Directors, the Secretary and other frequent which contact through the normal channels of Chair, Chief participants inBoard meetings and observation of meetings Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve ofthe Board and each of the principal standing committees.
or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Items addressed included agenda setting and the effective use of Board time: Board composition: interaction with the Non-executive Directors may serve on the boards of other broader management team: and the provision of information companies provided that this does not involve a conflict of to the Board.
interest and that the appointment does not restrict their abilityto discharge their duties to the Company in any way.
The results of the effectiveness review have been reviewed by the Chair and the Chair of each Board committee and discussed As set out in the Report of the Directors, the Board has resolved in a formal meeting of the Board.
The Chair has taken to comply with the provisions of the Code and each Director responsibility, with the support of the Company Secretary, seeks re-election annually.
In view of the existence of agroup forimplementing agreed recommendations.
ofControlling Shareholders see the Report of the Directors onpage 5, the election or re-election of independent Directors The review process concluded that all Directors continue to is subject to a dual Shareholder vote atthe Annual General contribute effectively and with proper commitment, devoting Meeting, pursuant to which re-election or election mustbe adequate time to carry out their duties.
The performance of approved by a majority vote of the Shareholders of the the Non-executive Directors is evaluated separately by the Company and, separately, by a majority vote of the Shareholders Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee reviews of the Company excluding the Controlling Shareholders.
Executive Directors performance with guidance from the Chief Executive Officer other than in respect of his own position.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 28 Governance Report on Corporate Governance continued Operation of the Board Committees of the Board The Board is responsible for the Groups strategic The Board has established a number of standing committees development, monitoring its business objectives and towhich various matters are delegated according to defined maintaining a system of effective corporate governance.
The terms of reference of the committees are available on the Companys website www.
com Six formal meetings of the Board were scheduled during the and will also be available at the Annual General Meeting.
year and the Directors met on a number of further occasions, Details of the principal standing committees of the Board as necessary, to consider specific matters arising and to review areset out as follows: and develop the Companys corporate strategy.
Nomination Committee The differing roles of the Chair and Chief Executive Officer are The Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly acknowledged and set out in terms of reference which have reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board been adopted by the Board.
The Chair is primarily responsible andidentifying and recommending appropriate candidates for the running of the Board and ensuring that it is supplied formembership of the Board when vacancies arise.
During inatimely manner with sufficient information to enable it to theyear ended 31 May 2017, the Committee members were discharge its duties.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible Mrs Silver Committee Chair with effect from 1 January 2017, for coordinating the running of the business and implementing Ms Edozien, Mr Kanellis, Mr Nicolson, Mrs Owers, Mr Maiden Group strategy.
with effect from his appointment to the Board on 1 November 2016 and Professor Arnold and Mr Harvey each up until his All Directors communicate with each other on a regular basis retirement from the Board on 31 December 2016.
The and have regular and ready access to members of the Groups Company Secretary, Mr Plant, is secretary to the Committee.
Senior executives are regularly invited to attend Board meetings to make presentations on specific The Committees principal activities during the year included: matters or projects.
Board papers are prepared and issued the appointment of a new Non-executive Chair following the toall Directors in good time prior to each Board meeting retirement from the Board of Mr Harvey which culminated in toenable Directors to give due consideration to all matters the appointment of Mrs Silver with effect from 1 January 2017. inadvance of the meeting.
During the year, the Board has In considering this appointment, the Nomination Committee maintained an understanding of the views of major Shareholders evaluated the skills, knowledge, experience and personal through periodic face-to-face meetings and briefings from characteristics demanded by the role and agreed a detailed theCompanys advisors.
External search agencies were engaged to identify potential candidates and Mrs Silver was interviewed The Board has adopted formal procedures for Directors to by each member of the Board, following which the Board takeindependent professional advice where necessary at the approved her appointment and this was announced to Companys expense and each Director has full access to the Shareholders in June 2016.
The Committee also considered services of the Company Secretary who is also responsible and recommended the appointment of Mrs Silver as Chair of forensuring that Board procedures and all applicable rules the Nomination Committee with effect from 1 January 2017. andregulations are followed.
the identification of a new independent Non-executive Director, who would in time assume the Chair of the Audit & The Board has an approved and documented schedule of Risk Committee, which culminated in the appointment to the matters reserved for its decision, including approval of the Board of Mr Maiden on 1 November 2016.
In considering this Groups strategy, annual budgets, material agreements and appointment, the Nomination Committee evaluated the major capital expenditure and acquisitions, the approval of balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board financial arrangements, and the monitoring of performance, and prepared a description of the role and capabilities health, safety, environmental matters and risk management required.
External search agencies were engaged and a procedures.
number of short-listed candidates were then invited to interview with members of the Committee.
Other members The Board has also adopted a formal induction process for of the Board were then given the opportunity of meeting Directors including visits to principal sites and meetings with with short-listed candidates, following which the Board operating management.
Training sessions have been organised approved the appointment of Mr Maiden as a Non-executive during the year for the Board on matters considered relevant Director and, with effect from 1 January 2017, new Chair of to the discharge of the Directors duties and Directors may take the Audit & Risk Committee.
additional training where necessary as part of their continuing the Nomination Committee recommended that Mr Nicolson development at the expense of the Company.
be appointed Senior Independent Director in place of MrsSilver with effect from 1 January 2017. receipt and review of regular reports from the Executive Directors and the Group Human Resources Director on senior executive talent management and succession planning throughout the Group.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 29 Remuneration Committee The Committee also reviews and approves whistleblowing The Remuneration Committee is responsible for reviewing arrangements by which staff can, in confidence, raise concerns andrecommending the framework and policy for remuneration about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting of the Executive Directors and senior executives, which the or other matters.
This is achieved through using a third party Board as a whole is responsible for approving.
During the year reporting facility which accommodates telephone, web and ended 31 May 2017, the Committee members were Mrs Owers email contacts and allows anonymity on request.
Committee Chair, Ms Edozien, Mr Nicolson, Mr Maiden with effect from his appointment to the Board on 1 November 2016, Further detail on the above areas and certain other Professor Arnold until his retirement from the Board on responsibilities can be found in the Audit & Risk Committee 31December 2016 and Mrs Silver until her appointment as Terms of Reference which are posted on the Groups corporate Chair on 1 January 2017.
The Company Secretary, Mr Plant, website www.
Composition of the Audit & Risk Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for evaluating the The membership of the Committee is usually made up of four performance and determining specific remuneration packages Non-executive Directors.
During the year ended 31 May 2017, for each Executive Director, the Chair and the Company the members of the Audit & Risk Committee were Mr Maiden Secretary.
With the exception of the Non-executive Chair, with effect from his appointment to the Board on 1 November thefees of the Non-executive Directors are determined by 2016 and as Chair of the Committee with effect from 1 January theExecutive Directors.
2017, Ms Edozien, Mr Nicolson, Mrs Owers, Professor Arnold until his retirement from the Board on 31 December 2016 Further details of the Committees responsibilities and activities andMrs Silver until her appointment as Chair of the Board on during the year and of Directors remuneration are set out in 1January 2017.
Mr Maiden brings relevant financial experience the Report on Directors Remuneration.
to the Audit & Risk Committee, having held a number of senior financial roles, and currently as Group Finance Director of Audit & Risk Committee Croda International Plc.
The Chair of the Board, the Executive Responsibilities of the Audit & Risk Committee Directors, the Head of Group Internal Audit, the Group The Audit & Risk Committee is responsible for reviewing, Financial Controller and the Head of External Reporting and onbehalf of the Board, the following key areas: representatives from the external auditors regularly attend meetings by invitation.
The Company Secretary is secretary to Financial Reporting: including monitoring the integrity of the Committee.
The Committee or its Chair meet periodically theFinancial Statements and announcements relating to with the External Auditor and Head of Group Internal Audit theGroups financial performance and reviewing significant without the executives being present.
financial reporting issues and judgements: Internal Control: including reviewing the adequacy and How the Audit & Risk Committee effectiveness of the Groups systems processes for internal  financial control: Five formal meetings of the Committee were scheduled during Internal Audit: including reviewing the effectiveness and the year and the members of the Committee met on a number output of the Groups Internal Audit function and internal of further occasions as necessary to consider specific matters audit programme: arising.
To discharge its responsibilities, the Committee External Audit: including oversight of all matters associated receives and reviews presentations and reports from the with the appointment, terms, remuneration and performance Groups senior management, Group Internal Audit and the of the External Auditor and for reviewing the scope, results External Auditor.
and quality of the audit and its cost effectiveness: and Risk Management: including reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups risk management systems and assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, ensuring, where possible, that appropriate action is being taken to manage and mitigate those risks.
The Board as a whole conducts a robust review of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and the output of this review forms the basis of the risk management work undertaken bythe Committee during the year.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 30 Governance Report on Corporate Governance continued Key focus areas for 2016 2017 2.
Pensions including obligations and assumptions In addition to the Committees core responsibilities the The Groups defined benefit pension schemes are material to its following focus areas have also been specifically considered financial position.
The amounts shown in the balance sheet are during the period under review: highly sensitive to changes in key actuarial assumptions.
The Committee has reviewed and agreed the appropriateness andconsistency of these assumptions with management.
Full Key focus area Audit & Risk Committee review disclosures around the Groups defined benefit pension schemes SAP Control With the introduction of the SAP system Environment across the Group during the year, the are provided in note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Committee reviewed changes to the system, control environment and effectiveness of 3.
Direct tax provisions internal control The global nature and operating model of the Group means Nigeria Foreign The Committee reviewed the accounting that it is periodically involved in restructuring activities Exchange Impact for, and risk impact of, the devaluation of e. g. acquisitions, disposals and reorganisations.
These theNigerian currency and limited liquidity ofUSDollars in Nigeria activities canhave complex tax related consequences in a number of jurisdictions around the world where the approach Cyber Security Risk The Committee reviewed the Groups protection against, and action plans to of the taxauthorities can be difficult to predict.
Where mitigate, the risk of cyber attack appropriate, provisions are made using managements Audit Tender Process The Committee oversaw the process to judgement.
TheCommittee has reviewed the key judgements tender the External Audit further with management and considers the tax provisioning levels information is set out on page 31 tobe appropriate.
Group Internal Audit The Committee considered the steps taken Development tofurther develop the Groups Internal Audit 4.
Customer rebates, discounts and promotional trade spend function, to create a more holistic programme and to manage follow up of individual Trade spend is a significant expense for the Group, with the riskevents main judgement relating to trade promotions and specifically Viability Statement The Committee reviewed developments in the timing and extent to which temporary promotional activity viability statement reporting since its has occurred and requires accrual.
The Committee has introduction in the previous year, the Groups reviewed with management its assessment of the control disclosure and its process of scenario testing environment and the findings of Internal Audit relating to trade spend activities and accounting.
It is the Committees view that Financial reporting and significant financial judgements management operates an appropriate control environment The Audit & Risk Committee assesses whether suitable which minimises the risks in this area.
accounting policies have been adopted and whether management has made appropriate estimates and judgements.
Exceptional items The Committee reviews papers prepared by management which The Committee has considered the presentation of the provide details on the principal financial reporting judgements.
Consolidated Financial Statements, and, in particular, the The Committee also reviews reports by the External Auditor presentation of exceptional items and the items included onthe half year and full year results which highlight any issues within such measures.
The Committee has periodically arising from the work undertaken in respect of the half year reviewed with management and agreed that the presentation review and year end audit.
The specific areas of audit and provides meaningful information to Shareholders about the accounting judgement reviewed by the Committee were: underlying performance of the Group and that the items presented as exceptional items have been treated in 1.
The carrying value and recognition of goodwill and accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
intangible assets The Groups goodwill and intangible assets principally relate 6.
Foreign exchange tobrands and are a material balance sheet item.
Annual The Groups Nigerian subsidiaries and joint ventures have impairment reviews are performed for goodwill and other experienced considerable foreign currency volatility and intangible assets with indefinite lives which use key uncertainty during the year.
The Committee has reviewed and judgements including forecasts and estimates of future considered the financial reporting implications in terms of the business performance and cash generation, discount rates exchange rates used for transactional and translation purposes andlong-term growth rates.
The Committee has reviewed and considers the accounting treatment and disclosures to be managements analysis and is comfortable with the key appropriate.
assumptions applied and managements conclusion that noimpairment is required.
At the request of the Board, the Committee considered whether the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts were fair, balanced and understandable and whether they provided the necessary information for Shareholders to assess the Groups financial position, performance, business model and strategy.
The Committee was satisfied that, taken as a whole, the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 31 External Auditor effectiveness prior to engagement, regardless of the amounts involved.
During the year, the Committee assessed the effectiveness of All assignments are monitored by the Committee.
Details of  LLP as the Groups External Auditor.
the amounts paid to the External Auditor during the year for To assist in the assessment, the Committee reviewed a audit and other services are set out in note 4 to the summary prepared by the Group Finance function, based on Consolidated Financial Statements.
feedback formally sought from Operating Unit Finance teams on  LLPs effectiveness in carrying out Going forward the Committee will continue to review the the audit for the year to 31 May 2016.
This feedback included proposed provision of non-audit services against the backdrop an assessment of: of UK and EU prohibitions regarding the provision of non-audit services, which first applies to the Group for the financial year quality of planning, execution and completion of the audit: beginning on 1 June 2017, to ensure the Group complies with understanding of the Group and its business and the ability all restrictions and requirements applicable to it.
to make effective recommendations: quality, knowledge and experience of the audit team: External audit tender effectiveness of communications between management In last years report it was noted that the Committee andthe audit team: and last tendered the external audit in 2008 and would conduct robustness of the audit, including the audit teams ability to a competitive tender process during the year ending challenge management as well as demonstrate professional 31May2017.
This process commenced in December 2016 and scepticism and independence.
an audit tender selection panel the Selection Panel was established comprising the Chair of the Board, the Audit The Committee also considered the quality of reports from & Risk Committee Chair, the Chief Financial Officer and senior  LLP and the additional insights members of the Group Finance team.
provided by the audit team, particularly at director and partner level.
It took account of the views of the CFO and senior With input from the Committee, the Selection Panel prepared members of the Group Finance function, who had met local the scope of the tender process which included an initial audit partners when visiting the Groups businesses, to gauge exercise to identify a shortlist of firms which would be invited the quality of the team and their knowledge and understanding to take part in the process based on certain criteria including of the business.
The Committee considered how well the knowledge understanding of the Groups business and auditors assessed key accounting and audit judgements and global reach and experience.
Three firms including the way they applied constructive challenge and professional  LLP were then invited to join the scepticism in dealing with management.
tender process which involved meeting with Group and overseas management and Selection Panel members, submission of a Following the review, the Committee concluded that the full proposal and formal presentations to the Selection Panel.
Attendees at the presentations reported back to the Committee External Auditor independence with their thoughts on each firm against the initial criteria and Whilst the Audit & Risk Committee has not adopted a formal other factors such as cultural fit, technical expertise, local policy in respect of the rotation of the External Auditor, one presence, audit approach and planning, regulator experience ofits principal duties is to make recommendations to the Board and enthusiasm.
Following consideration of the presentation in relation to the appointment of the External Auditor.
Various by each firm, the Committee identified two audit firms for factors are taken into account by the Committee in this respect.
potential appointment and that Deloitte LLP was the These include the quality of the reports provided to the preferred candidate and recommended their appointment Committee and the Board and the level of understanding of as External Auditor tothe Board.
The Board accepted the the Groups business demonstrated.
recommendation and a resolution to appoint Deloitte LLP asthe Groups new statutory External Auditor will be put to The Group has a policy governing the conduct of non-audit shareholders at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Work is work by the External Auditor.
The External Auditor is permitted already underway to ensure a seamless transition with the to provide non-audit services which are not, and are not team already identified and preparatory work completed.
perceived to be, in conflict with External Auditor independence, TheCommittee is grateful to  LLP for providing it has the skill, competence and integrity to carry its delivery of high quality audit services over the last ten years.
outthe work and is considered to be the most appropriate toundertake such work in the best interests of the Group.
The Committee confirms that it has complied with the Assignments with a value of 50,000 or more must be requirements of the CMA Order 2014 as regards audit submitted to the Committee for approval and activities which tendering, auditor appointment, negotiation and agreement may be perceived to be in conflict with the role of the External ofaudit fees and approval of non-audit services.
Auditor must be submitted to the Committee for approval PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 32 Governance Report on Corporate Governance continued Attendance at meetings The number of scheduled meetings of the Board excluding such ad hoc meetings as were necessary during the year to address specific matters arising and of each of the Audit & Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees during the year ended 31May 2017, together with a record of the attendance of the current Directors who are their respective members, is detailed inthe table below: Board Audit & Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Number of Number of Number of Number of meetings Number of meetings Number of meetings Number of meetings Number of eligible to meetings eligible to meetings eligible to meetings eligible to meetings attend attended attend attended attend attended attend attended Mr G Kanellis 6 6 n a n a n a n a 2 2 Mr C Davis 6 6 n a n a n a n a n a n a Mr B Leigh 6 6 n a n a n a n a n a n a Mrs C Silver 6 6 n a n a n a n a 2 2 Ms N Edozien 6 6 5 5 4 4 2 1 Mr J Maiden 4 4 4 4 3 3 1 1 Mrs H Owers 6 6 5 5 4 4 2 2 Mr J Nicolson 6 6 5 3 4 2 2 1 Mr R Harvey 3 3 n a n a n a n a 1 1 Prof J Arnold 3 3 2 1 1 1 1 1 Note: n a indicates that the Director is not a member of the committee.
No Director participates in meetings when matters relating Remuneration tohim her are being discussed.
Details of Directors remuneration are set out in the Report onDirectors Remuneration.
Good4Business G4B Committee The G4B Committee is responsible for reviewing and Going concern developing the Companys corporate strategy to ensure The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely thatCorporate Social Responsibility CSR is an integral part to affect its future development, performance and position are ofthestrategy and that the Groups social, environmental set out in the Strategic Report.
The financial position of the andeconomic activities are aligned.
The G4B Committee is Group and liquidity position are described within the Financial responsible for the development of policies on all key areas Review which forms part of the Strategic Report.
In addition, ofthe Companys CSR programme G4B including Business note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements includes Governance and Ethics, the Environment, Sourcing and policies in relation to the Groups financial instruments and risk Community and Charity.
Further details of the Committees management and policies for managing credit risk, liquidity terms of reference and activities during the year are set out risk, market risk, foreign exchange risk, price risk, cash flow and inthe G4B section of the Strategic Report.
interest rate risk and capital risk.
During the year, the members of the G4B Committee were After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable MsEdozien Committee Chair, Mr Davis, MrKanellis, Mr Leigh, expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate Mr Nicolson, Mrs Owers, Mrs Silver, MrMaiden with effect resources to continue in operational existence for a period from his appointment to the Board on 1November 2016 and of at least 12 months from the date of approving the Financial Professor Arnold and Mr Harvey each up until his retirement Statements.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going from the Board on 31 December 2016.
The Company concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Financial Secretary, Mr Plant, is secretary to the G4B Committee.
A viability statement has been prepared and authority to obtain external advice as considered appropriate approved by the Board and this is set out on page 35 of the and the Board has resolved that it should be provided with Strategic Report.
sufficient resources to undertake fullyits responsibilities.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 33 Internal control Overall no control failings or weaknesses were identified that would have a significant impact on the Group: however, The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system recommendations were raised where necessary at specific sites ofinternal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such to strengthen existing processes and controls and follow-up asystem is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk audit visits were carried out at the majority of sites to ensure of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide that agreed corrective actions were being taken.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Relations with Shareholders The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing process for In its financial reporting to Shareholders the Board aims to identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant present a balanced and understandable assessment of the risks, that it has been in place for the year ended 31 May 2017 Groups financial position and prospects.
and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, that it is regularly reviewed by the The Company maintains a corporate website, Board and that it accords with the Financial Reporting Councils www.
com, containing a wide range of information Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related of interest to institutional and private investors and a Financial and Business Reporting.
The process includes: subscription email service is available which enables access to Company notifications and news releases.
frequent communication between the Board and the Audit & Risk Committee and subsidiary management The Company has periodic discussions with institutional on all critical business issues: Shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Groups regular visits to operating units by the Board, head office performance.
The Board is also kept informed of investors management and Internal Audit: views through regular discussion of analysts and brokers regular review of budgets, forecasts, periodic reporting briefings and investor opinion feedback.
andvariance analysis: regular review by the Board and Audit & Risk Committee All Shareholders, including private investors, have an ofrisk throughout the Group and the risk management opportunity to present questions to the Board at the Annual processes in place: and General Meeting and the Directors make themselves available to meet informally with Shareholders after the meeting.
taking necessary action to remedy any significant weaknesses found as part of the review of the effectiveness of the internal control system.
General meetings of Shareholders The business to be conducted at the Annual General Meeting Throughout the year, the Board has carried out assessments of the Company is set out in the separate Notice of Annual ofinternal control by considering documentation from the General Meeting which accompanies the Annual Report and Executive Directors, Audit & Risk Committee and Internal Audit Accounts.
Resolutions put before Shareholders at the Annual function as well as taking into consideration events since the General Meeting will usually include resolutions for the year end.
The internal controls extend to the financial reporting appointment of Directors, approval of the Report on Directors process and the preparation of consolidated accounts.
The basis Remuneration, declaration of the final dividend and for the preparation of consolidated accounts is as set out in authorisation for the Board to allot and repurchase shares.
note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
At the 2017 Annual General Meeting, voting on each resolution will be by way of a poll.
At each Annual General Meeting there The Group continues to take steps to embed internal control is an update on the progress of the business over the last year and risk management further into the operations of the and also on current trading conditions.
business and to deal with areas for improvement which come to the attention of management and the Board.
The Group has ethical guidelines and a defined fraud reporting and whistleblowing process which are issued to all employees within the Group.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 34 Governance Report on Corporate Governance continued Compliance statement The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking The Directors consider that the Company complied fully with the reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 31May2017 and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for and up to the date of this report.
themaintenance and integrity of the Companys website, www.
Legislation in the United Kingdom Statement of Directors responsibilities governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
the Report on Directors Remuneration and the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, applicable law and regulations.
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial the Group and Parent Companys performance and position, Statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors business model and strategy.
have elected to prepare the Group Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the Parent onpages 2 and 3 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: Company Financial Statements, comprising FRS101 Reduced the Company Financial Statements, which have been Disclosure Framework and applicable law.
Under company law, prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally the Directors must not approve the Financial Statements unless Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state Standards, comprising FRS101 Reduced Disclosure of affairs of the Group and the Parent Company and of the Framework and applicable law, give a true and fair view profit or loss of the Group and Parent Company for that period.
ofthe assets, liabilities, financial position and result In preparing these Financial Statements, the Directors are of the Company: required to: the Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared select suitable accounting policies and then apply in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, them consistently: give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial make judgements and accounting estimates which are position and profit of the Group: and reasonable and prudent: the Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the development and performance of the business and the European Union have been followed for the Group Financial position of the Group and Company, together with a Statements and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, description of the principal risks and uncertainties which comprising FRS101, have been followed for the Parent it faces.
Company Financial Statements, subject to any material departures disclosed andexplained in the Group and Parent By order of the Board Company Financial Statements respectively: and prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and S P Plant Parent Company will continue in business.
Company Secretary 25 July 2017 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Company and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements andthe Report on Directors Remuneration comply with theCompanies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
