SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic Report Audit Committee Report.
Our Governance As planned, our external audit relationship was tendered Dear shareholder during financial year 2017.
This process involved five I am pleased, on behalf of the Board, to present my report Minnow Powell Financial prospective audit firms who were each issued with a to shareholders on the key activities undertaken by the Statements Audit Committee brief in November 2016 and given wide access to the Committee during the year in accordance with its principal business to develop their audit approach and plan prior to Chairman responsibilities which are to: presentation to the Audit Committee.
In February 2017, the Audit Committee made a firm recommendation to appoint monitor the integrity of the Groups Financial Statements, Deloitte LLP Deloitte as auditors for financial year 2018, the half-year report and any formal announcements judged against the selection criteria including quality of relating to the Groups financial performance, including the proposed team, knowledge and experience of global reviewing significant financial reporting judgements retail businesses and organisational and cultural fit.
The contained therein, receiving reports from the Groups Board accepted and endorsed this recommendation, which auditors, together with compliance with accounting is subject to shareholder approval at the AGM.
We are standards and other legal and regulatory requirements: confident that Deloitte will introduce fresh perspective and review the Groups internal financial controls and internal challenge to the Groups audit.
Due to my personal conflict control and risk management systems, provide oversight of interest as a pensioner of Deloitte, Penny Hughes chaired Membership and meeting attendance of the Groups Risk Committee and considering reports the Audit Committee when Deloitte presented.
Number of meetings on their effectiveness from the Chief Financial Officer Committee member Member since attended held On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank PwC, and together with reports from both the internal and in particular Mark Smith who has made a significant Minnow Powell Chairman 5 5 external auditors: 1 December 2012 contribution to the conduct and effectiveness of the audit review the Groups controls and systems to ensure Penny Hughes 5 5 1 April 2015 process, for their support and guidance to the Group over compliance with the provisions of the Bribery Act 2010 the past nine years.
and the Groups whistleblowing policy: 1 1 Ken McCall resigned 13 July 2016 24 May 2010 review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit In addition to meeting to consider presentations from 3 3 Beatrice Lafon 14 September 2016 function and ensure that it is adequately resourced: potential external audit firms, the Committee has met five times during the year and reports were provided to Steve Sunnucks 4 4 recommend to the Board the appointment, 13 July 2016 the subsequent Board meeting.
At least once a year the reappointment and removal of the external auditors Committee meets separately with the external auditors and Actual number of meetings attended and to approve their remuneration and terms of their Head of Internal Audit without management present.
Maximum number of scheduled meetings which the Directors could have attended engagement: Not standing for election or re-election, respectively, at the AGM.
I am satisfied that the Committee was presented with review and monitor the external auditors independence papers of good quality during the year, provided in a timely and objectivity, the effectiveness of the external audit All of the Committee members are Non-Executive Directors.
The Board fashion to allow due consideration of the subjects under process and the audit plan: and considers them all to be independent.
At least one member myself, as the review.
I am also satisfied that meetings were scheduled review the engagement of the external auditors to ensure Audit Committee Chairman has recent and relevant financial experience.
The to allow sufficient time to enable full and informed debate.
that the provision of non-audit services by the external other members of the Committee each contribute international business and We also reviewed our terms of reference during the year, audit firm does not impair its independence or objectivity.
including comparing them against the Code, and these were approved by the Board.
Activities during the year By invitation of the Committee Chairman, the Chairman, the Chief Executive The Committee has a standing agenda of areas to be Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, other Directors, Head of Internal Audit The results of the Board evaluation completed this year covered at each meeting based on its terms of reference which looked at the effectiveness of the Committee against outsourced to KPMG LLP, senior managers and external auditors also attend and, in addition, it also considers relevant matters as they its terms of reference were positive, although the question Committee meetings.
Specifically, within financial year 2017, the Committee of whether and when the function of internal audit is has devoted time to overseeing the Groups response to The role of the secretary to the Committee is performed by the Company brought in-house needs to be kept under review.
Further the growing exposure to information security and cyber Secretary or the Deputy Company Secretary.
A report on the Committees details of the Board evaluation can be found on page 62. risks.
This approach included assessing existing controls activities is given to the Board at each subsequent Board meeting.
against an industry standard and developing a programme Minnow Powell of activity to improve how we mitigate the risks identified.
Audit Committee Chairman 6 July 2017 www.
co. uk 65 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Audit Committee Report.
The principal matters under consideration during the year are set Cognisant of the introduction of The General Data Protection out below.
Regulations GDPR, for which full compliance is required by 25 May 2018, the Group is developing clear policies and procedures Internal control and risk management to cover the collection and use of personal data and the adoption The Committee has continued to review and discuss with of appropriate technical and organisational measures.
The Audit management the Groups process for evaluation and assessment of Committee will review the Groups readiness status in subsequent its management of risk and internal controls.
The review focuses on meetings.
the effectiveness of the risk management process including financial, operational, technical and compliance risks and related mitigating Group restructure controls which are described on page 48.
The Committee has noted Further to approvals given to implement a restructure of the Groups the continued focus and improvement in the risk management European entities, the Committee has reviewed the progress and process and the strengthening of internal controls during the year.
status of the restructuring programme and is satisfied with the progress achieved to date.
Information technology Other and information security The Committee has continued to review other key areas of risk and While the core information technology systems within the Group internal controls including accounts payable, treasury, tax and credit have been strengthened significantly, given their continued control management with presentations given by the managers development, the Committee has continued to focus on the responsible.
Furthermore, an internal audit review of treasury and development of the information technology control environment.
cash management controls confirmed their adequacy, subject to A key area of focus for management during the year has been the further segregation of treasury duties.
development of an approach to monitor and govern cyber security.
The Committee also discussed with the Executive Directors the risk To ensure that information management is covered in its widest and controls over fraud, and the risk of financial misstatements by sense systems, data protection and integrity and confidentiality non-compliance with laws and regulations.
a business-wide group has been established covering all key functions.
This forum has applied common practice from other The Committee reviewed the Groups Tax and Treasury policies and businesses and the framework published by the Department for recommended them to the Board for approval.
Business, Innovation & Skills to create a programme to improve security and improve education and awareness.
Senior managers have also provided reports on the Groups compliance with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, and, as part of the wider ongoing development of Business Continuity plans, the development and testing of disaster recovery plans for major IT components critical to business operations.
co. uk 66 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic Report Our Governance Financial reporting and accounting judgements The Committee reviewed and approved the Financial Statements of the Group and all formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance.
The review considers the integrity of the reporting, the Financial Statements appropriateness and acceptability of accounting policies and practices, and compliance with financial reporting standards and requirements.
For accounting judgements, the Committee considered detailed papers provided to them and the views of the external auditors.
The Committee considers that the Group has adopted appropriate accounting policies and made appropriate estimates and judgements where required.
The full impact of the UKs vote to leave the European Union is at present difficult to quantify.
The immediate impact from the devaluation of Sterling against the majority of currencies in which the Group purchases product will lead to input cost pressure.
However, as described on page 54, this risk is mitigated by the Groups presence in a range of international markets and the constant oversight, by the Group and the Audit Committee, of foreign exchange exposure and opportunities.
At the balance sheet date there are a number of new standards in issue but not yet effective, including IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 16 Leases.
The overall impact of IFRS 15 is considered low, with the Groups existing accounting policies consistent, in all significant respects, with the new standard.
The Group offers a returns facility for Retail customers and has contractual returns arrangements for some Wholesale customers.
However, under the Groups current accounting treatment, and consistent with IFRS 15, revenue is not recognised for goods expected to be returned.
IFRS 16 is expected to have a material impact on key components of the financial statements.
While both assets and liabilities will increase and the operating lease rental charge will be replaced by depreciation and finance costs, there will be no impact on the underlying commercial performance of the Group or the cash generated.
The critical accounting estimates and judgements have been reviewed and updated by the Committee for the current year are set out below: Area Issue How addressed Management judgement is required For each provision, the Committee considered and challenged the judgements made and assessed the available evidence, Provisions for inventory, returns, and estimates are used to support the including historic trends, and concluded that the provisions were appropriate.
Recognition of deferred tax assets for After review and discussion, the Board approved the Groups long-term financial plan in January 2017.
The Committee has Deferred tax assets tax losses in the US and European considered the judgement to recognise deferred tax assets in respect of the recoverability of tax losses.
In light of this plan the businesses, based on forecast Committee considers the judgement to be reasonable.
Material items that are outside the The Committee considers the nature and size of costs categorised as exceptional, including whether they meet the definition of Exceptional items normal course of business and an exceptional item, being material in size, unusual or infrequent in nature.
No items were considered exceptional in the year.
The appropriateness of preparation The Committee reviewed the cash flow forecasts and concluded that it was appropriate to prepare the Financial Statements on Going concern and Viability of the Financial Statements on a a going concern basis.
Following the Boards review of the Groups long-term financial plan, the Committee considered the cash Statement going concern basis and the Viability flows, sensitivities and disclosures, made with regard to the Groups viability, in this Annual Report and considers them to be Statement.
We received a letter from the Financial Reporting Council FRC informing us that they had carried out a review of our interim report for the 26 week period ended 29 October 2016 and that there were no questions or queries that the FRC wished to raise.
It should be noted that the FRC review was based on our interim report and did not benefit from detailed knowledge of our business or an understanding of the underlying transactions entered into.
co. uk 67 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Audit Committee Report.
Fair, balanced and understandable Internal audit effectiveness Supervision of the external auditors At the request of the Board, the Committee also considered whether The ongoing review of an audit universe, and the outputs from the The Committee oversees the external auditors by reviewing, the Financial Statements and the elements of the Annual Report Risk Committee, has enabled the role of internal audit and scope challenging, and approving the audit plan and ensuring that it is that are relevant to the Financial Statements, as a whole, are fair, of its work to continue to evolve to take account of changes within consistent with the scope of the audit engagement.
The Committee balanced and understandable.
the Group and emerging best practice.
The annual review of the meets regularly with the external auditors, both with and without internal audit plan ensures that the coming year is planned and management present.
During the review of the audit plan, the The Board took account of this review in its consideration of following two years agreed in outline so that areas of focus are Committee discussed and agreed those financial statement risk whether the Annual Report, in its entirety, was fair, balanced and audited at least once over the course of the three-year plan.
During areas identified by the auditors that required additional audit understandable.
the year, internal audit has delivered nine audits including coverage emphasis and discussed and challenged the auditors assessment of the following areas: sourcing, payroll, German operations, of materiality including the fide minimis level for reporting unadjusted Whistleblowing budgeting and forecasting, accounts receivable, treasury and cash differences.
The audit opinion on pages 97 to 103 provides a full The Group has a policy and process in place for whistleblowing management, project risk management, IT access controls and explanation of the scope of the audit, concept of materiality and key and the Committee is satisfied that colleagues have the opportunity business continuity.
to raise concerns in confidence about possible fraudulent activity and any other concerns that arise within the organisation.
The The effectiveness of internal audit is reviewed on an ongoing Appointment of external auditors Committee is also satisfied that arrangements are in place for basis by the Committee.
This review takes the form of a detailed The external audit appointment was tendered in early 2017, with the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters, questionnaire followed by discussion and assessment of the aim that the successful firm would take office after the completion of including appropriate follow-up action.
Following the review and discussion, the Head the audit for financial year 2017.
The tender process was concluded of Internal Audit was changed so as to drive further improvements in on 7 February 2017, with the Committee recommending to the During the year the Committee received an update on instances the function.
The Committee will continue to assess whether internal Board the appointment of Deloitte as external auditors for financial of fraud within the Group and a summary of the calls to the audit should remain outsourced, in part or in full.
The Board is recommending the appointment of Deloitte whistleblowing helpline together with follow-up actions that were recent assessment, the Group intends to recruit a suitably qualified as external auditors to the AGM.
The Committee confirms that the undertaken.
As a consequence of a whistleblowing contact during internal control resource in the current financial year.
Company was in compliance with the UK Competition and Markets the year, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups Authority Order 2014 during the year ended 29 April 2017. recruitment processes, agreeing a number of recommended Effectiveness of external audit improvements.
A review of the effectiveness of external audit was undertaken by an internal survey of members of the Committee, the Chief Controls and procedures are in place to ensure compliance with Financial Officer, and the internal finance team in September 2016. the Bribery Act 2010.
The Committee receives a regular report on This review adopted the new Financial Reporting Council FRC the Groups gift register which includes any gifts and hospitality guidance on effectiveness and included consideration of its Audit received by colleagues from external business relationships above Quality Review teams report on PwC as a firm and noted the key an agreed threshold.
The results of the review provided assurance that our external auditors continued to perform effectively.
co. uk 68 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic Report Our Governance Details of all non-audit services provided during the year are set The Committee has reviewed and agreed the non-audit services as Independence out within the note on auditors remuneration on page 124 in the set out above provided by the external auditors, together with the Auditor independence is maintained by reviewing PwCs Financial Financial Statements and are summarised in the table below: associated fees, and is satisfied that these did not prejudice the Statements confirmation of their independence, monitoring the nature and value external auditors independence or objectivity.
of non-audit services carried out, and ensuring that employees of 2017 2016 the external auditors who have worked on the audit in the past two 000 000 At its meeting on 22 March 2017 the Committee approved a new years are not appointed, without prior approval of the Committee, to policy on non-audit fees in line with the FRC Ethical Standard, which Audit fees 406 430 senior financial positions within the Group.
In addition, the rotation of will take effect from 30 April 2017. the lead partner occurs every five years.
Non-audit fees Minnow Powell The Committee assessed the independence of the external auditors Audit-related assurance services 40 60 Audit Committee Chairman and concluded that they were independent.
6 July 2017 Tax compliance and advisory 45 Non-audit services Other 230 331 The general policy in respect of non-audit work by the external auditors is that they should not be requested to carry out non-audit Total non-audit fees 270 436 services on any material activity of the Group where they may, in the Non-audit fees as a percentage of future, be required to give an audit opinion or act as management, in audit fees 67% 101% accordance with the Audit Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Non-audit fees were 67% and were primarily incurred in respect of In certain limited areas it is in the Groups and its shareholders advisory services provided by PwC to support the Groups Design to interests to engage the external audit firm to deliver certain services.
Customer process, initiated in financial year 2016.
The provision To protect auditor objectivity and independence the Committee of these services was subject to a robust tendering process, approves each individual non-audit service above 20,000 in value, involving five potential suppliers.
The process clearly demonstrated and every piece of work once an agreed threshold, capped at a PwCs capability and relevant retail experience to support this value equivalent to the audit fee, is reached.
important programme and the Committee confirmed that the award of this project did not influence the remuneration of the Senior Statutory Auditor.
