SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Governance Report.
Code compliance The Board supports the principles laid down in the UK Corporate SuperGroup Plc Board Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in Chief Executive officer Chairman, Non-Executive Directors including Senior Independent Director September 2014 which applies to financial years beginning on and Executive Directors Executive Committee or after 1 October 2014 the Code.
The 2016 UK Corporate Members of Executive Governance Code will apply to financial year 2018.
Committee which support Board The following, together with the Directors biographies on pages 57 committees: to 59, the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 72 to 91, the Chief Executive officer Directors Report on pages 92 to 94, the Nomination Committee Chief Financial officer Report on pages 70 to 71 and the Audit Committee Report on HR Director pages 65 to 69 provide an explanation of how the principles of the Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Company Secretary Code have been applied during the year.
The Board considers that it has been in compliance with the Read more on page 65 Read more on page 70 Read more on page 72 provisions of the Code throughout financial year 2017.
The Board is considered to be of a sufficient size and balance to meet the requirements of the business.
The table below gives details of the Directors attendance at scheduled Board and committee meetings during the year: The Strategic Report includes the information needed for Nomination Remuneration shareholders to assess our performance, business model and Board meeting Audit Committee Committee Committee Number of Number of Number of Number of strategy and is incorporated into the Directors Report by reference.
scheduled scheduled scheduled scheduled meetings meetings meetings meetings The Board and Governance framework Membership and attendance attended held attended held attended held attended held The Board had a coherent corporate governance framework with Peter Bamford 6 6 4 4 clearly defined responsibilities and accountabilities.
For the Board to operate effectively and to give full consideration to key matters, 6 6 Euan Sutherland Board Committees have been established as set out in the following 6 6 Julian Dunkerton diagram.
0 1 James Holder Resigned 1 June 2016 The Board is responsible collectively for promoting our success and for implementing the business model and strategy as set out in the Nick Wharton 6 6 Strategic Report on pages 5 to 14.
The Board provides leadership 6 6 4 4 6 6 Keith Edelman for the Group and concentrates its efforts on strategy, performance, governance and internal control, as set out in the schedule of 6 6 5 5 4 4 0 0 Penny Hughes matters reserved for the Board.
4 4 3 3 Beatrice Lafon Appointed 14 September 2016 The Board meets regularly to consider issues relating to our overall Ken McCall Resigned 13 July 2016 2 2 1 1 2 2 performance, strategy and future development.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board which has been reviewed 6 6 5 5 6 6 Minnow Powell and approved by the Board in the current year is available on 6 6 4 4 4 4 Steve Sunnucks www.
Actual number of meetings attended Maximum number of scheduled meetings which the Directors could have attended Not standing for election or re-election, respectively, at the AGM.
co. uk 60 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic Report Our Governance The requirement for Board approval on these matters is understood the Senior Independent Directors responsibilities and the division As at the date of the Annual Report the Board had nine members: by our Executive Committee and senior managers and is built into of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive the Non-Executive Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, two Financial our control framework.
Officer are available on www.
other Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
On 5 Statements July 2017 two Non-Executive Directors, Beatrice Lafon and Steve The Board receives appropriate and timely information to enable it to The Non-Executive Directors meet with the Chairman separately Sunnucks, confirmed to the Board that they did not intend to discharge its duties.
on a regular basis normally the evening before a Board meeting stand for re-election at the AGM.
Accordingly, both will retire at the without the Executive Directors present there have been four such conclusion of the AGM.
The biographies of the Directors appear on During financial year 2017, in addition to its routine business, meetings during the year.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors pages 57 to 59. strategic planning and presentations from the Executive Committee have each spoken to the Senior Independent Director to appraise members and senior managers, the Board also: the performance of the Chairman during the year.
The Nomination Committee monitors Board composition and succession with a view to ensuring compliance with the Code.
considered succession planning for Non-Executive Directors All members of the Board and the Board committees have including the roles of Chairman and Senior Independent Director: sufficient resources and budget to allow access to independent Non-Executive Director advice as required.
approved the appointment of a successor to the Companys independence and length of service Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and of a Group The independence of the Non-Executive Directors is considered All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Marketing, E-commerce and Business Development Director to annually along with their commitment and performance on the Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures the Executive Committee: Board and its relevant committees.
All Non-Executive Directors are complied with.
The appointment and removal of the Company are considered by the Board to be independent and free from any Secretary is a matter for the Board.
considered the proposal for and gave approval to the relationship that could interfere materially with the exercise of their establishment of a sourcing office in China: Operational matters, trading performance and the development independent judgement.
of proposals for the Board, where required under the schedule approved the Groups Sustainability Programme: A clause is included in their letters of appointment setting out their of matters reserved for the Board, are delegated to an Executive reviewed the performance and development of our brand in required time commitment.
Committee led by the Chief Executive Officer.
Senior managers North America and gave approval to open further new stores in attend Board and Executive Committee meetings where appropriate Having considered the Chairmans commitments, the Board is the USA: to present business updates.
satisfied that he has adequate time to be able to act as Chairman.
approved investment in and the roll-out of Next Generation store The Board has appointed committees to carry out certain duties.
Directors conflicts of interest re-fit programme, i. e. The Arndale concept: These committees are detailed in the governance framework Our articles of association permit the Directors to consider and, illustration on page 60.
Each of these committees is chaired by conducted an internal Board evaluation and agreed to implement if thought fit, authorise situations where a Director has an interest a separate chairman and has written terms of reference which identified improvements: that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the Groups interests.
are reviewed regularly by the Board.
These are available on In deciding whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict, the assessed our position and processes in relation to information www.
non-conflicted Directors must act in a way they consider would be and cyber security: most likely to promote the Groups success and they may impose reviewed and approved a number of Group governance policies limits or conditions when giving their authorisation, or subsequently, including a revised Code of Conduct: and if they think it is appropriate.
Any authorisation given is recorded in the Board minutes.
The Board monitors and reviews potential approved the appointment of the external auditor, subject to conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
election at the Annual General Meeting AGM, following a competitive tender process.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and the role and duties of the Senior Independent Director, are set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
Keith Edelman is the Groups Senior Independent Director.
co. uk 61 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Governance Report.
The 2017 evaluation covered: Performance evaluation Board and committee attendance Each year the performance of the Board, its committees and the A description of the work of the Audit, Nomination and the Boards balance of skills and experience, independence and Chairman is evaluated and, as required by the Code, every third year Remuneration Committees is set out on pages 65 to 91. knowledge, and diversity including the gender of Board members: the evaluation is conducted by an external independent facilitator.
During the year, additional ad hoc Board meetings were held as how the Board worked together: how effectively it used its time The next external evaluation will take place in 2019. required.
Committee meetings may be attended by non-members and the support it received: Following the 2016 external evaluation conducted by Lintstock by invitation from the relevant Chairman.
Attendance by nonstrategic and operational risk oversight, risk management and Consultants Lintstock the Board agreed a number of actions members is recorded in the relevant committee minutes.
internal control: and which were monitored throughout the year.
These centred on the Induction and professional development continual evolution of the composition of the Board to complement key talent and succession planning.
Non-Executive Directors have the opportunity to meet with the strength of the existing Directors and enhance the international members of the Executive Committee and senior managers to gain experience and skills, the refinement of the agenda planning process Following the evaluation, the Board agreed a number of actions first-hand experience of the business.
Senior managers regularly to ensure focus on the key issues and opportunities, and extending that will be monitored throughout the current year.
These centred attend Board meetings to make presentations to the Directors.
the Boards oversight of talent management within the business to on the Boards composition and expertise, in particular, the Boards This year, these presentations have included such topics as our the senior manager tier.
understanding of the rest of the world outside of Europe and the approach to product development, our sourcing, wholesale, Americas both in the short-term and as a longer term consideration This years evaluation was performed internally and was supported e-commerce, logistics, IT and sustainability strategies and health in its succession planning, the timing for the identification of by Lintstock.
The Directors completed the same tailored questions and safety.
successors to the Senior Independent Director and the Chairman, as in the 2016 evaluation in order to build upon the responses from and investing more of the Boards time on corporate culture and In addition, the Non-Executive Directors make site visits to ensure the prior year.
The results were then analysed and summarised values.
Subsequent to the Board evaluation, the Non-Executive they are kept up-to-date with developments across the Group.
In in a report by Lintstock: tabled at a meeting of the relevant Directors visited China to see how our joint venture is developing May 2016 the Board met at the Companys distribution centre in committee: and then presented to the Board at its meeting held on and understand better some of the issues encountered and Burton-on-Trent and in October 2016, the Non-Executive Directors 23 March 2017. opportunities present in our supply chain more generally.
This is visited a number of our owned stores in the USA to understand a significant step in addressing the Boards understanding of our The anonymity of all respondents was ensured throughout the better the strategic approach to and operational management of our business in that market.
process to encourage an open and honest exchange of views.
Retail business in what is one of our key growth markets.
The performance evaluation was positive with all responses Re-election of Directors All Directors have received instruction on their responsibilities as a indicating continued high or improved performance during the At the AGM, all Directors, other than Beatrice Lafon and Steve Director and copies of our key policies.
The performance of the Executive Directors during the Sunnucks, will offer themselves for re-election.
We consider The Chairman is responsible for preparing and co-ordinating an year was monitored by the Chief Executive Officer and the the Directors offering themselves for re-election to be effective, induction programme for newly appointed Directors, including Nomination Committee.
committed to their roles and to have sufficient time available to presentations from senior managers on different aspects of the perform their duties.
business, as well as guidance on their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a Director of a listed company.
Following Beatrice Lafons appointment to the Board during the year, the Company Secretary arranged a tailored induction programme which included one-to-one meetings with individual members of the Executive Committee as well as store and other site visits.
co. uk 62 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic Report Our Governance our treasury position, including cash and foreign exchange, is Diversity Internal control and risk management managed in accordance with our Board approved treasury policy: We believe in respecting individuals and their rights in the workplace.
In accordance with the guidance for Directors on internal control, Financial Statements Please see page 31 of the Strategic Report and page 71 of the the Board confirms that there is a process for identifying, evaluating financial forecasts, providing predicted results with sensitivity Nomination Committee Report for more information about our and managing the risks we face.
We have a Risk Committee that analysis, are prepared routinely throughout the year for review by approach to our colleagues and diversity, and for details on the reports into the Executive Committee, with oversight provided by the Executive Committee and the Board: Boards policy on diversity.
The Risk Committee meets monthly to review we have established investment appraisal and authorisation the risks identified and relevant controls, agree mitigating actions Communication with shareholders procedures and our capital expenditure is reviewed against and discuss any new risks.
Where new risks are identified, they We recognise the importance of communicating with our budgets and metrics which have been approved by the are scaled according to their likelihood and potential impact, and shareholders.
Communication with institutional shareholders is Board: and then monitored.
These systems are in place to manage rather than undertaken as part of our investor relations programme.
The Chief eliminate risk and can provide only reasonable and not complete we assess routinely the capability of our people to deliver the Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer make presentations assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The principal risks business objectives set and respond accordingly.
It is recognised after the half-year and full-year results and communicate regularly on and uncertainties are reviewed twice each year by the Board.
that there is a need to focus continually on succession planning to the Groups developments to our shareholders.
ensure that, where there is a loss of key personnel, we have the The role of the Executive Committee is to implement Board policies The Chairman arranges meetings with major institutional ability to operate in both the short and long-term.
on risk and control and the Board has delegated day-to-day shareholders to gain a balanced understanding of their views and management to the Chief Executive Officer and, through him, to the Processes are in place to ensure appropriate action is taken where concerns and to discuss strategic development and corporate other Executive Directors, members of the Executive Committee and necessary to remedy any deficiencies identified through our internal governance.
The Chairman ensures that the views of those other senior managers.
control and risk management processes.
shareholders are communicated to the Board as a whole.
The A comprehensive control framework is in place which delegates Chairman is in regular communication with our significant private The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has reviewed the authority for both financial and operational activities, the aim shareholders, Julian Dunkerton and James Holder.
effectiveness of internal controls during the year and confirms that: being to increase the level of responsibility and embed a culture At our AGM shareholders will have the opportunity to ask questions there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and of compliance through the organisation.
The key elements of the of the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination managing our significant risks: control framework and review processes are as follows: Committees, the Senior Independent Director, and the other the Board sets corporate strategy and business objectives: this has been in place for financial year 2017 and up to the date members of the Board.
of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements: the Executive Committee integrates these objectives into their Our shareholders have the opportunity to meet the Non-Executive operational and financial business plans: the process is regularly reviewed by the Board: and Directors at additional times in the year.
the process accords with the Code.
the Executive Committee meets regularly with senior managers.
The Annual Report and Financial Statements are made available to The Chief Executive Officer reports to the Board on behalf of the all of our shareholders and potential investors.
Other information In addition, the Board also reviewed the effectiveness of the risk Executive Committee on significant changes in the business and about us is made available on www.
management process in the year which it felt was satisfactory.
The Chief Financial Officer provides the Fair, balanced and understandable Board with financial information which includes key performance Our Directors powers The Board is responsible for the preparation and approval of the and risk indicators: Our Directors have delegated authority to manage the operations Annual Report and financial statements and consider them, taken of the Group subject to the limitations contained in the schedule of our risk management process is integrated within the short and as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and provide the matters reserved for the Board, the terms of reference of the Board long-term business planning processes: information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys committees and our Group delegated authority matrix.
position and performance, business model and strategy.
A summary of the Directors responsibilities for the Annual Report and financial statements is set out on page 95. www.
co. uk 63 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Corporate Governance Report.
Political contributions Share capital Annual General Meeting We have not made any political donations during the year.
Details of our share capital are set out in the Directors Report on Our AGM will be held at our Head Office, The Runnings, page 93.
Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, GL51 9NW on Tuesday, Directors indemnity insurance 12September 2017 commencing at 10.30am.
The notice of this We maintain Directors and Officers liability insurance which gives Going Concern and Viability Statements years AGM is included in a separate circular to shareholders and appropriate cover for any legal action brought against our Directors Our business activities and growth strategy, together with factors will be sent out at least 20 working days before the meeting.
In accordance with section 236 of the Companies likely to affect our future development, performance and position, notice is available to view under the Equity Investors section on Act 2006, qualifying third party indemnity provisions are in place for are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 5 to 14 and Our www.
In accordance with the Code, all valid the Directors in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office, Performance section on pages 36 to 44. proxy appointments are properly recorded and counted, are made as far as is permitted by law.
Both the insurance and indemnities available at the AGM and are published on our website after the The Directors have reviewed our forecasts and projections.
applied throughout the year and continue through to the date of the meeting.
These include assumptions around our products, expenditure Directors Report.
commitments and expected cash flows.
Taking into account The notice of AGM sets out why we believe the Directors should possible changes in trading performance and after making enquiries, Change of control be elected or re-elected, as appropriate.
Details of the Directors the Directors have a reasonable expectation that we have adequate The provisions of our employee share plans may cause options and service agreements and their letters of appointment are given in the resources to continue our operations for the foreseeable future.
For awards granted under such plans to vest upon a change of control.
Directors Remuneration Report on pages 72 to 91. this reason, we have continued to adopt the going concern basis in The Directors consider that each of the proposed resolutions to be Substantial shareholdings preparing the Financial Statements.
presented at the AGM is in the best interests of the Company and As at 6 July 2017, we had been notified, pursuant to DTR 5 of the The Directors have assessed our prospects over a four-year period.
The Directors unanimously recommend Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of Further details of the Viability Statement are provided on page 55. that you vote in favour of each of the proposed resolutions, as the the following notifiable voting rights in our ordinary share capital: Directors intend to do in respect of their beneficial shareholdings.
Independent auditors Number of % of issued share Nature Name of holder ordinary shares capital of holding On the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Directors will Approved and signed on behalf of the Board.
put a resolution before the AGM to appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors Julian Dunkerton 21,696,788 26.7 Direct Simon Callander for the financial year 2018, following the completion of a competitive Company Secretary Standard Life tender process during the year.
6 July 2017 Investments 10,517,286 12.9 Indirect Registered Office: James Holder 8,898,610 10.9 Direct Unit 60 Old Mutual Global The Runnings Investors 4,769,653 5.8 Indirect Cheltenham Gloucestershire Oppenheimer GL51 9NW Funds 4,087,930 5.0 Indirect Through independent share register analysis, the Company is aware that the total voting rights held by Oppenheimer Funds, Inc. is between 5% and 10% but that Oppenheimer Funds, Inc. is not obligated to formally notify the Company of any change in voting rights held between these two percentage thresholds.
