SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Nomination Committee Report.
Dear shareholder Director changes Peter Bamford I am pleased to present the Nomination Committee report Beatrice Lafon was appointed to the Board as a Nonon behalf of the Board.
The Committee is responsible Executive Director and as a member of the Audit Nomination Committee for nominating candidates for appointment to the Board Committee on 14 September 2016.
On 2 July 2017 Chairman and ensuring that the Company has the leadership and Beatrice Lafon and Steve Sunnucks confirmed to the capability to meet its growth ambitions.
Board that they did not intend to stand for re-election at the AGM.
Accordingly, both will retire at the conclusion of Activities during the year the AGM.
The prime focus of the Committee this year has been overseeing the Boards composition and ensuring that Appointment Process the Company has the right talent in key roles to realise There is a formal and robust procedure for the appointment its growth potential in existing and new markets.
The of new Directors to the Board, under which I, as Chairman, Committee also considered succession planning for Noninterview an initial list of candidates proposed either by Executive Directors including the roles of Chairman and existing Board members or by an external search firm from Principal responsibilities Senior Independent Director.
which a shortlist is then selected.
Committee members and review the structure, size, composition and balance of the Board and other Directors interview suitable candidates and provide During the year the Committee monitored the performance recommend changes where appropriate: feedback, and extensive references are then taken.
Careful of the members of the Executive Committee and consideration is given to ensure proposed appointees consider and recommend succession planning for Executive and Nonreviewed the organisational structure.
It also ensured have sufficient time available to devote to the role and that Executive Directors: that key individuals were given support and mentoring the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the where appropriate.
The Committee, together with the identify and nominate candidates for approval by the Board to fill Board Board is maintained.
When the Committee has identified a Chief Executive Officer, have continued to review the vacancies or new positions as and when they arise: suitable candidate, a proposal is made to the Board, which organisational structure to define clear accountability for approve appointments to the Executive Committee: and has retained responsibility for all such appointments.
the delivery of the five-year strategic plan and to ensure evaluate the skills, experience and knowledge of Board members.
the right leadership is in place to lead us through a period A similar process is followed for the appointment of of significant geographic and channel growth.
Following members to the Executive Committee.
Membership and meeting attendance searches led by the SuperGroup in-house resourcing Number of meetings team, Hugo Adams joined the Group in November 2016 as Committee member Member since attended held Global Marketing and Business Development Director and Peter Bamford Chairman 29 January 2010 4 4 Simon Callander in May 2017 as Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Both Hugo and Simon are 4 4 Keith Edelman 4 February 2010 members of the Executive Committee.
Penny Hughes 4 4 1 April 2015 Key talent risks and succession plans for the Executive Actual number of meetings attended Directors, members of the Executive Committee and other Maximum number of scheduled meetings which the Directors could have attended senior managers were reviewed in July 2016 and again in March 2017 and actions put in place to mitigate identified The Committee met four times during the year.
In addition to the members of the risks.
Committee, which comprises independent Non-Executive Directors, the Chief Executive Officer and the Group HR Director attended each of the meetings.
By The Committee also reviewed its effectiveness against invitation of the Committee Chairman other Non-Executive Directors attended its terms of reference and the results of the annual Board meetings of the Committee during the year.
evaluation, the details of which can be found on page 62.
The role of secretary to the Committee is performed by the Company Secretary The review concluded that the Committee was performing effectively.
or the Deputy Company Secretary.
A report on the Committees activities is given to the Board at each Board meeting following a meeting of the Committee.
co. uk 70 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic Report Our Governance setting a target on ethnicity, it remains committed to maintaining Board composition and policy on diversity focus on achieving greater ethnic representation across all levels in The Committee reviews regularly the composition of the Board and Financial the organisation.
Statements membership of Board committees.
Penny Hughes was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 1 April 2017 and will succeed All Board appointments are based on the needs of the business Keith Edelman as Chairman of the Committee from the conclusion and the merit of each candidate, having assessed the skills and of the AGM.
Penny has extensive remuneration experience as experience that they can bring to the Group.
Chairman and member of several remuneration committees in her In addition to seeking to increase the diversity of the Groups career to date.
Keith Edelman has been appointed a member of the Directors, the Board believes it is equally important that the wider Audit Committee with effect from the conclusion of the AGM.
leadership team which includes the members of the Executive The Board is supportive of greater diversity in all its forms and Committee and other senior managers is diverse in terms of skills, Chairman believes that a truly diverse Board should include and make good experience, gender, ethnicity and background.
The Board will keep Executive Director use of differences in the skills, experiences, gender and background its approach to diversity under review.
Non-Executive Director of its Directors.
Given the global growth ambitions of SuperGroup, Company Secretary Further details on our statistics on gender diversity can be found on the Board is focused on ensuring that its Directors have experience page 31 of the Strategic Report.
of living and working in those markets in which it operates or plans Gender to operate, and that the Board comprises a mix of Non-Executive Board evaluation Directors with professional experience as Non-Executive Directors 22% Details of the review of the Board and its Committees, including this and or with current or recent operational experience.
Committee, and my effectiveness as Chairman, undertaken during The Board is supportive of the recommendations of Lord Davies the year can be found on page 62.
Having reviewed the results report on Women on Boards and recognises the importance of of the Board evaluation and in light of the decisions of Beatrice Gender women having greater representation at key decision making points Lafon and Steve Sunnucks not to stand for re-election to the Board, in the organisation and I am delighted to report that we achieved the Committee confirmed to the Board that the present Board and our target to have a participation of 20% of women on the Board by its Committees continue to operate effectively and that all of the the end of calendar year 2016.
However, the effect of the decisions Non-Executive Directors remain independent and should stand for by Beatrice Lafon and Steve Sunnucks not to stand for election or re-election at the AGM.
Male re-election, respectively, at the AGM reduces this participation to 78% Female Peter Bamford below 20%.
Nomination Committee Chairman The Board will re-address this issue in the coming year in the Tenure of the Board 6 July 2017 context of the current public policy debates around potential reform of corporate governance, the evolving needs of SuperGroup and planning for successors to me as Chairman and Keith Edelman 5 as Senior Independent Director.
In the meantime, the Board does not feel it is in a position to commit to achieving the recommended target of 33% female representation on the Board by the year 2020.
3 Instead the Board has reviewed and updated its diversity policy to aim towards achieving a participation of 25% of women on the Board by the end of calendar year 2018.
1 The Board is also supportive of the Parker Committees report Less than 13 More than Review into the Ethnic Diversity of UK Boards and recognises the 1 year years 3 years importance of greater ethnic representation at key decision making points in the organisation.
Whilst the Board has stopped short of The above information is as at 29 April 2017. www.
