Highlights of the Year Here are a selection of events and initiatives which took place across our operations during the year.
Quarter 1 In January, Midland Mainline achieved its best ever punctuality, with 94.3% of trains reaching their destinations on time.
Throughout 2005, MML was the most punctual long-distance train operator.
On entering the London bus market in 2004, Travel London worked in partnership with Transport for London to develop a new bus depot in South London.
In February, Ken Livingstone, Mayor of London, opened the National Express Group Walworth bus garage in South London.
In March, the Group sponsored a one-day Delivering better bus transport conference in Birmingham.
This provided a platform for key stakeholders, including the transport industry, politicians and the media, to discuss how the role of the bus should Walworth bus depot opening with Ken Livingstone, Mayor contribute to integrated transport and economic prosperity in the West Midlands and other of London and Val Shawcross, major UK conurbations.
Greater London Assembly Member, joined by Paul McGowan, Managing Director Quarter 2 Travel London In June, the Group acquired the London bus division of Tellings Golden Miller.
These operations in South West London and Surrey have been integrated into Travel London, which now has a fleet of 400 vehicles and operates from six depots.
The Group acquired Northstar Passenger Services, one of Canadas largest operators in the student bus market.
Its 800 buses and 850 employees have now been fully integrated into the Groups Canadian operation, Stock Transportation.
Midland Mainline launched its schools education programme Momentum in four cities across its Sheffield to London route.
Through Momentum, MML works with students as part of the Citizenship and Personal, Social and Health Education national The MML Momentum project curriculum module.
Quarter 3 After extensive research, and having worked closely with the Mobility and Inclusion Unit of the Department for Transport, the Coach division launched its innovative, DDA compliant, fully integrated, easy-access vehicle, the Levante coach, enabling wheelchair users, people with mobility impairments and the elderly to travel in comfort.
To support and raise awareness of local issues around its operations in their respective regions, the Group sponsored the regional West Midlands and South East receptions at the Labour Party Conference in Brighton.
Wessex Trains, in conjunction with its partners, achieved great success at the inaugural National Community Rail Awards, organised by the Association of Community Rail Partnerships.
Wessex Trains Devon and Cornwall Community Rail Partnership was named the overall winner Labour Party Conference with Tony Blair, Prime Minister and Community Operator of the Year for its innovative Tamar Valley Carnet Ticket scheme.
Quarter 4 In recognition of its work with local partners to improve the quality of local bus services, Travel Dundee signed the UKs first Statutory Quality Bus Partnership alongside Dundee City Council and the Scottish Executive.
In November Travel Dundee was the winner of the Scottish Public Transport Operator of the Year award at the Scottish Transport Awards.
In December, the Group completed the acquisition of Alsa, Spains leading private coach and bus operator, gaining an immediate presence in an attractive growth market.
Alsas President, Jorge Cosmen, joined the Group Board as a Non Executive Director.
With a growing presence in the Greater London area, a Group initiative supported the Greater London Authoritys Labour Groups annual event at City Hall, attended by a number of Labour MPs, councillors and trades union representatives.
This gave the Group the Alsa acquired in December opportunity to promote its London operations.
