Petrofac at a glance Petrofac provides services across the lifecycle for upstream, midstream and downstream facilities and infrastructure.
By working in partnership with the owners of oil & gas reserves and infrastructure, providing innovative and cost-efficient services, Petrofac aims to create value across all aspects of an assets development.
Petrofacs customer base includes many of the worlds leading integrated, independent and national oil & gas companies.
The groups core focus is on the UK Continental Shelf, Middle East, Africa and the Former Soviet Union: it has 17 offices worldwide and approximately 7,000 employees.
Aberdeen Moscow London Woking Baku Bishkek Algiers Tehran Damascus Ahmadi Houston Sharjah Doha Abu Dhabi Mumbai Khartoum Lagos Kuala Lumpur Petrofac Corporate Petrofac Operations Petrofac Engineering Petrofac Resources Petrofac Country Services: Services: & Construction: 7 London, England Offices 1 London, England 2 Aberdeen, Scotland 4 Sharjah, UAE 8 Sharjah, UAE 10 Abu Dhabi, UAE 3 Sharjah, UAE 5 Mumbai, India 9 Kuala Lumpur, 11 Algiers, Algeria 6 Woking, England Malaysia 12 Baku, Azerbaijan 13 Tehran, Iran 14 Ahmadi, Kuwait 15 Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan 16 Lagos, Nigeria 17 Doha, Qatar 18 Moscow, Russia 19 Khartoum, Sudan 20 Damascus, Syria 21 Houston, USA 2 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2005 Petrofac delivers services through its three divisions, Engineering & Construction, Operations Services and Resources, enabling the group to provide a total solutions approach to meeting customers needs across the full lifecycle of oil & gas assets.
Engineering & Construction Operations Services Resources Petrofacs development planning specialists Operations Services comprises Petrofac Petrofac will invest alongside its clients in and project professionals provide customers Facilities Management and Petrofac Training.
development projects, producing assets and around the world with project development Petrofac Facilities Management provides oil & gas infrastructure where, through services to help them maximise the lifetime operations management customers with a providing facilities engineering services, it value of their oil & gas assets.
turnkey service, delivering production, safety can enhance value by facilitating project and environmental performance from their viability and containing or reducing design, Petrofacs engineering, procurement and hydrocarbon production and processing construction or operational costs.
In construction expertise covers oil & gas assets.
In addition, Petrofac Facilities addition, the division aims to identify and gathering, processing and transportation in Management provides a range of solutions in develop opportunities in producing and both greenfield and brownfield operations support, brownfield proved or probable but undeveloped developments.
By tailoring construction development, performance management, reserves.
planning and detailed schedule activities plant asset management, maintenance around specific site conditions, Petrofac management, turbo machinery and provides a differentiated approach and manpower supply.
delivers innovative solutions to logistically difficult and technically complex projects.
Training is integral to the development of Utilising the latest developments in process safe, efficient and multi-skilled workforces engineering technology and equipment, and core to Petrofacs overall proposition.
Petrofac provides fast-track engineering, Petrofac Training is a provider of specialist procurement and construction services for operations, production and technical training facilities and processes from wellhead to to industry, and is also the home of world finished refined products.
leading safety training provider, RGIT Montrose and the international specialist in emergency response and crisis management, Rubicon Response.
Annual report and accounts 2005 Petrofac 3
