Social performance summary Being socially responsible is an area in which Premier is proud to Guinea Bissau be counted as one of the leading companies in our industry.
The Simon Mendes Hospital During 2005 we agreed with local government officials and the Our activities in finding and producing oil and gas efficiently, state oil company to renovate and improve the entire maternity responsibly and profitably take us to remote locations and ward at the Simon Mendes Hospital in the capital Bissau.
This is developing countries where opportunities may be more plentiful.
the only hospital in Bissau where about one thousand babies are We recognise that these opportunities carry different types of risks delivered every month.
Premiers support is now providing a better that need to be managed effectively.
Premier has a long history and environment for patients and staff alike and, in the words of the deep capability in this area through our approach to corporate Minister for Health, Premiers efforts, have already greatly improved social responsibility CSR.
CSR has both practical and ethical dimensions for Premier.
It is Cholera epidemic about doing the right thing as well as managing risk and protecting Premier supported the government of Guinea Bissaus efforts to our reputation.
It is about investing in the community and creating raise awareness among the population during the cholera epidemic an environment where people feel good about working.
that plagued the country for much of 2005.
Premiers support helped to get the basic health message out on the radio and in Throughout 2005 we continued to identify social risks and planned the printed media.
and delivered net positive social and environmental impacts where we operate.
In order to do this we use Premiers social performance Voluntary Services Overseas VSO management system SPMS.
Premiers various social action plans, Premier started collaborating with the VSO in Guinea Bissau in early which are agreed locally, included: 2004.
This partnership, which has continued in 2005, focused on screening for social impacts systematic social impact assessments supporting VSOs traditional work in the education sector as well are carried out as an integral part of the environmental assessments : as bringing water and sanitation to rural schools.
building mutual understanding dialogue between Premier and communities where we operate: Indonesia forging partnerships to better understand and then manage Tsunami relief community expectations and relations: Premier donated money to buttress Save the Children USAs SCF implementing projects and programmes: and humanitarian efforts in Indonesias Aceh Province following the tracking and reporting on the progress of our interventions.
destructive tsunami at the end of 2004.
Premier has implemented a wide range of community projects Jakarta comprising public health, education, environmental, public facility, Premier Oil Indonesia funded and participated in a Jakarta-based and community relations-based programmes.
In all of these areas, initiative, which was designed to: our involvement was not simply to provide funds, but to actively provide constructive activities for street children that could work with the communities in order to build trust and ensure that result in viable alternatives to living and working on the streets: both the needs of communities and those of Premier are considered facilitate through improved partnerships and networks of when the projects were planned.
educational institutions and NGOs and the corporate sector peer education of the children, which imparts valuable learning From the outset, we actively engage each community and local and results in improved opportunities and options for their governments in planning and agreeing projects, implementing future: and strategies and timings.
We also ensure that appropriate handovers strengthen the capacity to develop locally supported, sustainable are in place for each programme once our direct involvement has initiatives to address the needs of street children.
Matak Island Matak Island is located in Indonesias Natuna Sea, and is home to Premiers operations base.
It has a population of more than 4,000, and we have been involved in the local community since 1998 in a sustained development programme that comprises public health and education.
Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2005 11 Social performance summary continued Premiers involvement is not only to provide funds, but also to actively work within the community to ensure that the needs of both the community and of Premier are addressed.
Payalaman Medical Centre, Matak Island The health facilities for the local community on Matak Island were basic and this meant that most local villagers used clinics on the surrounding islands with the closest being two hours away by boat.
Premier, together with the local community leader, the local health division and the local government agreed to build a new clinic in the village of Payalaman the most populous of the villages on Matak Island.
The facility was built by Premier and the local government then took responsibility for managing and staffing it.
The facility was opened at the end of 2004.
India During the drilling of Premiers Lakkhi-1 well in Assam, we supported several local schools by donating new blackboards, rebuilding playgrounds and supplying new furniture.
In addition, Premier upgraded access roads and water supplies.
We also provided first aid training and basic information on snakebites, malaria and dysentery to key community representatives.
When the opportunity presented itself to help the village of Phening to build the first eco-tourism centre in Assam, Premier agreed to sponsor and supervise the construction of this village in collaboration with the Forestry Department, making this the first joint venture of its kind in the state of Assam.
The eco-tourism village was completed in late December 2005, in time for the annual Dehing Patkai Tribal Festival.
12 Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2005
