02 Frankie & Bennys Chiquito At a glance An unbeatable combination of classic The best of traditional American & traditional Italian dishes Mexican and Tex-Mex cuisine Among the most popular family restaurant With its unique blend of sizzling food and brands in the UK today, Frankie and Bennys cooling margaritas, Chiquito takes you across now trades successfully in leisure, retail and the Rio Grande, no passport required!
After more than As youd expect from the UKs largest ten years it remains a favourite with families, Mexican Grill & Bar company, with 9 new couples, friends and business diners alike.
outlets opened in 2005, Chiquito features a Frankie & Bennys brings together the best of sunny, spicy extravaganza of Mexican cuisine, classic American Italian style cuisine.
Its open Tex-Mex plate busters and classic American from mid-morning til late and offers traditional favourites, all served in a fun and lively New York-Italian dishes from an extensive atmosphere.
Alongside favourites including From south of the border there are burritos, char-grilled burgers, steaks, pizza and pasta chilli, nachos, wraps and meatballs never are house specialities such as chicken forget the famous sizzling fajitas, smoking parmigiana, BBQ ribs, lamb shank and on a red-hot skillet!
Or you can overload seafood dishes.
on Texas BBQ ribs, juicy burgers or steaks, Inside, Frankie & Bennys has the atmosphere hot off the grill.
The Kids Menu offers a wide of a favourite family-run restaurant.
From the range of less spicy dishes for children, clatter and chatter of the open kitchen to the ensuring that Chiquito appeals to every bottle lined bar, it takes you back to 1950s member of the family.
Take a seat in a cosy booth and The all-day bar showcases signature look at the family snapshots showing life in margaritas, classic tequilas and cocktails the Lower East Side of the Big Apple.
Music alongside refreshing ice-cold beers and is classic 50s American swing you could soft drinks.
almost have stepped back in time.
Cantina-inspired interiors and lively Latin With more than 110 units across the UK, American music add to the atmosphere, Frankie & Bennys delivers a family restaurant whether you visit for lunch, a lazy afternoon, appealing and familiar to everyone.
an exciting evening, a family party or fiesta occasion!
1 2 8 % Growth in Frankie and Bennys profit since 2001 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2005 03 Blubeckers Garfunkels TRG Concessions Friendly people serving fresh food in Tried, Trusted & True The Concessions Division has an delightful surroundings thats exactly established reputation for its ability to what Blubeckers is deliver catering solutions across a range of market sectors All of our staff work hard to provide friendly, How many restaurant brands have traded Using existing TRG brands, creating professional service from the moment you successfully in the UKs most competitive entirely new brands and establishing arrive, ensuring that all your wishes are met, locations for more than 25 years?
partnerships to franchise with third parties, all your needs taken care of.
we are established operators delivering Garfunkels provides the reassurance of a excellence through a clear understanding familiar face, well-known for its quality of service, Our chefs are busy as well, from the first of the unique trading patterns within these great menu choice and affordable prices.
delivery early each morning to the last pudding specialised areas.
of the night, preparing fantastic food using the The menu features everybodys favourite Currently operating at seven major UK best, freshest ingredients we can find.
dishes, including a range of steaks, burgers, airports, and within shopping centres and The menu combines traditional favourites with pasta, chicken, grills, omelettes and the railway stations, our Concessions Division is contemporary influences.
Seasonal specials famous salad bar.
Whether you want coffee creating new and exciting dining experiences.
may appear for a few days or weeks, but and a pastry, breakfast, lunch, a light snack, Our offerings include table service, counter our signature Burger and Ribs have been afternoon tea, dinner or just a relaxing service, sandwich shops, pubs and bars.
there since Day 1, as popular today as theyve drink while you watch the world go by, We are a market leader in this exciting sector.
you will always receive a warm welcome at Garfunkels.
Blubeckers mixes the best of the past with the best of the present to create a relaxing, welcoming restaurant for every day.
Edwinns Brasseries are known for attentive service and creative menus featuring traditional English food prepared with a contemporary twist ideal for a business lunch, family get-together or dinner with friends.
Taken together, Blubeckers and Edwinns provide TRG with a platform to develop into an area of the eating out market which is set to appeal to an increasing number of customers.
25m meals served by the Group The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2005
