qxd 30 03 2006 12:08 Page 04 At a Glance: Activities SIG is a supplier of specialist products to the building and construction industry.
It focuses its activities into four business sectors: Insulation, Roofing, Commercial Interiors and Specialist Construction and Safety Products.
Insulation Focus, Specialisation and Service are the core principles of SIG enabling the Groups businesses to offer expert advice and know-how, wide product choice and a fast and efficient delivery service.
SIG is committed to providing fast, efficient, no nonsense service to customers, locally and nationally, Roofing as required.
Local staff with local knowledge is the driving force of the business and empowers it to effectively compete with local market conditions.
This mixture of skilled and focussed people, efficient business processes and specialist infrastructure Commercial Interiors differentiates SIG and has enabled the Group to become the leading supplier of specialist building materials in Europe.
Specialist Construction and Safety Products 04 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 About SIG 9SIG 2005arf.
qxd 30 03 2006 12:08 Page 05 SIG is Europes leading supplier of insulation, roofing, commercial interiors and specialist construction and safety products.
SIG is the largest supplier of insulation products in Europe.
It holds leading market positions in the UK, Ireland, Germany and Poland and is the leader in industrial insulation in France.
SIG also operates in Belgium, The Netherlands and Austria.
In the USA SIG holds a strong regional position in the industrial insulation market.
Countries of operation: United Kingdom France Austria Ireland The Netherlands Poland Germany Belgium USA SIG is the largest supplier of roofing products in the UK and Ireland.
SIG supplies products and systems to every sector of the roofing industry for new projects and for repair and maintenance.
Countries of operation: United Kingdom Ireland SIG is the leading supplier of commercial interiors products in the UK, Ireland and in the Netherlands.
SIG also has activities in Germany, Belgium, France, Austria and Poland.
The product range includes partitioning, ceiling systems, wall storage, dry wall construction and door systems.
Countries of operation: United Kingdom France Austria Ireland The Netherlands Poland Germany Belgium SIG is a leading supplier of specialist construction and safety products in the UK and offers a wide portfolio of products including concrete accessories, waterproofing systems and chemicals, brickwork support systems, specialist fixings and safety products.
Countries of operation: United Kingdom France Safety USA Safety SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 05
