793529 1030 3 6 05 10:38 Page 1 Contents Highlights Financial Highlights 2 Strategy Chairmans Statement 4 Chief Executives Review 6 Business Business Overview 10 Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 24 Risk Factors and Legal Proceedings 25 Performance Operating and Financial Review and Prospects 28 Non-GAAP Information 52 Governance Board of Directors and Group Management 55 Directors Report 58 Corporate Governance 60 Boards Report to Shareholders on Directors Remuneration 65 Employees 75 Corporate Responsibility and Environmental Issues 76 Financials Consolidated Financial Statements 77 Report of Independent Auditors 137 Shareholder information Information on International Financial Reporting Standards 138 Investor Information 141 Form 20-F Cross Reference Guide 149 This constitutes the Annual Report of Vodafone Group Plc the Company in accordance with United Kingdom UK requirements and is dated 24 May 2005.
This document also contains information set out within the Companys Annual Report on Form 20-F in accordance with the requirements of the US Securities and Exchange Commission the SEC.
However, this information may be updated or supplemented at the time of ling of that document with the SEC or later amended if necessary.
The content of the Groups website www.
com should not be considered to form part of this Annual Report or the Companys Annual Report on Form 20-F. References to the Group or Vodafone are references to the Company and its subsidiary undertakings and, where the context requires, its interests in joint ventures and associated undertakings.
In the discussion of the Groups reported financial position and results for the year ended 31 March 2005, information in addition to that contained within the Consolidated Financial Statements is presented on the basis that it provides readers with additional financial information regularly reviewed by management.
This information is provided to assist investor assessment of the Groups performance from period to period.
However, the additional information presented is not uniformly dened by all companies in the Groups industry.
Accordingly, it may not be comparable with similarly titled measures and disclosures by other companies.
Denitions of the terms and measures presented are shown on pages 28 and 29.
In presenting and discussing the Groups reported financial position, operating results and cash ows, certain information is derived from amounts calculated in accordance with UK generally accepted accounting principles UK GAAP, but this information is not itself an expressly permitted GAAP measure.
Such non-GAAP measures should not be viewed in isolation as an alternative to the equivalent GAAP measure.
An explanation as to the use of these measures and reconciliations to their nearest equivalent GAAP measure can be found on pages 52 to 54.
This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 with respect to the Groups financial condition, results of operations and business management and strategy, plans and objectives for the Group.
For further details, please see Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors and Legal Proceedings Risk Factors for a discussion of the risks associated with these statements.
Vodafone, Vodafone live!, Vodafone Mobile Connect, Vodafone Wireless Ofce, Vodafone Simply and Vodafone Passport are trademarks of the Vodafone Group.
Other product and company names mentioned herein may be the trademarks of their respective owners.
| 1 793529 1040 3 6 05 10:38 Page 2 Financial Highlights The selected financial data set out on the following pages is derived from the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company on pages 77 to 136 and as such should be read in conjunction with them.
Certain trends within the financial data presented below have been impacted by business acquisitions and disposals, the most significant of which are described in Business Overview History and Development of the Company.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with UK GAAP, on the basis set out in note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, which differ in certain significant respects from US GAAP.
For further details, see note 36 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, US GAAP information.
Solely for convenience, amounts represented below in dollars have been translated at $1.8888: 1, the Noon Buying Rate on 31 March 2005.
See note 36 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on these changes in accounting policy.
2 2002 net loss includes the cumulative effect of accounting change related to derivative financial instruments reducing net loss by 17 million or 0.02p per ordinary share.
3 Refer to Non-GAAP Information on pages 52 to 54 for a reconciliation of this non-GAAP measure to the most comparable GAAP measure and a discussion of this measure.
4 Certain prior year amounts have been reclassied to conform to current year presentation.
See note 36 of the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 126 for further details on this change in presentation.
5 See note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Loss per share.
Earnings per American Depository Share ADS is calculated by multiplying earnings per ordinary share by ten, the number of ordinary shares per ADS.
Dividend per ADS is calculated similarly.
6 The final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2005 was proposed by the directors on 24 May 2005.
7 For the purposes of calculating these ratios, earnings consist of income on ordinary activities before taxation adjusted for xed charges, dividend income from associated undertakings, share of profits and losses from associated undertakings and profits and losses on ordinary activities before taxation from discontinued operations.
Fixed charges comprise one-third of payments under operating leases, representing the interest element of these payments, interest payable and similar charges and preferred share dividends.
