At a glance Activities Water and Wastewater Services Anglian Water provides more than one billion litres of high quality drinking water to 4.2 million customers every day.
The water comes from a variety of sources: reservoirs, underground reserves aquifers and extraction from rivers.
Anglian Water receives approximately 950 million litres of wastewater per day from 5.4 million customers, including 1.2 million customers who receive their water from other companies.
The wastewater is treated to a high standard and returned to the environment via rivers or coastal outlets.
The organic waste is treated, dried and used in agriculture as a natural fertiliser.
Support Services Within its Support Services division, Morrison provides repair and maintenance services to the utilities sector water, gas, electricity and telecommunications and the public sector.
Its Utility Services business manages infrastructure maintenance, renewals, installation and specialist services such as high-voltage connections for electricity clients.
Morrison also provides repair and maintenance and capital investment services to local authority clients through its Facilities Services business.
Facilities Services currently manages more than 300,000 social houses and 3,000 other local authority buildings, making it one of the largest businesses in this sector.
Construction Services As a building and infrastructure contractor, Construction Services provides a comprehensive range of services to clients in the health, education, highways, leisure, transport, industrial and commercial sectors.
Project Investments Morrison provides specialist Private Finance Initiative PFI services.
Its small Project Investments team arranges the finance for clients projects, often taking an equity stake.
It is also involved in arranging the construction and facilities management of the projects.
It operates in the education, utility, accommodation and health sectors.
AWG Property is a specialist commercial and residential property AWG Property development business.
It is also responsible for managing the groups offices around the UK.
Table excludes International Services and head office.
2 AWG Plc Morrison and Morrison The Anglian Water region water supply and AWG Property AWG Property wastewater services offices wastewater services only water supply only map excludes Hartlepool Huntingdon Average No.
Nature of market Geographical area of employees Contact website Anglian Water provides water and wastewater services The Anglian Water region extends from 01480 323000 3,400 under licence from the Government.
The quality of its the Humber to the Thames estuary and anglianwater.
co. uk service and the prices Anglian Water is able to charge its from Northamptonshire to the East customers are regulated by the Office of Water Services coast.
Anglian Waters customer base is increasing as above shows the services Anglian Water the population grows.
More than 200,000 new houses are provides to different areas of its region.
expected to be built in the region over the next 10 years.
Morrison operates in a competitive market, providing UK-wide.
Stevenage and Huntingdon 01480 323000 5,200 predominantly support related services to business headquarters.
The market for utility services skills is large and stable.
Most utility clients undertake planning in five-year cycles, providing Morrison with good visibility of work.
The facilities market has grown considerably in recent Operations in Birmingham, Gateshead, years as local authorities have increasingly outsourced Havering, London, Newcastle, Norwich services.
A 19 billion central Government initiative called and North Lanarkshire.
Huntingdon Decent Homes also represents an excellent growth headquarters.
opportunity for Morrison, for which it is well positioned.
Morrison operates throughout the UK, although its largest UK-wide.
Given the highly competitive nature of the market, Morrison concentrates on sectors where it has competitive advantage.
PFI is a highly specialist activity.
Morrisons key market is UK-wide operations, although 20 Scotland, particularly within the health and education the principal market is Scotland.
0131 228 4188 AWG Property uses its excellent local knowledge, Predominantly in Scotland.
com property commercial partnerships and strong track record Edinburgh headquarters.
to develop commercial and residential property.
