05 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2005 Chairmans Statement Computer generated image of view from Greenwich Peninsula Computer generated image of Millennium Square, residential balcony Greenwich Peninsula Meridian Delta Limited MDL, the joint venture comprising Quintain and A milestone for the regeneration has been achieved with the granting of Lend Lease, was selected by English Partnerships and the Government detailed planning approval for Millennium Square.
The plans, approved by to lead the long-term regeneration of Greenwich Peninsula.
The the London Borough of Greenwich in November 2004, represent the first Greenwich Peninsula represents one of the largest and most prominent major space to be developed within the Masterplan.
Millennium Square regeneration opportunities in the UK today.
Consented for 13.2m sq ft, the will be the gateway to the new entertainment district within the Dome and 5bn proposed development consists of 10,000 new homes, 3.5m sq ft the surrounding regeneration and will also serve as the focal point around of employment and office space and 360,000 sq ft of retail provision.
which the new business district on the Peninsula will evolve.
Dividend Outlook As a result of the years strong performance, the Board is The work undertaken in the year to 31 March 2005 has recommending an increase of 9%, or 0.75p, giving a total positioned Quintain well to sustain its successful track record.
dividend for the year of 9.5p 2004: 8.75p.
It is intended that the We have realised profits from the sale of properties in the core final dividend of 6.75p per share will be paid on 8 September investment portfolio, achieved excellent returns from our fund 2005 to shareholders on the register as at 5 August 2005. management activities and made substantial progress with The Companys intention is to maintain a progressive dividend our major projects.
We have also significantly enhanced the and this policy will continue subject to cash requirements.
Groups financial fire-power through the raising of new debt and a substantial reduction in our gearing.
Corporate Governance We continue to improve our Corporate Governance and confirm We look forward to continuing to develop the Groups business that we have complied with the Combined Code during the and to what should be another exciting year.
A detailed review is contained in the Corporate Governance section within the Annual Report.
People Since the year end, we were pleased to announce the appointment of Tom Cross Brown as a non-executive director.
Nigel Ellis Tom brings with him considerable experience of investment Chairman banking and fund management which will help to further 7 June 2005 strengthen the Group.
The only other management change is that James Hamilton Stubber has now taken responsibility for the generation of new business, passing his administration 31 March 2005 31 March 2004 responsibility to Rebecca Worthington.
In the current somewhat Portfolio uplift 120.1m 74.4m heated property market, we acknowledge the need to focus additional resources on the creation of new business streams.
Ungeared return 22.0% 16.7% Total return 24.6% 18.9% I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Share price return 27.6% 90.7% entire Quintain team for their contribution to the Groups ongoing success.
