How we are doing Financial highlights Adjusted operating profit IFRS basis m Adjusted operating profit EEV basis m This has been a defining period for Old Mutual, 30% 23% marked by these very 1,244 1,387 satisfactory results that 954 1,124 show our organic growth is coming through strongly.
Funds under management bn Adjusted embedded value per share p 31% 26% The acquisition of 183 175.6 Skandia represents a step 140 139.7 change in the business profile of the Group.
We Adjusted operating earnings per share p Basic earnings per share p are determined to deliver on the exciting potential of 22% 54% 18.2 25.1 the international business 14.9 16.3 we are building.
Return on equity % Final dividend p 18.5 4% 18.5 3.65 18.8 3.50 Adjusted operating profit represents the directors view of the underlying performance of the Group.
For life assurance and general insurance businesses, adjusted operating profit is based on a long-term investment return, includes investment returns on investments in Group equity and debt instruments held in life funds and is stated net of income tax attributable to policyholder returns.
For all businesses, adjusted operating profit excludes goodwill impairment, fines and penalties, initial costs of Black Economic Empowerment schemes, and profit loss on disposal of subsidiaries, associated undertakings and strategic investments.
Adjusted operating profit excludes income from hedging activities that do not qualify for hedge accounting.
Adjusted operating earnings per share is calculated on the same basis as adjusted operating profit, but is stated after tax and minority interests and excluding income attributable to Black Economic Empowerment trusts of listed subsidiaries.
The calculation of the weighted average number of shares includes own shares held in policyholders funds and Black Economic Empowerment trusts of the parent company.
Return on equity is calculated using adjusted operating profit after tax and minority interests on an IFRS basis with allowance for accrued coupon payments on the Groups hybrid capital.
The average shareholders equity used in the calculation excludes hybrid capital.
The amount to be paid by way of final dividend to holders of shares on the South African, Malawi and Zimbabwe branch registers and the Namibian section of the principal register and to shareholders who hold their shares through the Swedish nominee VPC AB, will be calculated by reference to the respective exchange rates prevailing at the close of business on 28 March 2006, as determined by the Company.
The relevant equivalents in other currencies will be announced on 29 March 2006.
Old Mutual plc 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2005
