com Report and accounts 2005 Page 1 Rathbones at a glance Rathbone Brothers Plc is a leading, independent provider of investment and wealth management services for private clients and trustees, including discretionary asset management, unit trusts, tax planning, trust and company management, pension advice and banking services.
As at 31 December 2005, it managed 9.5 billion of client funds, including 1.2 billion managed by Rathbone Unit Trust Management.
By 2 March 2006, the total had increased to 10 billion.
Financial highlights of 2005 000 2005 2004 % change Operating income 113.2m 95.5m 18.5% Profit before tax 35.3m 28.5m 23.9% Basic earnings per share 60.13p 48.99p 22.7% Net dividends per share 30.0p 27.5p 9.1% Funds under management 9.5bn 7.7bn 23.4% Investment management Unit trusts The primary business of Rathbones is the Through Rathbone Unit Trust Management provision of discretionary investment management Limited, a range of award-winning unit trusts is services to private individuals and trustees from marketed through financial supermarkets, fund-ofeight locations in the UK and an office in Jersey.
fund operations and independent financial advisers This accounts for over 85% of the groups funds IFAs.
under management and includes over 400 charity portfolios equating to just over 700 million of Self-invested personal pensions SIPPs funds under management and around 300 million An experienced and specialist team is able to in self-invested personal pension accounts.
advise clients on retirement planning options.
As well as offering a pension advice service, the Rathbones bespoke approach includes a Rathbone SIPP will be re-launched on 6 April recognised expertise in ethical investment for those 2006 A-Day to take advantage of new pensions who wish to ensure that their investments take simplification legislation thereby completing a account of their environmental, social and ethical SIPP offering of pensions advice, administration concerns.
and investment management under one roof.
Some additional banking services are also offered to investment management clients, in particular Office locations loans secured against investment portfolios.
UK London, Liverpool, Bowness, Bristol, Cambridge, Trust management Chichester, Edinburgh and Winchester Wealth management and family office services are provided to both UK and international clients.
Jersey The wide range of services offered includes both St Helier onshore and offshore tax and trust planning, as Switzerland well as expertise in the establishment and Geneva management of trust and corporate structures domestically and internationally.
Services are British Virgin Islands offered from centres in Jersey, London, Liverpool, Tortola Geneva and the British Virgin Islands.
In the UK and Jersey a range of tax planning services are offered including income, capital gains and inheritance tax planning.
