1 Smirnoff is the worlds number one premium spirit by retail value.
TOP 20 Diageo manages nine of the worlds top 20 premium spirits brands by volume: Smirnoff, Johnnie Walker Red Label, Baileys, Captain Morgan, J&B, Jos Cuervo, Gordons, Johnnie Walker Black Label and Crown Royal.
HOT BRANDS In addition to Captain Morgan and Crown Royal being cited on the coveted industry list of Hot Brands, we secured recognition in other categories as well.
In wine, our Sterling Vintners Collection and Century Cellars were commended, while the beer list included Red Stripe.
Smirnoff Twisted V was the winner in ready to drink.
All of the above information is from Impact Databank.
7 TSR ranking in peer group 1 July 2002 to 30 June 2005 1 Pernod Ricard 142% 10 Carlsberg 25% 2 SABMiller 128% 11 Unilever 24% a 3 Allied Domecq 89% 12 Scottish & Newcastle 23% 4 Brown-Forman 57% 13 PepsiCo 12% 5 Cadbury Schweppes 47% 14 Anheuser-Busch 12% 6 Procter & Gamble Co 44% 15 HJ Heinz 10% I travel all over 7 Diageo 35% 16 Heineken 6% 8 Interbrew 33% 17 Colgate-Palmolive 5% the world and 9 Nestl 27% 18 Coca-Cola 8% I can always rely TSR has been calculated in common currency US$ on the character Total shareholder return TSR measures relative return from the movement in the share price together with the dividends received.
Dividends and capital repayments are treated and flavour of as re-invested.
TSR is measured from 1 July 2002 using the average of the share price from 1 July 2001 to 30 June 2002 as the starting point and using the last 12 months Johnnie Walker up to 30 June 2005 as the end point.
a In July 2005 Pernod Ricard completed the acquisition of Allied Domecq.
Paul Walsh DIAGEO THE ESSENCE OF GREAT BUSINESS OUR BRANDS ARE STEEPED IN HISTORY THEY ARE OUR LEGACY ON WHICH WE WORK TIRELESSLY TO BUILD AND ENHANCE Diageo is the worlds leading premium drinks business operating in over We have improved our global sales force performance and ways of working with 180 markets.
For the fifth year running, we have improved our key organic our customers.
We are building more agile sales teams, stronger commercial financial measures, delivering organic net sales growth of 4% and organic management and improved execution of retail activities.
These initiatives will operating profit growth of 7%.
We have strong operating margins and have drive both our success and the value we add to our customers businesses.
posted a further margin expansion of 0.6 percentage points.
Cash ow Globally, our largest customers are Wal-Mart, Tesco, Metro and Carrefour remains strong, and return on invested capital is up once again.
three of which put on record their appreciation of our service during the year.
Our brands are the essence of great occasions an integral part of times to We support our people, helping them to full their potential and achieve celebrate and great moments to remember.
Many of our brands are steeped their career and personal goals.
Our talented people are passionate about in history.
Each is a legacy which passes down through the generations on our company and help us to generate momentum behind our brands.
which we work tirelessly to build and enhance.
We take our role as a good corporate citizen seriously.
We believe that Brand building promoting responsible drinking is fundamental to the way we conduct business.
We continue to invest in brand building through marketing, premiumisation We also play an important role in the lives of people and communities and innovation where we have a programme that is bold, fast and responsive.
worldwide from the Diageo Africa Business Reporting Awards through to The launch of Smirnoff Cranberry Twist and extensions such as Bells Special our association with the G8 Summit at Gleneagles, we regularly demonstrate Reserve, Captain Morgan Tattoo and Johnnie Walker Green Label are only our commitment to behaving as one of the worlds most trusted and a few of the highlights that our innovation team delivered in the year.
I was particularly pleased to nalise our partnership with the McLaren Looking ahead Mercedes Formula 1 team, which resulted in the Johnnie Walker brand I am confident that the acquisition of Bushmills Irish whiskey which was appearing on cars, international circuits and in supporting marketing and completed shortly after the financial year end will t well into our collection promotions.
I certainly look forward to seeing Johnnie Walker on the winners of brands, as did our purchase during the year of the Ursus vodka brands and podium around the world in the years to come.
This programme augments the Chalone Wine Group.
These acquisitions illustrate our ability to act swiftly our sports sponsorship agenda which includes: golf through the Johnnie as and when opportunities emerge to enhance our collection of brands.
Walker Classic and Championship, the Johnnie Walker Super Series cricket, However, I believe the majority of our growth will continue to be organic.
Crown Royal and North America Stock Car Racing NASCAR, Guinness and rugby through the Lions Tour and Guinness Premiership, and What follows is a review of our activities and performance over the past Bundaberg and rugby.
A summary of our financial and operational highlights begins on page 22.
Our organisation Early in the year Diageo moved to a new regional structure and started to Thank you for your continued support.
build teams to support our North America, Europe and International operations.
As a result of this restructuring, we believe we are now better placed to allocate resources quickly and simply behind the fastest growing opportunities.
Paul Walsh Chief executive Diageo Annual Review 2005 5 Chief executives review 11182 DIAGEO REV P1 32 N 13 9 05 9:32 pm Page 6 11182 DIAGEO REV P1 32 N 13 9 05 9:32 pm Page 7 Celebrating life, every day, everywhere 11182 DIAGEO REV P1 32 N 13 9 05 9:32 pm Page 8 NORTH STRONG BRANDS IN T AMERICA The New York Times names Smirnoff No.
1 In a blind taste test conducted by The New York Times, Smirnoff beat 21 super premium vodkas to take first place.
In North America, Diageo is led by Ivan Menezes.
Under Ivans leadership, Top three brands Diageos spirits brands performed especially well.
Towards the end of the By volume year we simplied the North American organisation and consolidated our spirits operations into one selling organisation.
Having largely completed the implementation of our new distributor strategy, we are now seeing the benets.
Increasingly our brands are supported with innovative marketing executions and line extensions.
Today, we have 39 dedicated sales divisions within our distributors, staffed Smirnoff with over 2,100 sales people.
We believe that the longer we work with these distributors, the stronger our relationships will become.
We have now started to initiate three-year planning cycles with a number of them a level of strategic partnership that was previously unknown in our spirits business.
We have improved the quality of our retail execution programme as well Captain Morgan as implementing faster speed to market, which has allowed us to reduce the time it takes to gain retail distribution for new products.
We were named most effective supplier by three of our largest on trade customers Darden, Outback Steakhouse and TGI Fridays.
With some of the fastest growing wine brands in North America, our presence in this category has been boosted in the year by the acquisition Crown Royal of the Chalone Wine Group, which will now benefit from our wider distribution reach.
By including these brands in our existing wine business, we believe we are in a position to broaden the appeal of our wine offering to customers and consumers alike.
While North America is our most profitable and most developed market, it is also one of the markets with the greatest untapped potential.
Given shifting consumer trends and favourable demographics, it is, perhaps, the worlds most significant emerging market for premium drinks.
So while the new North American organisation has achieved much in the year, we believe there remains the potential for even greater success in the future.
Diageo Annual Review 2005 8 Regional highlights 11182 DIAGEO REV P1 32 N 13 9 05 9:32 pm Page 9 N THE WORLDS BIGGEST MARKET Wine acquisition Tattoo launch Our wine business was given a boost this year with the acquisition Launched in April, Captain Morgan Tattoo is a black of the Chalone Wine Group, which includes 12 premium wine brands.
spiced rum with a mysterious sweet to heat nish.
New this year League saw Ottawa awash in a sea of purple.
Guinness also enjoyed a The year saw a range of exciting launches, including Captain Morgan surge in popularity in Canada, on the back of our most successful ever Tattoo, Dulseda, Smithwicks Irish Ale, and Solaris wine varietals in the St Patricks Day campaign.
With over 47,000 hits on our website, 105 print United States, together with Smirnoff Twist, Talisker, and Smirnoff Ice articles, 4.5 hours of TV and radio coverage, the statistics demonstrate how Ultra One in Canada.
Guinness and St Patricks Day re the imagination of Canadian consumers.
A number of innovations also made a demonstrable difference to our Community involvement competitive edge and our bottom line.
For example, our North America While the NASCAR relationship and similar activities are driven by business supply team focused on several priority issues in order to increase exibility considerations, we also invest time and resources in helping communities and reduce cost of goods supplied.
Innovation has played a great part, in need.
During the year, for example, we donated generators to help the through new brand extensions such as Smirnoff Signatures Appletini residents of Alabama and Florida hit by a series of devastating hurricanes, and Smirnoff Twist Black Cherry.
as well as sponsoring an airlift that delivered food and emergency supplies to hurricane victims in Grenada.
We will provide support as Energised marketing well for those affected by Hurricane Katrina.
Great national and regional broadcast and print campaigns are one way we have been able to deliver solid business performance at Diageo.
We are partnering with other bodies, including the New York State But so too has our ability to identify the less obvious and often more Association of Chiefs of Police and the Medical Society of the State of challenging marketing opportunities that can fuel our growth and build New York, to support a groundbreaking social responsibility initiative, access to new consumers.
which aims to halt underage drinking.
Now, in New York, any adult who knowingly furnishes alcohol to a minor can have their driving licence taken One such initiative is Crown Royals recent association with NASCAR, the away under the Administrative Drivers License Revocation legislation.
hugely popular North American stock car racing sport.
Reigning Nextel Cup champion Kurt Busch became the first driver to race in the colours of a spirits brand since NASCAR re-aligned its rules regarding sponsorship.
Crown Royals primary message is one of responsible drinking, and the No.
97 team promotes the Be a Champion.
That message is supported by a national TV advertising campaign, and Kurt Busch has also endorsed the Ask, Listen, Learn programme that provides information about the dangers of underage drinking.
As with our partnership with the McLaren Mercedes Formula 1 team, the relationship with NASCAR provides healthy debate.
At Diageo, we welcome open and frank dialogue.
Building on its NASCAR relationship in the United States, the Crown Royal brand in Canada enjoyed a solid year, due to the tireless efforts and great skills of our people, backed by innovative and compelling marketing.
For example, the brands sponsorship programme with the Canadian Football Diageo Annual Review 2005 9 Regional highlights 11182 DIAGEO REV P1 32 N 13 9 05 9:33 pm Page 10 11182 DIAGEO REV P1 32 N 13 9 05 9:33 pm Page 11 Celebrating life, every day, everywhere 11182 DIAGEO REV P1 32 N 13 9 05 9:33 pm Page 12 EUROPE COMBINING EFFORTS New J&B whisky Top employer J&B -6C is extending the appeal of blended Scotch whisky in Europe.
Our operations in Germany, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain have all been The new brand offers consumers a smooth, subtly-avoured, light-coloured recognised as top employers in 2005 by the Great Place to Work Institute.
whisky that can be enjoyed neat or mixed.
Combining efforts to deliver performance Top three brands The European trading environment remained challenging during the year, By volume driven by a decline in consumer confidence, unfavourable demographics and a changing regulatory climate, among other factors.
However, we are responding to these issues by actively managing our cost base and other growth strategies on a truly pan-European basis.
During the year we delivered both organic operating profit growth and operating margin improvement in Europe.
Smirnoff New organisation At the close of the financial year, the European organisation was just nine months old, but we believe we are now well down the line towards building a single, agile European team that can move quickly to improve Europe-wide business performance.
Guinness The team, led by Andrew Morgan, is now managed in an integrated fashion.
General managers are able to focus more exclusively on customers and consumers.
There will continue to be a regional focus on cost reduction through increased sharing of services and resources, clearer accountabilities and sharing market success across the region.
We have started to utilise a market-by-market customer survey, ensuring J&B that our European customers views form an integral part of strategic and commercial management decisions, both in market and across the continent.
This year, customers in Greece, Turkey and Ireland have all rated Diageo as their leading supplier.
Challenges and opportunities While European markets have long played a key role in our business, brought together under Diageo Europe, they accounted for 36% of total operating profit before exceptional items this financial year.
The last 12 months have seen some notable achievements for Diageo, as the benets of our new European organisation have begun to manifest themselves.
Diageo Annual Review 2005 12 Regional highlights 11182 DIAGEO REV P1 32 N 13 9 05 9:33 pm Page 13 RTS TO DELIVER PERFORMANCE Ursus vodka In the year, we completed the acquisition of Ursus, a mid-proof vodka, particularly popular in Greece.
Consumers respond well to its distinct red colour.
In creating this new region, the spirit of innovation continues to play a As one of the worlds most significant emerging markets, we believe role, from new products to creative, incisive and memorable marketing.
Russia is a highly important market to Diageo Europe and Diageos future.
For example, our new Smirnoff Ice advertising campaign introduced a new While total volume in the market is currently operating from a small base, character, Uri, to British consumers.
Uri shares with the audience the things volume was up 51%, due to strong performance by Johnnie Walker that matter most to him in his life: his football team, his best friend and and Baileys.
And next year our goal is for increased success as we begin his pride and joy, his refrigerator.
This campaign is also being used in the a new route to market for Guinness with Heineken.
United States and is being considered in other markets for our next financial year.
New products, new ideas New products launched in Great Britain included super premium Smirnoff In Ireland, the perfect pour concept for Guinness is now an established Penka, Gordons Distillers Cut and Bulleit Bourbon.
Additionally, we launched way of life for many Irish publicans and consumers, allowing them to enjoy Smirnoff Norsk in Great Britain and Smirnoff Twisted V ready to drink in the a better pint of Guinness.
It is also the subject of increasing interest across Nordic countries.
In addition to the launch of J&B Nox in Spain, we also have the Irish Sea, in Great Britain.
Consumers and customers alike benefit from J&B -6 C on limited release in Great Britain.
This is an exciting new Scotch the unique two-part pour of Guinness Draught, allowing the beer to surge whisky developed for adults in their 20s and 30s.
Its name was inspired and settle to its distinctive black and white appearance.
by the temperature of the chill ltration process used during distillation.
While the Iberian market contracted this year, it remains important to J&B Building on the popularity of Pimms as a summer drink, when consumers and we worked to address the challenge of that brands ageing consumer enjoy it at outdoor events and in on trade gardens, we introduced prole.
The launch of J&B Nox was a direct response to research that Pimms Winter, a brandy-based variant, this year to extend the brand demonstrated how young adult consumers are looking for a brand to to a longer season.
capture the special uniqueness of an evening out.
As the current year unfolds, we will be celebrating the 175th anniversary During the year we completed the acquisition of Ursus, a vodka brand of the foundation of the Talisker Distillery on the Isle of Skye.
A special that will broaden our offering in the mid-proof segment.
Ursus is anniversary bottling of Talisker is being issued and this is expected particularly popular in Greece.
It will be a unique, limited edition specially vatted from hand-selected casks of a variety of ages chosen for their We played an important role in the lives of consumers and their exceptional character.
communities, with Guinness sponsoring the 2005 tour of the British and Irish Lions rugby team to New Zealand, and signing a new 20 million deal to sponsor Premier Rugby in the United Kingdom in the 2005 6 season.
We were also proud to provide sponsorship for the G8 Summit in Gleneagles, Scotland, which addressed key global issues of poverty in Africa and global climate change.
Diageo Annual Review 2005 13 Regional highlights 11182 DIAGEO REV P1 32 N 13 9 05 9:33 pm Page 14 11182 DIAGEO REV P1 32 N 13 9 05 9:34 pm Page 15 Celebrating life, every day, everywhere 11182 DIAGEO REV P1 32 N 13 9 05 9:34 pm Page 16 INTERNATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES AR O Supporting Africa The 2005 Diageo Africa Business Reporting Awards recognised and rewarded journalists and editors providing high quality coverage of the business environment in Africa.
Opportunities and challenges around the world Top three brands Diageo International is a region like no other.
Its sheer size and geographic By volume spread make it both challenging and exciting volatile at times, but ultimately rewarding.
Employees, joint venture partners, distributors, customers, consumers, routes to market and the regulatory environments all vary from country to country, district to district, and culture to culture.
This very diversity is what makes our International business not only challenging, but also enjoyable and so rich in potential.
Johnnie Walker Fine performance Led by Stuart Fletcher, the business operates in 100 different markets in five geographical business hubs, plus Global Duty Free.
Top line performance continues to be strong following a further substantial increase in marketing investment this year.
Growth has been led by the strength of our business in Latin America, supported by strong volume growth in the developing markets of Brazil, India and China.
Smirnoff In Brazil, we continue to grow share across our key categories of Scotch whisky, vodka and ready to drink.
Brands such as Johnnie Walker, Buchanans, Smirnoff and Smirnoff Ice are winning and keeping new customers.
Our performance in India was driven by strong growth in Smirnoff and Johnnie Walker.
In China, we increased our investment and have been rewarded with volume growth, mainly delivered by Johnnie Guinness Walker.
Africa delivered volume growth, despite weakness of the important beer market in Nigeria.
This was offset by strong performance in other markets such as Kenya, Cameroon, Ghana and South Africa.
Global brands, local focus Over the last financial year, our global priority brands accounted for 53% of total volume in International led by Johnnie Walker and Smirnoff.
But across the world we also have a number of local priority brands, which represented 15% of our volume.
Diageo Annual Review 2005 16 Regional highlights 11182 DIAGEO REV P1 32 N 13 9 05 9:34 pm Page 17 AR OUND THE WORLD Australia success Red Stripe accolades Diageo Australia has again been recognised at the nations beverage Red Stripe has won awards for corporate alcohol industry awards, taking home two awards for Bundaberg Rum.
citizenship, employment practices and business success in Jamaica.
Some of these brands include: Bells in South Africa, Buchanans in The Diageo Africa Business Reporting Awards scheme is a bid to redress Venezuela, Bundaberg in Australia, Dimple and Windsor in Korea, Old Parr the balance.
The six awards Best Published Feature, Best Television Feature, in Japan, Red Stripe in Jamaica, Malta Guinness across all of Africa and Best Publication, Best Website, Best Journalist and Best Photographer Pilsner and Tusker in Kenya.
recognised and rewarded journalists and editors providing high quality coverage of the business environment in Africa.
By stimulating and Our brands make occasions special and across International there are promoting a more accurate and widespread understanding of the many occasions to celebrate.
For example, Bundaberg Rum provides business environment and opportunities in Africa in the international Australians with a spirit that has become part of their nations identity media, we believe there is greater chance of attracting more investment as it plays a key role in Australia Day, a day that celebrates what it is on the continent.
to be Australian, encapsulating community and culture alike.
At an individual level, our people are quick to support those in hardship.
Red Stripe has continued to win accolades, scooping four prominent The Diageo Tsunami Relief Fund employee appeal proceeds were corporate awards in Jamaica: the Jamaica Manufacturers Associations matched by the Diageo Foundation.
Altogether, Diageo pledged more Governor General Award for excellence in manufacturing and good than 1 million to the South East Asia tsunami appeal, as well as practical corporate citizenship, the Jamaica Chamber of Commerce Best of Chamber aid, which included our Australian business shipping more than 8,000 Award, the Jamaica Employers Federation Employer of Choice Award, and cases of water to Indonesia.
the Jamaica Exporters Association Champion Exporter Award.
Johnnie Walker sponsored the richest golf tournament in Asia the Johnnie Walker Classic, which took place in Beijing.
Many of the biggest names in the sport took part, and the event was also a fundraising platform for the Johnnie Walker Keep Walking Thailand Tsunami Fund.
Involving ourselves in our communities We believe that many investors are overlooking Africa as an investment destination.
In 2003, Africa attracted less than 2% of global foreign direct investment.
This gure must be increased if Africa is to meet the United Nations Millennium Development Goals.
Diageo Annual Review 2005 17 Regional highlights 11182 DIAGEO REV P1 32 N 13 9 05 9:34 pm Page 18 11182 DIAGEO REV P1 32 N 13 9 05 9:34 pm Page 19 Celebrating life, every day, everywhere
