emap at a glance Emap is a modern media business, with a portfolio of brands that bring people together.
It creates must-have entertainment and information for customers across consumer magazines, radio, music television, the web, trade magazines and trade exhibitions.
Over 400 brands, many of Extending brands and content Tracking business and them household names built into different media consumer trends that reveal over time and valued by their magazines onto radio, radio changes in behaviour enabling target audiences.
onto TV, trade magazines into us to keep our products fresh information products and and ahead of the game.
conferences, music brands into interactive media.
Investing in ideas from local, The most talented people who Senior managers who have expert teams who are want to work on our famous years of experience working immensely proud of what brands and can develop their across the business, giving they produce.
This makes for careers at Emap across many them expertise and core a highly creative environment.
skills to transfer from one area to another.
Each of our businesses is One of the UKs top public Working closely with our the best in its class, with companies, with 5,500 advertising customers, creating the best products and the employees and 55 ofces in advertising solutions that span best performance.
They have the UK, France and around magazines, radio, television, market leading positions and the world.
aim to grow faster than their competitors.
emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 2 performance people brands strength in diversity Revenue by media type 35% Consumer magazines UK As media owners and media buyers converge and 2% Television technology creates new media platforms, a cross-media 9% Radio 21% b2b communications culture will be a prerequisite for media brands to develop 5% Consumer magazines Intl 28% Consumer magazines France and grow.
Emaps strength across different media prepares it well for the changing media landscape.
emap is organised into four operating divisions: emap consumer media emap performance The majority of the Groups consumer A unique position in UK music market through magazines in the UK and overseas excluding its 19 local analogue radio stations, a large France.
Publishes over 65 titles in the UK and digital radio network, six music magazines nearly 30 editions of FHM around the world.
and seven digital music TV channels.
35% of revenues 30% of profits 15% of revenues 16% of profits emap communications emap france Has over 200 products in the b2b marketplace, Publishes over 40 consumer magazine titles primarily in the UK, including trade magazines, for the French market and reaches over 50% exhibitions, conferences and information of the French population every month.
22% of revenues 32% of profits 28% of revenues 22% of profits In April 2005 Emap Performance, the division that contained all of the music-related assets including television, radio and magazines, was split into two parts.
Emap Radio became a new division, whilst music television and music magazines became an operating business within Emap Consumer Media retaining the Emap Performance name.
This new structure will create opportunities for more collaboration across Emaps broad range of UK consumer-facing businesses.
emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 3
