Financial Highlights 6 months to 31 March 2005 Capital Radio plc Financial Review Group revenue 58.5m 2004: 59.0m Group underlying operating profit from analogue radio 13.6m 2004: 14.4m Digital investment of 3m 2004: 2.4m Underlying group profit before taxation of 10.8m 2004: 12.1m Underlying earnings per share of 8.9p 2004: 10.1p Dividend of 6p 2004 Interim: 6p Operating Review Capital Radio Group audiences increased to 7.9 million listeners in RAJAR Wave 1:05 Wave 4:04 7.7 million Statutory Results Profit before tax 2.3m 2004: 6.5m Basic loss earnings per share of 0.4p 2004: 3.6p Underlying results are presented to provide a better indication of overall financial performance.
The underlying results exclude goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
01 1 Statement Overview Group profit before tax, exceptional items and Market conditions have remained challenging in the amortisation of goodwill was 10.8 million 2004: past six months.
Following an October to December 12.1 million.
The tax on underlying profits was 30.2% 2004 quarter decrease in revenue of 4%, radio revenues 2004: 30.5% and underlying Group earnings per share increased modestly in the January to March 2005 were 8.9p 2004: 10.1p.
The profit before tax was quarter.
This has resulted in a 1% decrease for the six 2.3 million 2004: 6.5 million.
Basic loss earnings months to 31st March 2005 year on year.
Following regulatory clearance, we received shareholder During the period we incurred some exceptional approval at our EGM in April for the merger of Capital charges in relation to the implementation of the merger Radio plc and GWR Group plc to form GCap Media plc with GWR Group plc of 2.2 million.
The Group had net and dealings in the new GCap Media plc shares, issued to debt at 31 March 2005 of 34.9 million 31 March 2004: former GWR Group plc shareholders, will commence on 32.0 million.
The interest charge was 0.9 million the London Stock Exchange at 8am on 9 May 2005.
Separately, GCap Media plc is issuing a statement on Dividend current trading within its launch press release to be The Directors have declared a dividend of 6.0p per share issued on 9 May 2005.
That statement covers trading 2004 Interim: 6.0p per share: 2004 Final: 12.5p per at Capital Radio plc and GWR Group plc for April share to be paid on 8 July 2005 to all shareholders in and guidance on the trading outlook for May 2005. the enlarged group on the register on 20 May 2005 GCap Media plc will also release a statement ex-dividend date: 18 May 2005. confirming the disposal of 106 Century FM.
This statement relates only to the audited results of Capital Radio plc for the six month period ending 31 March 2005.
Financial Review Group revenue for the period was down 1% on the previous year, to 58.5 million 2004: 59.0 million.
Underlying group operating profit from our analogue radio operations was 13.6 million 2004: 14.4 million.
We invested 3.0 million 2004: 2.4 million in our digital operations which principally comprised of transmission costs.
Digital radio is a key part of our strategy to expand our brands and grow our listening share throughout the UK and we now own 59 licences covering 85% of the UK population.
Our associated companies, including Wildstar, CE Digital and IRN, contributed 1.1 million 2004: 0.8 million to the Groups profits, before an exceptional writedown of our investment in Wildstar of 0.8 million, to reflect its trading performance.
1 As at 9 May 2005 shortly before the merger of Capital Radio plc and GWR Group plc became effective for the six month period 1 October 2004 to 31 March 2005.
02 1 Operational Review Audience figures Revenue Latest RAJAR audience figures for the quarter to 31 March In a difficult market, the performance of Xfm, the 2005 show that Capital Radio Group now reaches 7.9 million Century FM Network and Choice FM continues to adult listeners across the most commercially attractive improve, with growth ahead of the industry average.
On completion of the merger of Alongside the improvement in our brand count, Capital Radio plc and GWR Group plc, GCap Media plc sponsorship and promotions activity have attracted new will have a reach of 17.1 million adult UK listeners and advertisers to all of our brands.
This includes Skys a 35.2% share of commercial listening hours.
sponsorship of the Gold Networks breakfast show, Archers sponsorship of Hairbrush Divas for the Century 95.8 Capital FM continues to lead the London commercial FM Network and the renewal of O2s sponsorship of marketplace with 2.1 million listeners tuning in every Traffic and Travel on all our networks.
The Johnny Vaughan breakfast show has added IPC and MTV RSVP delivered revenues from Fosters listeners in the last two RAJAR surveys, with 266,000 Australia, The Incredibles and Aussie Haircare across listeners more than its nearest commercial rival.
The Capital FM network reaches a total of 4.4 million listeners, with 6 out of 8 stations commanding leadership We have seen the following performance in revenues in their respective commercial marketplaces.
from our top 15 advertising categories: The Century FM Network achieved a record weekly Category Year on year % of total change reach of 2.08 million listeners and total hours of over 17.1 million, in the latest RAJAR.
The Network is now Retail 9% 17% the commercial leader in three of its TSAs Total Survey Motors 4% 13% Area.
Xfm reached over 651,000 listeners in the latest Gov Social Political 2% 12% RAJAR results.
The Capital Gold Network broadcasts Entertainment & the Media 3% 11% on AM and DAB digital frequencies across the UK.
Business & Industrial 6% 11% Non-analogue listening now accounts for 22% of a total Travel & Transport 0% 7% station reach of 1.3 million listeners.
Choice FMs Entertainment 11%6% second RAJAR survey across the total London survey Food 31% 4% area has seen a second consecutive increase in reach Household Equipment 13% 5% to a record 525,000 listeners.
Computers 1% 4% Finance 4% 2% Household Supplies 18% 2% Cosmetics & Toiletries 5% 2% Pharmaceutical 30% 1% Electronics 54% 0% Source: Capital Radio Advertising, October 2004 to March 2005 1 As at 9 May 2005 shortly before the merger of Capital Radio plc and GWR Group plc became effective for the six month period 1 October 2004 to 31 March 2005.
03 1 Our People and Communities Communities Charity begins at home Listen and learn Charity work is a very important part of our Capital Radio plc has worked with schools across the relationship with our local communities.
We have provided UK supporting education projects that promote learning fundraising and grants to a broad range of organisations, and social skills.
These included the BT Schools Awards, as well as promoting other issues and charities.
Our Media Placement Open Days and DAB Schools, a programme primary focus is promoting the welfare of children and which encourages schools to set up their own DAB radio young people.
Capital Charities is the registered charity service.
Other initiatives included support for the DfES for Capital Radio plc, under which a number of local Music Manifesto, mentoring with the Education Business charities are operated including Help a London Child, Partnerships and BITCs Partners in Leadership.
Help a South Wales Child, Help a Local Child and 21st Century Kids.
Safe and sound Personal safety and security remains high on our Our stations have worked closely with our dedicated listeners list of concerns, so in addition to our news charity team to instigate fundraising events that include output, support for schemes that can address crime the BUPA Capital 10K, Local Heroes, Party in the Park, reduction has been an important part of our CSR policy.
movie premieres, restaurant nights and treks to name Our relationship with Crimestoppers continued and our a few.
This unique partnership has raised 2.1 million ongoing support to tackle the issue of gun crime was a in the last six months for Capital Charities.
1 million feature of the Peace On The Streets campaign on Choice of this has been raised in London as we celebrated FM.
In addition, the Child Rescue Alert scheme, which 30 years of Help a London Child in 2005. started in Sussex with the support of Capital Radio plc and assists the Police when a child is abducted, is now In the last six months, the Group and its charities set to roll out across the UK.
awarded grants to 516 groups in Greater London, South Wales, the West Midlands, Tyneside and the Entertaining and informing South of England.
53,000 children will have benefited Listeners rely on their local radio station not only to from these grants creating a real difference to their entertain, but also to be the source of information for lives.
The projects we undertake range from funding the community.
Capital Radio plcs Social Action team music, arts, drama, sports and youth groups in some weaves into programming a wide range of subject matter of the countrys most deprived areas, to providing and services reflecting our listeners interests.
specialist equipment and support services for groups working with children or young people with a disability, News on our websites is tailored to our listeners concerns special need or serious illness.
We also support and lifestyles with issues including bullying, child safety, supplementary schools and cultural activities for truancy, eating disorders and cancer awareness.
We have children from diverse communities, as well as remained in close contact with our listeners with a series refuges for families fleeing domestic violence and of help lines covering social and community action topics homelessness organisations.
ranging from the Revision Line to the Bonfire Line.
Measuring the impact of our community activities is led by our involvement with Community Mark.
This BITC benchmarking scheme assesses the structure and processes in place to deliver CSR.
04 1 Our People and Communities Responsibilities Controlling our effect on the environment Forging strong links with our suppliers Although the radio industry has little direct impact We recognise the importance of strong, long-term on the environment, we recognise that as a company, relationships with our suppliers to the stability of our we do have some limited effects.
We have focused business and have remained committed to fostering on those activities with the most significant impacts.
Our Group Our main concerns are waste disposal computer Procurement and Facilities Manager has strengthened equipment, toners and paper and management of our our relationships with our suppliers, managed costs energy consumption, notably electricity.
Capital Radio plc and where possible, sourced some of our supplies from adheres to current guidelines and supports the relevant eco-friendly sources.
government and industry regulatory bodies complying fully with their requirements.
All of our waste is Engaging in active dialogue with our shareholders disposed of in accordance with the Environmental We are committed to communicating Group strategy and Protection Act 1990. activities clearly to our shareholders and have in place an ongoing investor relations programme.
We endeavour We have aimed to reduce this impact and in order to to maintain a high standard of transparency of financial control waste, energy-saving initiatives are encouraged reporting and encourage the freeflow of information and recycling is actively promoted across the Group.
We have regular contact Examples of energy savings include use of low energy with analysts and fund managers to ensure that they are bulbs and the turning off of computers, stereos and updated on any company and industry developments, photocopiers at the end of each day.
Throughout the from more information on our brands to seminars on Group, where possible, air-conditioning and refrigeration digital radio.
systems run on CFC free gases.
Our Report and Accounts is printed on Storafine paper Nordic Swan Environmental Our private investors are also a valuable part of our criteria and group-wide recycling schemes target paper shareholder base and we communicate with them and toner cartridges.
In addition, there are a number of through a number of media including our company local initiatives operating within the Company, including website, Annual Report and Accounts and AGM.
recycling computers and mobile phones to schools and We recognise the importance of high standards of charities.
corporate governance and follow the principles as set out in the Combined Code.
The Board is accountable Communicating our CSR aims clearly for the Groups operations and has procedures for We endeavour to be a socially responsible company of identifying, evaluating and managing risks faced by the highest standard and our achievements have been the Group according to Turnbull Guidance.
Further recognised by our continued inclusion in the FTSE4Good details can be found in the Report of the Directors.
In addition, we are members of the 2004 BITC Per Cent Club.
We are committed to communicating our progress openly and report our findings publicly in both the Annual Report and Accounts and on our website.
Your feedback is encouraged and comments and suggestions on our environmental practices are welcomed.
