Other commercial and services Transport Industrials Leisure Retail Technology Telecoms Alfred McAlpine plc 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 ALFRED McALPINE AT A GLANCE Our markets Developing long term In 2005, our revenues were visible earnings streams spread equally across our markets Over 75% of our activities are with no overdependence on any undertaken under long term one sector or client.
contracts, building on long term relationships based on service excellence and the breadth of our offer, providing strong, visible, lower risk earnings streams.
Order book 2006-2012 and beyond m 1000 900 800 700 REGULATED PRIVATE 600 500 400 300 PUBLIC 200 100 0 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 and beyond 3.5bn Electricity Financial and Professional services Gas Education Health Water Defence Local government Alfred McAlpine plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 3 ALFRED McALPINE IS A LEADING SUPPORT SERVICES BUSINESS FOCUSED ON THE BUILT ENVIRONMENT.
WE DEVELOP, FINANCE, DESIGN, BUILD, MANAGE AND MAINTAIN THE BUILDINGS AND INFRASTRUCTURE THAT ENABLE INDIVIDUALS AND ORGANISATIONS ACROSS THE UK TO GO ABOUT THEIR BUSINESS.
A well-balanced business positioned Highways maintenance services in strong growth markets We work in partnership with the Highways Agency and a We have a well-balanced business which is not over reliant number of local authorities to maintain, renew and upgrade on any particular sector or client.
Approximately a third of the UKs highways.
As traffic volumes increase, proper our revenues are derived from each of the public, private and maintenance becomes all the more critical.
Our teams work regulated sectors.
We are positioned in strong growth markets across the entire road network, using two million traffic cones driven by the continuing trend to outsource the maintenance to support traffic management systems and maintaining and management of buildings and by the high level of 200,000 streetlights.
investment required to renew the UKs health and education facilities and its transport and utility infrastructures.
Project services The UK is in the middle of a major investment programme Facilities management to improve and develop our road and transport networks Alfred McAlpine is a leading provider of facilities management and to renew the UKs health and education facilities.
We are able to offer, through self delivery or work in partnership with our customers to meet these needs.
our supply chain partners, the entire spectrum of FM services, We aim to become involved early in schemes and we are one from soft services such as cleaning and security, through of the leading exponents of Early Contractor Involvement mechanical and electrical equipment and buildings ECI schemes.
We often form a development partnership to maintenance, to added value consultancy services, such as help plan and finance projects, and then we build them to health and safety compliance, to our clients.
We are able the high standards for which Alfred McAlpine is known.
to offer a seamless and expert service to clients, by applying our knowledge and experience, which gives cost savings and Slate better service to the customer.
To us, FM is about adding value Our Slate business is one of the worlds leading suppliers of to our clients businesses taking pressure off them, so they natural slate for architectural and roofing applications.
With can take care of their clients.
This might mean delivering a extensive experience of working with architects, contractors strategic property solution to organisations such as EDS and and specifiers worldwide, this technical and design expertise Nationwide, 24 7 support to the MOD and the NHS, or the ensures the highest standards of customer service.
We have management of critical e-business infrastructures in the City invested in a new modern facility to improve production of London.
beyond the 14 million roofing slates and 600,000 tonnes of aggregate we produce each year.
Workplace consultancy We are one of the leading providers of health and safety solutions in the UK, with a specialist team advising organisations how to manage their workplace.
We support companies such as Sainsburys, Land Securities and Crest Nicholson through the health and safety management cycle delivering positive business benefits and helping them to avoid health and safety breakdowns and the damaging PR and legal actions which may follow.
Utility services The UK needs to continue to invest in its water, gas, electricity and telecommunications infrastructures.
The existing systems are not capable of supporting user demand and many are past their design life.
The regulatory reviews in 2004 approved a 22bn investment in the renewal and upgrading of the UKs utility networks over the next five years.
We are well placed to take advantage of this upturn in investment spend through our expert teams, who provide consultancy expertise in the design, planning and delivery of services to our clients.
Alfred McAlpine plc 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Alfred McAlpine plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 5 WE HAVE HELPED TO SHAPE THE FUTURES OF MORE THAN 10,000 CHILDREN We pride ourselves on the contribution we have made to education in the UK.
Our team has worked with the communities in Conwy and New Tredegar in Wales to provide them with twenty-first century schools for their children.
Looking ahead, we are working with Dorset County Council on a five year framework contract that will deliver facilities worth over 50m.
Alfred McAlpine plc 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Alfred McAlpine plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 7 OUR SERVICES HELP THE NHS KEEP THE UK HEALTHY We build and maintain major hospitals and health units.
Addenbrookes Hospital PFI scheme is a 190m 30 year project, financed, built and maintained by Alfred McAlpine.
In partnership with NIB Capital Bank, Alfred McAlpine will deliver a key facility for the increasing population of East Anglia.
Alfred McAlpine plc 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 OUR HELPDESKS AND SERVICE CENTRES HANDLE OVER ONE MILLION CALLS A YEAR We take care of other peoples organisations, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
We have teams of mobile engineers across the country ready to deal with burst pipes in Glasgow, heating units in Swindon and complex IT networks in the City of London.
Our commitment to service is underpinned by a positive business culture and the quality of our people.
Alfred McAlpine plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 9
