04 Alliance UniChem Plc Group at a glance A truly pan-European pharmacy fo Manufacturers Wholesale Our wholesale business model is to provide We aim to achieve this by having: customers, manufacturers and payers with High core service levels to dispensing pharmacists an efficient distribution service for the supply of medicines and other healthcare products Innovative value-added services to pharmacies supported by related value Competitive pricing added services.
Strong partnerships with manufacturers Efficient logistics Excellent people We aim to become indispensable to customers and manufacturers by adding more value to their businesses than our competitors.
This will make us the wholesaler of choice in each of the markets we serve.
05 Alliance UniChem Plc cusedgroup Retail Customers Our pharmacy business model is to provide We aim to achieve this by having: superior patient care through the operation Community pharmacies typically located close to of community pharmacies.
doctors surgeries A pharmacist-led focus on prescription medicines, other healthcare products and related services Product ranges and services tailored to local patient needs Strong partnerships with manufacturers Highly professional staff We aim to make ourselves indispensable to patients, payers and manufacturers by adding more value to their activities than our competitors.
This will enable us to maintain our position as a leader in our chosen markets.
06 Alliance UniChem Plc A look at our businesses From Calpol to school uniforms, David at our local pharmacy has it all.
Catherine and Eve, Alliance Pharmacy customers, Stockingford We have an excellent working relationship with Urmay and her team and feel very fortunate to be working with them in our community.
They are more than just medicine providers: they are a truly valuable source of information.
The entire team is warm and friendly, and makes it a point of always being on the end of the phone within two to three rings.
Its a very pleasant way for us to work.
Dr. David Love, Hook Surgery, The team at Alliance Pharmacy is Hook, Hampshire reliable, friendly and approachable.
They deliver all our 33 residents monthly prescriptions as a single package and advise us on how we can best administer each residents daily dosages in a safe and efficient way.
If we ever have queries, theyre our first port of call.
Its a wonderful two-way interaction and theyre always available to help.
Anne Turner, Manager, Old Raven House Care Hotel, Hook, Hampshire Myself and my team can test and develop our knowledge and hone our customer advisory skills through Alliance Pharmacys Advice Matters initiative.
Urmay Raman, Alliance Pharmacy Pharmacist, Hook, Hampshire Were an integral part of the The value of community pharmacy Our pharmacy teams believe there is more to Through their carefully nurtured relationships Alliance UniChem knows that no two a personalised service than simply knowing with customers, our pharmacy teams are communities are the same and that to customers names or being familiar with well placed to give informed and valuable understand the needs of the local population their repeat prescriptions and they are often healthcare advice and we are actively you must be truly part of that community.
members of the same local community as developing the capability of our teams to do their customers.
Through our Advice Matters training ensures an easy and reassuring interaction.
initiative in the UK, we present our pharmacy In addition, our teams undertake visits to local teams with fictitious scenarios which challenge doctors practices and form positive working their healthcare knowledge.
For example, relationships with health visitors and could they identify the symptoms of a stroke community nurses, doctors, surgery practice victim, or suggest what a patient could do to managers and other surgery support staff.
After a period of deliberation, a suggested course of action is given.
07 Alliance UniChem Plc A look at our businesses Urmay and her team are wonderful.
They source products for our patients as quickly as they can, they look things up for us and guide us through tricky medicines and protocols.
Were a very busy practice and theyre always on the go but they never get stressed or irate.
I dont know how wed survive without them.
Staff Nurse Helen Kent, Hook Surgery, Hook, Hampshire I really appreciate the personalised healthcare concerns that come to mind service that Alliance Pharmacy offers me.
while I am waiting for my prescriptions to The new dispensary layout allows me to be dispensed.
discuss with my pharmacist any concerns Christina, Alliance Pharmacy customer, I have with my, or my familys, medication Lower Earley, Reading without being overheard or feeling I am interrupting his work.
It also allows me the opportunity to discuss other community Alliance Pharmacy, the Groups UK pharmacy Whilst healthcare is our primary focus, we are chain, rewards its pharmacy teams that go fully cognizant that we need to stock a retail the extra mile in customer care by showcasing product offer that we know our customers on a weekly basis their achievements through need and will want to purchase again and an on-line newsletter, Heartfelt News.
We are not afraid to take this to Team members are therefore recognised and an extreme to meet specific requirements.
celebrated across the country for going above In our Stockingford pharmacy, where we have and beyond their normal duty of care.
introduced a state of the art advice and dispensary format focused heavily on Our approach of a highly personalised service healthcare, it became clear to the Stockingford built upon strong customer relationships is team that we had missed one unique local mirrored in the selection of product ranges demand that we had traditionally met, with specifically tailored to meet local patient needs.
the result that space was found within days to re-introduce a line of uniforms for the local primary schools!
08 Alliance UniChem Plc A look at our businesses Right: 960 new routes were implemented in the UK this year resulting in quicker delivery times, multiple daily drops and significant cost savings.
Above: Use of ePOD systems can Above and right: Our team of in-house improve service levels and provide users analysts use our telematics systems to with intelligence to proactively aid monitor vehicle productivity and efficiency improvements.
Plans are performance, enabling us to manage our underway to trial the newly launched fleet more effectively and optimise MC70 ePOD terminal at UniChem in performance.
Our distribution networks are among the best in Taking Best Practice out onto the road Alongside the work we have been doing to performance of our vehicles through lower Alliance UniChem seeks to improve its service develop and roll-out our Best Practice model for fuel and maintenance costs and avert risk, levels and efficiency through sector-leading the optimisation of our wholesale depots, we manage liability and drive financial economies.
are employing the latest technology to ensure We are taking this process one step further that once products leave our warehouses, they through the roll-out of Project Andretti get to our pharmacy customers in the most the introduction of the TruckStops system.
efficient, secure and reliable manner.
TruckStops is an automated routing and On board telematics systems installed across scheduling system designed to improve service our UK fleet enable us to benchmark driver levels, reduce costs and increase efficiency and vehicle productivity and performance.
Our team of in-house analysts By monitoring factors like harsh braking, working on Project Andretti examine in minute speeding, engine temperature and fuel detail existing delivery routes to identify where consumption, we can manage our fleet more improvements can be made.
Then, working effectively and can also optimise the with depot managers, new routes are gradually phased in depot by depot.
With some depots 09 Alliance UniChem Plc A look at our businesses Above: Our team of analysts examine in minute detail existing delivery routes to identify where improvements can be made.
Above: Our new Scania R420 trucks of engine auxiliaries and weight represent the very best in both reduction.
Designed to have the lowest operational cost-efficiency and driver possible impact on the environment comfort.
Their 420 horse power 12-litre throughout their operational life, this new engines offer long-term dependability generation of double-deck trailers have and, together with improved cavernous internal proportions and aerodynamics, give smarter control world-class volume to weight ratio.
our industry adopting six new routes per week, a total of We are also exploring the option of trialling 960 new routes were implemented in the UK hybrid vehicles and electric vans to determine this year resulting in quicker delivery times, whether they might prove a valuable future multiple daily drops and significant cost savings.
With an average speed in London of just 9.9 mph and an increasing During 2006 we plan to trial in the UK an focus on reducing fuel emissions and rising electronic proof of delivery ePOD system fuel bills, vehicles powered by electricity may which will allow us to collect signatures at point prove to be a future cost effective and of delivery or collection, trigger invoicing, advise environmentally responsible option.
customers and eliminate the complexity and handling costs relating to paper proof of delivery.
We believe that the system will improve service levels and capture real-time event information which will provide us with intelligence to proactively aid future efficiency improvements.
10 Alliance UniChem Plc A look at our businesses Left: UniChem, the Groups UK wholesale business, has developed the Solutions series of handbooks to help its independent customers prepare for the first stage of the new community pharmacy contract.
It aims to provide an understanding of the key elements of the Essential level of the new contract, give practical advice on implementing and meeting the required criteria and provide customers with a means to enable compliance with the mandatory requirements for continued pharmacy practice.
Above and Right: UniChems consulting Left: A blood test being undertaken by a room is a perfect combination of good pharmacist in a private consultation area.
design and practical space and has plenty of capacity for the new pharmacy contract now and in the future.
In our specialised location it enabled us to adapt and extend the life of existing ttings but still create a wow factor.
Congratulations to UniChem we love it.
David Badham, Badham Pharmacy, Worcs We believe in sharing our The importance of the independent Across Europe independent pharmacists required level of Essential services.
Moreover, pharmacist Alliance UniChem demonstrates represent the single largest group offering they must make the necessary practical its long-standing commitment to community dispensing services to the community.
Alliance changes to their pharmacies in order to pharmacy through its continual support of UniChem never forgets the importance and offer Advanced and Enhanced services.
value of this group of customers.
Striving to move beyond its traditional On 1 April 2005 the new pharmacy contract role as distributor of medicines and products, was introduced in England and Wales.
This is UniChem, the Groups UK wholesale business, designed to modernise the existing national is helping independent pharmacists equip contractual framework for community themselves to reap the operational, financial pharmacy, establish minimum standards and and reputational rewards afforded by the promote and reward high quality services not new contract.
For pharmacists to In addition to producing the highly acclaimed operate within the new framework, they Solutions handbooks, UniChem is offering its need to fully understand the new contract customers further guidance through a series requirements in order to be able to offer the of Contract Roadshows across the country.
11 Alliance UniChem Plc A look at our businesses Left: We have held 15 Medicine Use Reviews MURs accreditation workshops during 2005 through which almost 240 of our independent pharmacist customers have successfully gained accreditation and skills to deliver MURs in their pharmacies.
These one-day workshops have been very well received by attendees who believe that not only have they gained accreditation, but a confidence and clarity in what is practically involved when conducting MURs with their patients.
Above: Were helping pharmacists to entrepreneurial spirit, has formed the help themselves.
I have worked with framework that has seen his business Davinder for many years now.
We have grow strongly in recent years.
built a strong business partnership Anthony Mayhead left, Commercial between our two organisations with General Manager, UniChem with UniChem offering him expertise and long-term UniChem customer and knowledge in critical business areas.
independent pharmacist This, combined with Davinders Davinder Verdee knowledge Pharmacists are taken through a step-by-step A further pre-requisite is that the pharmacist programme of what they need to do to receive accreditation.
Appreciating that this may plan for and implement the new contract.
prove an intimidating and potentially timeParticipants are able to discuss factors affecting consuming process, UniChem, in conjunction implementation, raise areas of concern and with the Medway School of Pharmacy in Kent, learn about the other practical solutions has organised a series of one-day workshops UniChem can offer to facilitate the process.
during which independent pharmacist customers undergo a workshop-style A pre-requisite of being able to offer Advanced assessment culminating in their receiving full services is the installation of an in-pharmacy accreditation within two weeks of attending consulting area.
UniChems retail services the workshop.
team offers bespoke consultation area packages through which a fully up and running consultation area can be designed, manufactured and installed in less than three months.
This may also be a requirement for future Enhanced services.
12 Alliance UniChem Plc A look at our businesses Above: Due to the nature of the products dispatched, the picking line is reliant on highly trained staff and the most up-todate technology to ensure the highest levels of quality and accuracy.
Left: Sophisticated technology is used to manage and monitor the intelligent conveyor on our picking lines.
Above top: Access to secure areas is Right: Temperature control in the carefully controlled to ensure security is warehouse is crucial to many of the maintained to the highest levels.
This control extends to their ongoing transportation.
Above bottom: Products are carefully checked and packed to ensure reliable ongoing transportation from our warehouse to the end user.
Our contract logistics and pre-wholesale business the health Delivering innovative services to the We see pharmaceutical and healthcare we have the specialist personnel, facilities and healthcare industry Alliance UniChem companies as core partners for us as we know-how to preserve the integrity of these recognises the importance of pharmaceutical provide high quality services to these products through the delivery network.
and healthcare companies to the wellbeing of communities.
In evolving and developing Our highly trained staff ensure products are the communities we serve.
our distribution skills, Alliance UniChem has properly handled upon arrival for storage at created a diverse range of services to support our depots.
Sometimes valued in excess of these companies across Europe.
These services 5,000 per pack, they often need to be kept include warehousing and distribution, Panat carefully controlled temperatures as their European contract management, secondary efficacy can be diminished, if not entirely packaging and labelling, distribution of destroyed, by being over heated or excessively promotional material and clinical trial logistics.
Temperature control is also critical As an illustration of this, Alliance UniChem during ongoing transportation.
Working provides highly specialised distribution services typically within a 24-hour delivery window, for biotechnology companies looking for expert their progress must be monitored closely to handling and transportation of their expensive ensure time frame and storage conditions and fragile products.
Our expertise means that are respected.
13 Alliance UniChem Plc A look at our businesses Above: Due to the nature of many of the products we handle for our customers, they require the strictest temperature controls to ensure their efficacy is not diminished.
Above: In April 2005 we acquired Alloga, one of Europes leading specialist healthcare logistics and pre-wholesaling providers.
services careindustry Unlike many of our other depots where healthcare logistics and pre-wholesaling prescription drugs are automatically picked and providers.
Alloga gives us an enhanced dispatched under considerably less stringent platform from which to accelerate the provision conditions, this is not the case for these items.
of services across Europe and complements All product orders received from doctors, those already offered by our existing wholesale nurses, clinics, hospitals or pharmacies are businesses.
Our services to manufacturers were prepared for dispatch under pharmacist strengthened further in July through the supervision and are labelled and packaged in acquisition of 75% of French company Pharma such a way that they are maintained during Dep which specialises in the promotion and transit in a secure and controlled environment.
distribution of healthcare products to Some orders are distributed straight to the end pharmacists on behalf of pharmaceutical user, and in some specific circumstances direct manufacturers and the acquisition of 60% to the patient at home.
of a similar company in Italy.
During 2005 we expanded our services to manufacturers through the acquisition in April of Alloga, one of Europes leading specialist 14 Alliance UniChem Plc A look at our businesses Left and below: Our research shows that consumers are keen to see non-prescription products in simple, colourfully designed packaging that enables them to identify what the product is and what it does quickly and easily.
Left: Our Almus packaging is now the first in the UK to present a life-size, truecolour illustration of the tablet or capsule contained within the pack.
Our own brands go from strength Developing a winning concept Alliance In April 2003 Alliance UniChem launched and Patient Safety at the Department of UniChem has a proven track record in using its Almus, our exclusive range of generic drugs, Health, presented Almus with the award for understanding and knowledge of its markets to which has rapidly developed into one of the Innovation in Pharmacy at the 5th Annual develop innovative approaches to lead the UKs leading generic brands.
Its unique awardPharmacy Business Awards in London on industry forward.
winning packaging, consistency of specification, 24 October.
ready availability and competitive pricing has Further innovation of its user-focused made it a favourite of pharmacist and patient packaging design continued throughout the alike.
Preparations are well underway to launch year.
The Almus packaging is now the first in Almus in two other markets France in the the UK to present tablet identification a lifesecond quarter of 2006 and Italy thereafter.
size, true-colour illustration of the tablet or Almus innovative approach to packaging capsule contained within the pack on design has received continued industry prescription medicines.
The innovative design recognition since launch and during 2005 it enhances patient safety, ensuring that the won its third award in three years.
contents of the pack are clearly identifiable and Jane Kennedy MP, Minister of State for Quality distinguishable from other medications.
15 Alliance UniChem Plc A look at our businesses Above: Following on from our success with Almus is Alvita, our range of commodity products such as bandages and cotton wool which was launched in France during 2005.
Plans are underway to launch Alvita in the UK and Italy by the fourth quarter of 2006. to strength Following research with consumers and mainly within the pain relief and stomach pharmacists, it was established during 2005 remedies categories.
In line with the Almus that Almus generics proposition of clarity generics range of medicines, this new range of design helping pharmacists to identify will be differentiated through its clear and product quickly and simply, and without colourful packaging.
We plan to expand the confusion was just as applicable to range to cover a full range of hayfever and non-prescription medicines.
The findings demonstrated that consumers In addition Alvita, a range of commodity are keen to see non-prescription products in products such as bandages and cotton wool simple, colourfully designed packaging that launched by Alliance UniChem in France during enables them to identify what the product 2005, will be launched in the UK and Italy by is and what it does, quickly and easily.
To be launched in the UK in the third quarter of 2006, the Almus range of non-prescription medicines will consist initially of products
