18 Alliance UniChem Plc Operating and financial review Markets and divisional highlights Alliance UniChems strategy is to consistently grow shareholder value over an extended period of time by focusing on its key areas of expertise within the healthcare market, namely pharmaceutical wholesaling and retail pharmacies.
In countries where regulations permit and it makes economic sense to do so, Alliance UniChem seeks to operate wholesale and retail pharmacy businesses alongside one another.
Alliance UniChem aims to grow its businesses organically through consistently delivering superior customer service, utilising its expertise in margin management and by obtaining productivity savings and synergies from managing its businesses closely together.
This is combined with a strong emphasis on working capital efficiency and cash generation to fund profitable expansion.
In addition to organic growth, Alliance UniChems strategy is to grow through the acquisition of businesses and associate interests, both in existing and new geographical markets, applying strict financial criteria for all investments.
Markets Market environment and regulatory In recent years governments have sought to The wholesale markets in which our businesses framework The European healthcare markets curtail the growth in their expenditure on operate grew year on year, we estimate, by in which the Alliance UniChem Group operates prescription medicines by using a variety of around 2.5% in value on a constant currency are forecast to continue to exhibit long-term tools such as: basis, this growth being weighted on the basis relatively stable and manageable growth.
This compares with cutting the reimbursement price of branded This reflects socio-demographic trends across estimated market growth of 4.5% in 2004. ethical drugs: Europe which show an ageing population and In almost all our markets growth rates were rising quality of life expectations in old age.
promoting the substitution of branded below those forecast at the beginning of 2005. ethical drugs with their lower priced generic In 2006 we forecast that our wholesale markets These trends are placing increasing and equivalent typically reimbursing at the will grow in value by around 2.5%, the same operational demands on healthcare systems, generic price and giving the dispensing as in 2005, reflecting regulatory measures resulting in continuing growth in prescription pharmacist the right of substitution : recently announced in France and Spain which medicine volumes.
Prescription medicines we expect will offset better forecast growth in across Europe are primarily paid for by national delisting from reimbursement lists products the UK once we are beyond the anniversaries governments, either directly to the retail deemed to have limited medical benefits: of the Department of Healths Pharmaceutical pharmacy or via an intermediate body, patients introducing more patient co-payments for Price Regulation Scheme PPRS price cuts and sometimes having to make a co-payment, prescription medicines: depending in some instances upon either lower drug tariff for generics which took place their income or the product being prescribed.
requiring manufacturers to be more thorough in the first half of 2005. in demonstrating the medicinal benefits of Governments across Europe are continually The long-term trends have continued in 2005. their products prior to their being listed for seeking ways to curtail the annual growth in The value growth in the market driven by reimbursement.
healthcare expenditure, including expenditure the introduction of higher priced new on prescriptions.
They do however realise that pharmaceuticals is being offset by the growth high quality healthcare in the community, in generics.
including the treatment of ailments using In 2005 we estimate that generics comprised medicines, is typically more cost-effective than around 20% of our total wholesale market in hospitalisation and surgery.
volume terms, weighted on the basis of our wholesale volumes, this percentage typically being significantly higher in our markets in Northern Europe.
During the year, penetration of generics grew in all our markets, the rate of growth being particularly strong in Italy, Norway and Spain.
We anticipate this percentage continuing to rise as more products come off patent and generic penetration increases in Southern Europe.
19 Alliance UniChem Plc Operating and financial review Markets and divisional highlights Alliance UniChem network The overall level of parallel trade in Europe Divisional highlights for the year ended 31 December 2005 was lower than in 2004, mainly due to manufacturers quotas and other initiatives Year on year growth restricting product availability for export.
Operating Operating Revenue profit Revenue profit Importing into the UK was further constrained million million % % by the impact of the PPRS price cuts at the beginning of January 2005 which reduced the Wholesale price of branded pharmaceutical products by Northern Europe 2,913.1 92.2 0.5 3.1 an average of 7%, resulting in fewer price Southern Europe 5,821.0 77.4 2.4 0.4 differentials between the UK and certain other Intra-segment 46.8 n a countries.
Most manufacturers took the opportunity to modulate the PPRS price cuts Wholesale 8,687.3 169.6 1.8 1.9 on their products, reductions being larger on Retail 1,337.3 112.9 9.4 18.5 products where parallel importing was previously prevalent.
Corporate 21.5 n a Retail markets, weighted on the basis of our Intra-group 853.4 n a retail revenue, grew year on year, we estimate, Group 9,171.2 261.0 3.1 7.1 by around 1.5% in value on a constant currency basis.
This was below the estimated Share of associates market growth rate of 4% in 2004 and lower revenue and than our forecast at the beginning of 2005 due operating profit 1,965.3 70.8 15.1 53.6 to lower growth rates in all retail markets.
In 2006 we forecast that our retail markets will Total 11,136.5 331.8 5.0 14.5 grow in value by around 4% as we expect the Operating profit comprises profit from operations before share of associates post tax earnings and exceptional items as UK retail market to grow in 2006 once we are classified by Alliance UniChem comprising costs in relation to the proposed merger, profit on disposal of businesses and beyond the anniversaries of the PPRS price cuts profit on disposal of amounts written off investments and lower drug tariff for generics.
