Informa at a Glance: Communities of Interest We identify communities of interest and serve their information needs progressively through a variety of delivery formats.
Above Maritime: Informa is an integrated portfolio of businesses, Combining Market Focus and Best Practice one of Informas hundreds founded on the creation and sale of high value Our market leadership in areas of each of our core of niche communities of information for academic & scientific, commercial business types publishing, events and performance interest.
Our strategy improvement has enabled us to produce and hone is to build, maintain and develop a range of best practice metrics, guidelines, tools and product and service formats with diverse and methodologies.
These models ensure that across complementary revenue characteristics.
The many operating units we deliver products and combination is designed to enable us to capture services within each media type to consistent growth quickly during periods of positive quality standards.
By spreading best practice quickly conditions in cyclical markets while also and effectively we ensure client satisfaction, enjoy demonstrating superior defensive qualities strong operating margins and maintain our market during periods of economic downturn.
We aim to identify communities of interest, Broad Global Reach, Targeted Local Knowledge often niches of specialist focus, and serve their The Groups broad geographic strength allows us information needs progressively with a variety to expand winning brands and formats in a range of delivery formats.
We achieve this through of selected vertical markets and media types a combination of: globally.
Our deep-seated local knowledge helps us stay attuned to what the market values.
strong, frequently market-leading brands: the extension across the Group of delivery Existing infrastructure, including technical, financial format best practice: and and legal support, ensures that our businesses can our broad geographic reach.
focus on a fast and effective entry into the market place, rather than dealing with costly and timeInforma is distinctive within the media peer group consuming logistics.
Already established sister in that our content-led product range gives us: companies can provide contacts, cross-selling opportunities and market access.
minimal reliance on client advertising and marketing spend: and Informa now has offices in 43 countries and trades limited exposure to any one product or market in 200.
The acquisition in July 2005 of IIR with its sector.
strong presence in the Middle East has provided a spring board for further expansion in that region.
New and expanding initiatives in China and India suggest significant potential for continued growth across Informas portfolio of brands, communities of interest and business types.
2 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Informa at a Glance: Around the Globe Broad Geographic Spread The IIR acquisition accelerates growth in North America.
1 2005 Pro Forma Revenue Geographic Mix % Our broad geographic strength allows us to United Kingdom 17% North America 41% expand winning brands and formats globally.
Continental Europe 26% Our deep-seated local knowledge ensures that Rest of the World 16% 1 Including revenue from IIR from 1 January 2005. we stay attuned to what the market values.
Informas Values At Informa, we ensure that we are much more than just the sum of our parts by embracing and nurturing a distinct corporate identity.
This is captured by our value system.
The I-N-F-O-R-M-A values support and underpin our market-facing brands, providing the foundation for all that we do and believe in when interacting with customers and each other.
They also facilitate the swift and clear integration of merged and acquired companies.
Value Selected 2005 Initiatives Innovative New academic events format New electronic networking tool for events 2,643 new book titles Non-bureaucratic Retained all IIR market-facing brands Rolled out on-line authorisation tool Fast tracked IIR and T&F synergies For profit Consolidation of five third-party warehouses into one self-run facility Growth of event delegates and yield Media mix optimisation to expand higher ROI telesales Open Open use of all 20m customer and prospect names across the Group Launched awards for cross-selling and sister company support Initiated corporate-wide league tables of winning products, productivity and registrations Rewarding Continued extension of profit-share-based remuneration through the Group Marketing Innovation Awards launched across the Group Developed Transformed Careers programme for employees Market focused Built global, integrated Life Sciences events team Initiated government growth initiative using Robbins-Gioia expertise Integrated IIR into global Telecoms team About quality Launched Fusion, our CRM and sales order processing system, powered by SAP and Salesforce.
com High customer satisfaction e. g. I continue to believe SuperReturn is the best Private Equity conference anywhere Leveraged Large Scale Events model to grow revenues Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 3
