40 40 Financial s Financial st tat atements ements Financial s Financial st tat atements ements 41 41 Meggitt PL Meggitt PLC Report and ac C Report and acc counts 2007 ounts 2007 Meggitt PL Meggitt PLC Report and ac C Report and acc counts 2007 ounts 2007 Directors statement on corporate governance The Nominations Committee consists of Sir Colin Terry Chairman, Statement of appliance of the principles in the Sir Alan Cox, Mr P J Hill, Mr D A Robins, Mr D M Williams and Combined Code Mr T Twigger.
The Committee considers any new appointments to The Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out the Board but all directors are consulted and the decision to appoint in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in is taken by the Board as a whole.
All directors are subject to election 2006 as reported in the Statement of Compliance on page 42.
Further by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment explanation of how the principles have been applied is set out below and, and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
in connection with Directors remuneration policies and total packages, In compliance with Combined Code requirements, Sir Alan Cox will are contained in the Remuneration Report on page 43. be subject to annual re-election in 2008 and each subsequent year.
The Board has approved written terms of reference for the Committee which are available on the Companys website.
Board composition The Board considers it has a good balance of executive and non executive The Board, its committees and proceedings directors, is of a size and includes the skills and experience appropriate for the requirements of the business.
The Board comprises a non executive The full Board met on ten occasions during the year and these meetings Chairman, Sir Colin Terry, a Chief Executive, Mr T Twigger, two other were attended by all directors, except that Sir Alan Cox, Mr P J Hill and executive directors and four non executive directors.
The senior Mr D M Williams were excused from one meeting each.
The Board regularly independent non executive director is Mr D A Robins who assumed the receives reports from the Chief Executive on the Groups activities, from the role on 1 March 2007.
Sir Alan Cox, who remains a non executive director, Group Finance Director on financial performance and treasury matters and agreed to step down from the role on 1 March 2007 on the basis that he from the Group Corporate Affairs Director on legal and compliance issues.
is not judged to be independent under the Combined Code by virtue of his Strategic issues and other items including such matters as capital having been appointed for longer than nine years.
Whilst Sir Alan Cox is structure, financial reporting and controls are considered in line with a no longer regarded as independent, the Board considers that his extensive schedule of matters reserved for the decision of the Board.
If a decision experience in industry and other organisations makes him a valuable is not reserved for the Board then authority lies, in accordance with an member of the Board.
The senior independent non executive director authorisation policy, with one of the Finance Committee of the Board, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the Chief Executive, an executive director or the managing directors of the normal channels has failed to resolve or for which such contact is the individual business units.
There were no circumstances arising during inappropriate.
The independent non executive directors are considered the year where it was necessary to record unresolved concerns in the by the Board to be Mr P J Hill, Mr D A Robins and Mr D M Williams.
Biographical and other relevant information on directors submitted for The Chairman talks with and holds meetings on an informal basis re-election will be provided in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
with the other non executive directors without the executives present.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and there Committee membership, number of formal meetings held during 2007 is a clear division of responsibilities which has been approved and agreed and attendance is shown in the following table: in writing by the Board.
Sir Colin Terry met the independence criteria No.
of on appointment as Chairman on 1 July 2004. during meetings year attended The Board of Directors retains full and effective control of the Group and is collectively responsible for the Groups success through its leadership.
Audit It sets the strategy, ensures appropriate resources are in place and reviews Mr D M Williams Chairman 3 3 performance on a regular basis.
The Board is responsible for setting the Mr P J Hill 3 3 Groups values and standards and for ensuring its obligations to Mr D A Robins 3 3 shareholders, employees and others are met.
Sir Alan Cox 1 1 The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and for ensuring Remuneration its effectiveness.
Accurate, timely and clear information is provided to Mr D A Robins Chairman 4 4 all directors and the Chairman is satisfied that effective communication, Mr D M Williams 4 4 principally by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, is undertaken Mr P J Hill 4 3 with the shareholders.
The Chairman facilitates the contribution of non Sir Alan Cox 2 2 executive directors and the relationship between them and the executive directors.
The non executive directors play a full part by constructively Sir Alan Cox attended all Committee meetings prior to his retirement challenging and contributing to the development of strategy.
The from those Committees on 14 June 2007. performance of management is monitored, as is the integrity of financial There were no meetings of the Nominations Committee during 2007. information and effectiveness of financial controls and risk management systems.
The non executive directors are responsible for determining appropriate levels of remuneration for the executive directors and have an important role in the appointment of new directors.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non executive directors are available for inspection.
Their letters of appointment set out the expected time commitment required and on appointment their other significant commitments were disclosed along with the time involved.
40 40 Financial s Financial st tat atements ements Financial s Financial st tat atements ements 41 41 Meggitt PL Meggitt PLC Report and ac C Report and acc counts 2007 ounts 2007 Meggitt PL Meggitt PLC Report and ac C Report and acc counts 2007 ounts 2007 Directors statement on corporate governance continued In order that the Board can review the effectiveness of the system of Information and professional development internal control, the following procedures are in place: The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a 1 The Boar d receives regular reports at Board Meetings on the state of form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
the business from the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director On joining the Board new directors receive an appropriate induction and regularly receives a report on legal and compliance activities from to the business.
Major shareholders have the opportunity to meet new the Group Corporate Affairs Director.
non executive directors should they wish to do so.
2 The Audit Committ ee meets regularly and reviews the effectiveness Directors are encouraged to update their skills regularly and their of the internal control environment of the Group.
At these meetings knowledge and familiarity with the Group is facilitated by access to senior it receives reports from the external auditors and the internal audit management, receiving reports on the business and visits to the Groups department.
Internal audit visits to operating units are planned using operating facilities.
Resources are available to directors for developing a risk model.
and updating their knowledge and capabilities.
3 The Boar d has an Ethics and Export Compliance Committee which The Board of Directors has established a procedure for all directors to reviews these areas of compliance on a quarterly basis.
take independent professional advice at the Companys expense where 4 Annuall y a review of the risk environment and the Groups key risks they judge it necessary.
Committees are provided with sufficient resources is presented to the Board for their consideration.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for 5 Ev ery month, each business submits detailed operating and financial ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and that there is a reports covering all aspects of their performance.
These are reviewed good information flow within the Board.
The appointment and removal and, subject to materiality, issues are communicated to the of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The Management Board and the Board.
Company maintains appropriate Directors and Officers insurance.
6 On an annual basis, the managing dir ector of each business provides written confirmation that the business for which they are responsible Performance evaluation has been in compliance with the Group Procedures Manual.
In January 2008 the Board conducted a self-evaluation assessment.
7 Annuall y, the Board receives a report on the insurance coverage in The Chairman led a review and discussion to consider the Boards place and the risks which remain uninsured.
performance against some high level objectives and its own terms of reference and its performance against these.
The Board was satisfied The process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks with its effectiveness.
The Audit and Remuneration Committees have faced by the Group is as follows: also considered their own performance during the year.
The performance 1 F ollowing a series of risk workshops facilitated by risk professionals of individual directors has been considered by the Chairman and Chief at business, divisional and Group level to identify and analyse the key Executive in discussion with other non executive directors.
The non risks faced by the Group, the Board reviewed the list of those risks and executive directors have considered the performance of the Chairman, the mitigation plans.
These risks are regularly reviewed by the individual taking into account the views of the executive directors.
operating businesses, by divisional management and then, by exception, by the Management Board.
Financial reporting 2 Ther e is a regular review of the performance of each business These financial statements contain an explanation of the directors undertaken by the executive directors and senior Group management.
responsibility for the preparation of the accounts and a statement by 3 Ther e is a Group Procedures Manual, the purpose of which is to the auditors concerning their responsibilities.
The directors also report establish appropriate authority levels throughout the Group to cover that the business is a going concern.
certain items of expenditure, financial commitments and other matters, which are regarded as essential in order to ensure that overall financial Internal control control is maintained throughout the Group.
The financial procedures The Board maintains a sound system of internal control to safeguard were reviewed and updated during 2006. shareholders investment and the Groups assets.
The system is designed 4 There is a comprehensive insurance programme.
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable assurance against material 5 Ther e are programmes for business continuity, health and safety, misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms full implementation of the environmental, export compliance and ethics.
Financial Reporting Councils updated Turnbull guidance on Internal 6 Ther e is an on-going programme of assurance activities including Control 2005. internal audit, external audit, external tax compliance review, environmental audits, health and safety audits, property risk reviews and buildings surveys and export regulation compliance reviews.
The Board confirms that this process was in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the financial statements.
The Board considers that there is considerable comfort in the fact that the Groups cash inflow from operating activities represented 99% of underlying operating profit in 2007.
42 42 Financial s Financial st tat atements ements Financial s Financial st tat atements ements 43 43 Meggitt PL Meggitt PLC Report and ac C Report and acc counts 2007 ounts 2007 Meggitt PL Meggitt PLC Report and ac C Report and acc counts 2007 ounts 2007 Directors statement on corporate governance continued Audit Committee and auditors Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board.
From 1 January 2007 to The Board uses the Annual General Meeting as an occasion for 14 June 2007, there were four members, three of whom were considered communication with its shareholders.
Proxy appointment forms for each to be independent.
On 14 June 2007 Sir Alan Cox, who had relinquished resolution provide shareholders with the option to direct their proxy to vote his role as Chairman of the Committee on 26 April 2007, stood down as a either for or against the resolution or to withhold their vote.
As a result, from 14 June 2007 to the current date the Committee for, against and withheld are counted by the Companys Registrars and the has had three members, all of whom are considered to be independent.
level of voting for, against and withheld on each resolution is made available Mr D M Williams was appointed as Chairman on 26 April 2007.
The Board at the end of the meeting and on the Companys website.
The proxy form is satisfied that amongst the Committees members there is recent and and the announcement of the results of a vote make it clear that a vote relevant financial experience.
The Board has approved written terms of withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the reference for the Committee which are available on the Companys website.
proportion of votes for and against the resolution.
Separate resolutions are proposed at the Annual General Meeting on substantially separate issues During 2007 the Committee met on three occasions.
The external auditors and there is a resolution relating to the financial statements.
attended these meetings to discuss the scope and the final results of the 2006 audit in detail which included the main risks facing the Group, the The respective Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations strategy for the 2007 audit, the hard close results of the 2007 audit along Committees are available at the Annual General Meeting to respond to with any other items which the auditors or the non executive directors questions and it is usual for all other directors to attend.
The Audit Committee also reviewed the internal control It is the intention of the Board that notice of the Annual General Meeting environment of the Group and received reports from internal audit as and related papers should be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days described above.
The Committee reviews at each meeting the activities before the meeting.
of the internal audit function and regularly reviews its effectiveness.
In addition, the Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the financial Statement of compliance with the provisions of statements of the Group, formal announcements relating to the Groups the Combined Code financial performance and reviews significant financial reporting judgements contained in them.
The Board confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2007 the Company has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2006 The Committee has primary responsibility for recommending the Combined Code on Corporate Governance with the following exceptions: appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors.
The Company places great importance on the independence of its a A.
3.2 At least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, does not auditors and, together with them, is careful to ensure their objectivity comprise independent non executive directors.
Whilst Sir Alan Cox is not compromised.
The Committee is responsible for agreeing the fees is no longer regarded as independent owing to his appointment as to be paid to external auditors in respect of their services as auditors.
a non executive director for more than nine years, the Board considers The Companys general policy in respect of other non-audit fees is: that his extensive experience in industry and other organisations make audit related services: the external auditors would be invited to him a valuable member of the Board.
undertake those services which they are required to, and most suited b A.
4.1 A majority of members of the Nomination Committee should be to, perform: independent non executive directors and this was not the case during taxation: the Companys principal tax advisor is Deloitte & Touche LLP: 2007: Sir Alan Cox is no longer regarded as independent owing to his consulting: the Companys policy is not to employ its external auditors appointment as a non executive director for more than nine years.
for general consulting work where this could impair their independence As a result, the Committee is made up of six members, of whom three or objectivity: are independent non executive directors.
The Board considers that the Audit Committee is required to approve any fees to the external Sir Alan Coxs extensive experience in industry and other organisations auditors in excess of 0.1 million.
make him a valuable member of the Committee.
An Ethics Line exists which enables employees to raise any concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or otherwise.
Going concern These arrangements allow for proportionate and independent investigation and for appropriate follow-up action.
After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable Dialogue with institutional shareholders expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the The Company values its dialogue with both institutional and private directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the investors.
Effective communication with fund managers, institutional financial statements.
This statement also constitutes part of the investors and analysts is promoted by way of meetings involving the Business Review on pages 11 to 27.
Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
This encompasses such issues as strategy, performance and policy.
The views of shareholders are reported to the Board by the Chief Executive.
The Chairman and other non executive directors are available to attend meetings with shareholders if they are requested to do so.
In addition to the Chief Executives regular reports, directors may develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders from regular reports by the Companys brokers to the Board and attendance at analysts briefings as required.
Analysts notes on the Company are made available to all directors.
