d Equal opportunity and diversity Working party was formed to review the policies, procedures and systems of the Company to ensure compliance with the the Group endorses and supports the principles of equal legislation once introduced.
It is the policy of the Group to provide equal employment opportunity to all, which ensures the recommendations made are fully implemented by that all employment decisions are made, subject to its legal the Company.
additionally, we participate in a number of obligations, on a non-discriminatory basis.
Due consideration external initiatives such as the Global Graduates and the is given to the recruitment, promotion, training and working Brokerage, a charity whose aim is to increase the ambition environment of all staff including those with disabilities.
and employability of young people in the 11 inner-city It is the Groups policy to encourage the training and further london boroughs.
development of all its employees where this is of benefit to e Health and safety the individual and to the Group.
It is the policy of the Group to take all reasonable and throughout 007, the Group monitored the diversity of its practicable steps to safeguard the health, safety and welfare uK employees, 87% of whom to date have completed the of its employees, visitors and other persons who may be voluntary request for information.
the analysis indicates affected by its activities.
In order to meet these responsibilities, a split of % female, 6% male, and regarding origin, the Group will: 88% white, 11% ethnic origin and 1% declining to answer.
the uK 001 Census showed a total ethnic population of assess the risks to health and safety: 7.9%.
Similar monitoring will be carried out during 008. implement safe systems at work: the Group recognises the importance of diversity in the provide information, instruction and training: workplace for both our own and our clients businesses.
establish and maintain emergency procedures: and We are committed to increasing the recognition of our regularly review health and safety policies and brand amongst a more diverse audience, and to encourage procedures.
development of an increasingly diverse candidate database together with our workforce.
our monitoring of our candidate the Group is being proactive in our approach to health and databases confirms that the brand attracts candidates from a safety by monitoring proposed changes in legislation and wide range of backgrounds.
We participate in the Interbank implementing policies accordingly, and as such we comply Diversity Forum and work with organisations like Global with all statutory and regulatory requirements.
our medical Graduates where we strive to ensure that we offer our clients insurers also provide a hr counselling helpline covering the most qualified candidates on the basis of their relevant stress, legal issues and consumer rights.
aptitudes, skills and abilities and that such candidates are f supplier payment policy drawn from diverse backgrounds.
It is the policy of the Group to agree appropriate terms the Group continues to participate in the race for opportunity, part of Business in the Community, a uK and conditions for transactions with suppliers by means ranging from standard written terms to individually negotiated movement of over 700 member companies whose purpose is to inspire, challenge and support business in improving its contracts and that payment should be made in accordance with those terms and conditions, provided that the supplier impact on society.
as a result, the Group has taken a number of proactive steps to enhance its position on diversity and has also complied with them.
works closely with a number of clients to share ideas best the Company acts as a holding Company for the Group.
practice, and to offer expertise to minority groups.
Creditor days for the Company were nil 006: nil as the Company does not undertake any transactions with suppliers.
Michael page is also a member of the employers Forum on the Groups creditor days at the year end were 7 006: age eFa, an independent network of leading employers days.
which sets the agenda for age and employment issues in the uK.
the membership of eFa lists over 00 organisations, Statement of Directors responsibilities from central and local government to major multinational corporations.
upon introduction of the employer equality the Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report age regulations in october 006, Michael page was and the financial statements.
the Directors are required to nominated for an award by the eFa for best implementation prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with of the legislation in its sector.
Following the release of the International Financial reporting Standards IFrS and have legislation on age discrimination, an age Discrimination also elected to prepare financial statements for the Company 6 MIChael paGe InternatIonal in accordance with IFrS.
Company law requires the Directors Corporate Governance the Board and its operation to prepare such financial statements in accordance with Corporate Governance nomination Committee IFrS, the Companies act 198 and article of the IaS Corporate Governance Board appointments regulation.
remuneration report annual bonus plan International accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each year the companys financial remuneration report Directors interests and share position, financial performance and cash flows.
this requires ownership requirements the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other notes to the accounts note 18: Called up Share events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and Capital recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International accounting Standards Boards Shareholder Information and advisers Memorandum and Framework for the preparation and presentation of Financial articles of association Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation each of the above sections is incorporated by reference into, will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International and forms part of, this Directors report.
Information to auditors Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: each of the Directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: present information, including accounting policies, in a 1. so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and information of which the companys auditors are unaware: understandable information: and and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the.
the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have specific requirements in IFrS is insufficient to enable users taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant to understand the impact of particular transactions, other audit information and to establish that the Companys events and conditions on the entitys financial position and auditors are aware of that information.
is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the the Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting provisions of s Za of the Companies act 198. records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding auditors the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention Deloitte & touche llp are willing to continue in office and and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the accordingly resolutions to re-appoint them as auditors and preparation of a Directors report and Directors remuneration authorising the Directors to set their remuneration will be report and operating and financial review which comply with proposed at the forthcoming annual General Meeting.
the requirements of the Companies act 198. the directors are responsible for the maintenance and annual General meeting integrity of the companys website.
the resolutions to be proposed at the annual General Meeting legislation in the united Kingdom governing the preparation to be held on May 008, together with explanatory notes, and dissemination of financial statements may differ from appear in the notice of Meeting set out on pages 91 to 9. legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the Board Share capital, restrictions on transfer of shares and other additional information to the extent not discussed in this Directors report, information relating to the Companys share capital structure, kelvin Stagg restrictions on the holding or transfer of its shares or on the Company Secretary exercise of voting rights attached to such securities required March 008 by Section 99 of the Companies act 006 is set out in the following sections of the annual report: annual report 007 7 Corporate goVernance the Board of Directors has a strong commitment to high all Directors have access to the advice and services of the standards of corporate governance and has made significant Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that progress in applying the main and supporting principles of Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are corporate governance as recommended in Section 1 of the observed.
there is an agreed procedure for Directors to Combined Code on Corporate Governance, the 006 FrC obtain independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Code, for the year ended 1 December 007.
the Board meets regularly throughout the year.
It has a Compliance with the 2006 fRC Code formal schedule of matters reserved to it and delegates the Directors consider that the Company has complied with specific responsibilities to Committees.
During the meetings, all the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the 006 FrC the Board formally considers how and to whom matters Code throughout the year ended 1 December 007. covered at each meeting should be communicated and actioned beyond the Board.
Decisions concerning matters the Board and its operation of a more routine nature are dealt with by management below Board level.
the structure of the Group facilitates the day to the Board of Michael page International plc is the body day running of the business and enables efficient and effective responsible for corporate governance, establishing policies communication of issues to the Board when required.
and objectives, and the management of the Groups resources.
It is the Groups policy that the roles of Chairman the Chairman and non-executive Directors also met during and Chief executive are separate.
the year without the executive Directors being present.
the main Board currently comprises the Chairman, who has each of the Committees has formal written terms of reference no operational responsibilities, three executive Directors and which were reviewed in 007. four independent non-executive Directors.
the terms of reference for the audit, remuneration and all Directors are subject to retirement by rotation and nomination Committees are available on request and can re-election by the shareholders in accordance with the articles be found on the Groups website.
their composition and of association, whereby one third of the Directors retire by the manner in which they discharge their responsibilities are rotation each year.
all Directors are subject to election by the described below.
shareholders at the first annual General Meeting following the executive Board, a Committee of the Main Board, meets their appointment.
all Directors are subject to re-election formally at least four times a year, and is responsible for every three years in accordance with the 006 FrC Code.
assisting the Chief executive in the performance of his duties, ruby McGregor-Smith will retire and offer herself for including development and implementation of strategy, election.
Steve Ingham and Dr tim Miller will retire by operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets.
rotation and offer themselves for re-election.
as a result of During the year, four regional Boards were established as their annual performance evaluation, the Board considers Committees of the Main Board, for the uK, eMea, asia that their individual performances continue to be effective, pacific and the americas.
each regional Board meets at with each director demonstrating commitment to their role.
the Board is therefore pleased to support their re-election at the forthcoming annual General Meeting.
8 MIChael paGe InternatIonal audit Committee i. from which the external auditor is excluded: ii.
for which the external auditor can be engaged without the audit Committee comprises the independent nonreferral to the audit Committee: and executive Directors and is chaired by Stephen Box.
their relevant qualifications and experience are shown in their iii.
for which a case-by-case decision is required, which biographies on the Board of Directors page 0 and 1. includes all engagements over certain fee limits.
the Committee met four times in 007 to fulfil its duties and the following areas are considered to be unacceptable included attendance by the external auditors where required.
for the external auditors to undertake: the Committee also met with the external auditors during selection, design or implementation of key financial the year without the presence of management.
systems: In 007 the audit Committee discharged its responsibilities maintaining or preparing the accounting books and as set out in the terms of reference which can be found on records or the preparation of financial accounts or our website.
Its principal tasks are to review the Groups other key financial data: internal controls and internal audit reports, review the scope provision of outsource financial systems: of the external audit, consider issues raised by the external provision of outsource operational management auditors, and review the half-yearly and annual accounts functions: before they are presented to the Board, focusing in particular recruitment of senior finance or other executives: on accounting policies and compliance, and areas of management judgement and estimates.
secondment of senior finance or other executives: provision of internal audit services: Objectivity and independence of external auditors valuation services or fairness opinions: and Deloitte & touche llp are employed to perform work in any services specifically prohibited to be provided addition to their statutory duties where it is felt that they are by a listed companys external auditors under uK best placed to carry out the engagement as a result of their regulations.
all other work is awarded on the the following criteria also need to be met before the external basis of competitive tender.
auditors are contracted to provide such services: the objectivity and independence of the external auditor is the firm has the necessary skills and experience to safeguarded by: undertake the work: a. obtaining assurances from the external auditor that there are no potential conflicts that may arise as a adequate policies and procedures exist within its firm to result of carrying out this activity: ensure the firm and its staff are independent of the Group the external audit firm is subject to the companys by reason of family, finance, employment, investment and normal tendering processes: and business relationships other than in the normal course of business : in addition to the normal authorisation procedures and prior to inclusion in a tender, approval has to be given b. enforcing a policy concerning the provision of non-audit by the Group Finance Director and, if the fee exceeds services by the auditor which governs the types of work: a certain level, the audit Committee.
annual report 007 9 c. e nforcing a policy of reviewing all cases where it is Due to this philosophy of nurturing our own talent, succession proposed that a former employee of the external auditors planning is inherently a key part of the process.
We do not be employed by the Group: and make promotions or move people within the business unless there is a clear successor for the vacant position.
It is therefore d. monitoring the external auditors compliance with one of the key responsibilities of all levels of management, applicable uK ethical guidance on the rotation of audit and not just the Board, to have a clear plan of development partners.
Remuneration Committee Board appointments the remuneration Committee comprises the independent the Board follows formal and transparent procedures non-executive Directors and is chaired by Dr tim Miller.
the nomination Committee the Committee reviews the Groups policy on the Chairmans, identifies a shortlist of suitable candidates for non-executive executive Directors and senior executives remuneration and appointments.
all the candidates are interviewed by the terms of employment, makes recommendations upon this Chairman and the Chief executive, and in the case of the most along with the specific level of remuneration to the Board, recent appointment, all candidates in the final shortlist were and also approves the provision of policies for the interviewed by the nomination Committee.
evaluations of all incentivisation of senior employees including share schemes.
candidates are discussed with all members of the nomination the Committee meets at least twice a year and is also attended Committee and the recommendation is subsequently made by the Chief executive, except when his own remuneration to the Board.
the remuneration report includes information on the Directors service contracts.
the terms Induction and training programme of reference of the remuneration Committee can be found on appointment to the Board, each Director discusses with on our website.
the Company Secretary the extent of training required and a tailored induction programme to cover their individual nomination Committee requirements is then compiled.
elements of the programme the nomination Committee comprises the non-executive typically consist of meeting senior management, site visits Directors and is chaired by Sir adrian Montague.
It is and attending internal conferences.
In addition, information responsible for making recommendations to the Board on is provided on the Companys services, Group structure, new appointments, as well as making recommendations as Board arrangements, financial information, major competitors to the composition of the Board generally, and the balance and major risks.
after an initial induction phase, updates are between executive and non-executive Directors appointed provided on a periodic basis.
the terms of reference of the nomination Committee can be found on our website.
Performance evaluation During the year, the Committee recommended the the Board, as part of its commitment to ensuring appointment of a non-executive Director.
Detailed role effectiveness and evaluating its performance together with profiles were agreed by the Committee before a shortlist of that of its Directors and Committees, conducted an internal potentially suitable candidates was prepared to go forward review comprising a questionnaire concerning all aspects of to an interview process.
this resulted in the recommendation procedure and effectiveness.
of the appointment of ruby McGregor-Smith.
Following completion of the questionnaires, the Chief executive met with the individual executive Directors, Succession planning and the Chairman met with the individual non-executive one of the basic premises behind the strategic development Directors, to discuss their views and to give feedback on of the Michael page business is that growth is organic rather their performance.
the results of the evaluation were reported than through acquisitions of companies or hiring senior people to the Board and where areas of improvement have been in non-support roles.
In order to achieve this organic growth identified, actions have been agreed upon and training will we require good people.
It is therefore one of the fundamental be provided where required.
principles and a major part of the philosophy of the Company Stephen Box, as the Senior Independent Director, led that we train and develop our own people.
this approach a meeting of the non-executive Directors to appraise creates opportunities for career progression and helps us the performance of the Chairman.
the meeting took into attract and retain high calibre individuals.
