Corporate governance Introduction C. 3.1. audit committee Similarly, the audit committee should The principal corporate governance guidance that applies to companies comprise at least three independent non-executive directors.
As the listed with the UK Listing Authority that is applicable to the year is Chairman was not regarded as independent throughout the year contained in the 2003 Financial Reporting Councils Combined Code this requirement was not met.
With Paul Pesters appointment as the Combined Code.
The Combined Code, which operates on a a non-executive director and appointment to the audit committee, comply or explain basis, incorporates, amongst others, recommendations Kevin Loosemore resigned from the audit committee and the Company by the Higgs Review regarding the role of non-executive directors, and is now in compliance.
the Smith Review, which refers to audit committees.
Through their commitment to the highest standards of corporate governance, the board The principles set out in the Combined Code cover four areas: the board, endorses and supports the essential elements of the Combined Code and, directors remuneration, accountability and audit and shareholder apart from a few limited exceptions as described below, believes the relations.
With the exception of directors remuneration which is dealt Group has fully complied with the Combined Code during the year with separately in the remuneration report on pages 26 to 31 the reported on.
Where it has not, an explanation has been provided.
following section sets out how the board has applied these principles.
Compliance statement The board The directors are committed to ensuring that the Company will work towards compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the The Group is controlled by the board, which is responsible for the Groups Combined Code.
As at 30 April 2007, the board comprised eight directors: The Company has been in compliance with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on corporate governance, except for Kevin Loosemore Non-executive Chairman the following: Stephen Kelly Chief Executive Officer Nick Bray Chief Financial Officer A.
2.1. division of roles Upon the resignation of Anthony Hill on Mike Shinya Chief Operating Officer 23 February 2006, the Chairman, Kevin Loosemore assumed the roles David Maloney Non-executive director of both non-executive Chairman and interim Chief Executive Officer David Dominik Non-executive director until a replacement Chief Executive Officer was recruited.
Following Prescott Ashe Non-executive director the appointment of Stephen Kelly as Chief Executive Officer on Tom Skelton Non-executive director 1 May 2006, Kevin Loosemore reverted back to the role solely of Kevin Loosemore served as interim Chief Executive Officer from 22 February 2006 non-executive Chairman on 21 May 2006, after a handover period.
Paul Pester was appointed a non-executive director on 27 June 2007.
3.2. board of directors The Combined Code requires that at least half the board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by the board to be independent.
The role of the non-executive directors is to ensure that independent With two non-executive directors not regarded as independent, the judgement is brought to board deliberations and decisions.
The Company was not able to comply with this rule during the year ended non-executive directors possess a wide range of skills and experience, 30 April 2007.
With the appointment of Paul Pester on 27 June 2007, relevant to the development of the Company, which complement those the Company is closer to compliance.
2.1. remuneration committee The Company is aware that the The Chairman ordinarily operates in a non-executive capacity and is Chairman is not regarded as independent for the purposes of the considered by the board to be independent of management and free from Combined Code.
The Code states that the remuneration committee any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the must comprise at least three independent non-executive directors.
exercise of his independent judgement.
With the appointment of Tom Skelton and Paul Pester as independent non-executive directors, it is planned that Kevin Loosemore will hand David Maloney, the senior independent non-executive director, and over the chairmanship of the committee before the end of the year Tom Skelton and Paul Pester, non-executive directors, are considered by and be in compliance.
the board to be independent.
Prescott Ashe and David Dominik are not 20 considered by the board to be independent by virtue of their positions In the year to 30 April 2008, the board will meet, on a regular basis with the Companys major shareholder, Golden Gate Capital.
approximately every two months, with additional meetings when circumstances and business dictate.
In months in which the board does In accordance with the Combined Code, all directors will be subject to not meet update calls are scheduled to review progress.
A schedule election by the shareholders at the first AGM of the Company after their of meetings has been established.
All directors receive an agenda and appointment, and, thereafter, at least every three years.
Accordingly board papers in advance of meetings to help them make an effective Tom Skelton, Mike Shinya and Paul Pester will be subject to election at contribution at the meetings.
In addition, the executive directors ensure the Companys AGM to be held on 26 September 2007.
As the remaining regular informal contact is maintained with non-executive directors.
The non-executive directors were all elected to the board at the AGM of the board makes full use of appropriate technology as a means of updating Company in September 2005, the directors have agreed to offer and informing all its members.
themselves for re-election on a rotation basis.
Accordingly, Kevin Loosemore retired voluntarily and was re-elected at the Companys AGM While the board retains overall responsibility for, and control of, the in September 2006 and David Maloney and David Dominik will be retiring Company, day-to-day management of the business is conducted by the voluntarily and submitting themselves for re-election by the shareholders executive directors.
Review of the Groups principal business activities at the AGM of the Company on 26 September 2007.
The non-executive is the responsibility of the executive management team, comprising the directors are appointed for specified terms.
The board has agreed executive directors who are responsible for sales, marketing and finance, procedures for directors to follow if they believe they require independent together with executives responsible for HR, legal, technology, professional advice in the furtherance of their duties and these procedures development and customer care, who meet weekly.
allow the directors to take such advice at the Companys expense.
In addition, all the directors have direct access to the advice and services of The board receives papers on key subjects in advance of each board the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is accountable to the meeting.
These typically cover: board through the Chairman on governance matters.
It is the responsibility of the Company Secretary to ensure that board Strategy and budgets procedures are followed and all rules and regulations are complied with.
Under the direction of the Chairman, the Company Secretarys Business and financial performance responsibilities include facilitating induction and professional development and ensuring the smooth flow of information within the board and its Corporate activities committees, and between non-executive directors and senior management.
Any new director receives a comprehensive, formal and tailored induction Human resources into the Companys operations.
Appropriate training is provided to new directors and is also available to other directors as required.
Shareholders and city matters The terms of reference of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer have The board has undertaken a formal and rigorous process for the evaluation been agreed with the board and, in accordance with best practice, their of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors roles remain separate.
Exceptionally, on 22 February 2006 the Chairman including the Chairman, as required by Combined Code provision A6.1.
was additionally appointed interim Chief Executive Officer on the This process takes the form of questionnaires and personal interviews resignation of Anthony Hill, former Chief Executive Officer.
Following the with the Chairman.
The performance of the Chairman is reviewed by the appointment of Stephen Kelly as Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman non-executives.
relinquished this additional appointment on 21 May 2006 and now remains solely the Chairman of the Company.
The Chairman holds meetings with non-executive directors without the presence of executive directors.
As part of its leadership and control of the Company, the board has agreed a list of items that are specifically reserved for its consideration.
These Board committees include business strategy, financing arrangements, material acquisitions In accordance with best practice, the Company has established audit, and divestments, approval of the annual budget, major capital expenditure nomination and remuneration committees, with written terms of reference projects, risk management, treasury policies and establishing and for each that deal with their respective authorities and duties.
The full monitoring internal controls.
At each meeting, the board reviews progress terms of reference of all the committees are available from the Company of the Group towards its objectives, and monitors financial progress Secretary or can be located on the Companys website.
is aware that the Chairman is not regarded as independent for purposes 21 Corporate governance of the Combined Code.
As a result of the appointment of Tom Skelton To ensure that the interests of shareholders are properly protected and Paul Pester as additional independent non-executive directors to the in relation to financial reporting and internal control: remuneration committee, it is planned that Kevin Loosemore will hand over the Chairmanship of the committee before the end of the year.
To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, Kevin Loosemore has ceased to be a member of the audit committee.
including its annual and interim reports, preliminary results announcements and any other announcement relating to its Audit committee financial performance: The audit committee is comprised entirely of non-executive directors of the Company.
It is chaired by David Maloney, who the board considers To review the consistency of, and changes to, accounting policies: has recent and relevant financial experience.
The other members are Tom Skelton and Paul Pester.
Kevin Loosemore was a member of the committee To keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal until 27 June 2007. controls and risk management systems: The audit committee has met five times during the financial year.
The audit To review the Companys arrangements for its employees to raise committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups annual accounts and concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial interim reports prior to submission for approval to the full board.
This reporting or other matters: committee also monitors the Groups accounting policies, internal financial control systems and financial reporting procedures.
The audit committee To monitor and review the need for, and the effectiveness of, the provides a forum through which the Groups external and internal auditors Companys internal audit function in the context of the Companys report to the board.
The auditors are invited to attend meetings of the overall risk management system: and committee on a regular basis and have the opportunity to meet privately with committee members in the absence of executive management.
The To consider and make recommendations to the board in relation audit committee oversees the relationship with the auditor, including the to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the Companys independence and objectivity of the auditor taking into account UK external auditor.
professional and regulatory requirements and the relationship with the audit firm as a whole and the consideration of audit fees and fees for Nomination committee other non-audit work.
In addition, the audit committee has developed a The nomination committee is comprised entirely of non-executive directors policy designed to ensure that the auditors objectivity and independence of the Company and has met three times during the financial year.
is not compromised by its undertaking inappropriate non-audit work.
The nomination committee will meet at least twice during the coming All significant non-audit work commissioned from the external auditor financial year.
It is chaired by Kevin Loosemore and the other members requires audit committee approval.
are David Maloney and David Dominik.
An outsourced internal audit function was established on 5 April 2006 The nomination committee is responsible to the full board for proposing through the appointment of KPMG LLP.
candidates to the board, having regard to the balance and structure of the board.
The nomination committee uses consultants to identify suitable The audit committee will meet at least four times during the coming candidates where a position is identified.
financial year and, additionally as appropriate, and a schedule of meetings for the year has been established.
The terms of reference of the nomination committee include, among other things, the following responsibilities: The audit committees terms of reference include a process for employees of the Company to raise in confidence concerns about possible To review the structure, size and composition of the board and make impropriety in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
recommendations to the board with regard to any changes: The written terms of reference of the audit committee include, among To identify and nominate, for the approval of the board, candidates other things, the following responsibilities: to fill board vacancies as and when they arise: To report to the board, identifying any matters in respect of which To give full consideration to succession planning for directors and other it considers that action or improvement is needed and making senior executives: and recommendations as to the steps to be taken: 22 To keep under review the leadership needs of the Group, both categorised by the board as significant, procedures exist to ensure that executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the continued necessary action is taken to remedy the failings.
ability of the organisation to compete effectively in the market place.
This requirement is set out in the audit committees terms of reference Remuneration committee to report on a regular basis to the board on the Groups internal financial Details of the remuneration committee are described in the remuneration control procedures and to make recommendations to the board in this area.
The external auditors provide a supplementary, independent and Accountability and audit autonomous perspective on those areas of the internal control system The board is responsible for the preparation of financial statements which they assess in the course of their work.
Their findings are regularly that present a balanced assessment of the Groups financial position reported to both the audit committee and the board.
To ensure auditor and prospects.
This responsibility is administered primarily by the audit objectivity and independence there is a stringent process in place to committee, the terms of reference of which are referred to above.
Internal controls Human resources The board is ultimately responsible for establishing and monitoring internal The Group endeavours to appoint employees with appropriate skills, control systems throughout the Group and reviewing their effectiveness.
knowledge and experience for the roles they undertake.
The Group has It recognises that rigorous systems of internal control are critical to the a range of policies which are aimed at retaining and providing incentives Groups achievement of its business objectives, that those systems are for key staff.
Objectives are set for departments and employees that are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and that they can only derived from the Groups business objectives.
The Group has a clear and provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material well-understood organisational structure and each employee knows his misstatement or loss.
or her line of accountability.
The key elements of the control system are: Announcements The Group operates a structured, objectives-driven approach to fulfil its All major announcements are approved by the Chairman and executive core purpose and goals in respect of sustained profitability and growth.
directors and circulated to the board prior to issue.
The Group also has internal and external checks to guard against unauthorised release Research and development and capital expenditure programmes are of information.
subject to formal review and monitoring procedures.
Financial All contracts are reviewed.
The approval level of review depends on A comprehensive budgeting system allows managers to submit detailed the size and complexity of the contracts and associated risks.
There budgets which are reviewed and amended by executive directors prior are formal limits above which the review level is escalated.
to submission to the board for approval.
Reconciliations are performed on a timely basis for all major accounts.
Insurance The Group keeps under review its portfolio of insurance policies with its Systems and procedures are in place for all major transaction types insurance broker to ensure that the policies are appropriate to the Groups with appropriate authorisation controls.
There is an ongoing internal process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company in association with the work performed by the outsourced internal audit function.
This process has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the report and accounts.
As part of the process that the Company has in place to review the effectiveness of the internal control system, there are procedures designed to capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and in the case of those 23 Corporate governance Attendance at meetings communications are maintained with institutional shareholders and The number of board meetings and committee meetings attended by each presentations are given to shareholders when the half-year and full-year director in the year to 30 April 2007 was as follows: financial results are announced.
In addition to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, who have regular contact with investors, Kevin Audit Remuneration Nomination Loosemore, Chairman, and David Maloney, Senior Independent Director, Board committee committee committee are available to meet with shareholders as and when required.
The whole Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended board is kept up to date at its regular meetings with the views of shareholders and analysts.
External analysts reports are also circulated Kevin Loosemore 12 12 5 5 8 8 3 3 to directors.
Stephen Kelly 12 12 Nick Bray 12 12 The Companys website www.
com provides an overview Mike Shinya 2 1 David Maloney 12 12 5 5 8 8 3 3 of the business including its strategy, products and objectives.
David Dominik 12 8 3 3 Prescott Ashe 12 6 All Group announcements are available on the website and new John Browett 4 2 2 1 4 3 announcements are published without delay.
The terms of reference Tom Skelton 7 6 3 3 3 3 of each of the boards three committees and other important corporate during period of appointment.
governance documents are available on the website and from the Company Secretary.
Additionally, the Chief Financial Officer provides Note: a focal point for shareholders enquiries and dialogue throughout John Browett resigned 27 September 2006.
Tom Skelton was appointed 23 October 2006. the year.
Mike Shinya was appointed 26 February 2007.
Annual General Meeting Shareholder relations The Companys AGM, which will be held on 26 September 2007, will The Company values the views of shareholders and recognises their provide an opportunity for the board to meet with all shareholders and interests in the Groups strategy and performance.
participation of shareholders is encouraged.
At the meeting, in addition to the statutory business, the board will be available for questions The Company has historically reported formally to shareholders twice from shareholders.
a year, around June preliminary announcement of annual results and December interim statement.
This shall remain the case going forward In accordance with the Combined Code recommendations, the Company but, in addition, following the implementation of the Transparency will count all proxy votes and will indicate the level of proxies lodged, the Directive, the Company shall also be publishing interim management number of proxy votes for and against such resolution and the number of statements in or around August and February each year.
A resolution will be proposed for each substantive issue and report is expected to be mailed to shareholders in August.
Separate the Chairs of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees will announcements of all material events are made as necessary.
Regular attend to answer questions.
