Corporate Governance The Board is committed to ensuring that good practice in corporate All Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary, governance is observed throughout the Group, and remains the who is responsible for ensuring the Board procedures and applicable responsibility of the whole Board.
The Board is committed to rules and regulations are observed.
In addition, the Directors are maintaining high standards of business integrity and professionalism able, if necessary, to take independent professional advice at the in all its activities, and continues to support the highest standards in Companys expense.
There is the opportunity for non-executive corporate governance.
Directors to meet separately with the Chairman.
The Board considers that, throughout the year, it was in compliance The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, is also with the provisions of the Revised Combined Code the Code responsible for ensuring that new Directors receive appropriate issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 with the training at the Companys expense where specific expertise is exception of provision A.
An explanation regarding compliance required in the course of the exercise of their duties.
All Directors with Code provision A.
1.3 is shown on page 51. receive a Board Compendium detailing matters relating to Board procedures.
THE BOARD Overall control of the Group is exercised by the Board, which Non-executive Directors are appointed for a specific term and rehas responsibility, amongst other things, for setting strategy and appointment is not a matter of course as each Directors position is ensuring that adequate resources are available and leadership reviewed as they approach re-appointment.
Succession planning is is provided to achieve the Groups strategy.
The Board meets considered by the non-executive Directors as appropriate.
up to ten times a year and has a schedule of matters reserved for its attention.
All Directors receive detailed papers one week Kwek Leng Beng and Kwek Leng Joo will retire by rotation at the prior to Board and committee meetings.
Reserved matters which forthcoming annual general meeting, and will offer themselves for require Board approval include: acquisitions: significant property re-election.
transactions: capital expenditure above predetermined limits: major contractual commitments: Board level and Company Secretary John Arnett was appointed to the Board on 3 May 2007 and Connal appointments terminations: significant litigation issues: the Groups Rankin joined the Board on 12 December 2007.
In accordance with financial statements and communications with shareholders.
Other the Companys Articles of Association, both will stand for election as matters which are reserved for the Board have been delegated to a Director at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
its standing committees, details of which are set out further in this report.
John Sclater, who served on the Board as an independent nonexecutive Director from flotation of the Company, retired from the Executive management is responsible to the Board for the Groups Board on 31 December 2007.
Peter Papadimitropoulos served as a operational performance including: implementing Group strategy Director from 1 March 2007 until 6 August 2007. as determined by the Board: maintaining adequate internal control systems and risk management processes: monitoring operational performance against plans and targets and reporting to the Board any significant variances: maintaining an effective management team and planning succession.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman and two non-executive Directors, who are Directors of the majority shareholder, City Developments Limited, a senior independent non-executive Director as Deputy Chairman, four additional independent non-executive Directors and two executive Directors.
Each Director is expected to fulfil their duties for the benefit of all shareholders and it is believed that the independent non-executive Directors provide strong independent judgement to the deliberations of the Board.
Directors biographies shown on pages 44 and 45 identify the Chairman, Senior Independent Director, the Chairman of the Boards standing committees and other Directors considered by the Board to be independent, having taken consideration of the factors set out in Code provision A.
There have been no significant changes in the Chairmans external commitments since the last annual report.
A written statement defining the respective responsibilities of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive Officer has been agreed and approved by the Board.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007 49 Corporate Governance BOARD COMMITTEES The Audit Committee is also responsible for reviewing the In relation to certain matters, committees have been established independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
Audit with specific delegated authority.
The standing committees of the independence and objectivity are safeguarded by the Audit Board are Audit, Remuneration and Nominations.
The terms of Committee monitoring and approving, where appropriate, the reference for these committees are available, on request, from the nature of any non-audit work and the level of fees paid.
The Company Secretary and on the Groups web site at Audit Committee has concluded that, in some cases, notably the www.
The Company Secretary acts as provision of taxation services, the provision of non-audit services by secretary to all standing committees of the Board.
the auditor is appropriate and this has been communicated to the Board.
Audit independence has been communicated to the Board.
Audit Committee The external auditor and head of internal audit normally attend The Audit Committee, chaired by Christopher Sneath, consists all Audit Committee meetings, and senior management from the entirely of independent non-executive Directors.
It is considered that Groups finance function are normally invited to attend.
Separate Christopher Sneath has recent and relevant financial experience as meetings are held with the external auditor without the presence required by the Code.
The duties of the Audit Committee include: of any member of executive management and similar meetings are held with the head of internal audit.
Reviewing the Groups internal control and risk management procedures: Remuneration Committee Consideration of the appointment of the external auditor and to The Remuneration Committee is chaired by The Viscount Thurso make appropriate recommendations through the Board to the and consists entirely of independent non-executive Directors.
It shareholders to consider at the annual general meeting: is responsible for considering and making recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on the Companys Agreement of the detailed scope of the external audit prior to the remuneration policies, the remuneration package of executive commencement of their works: reviewing the scope and results of Directors and the operation of the Companys employee share the audit and its cost effectiveness: and recommendation of the based incentive schemes.
The Group Chief Executive Officer would audit fee to the Board: normally be invited to attend meetings, if appropriate, but would not be present when his own remuneration is discussed.
The Monitoring the integrity, prior to submission to the Board, Committee takes independent advice as deemed necessary.
The of periodic financial statements, annual accounts, reports to Directors Remuneration Report is given on pages 55 to 62, where shareholders and any other public announcement concerning the further details of remuneration strategy are given.
The fees paid Companys financial position, corporate governance statements to non-executive Directors are considered by the full Board, having and statements on the Groups system of internal controls: regard to any relevant advice received.
Ensuring that arrangements are in place for employees to raise Nominations Committee concerns, in confidence, about possible fraud risk or wrongdoing The Nominations Committee is chaired by the Group Chairman in financial reporting or other matters: and includes five independent non-executive Directors and meets as necessary.
On behalf of the Board, the Committee reviews the Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit structure, size and composition of the board, considers succession function: agreeing the annual work plan and being satisfied planning for Directors and other senior executives, taking into itself that the function has the proper resources to enable it to account the challenges and opportunities facing the Group and satisfactorily complete such work plans: review status reports what skills and expertise are needed on the Board in future.
The from the internal audit: considering managements response to Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating for the any major finding and providing support, if necessary, for any approval of the Board candidates to fill Board vacancies as and follow-up action required: and ensuring that the function obtains when they arise.
free and unrestricted access to all Group activities, records, property and personnel necessary to fulfil its agreed objectives.
50 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007 BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS The number of meetings of the Board, and its committees, held during the year are shown below together with attendance details of each Director.
Figures in brackets represent the maximum number of Board or committee meetings held whilst the individual concerned is a Board member or member of the relevant committee.
Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Kwek Leng Beng Chairman 7 7 na na 3 3 The Viscount Thurso Deputy Chairman 7 7 4 5 2 2 3 3 Peter Papadimitropoulos 2 3 na na na Wong Hong Ren 7 7 na na na John Arnett 6 6 na na na Christopher Sneath 7 7 5 5 2 2 3 3 Kwek Leng Joo 2 7 na na na Kwek Leng Peck 2 7 na na na John Sclater 5 7 3 5 2 2 2 3 Charles Kirkwood 7 7 na 2 2 3 3 Christopher Keljik 7 7 5 5 2 2 3 3 Connal Rankin 1 1 na na na EVALUATION PROCESS INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM In previous years, the Board evaluation process has been conducted The full Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal by completion of questionnaires by the Directors.
The Board control and for monitoring its effectiveness.
In establishing this considers that repetition of this process on an annual basis is not system, the Directors have considered the nature of the Groups of particular value.
During 2007 a sub-committee of the Board business, with regard to the risks to which that particular business was established to review and make recommendations on certain is exposed, the likelihood of such risks occurring, their potential Board procedures and processes.
The whole Board will consider impact and the costs of protecting against them.
However, the implementation of the committees recommendations in due such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate course.
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material The performance of executive and non-executive Directors is misstatement.
The Groups significant Risk Factors are included in assessed annually by the Chairman.
Meetings for the independent the Business Review on pages 34 and 35. non-executive Directors to meet with the Chairman without the executive Directors, and for the independent Directors to evaluate the effectiveness of the Chairman were originally scheduled for late 2007 but these have been deferred until 2008 pending completion of the review of the Groups management structures and systems referred to in the Chairmans Statement.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007 51 Corporate Governance COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board confirms that, in accordance with the Turnbull guidance, General presentations are made after the announcement of there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and preliminary, quarterly and half-yearly results.
A regular programme managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process is of meetings exists with major institutional shareholders to reviewed by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board and has review the Groups performance and prospects.
In addition, the been in place for the year under review, and up to the date of the Senior Independent Director has meetings with a range of major approval of the Annual Report.
shareholders during the year and other non-executive Directors also have the opportunity to attend such meetings.
Regular feedback is Primary responsibility for the operation of the system of internal provided to the Board of views expressed by shareholders at these controls is delegated to executive management.
of the operation of the internal control system is reviewed by an internal audit function and, where appropriate, by the Companys At general meetings there is the opportunity for all shareholders to external auditor, who report to management and to the Audit question the Chairman and other Directors including the Chairmen Committee.
In addition, responsibility is delegated to an executive of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations committees.
The committee to monitor the effectiveness of the systems of control Company prepares separate resolutions on each substantially in managing identified risks as established by the Board.
The separate issue put to shareholders and does not combine Internal Audit department reviews the effectiveness of key internal resolutions together inappropriately.
A schedule of the proxy controls as part of its standard work programme, and individual votes cast is made available for inspection at the conclusion of the reports are issued to appropriate senior management.
These proceedings and the Annual Report is laid before the shareholders reports are summarised and distributed to all members of the at the annual general meeting.
Notice of the annual general Audit Committee, the Group Chief Executive Officer, the Group meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 Company Secretary, senior management of the Groups finance working days prior to the date of the meeting, and the Company function and the external auditor.
They are subsequently reviewed encourages all shareholders to make positive use of the Companys by the Audit Committee, which ensures that, where necessary, annual general meeting for communication with the Board.
recommendations on appropriate corrective action are drawn to the attention of the full Board.
The main features of the Groups internal control framework are: The Groups strategic direction is regularly reviewed by the Board, which sets business objectives for the Group.
Annual plans and performance targets for each hotel are set by the executive management team and reviewed by the Board in the light of overall objectives: Within the financial and overall objectives for the Group, agreed by the Board, the day-to-day management is delegated to the Group Chief Executive Officer and executive management.
The executive management team receives a monthly summary of the results from the business and carries out regular operational reviews with business managers to ensure appropriate pursuit of the overall objectives and management of the primary risks of the Group.
52 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2007
