Corporate governance report In light of the integrity of the individual The Board is committed to the highest The Board Directors and of the current balance standards of corporate governance.
of two executive Directors, the nonIt is accountable to the Companys Composition executive Chairman and five independent shareholders for good governance in its During the year the composition of non-executive Directors, the Board is of management of the affairs of the Group.
the Board has changed significantly.
the view that no individual or small group The Board confirms that the Company Following the termination of the offer of individuals can dominate the Boards was fully compliant with all the provisions process, as announced on 29 September decision taking.
of the 2003 Combined Code on Corporate 2006 by the Independent Committee Governance the Code throughout the that committee being comprised of The Chairman is responsible for running year ended 31 May 2007, except as the Chairman and the non-executive indicated and explained below the Board and carrying out the duties Directors, it was agreed Kevin Lomax alphanumeric references are to enumerated under the Code, including would step down as Chief Executive and provisions of the Code : ensuring effective communications with as a Director of the Company on 2 shareholders.
2.1: This provision stipulates who can Director provides an alternative to the process, the Independent Committee serve on the Remuneration Committee Chairman as a Board-level contact for had recognised that there could be no and who can chair it.
certainty that an offer for the Company 2005, Sir Dominic Cadbury was would be received.
Consequently, appointed as acting Chairman, at Mike Lawrie was appointed Group Chief during the offer period the Independent which time he was also Chair of the Executive on 1 November 2006.
In the Committee gave appropriate Remuneration Committee.
On the basis months following his appointment, he has consideration to succession planning and that Sir Dominic Cadbury was brought on board a number of new senior had for some time prior to its termination independent at the time of his executives, who together with existing been in discussions with potential appointment as interim Chairman in senior managers, constitute the Executive external candidates for the role of Chief November 2005 and subsequently as Vice Presidents EVPs who are assisting Executive.
Sir Dominic Cadbury served permanent Chairman in March 2006, with the implementation of the new as interim Chief Executive until the and in light of his experience and strategy which was unveiled on 8 March appointment of Mike Lawrie took effect expertise in fulfilling the role of Chairman 2007.
The EVPs report to the Chief on 1 November 2006.
The other changes of the Remuneration Committee, the Executive and meet with him in person in executive and non-executive Directors Board determined that he should remain or by telephone every two weeks to during the year and up until the date of this a member of, and continue to chair, that discuss operational matters.
Operational report are set out in the Directors report.
Committee to provide continuity during responsibility for the strategic a period of rapid change at Misys.
In development of the Group is now shared At the date of this report, the Board arriving at this decision, the Board was among the Chief Executive and the EVPs, comprises the Chairman, two executive also cognisant of the FRCs proposal to with input from other senior managers Directors and five independent nonamend the Combined Code to permit the around the Group.
The EVPs are shown executive Directors.
Their biographies Chairman to sit on the Remuneration on pages 38 to 39. appear on page 37.
The Board collectively Committee where considered has a wide range of relevant business, independent on appointment as The Executive Directors and the EVPs financial and international experience, Chairman of the Company.
The Board report regularly to the Board on all which is vital to the successful direction undertook to keep the position under significant operational and strategic of a global company.
King succeeded Sir Dominic as Chairman Responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee and A formal procedure exists to allow the The Board is responsible to the Sir Dominic remains a member of the Directors, in appropriate circumstances, shareholders for the conduct of the Committee.
He does not participate in to take independent professional advice Companys business and determines any of the Committees deliberations in respect of their duties, with any fees Group strategy, reviews trading relating to his remuneration either as incurred being paid by the Company.
In performance, ensures adequate funding Chairman or otherwise.
The Board notes addition, all Directors may seek advice and examines major investments.
It has that under the new Combined Code, from the Company Secretary, who also a formal schedule of matters reserved which is effective for financial acts as General Counsel.
for its decision including approval of years commencing 1 November 2006, the accounts and dividends, significant the chairman of a company may serve strategic decisions, fixed forecast, on the Committee where considered transactions, settlement of litigation over independent on appointment as chairman a certain threshold, fundamental changes and that accordingly the Company is to the internal control system, the compliant with B.
2.1 in respect of the adoption of new employee incentivisation financial year commencing 1 June 2007. plans, and the delegation of authority to committees, individual Directors and officers.
The full schedule is available on the Companys website.
Misys plc Annual Report 2007 43 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report The non-executive Directors met as a Training Independence group in May 2007 for two primary The Chairman is also charged with The non-executive Directors fulfil a reasons.
The first was to discuss, with ensuring that all new Board members vital role in corporate accountability by the Chairman present, the results of the are equipped to fulfil their duties and bringing their independent judgement performance evaluation of the Chief responsibilities.
As part of the early to bear on issues brought before the Executive.
The second was to discuss, in familiarisation programme, new nonBoard and Board committees.
They bring the absence of the Chairman and led by executive Directors are encouraged to considerable knowledge and experience the senior independent Director, the meet the executive Directors individually from other areas of business and public performance of the Chairman and other and engage in an induction programme life, together with an international issues.
As and when required, there are of visits to different businesses within the perspective, and their views carry update calls for members of the Board Group where they have the opportunity to significant weight in the Boards in between Board meetings.
At least once a year, they Directors receive training about their also meet as a group without executive As part of its evaluation of the duties, significant changes in the law Directors being present.
performance of the Board, the Board and the sectors in which the Company has reviewed the availability of the nonoperates.
Having conducted a review, the Board executive Directors, including the considers all the non-executive Directors Chairman.
Jeff Ubben is the only nonBoard evaluation to be independent in accordance with executive Director due for election as a During the second half of the year the provision A.
In doing so, Director at the 2007 AGM and the Board Directors conducted, by way of a detailed the Board weighed a number of factors considers that he is able to devote the questionnaire and discussion, an including whether each non-executive necessary amount of time to the evaluation of the performance of the Director is objective, provides a challenge business of the Company.
Board collectively, of its three principal to management, is prepared to challenge Committees Audit, Nomination and the views of others, demonstrates a No executive Director has a non-executive Remuneration, of the Chairman, of good understanding of the business, directorship with a FTSE 100 company.
the Chief Executive, and of individual has the best interests of the Company Mike Lawrie is a non-executive Director Directors.
As part of this latter evaluation, in mind and has no relationships or of Juniper Networks, Inc. the Chairman makes himself available to circumstances that are likely to affect discuss any issues regarding individual his judgement.
The Board specifically Board processes performance or any areas of concern.
considered the independence of Jeff One of the responsibilities of the The Company Secretary analysed the Ubben on his appointment to the Board in Chairman is to ensure that Board questionnaires and provided initial January 2007.
Prior to recommending his members receive sufficient and timely feedback to the Chairman and the senior appointment, the Nomination Committee information regarding corporate and independent Director.
The Board received took account of his past relationship with business issues to enable them to and reviewed the overall average scores.
Mike Lawrie and his position as a discharge their duties and to enable them These results formed one of the bases managing partner of, and passive investor to make further enquiries where for further discussion by the Board in, ValueAct, which has a significant necessary.
The Board regularly reviews collectively, and by the non-executive shareholding in the Company, and the quality and quantity of this Directors in respect of the evaluation of determined that these factors would information and recommends the Committees, the performance of the not affect his independence, judgement adjustments as necessary or advisable.
Chairman and the Chief Executive.
On a regular basis, the Board receives review identified a few areas which detailed presentations from senior should be addressed, including widening Sir Dominic Cadbury was considered to management from around the Group on the composition of the Board as well be independent on his appointment as the businesses, product strategy, new as improving the flow and types of Chairman.
Under the Combined Code, opportunities for the Group and other management information made available after appointment the test of matters of significance.
The Board meets to the non-executive Directors.
independence is no longer appropriate at least eight times a year, aiming to hold in relation to a chairman.
two meetings each year overseas, one of which is combined with a two-day Until October 2006, HBOS plc had a conference involving an in-depth review of notifiable interest in the Companys Group strategy as well as meetings with shares of 4.38% as defined under s. 198 senior management.
During the year two Companies Act 1985.
John Ormerod is meetings were held in the US.
not a director of HBOS plc but serves as a co-opted member on its Audit The Board also reviews periodically Committee.
This connection has been whether the format and number of disclosed to the Board who considers regularly scheduled meetings is that this does not affect his appropriate for the anticipated needs independence.
44 Misys plc Annual Report 2007 Misys is changing audit function, any changes to financial During the year the Committees work Board committees reporting requirements and matters has included: arising from the annual Group audit.
Since the establishment in January 2007 reviewing the Groups draft 2006 The Committee undertook its regular of the Executive Committee see page 46, financial statements and 2007 interim review of the Companys policy on whistle responsibilities at Board level are divided results, including the transition to IFRS, blowing in October 2006. among six standing Board Committees.
and related announcements These Committees operate within prior to Board approval, together with The Committee recognises that the formally defined written terms of PwCs reports thereon: independence of the Groups auditors is of reference that are available on request paramount importance to shareholders and from the Companys website.
These reviewing the appropriateness of the and has established a policy for oversight roles are complemented by an Groups accounting policies: monitoring and approving the level of nonactive internal audit function.
Further reviewing the risks associated with the audit fees e. g. accounting, tax or other details on internal control are provided Groups businesses: financial consultancy related work paid to in the section below.
Details of the Group auditors in order to identify membership of the Board Committees reviewing periodic reports from the and minimise any potential conflicts of are set out on page 37. internal audit function: interest.
The policy prohibits using PwC in reviewing and approving PwCs terms of projects which represent a real threat to In addition to the standing Board engagement, fees and non-audit fees: the independence of the audit team such Committees, as disclosed in last years and as where the external auditor would be in report, an Independent Committee of the a position where it is auditing its own work Board, comprising the Chairman and the reviewing PwCs strategy for the audit of e. g. financial systems implementations non-executive Directors, was established the 2007 financial statements.
or where there is evident self-interest, for in June 2006 to consider the request example where an interest in the outcome from certain members of the senior The Nomination Committee was chaired of their work might conflict with the management team to explore the by George Farr until 5 November 2006 auditors objectivity.
If PwC is to be possibility of making an offer for the since when Sir Dominic Cadbury has considered for the provision of non-audit Company.
Following the announcement been acting chairman.
It consists of all services such as tax advice and on 29 September 2006 that the offer the non-executive Directors including compliance, due diligence work in relation process had been terminated, the the Chairman, other than Jeff Ubben.
It to acquisitions the scope and fees must Independent Committee was disbanded.
meets as necessary, liaising closely with be approved in advance by the Chief the Chief Executive.
It met three times Financial Officer and the Committee during 2006 07 six during 2005 06.
It The Audit Committee was chaired by Secretary and, in the case of fees in excess assesses the suitability of persons for John Ormerod, who has recent and of 50,000 for a single project, by the appointment as Directors and, when relevant financial experience.
This may involve a appropriate, nominates new candidates members are John King, Dr Jrgen Zech, competitive tender process unless there for the approval of the Board.
The and Jeff Ubben who was appointed on are compelling commercial or timescale Committee plays an important role in 16 January 2007.
Tony Alexander and reasons to use PwC.
At each meeting the succession planning for the Board and George Farr served on the Committee Committee is advised of any significant key senior executives and performs until 4 October and 5 November 2006 non-audit work awarded to PwC since the regular assessments of the requirements respectively.
The Committee met five previous meeting which will already of the Board as a whole.
Under its terms times during 2006 07 2005 06: four have been approved by the Committee of reference, the Committee oversees the times, with the Finance Director, Group Chairman as described above.
At its July search and selection process for new Financial Controller, Group Treasurer, meeting the Committee receives a full Directors and aims to do so in Head of Internal Audit and the external report of PwCs costs, both audit and noncompliance with the recommendations auditors,  LLP audit fees, during the past financial year.
As such the Committee PwC invited to attend as appropriate.
The non-audit fees paid to PwC amounted seeks to make appointments on merit The Head of Internal Audit has direct to 1.0m or 40% of total fees paid.
The and against objective criteria.
The access to the Committee Chairman.
Committee believes that the quality of the Committee also seeks to satisfy itself that During the year the Committee met the audit process was not adversely affected there are in place plans for orderly external auditors twice, and the Head of by PwCs non-audit work for the Group.
succession of appointments to the Board Internal Audit once.
On a number of and to senior management positions.
occasions during the year, the Committee During the year the Committee adopted During the offer process, work that would Chairman held meetings with the external a policy prohibiting the hiring of former normally be handled by the Nomination auditors and separately with the Head of employees of the external auditor into Committee was actually handled by the Internal Audit.
certain roles within the Group within two Independent Committee.
The issues years following their association with the surrounding succession planning for the The Committees duties include the audit, unless the Chairman of the Audit Chief Executive and his team were bound review and approval, where required, of Committee gives prior consent.
Annually up with the other strategic issues that the the draft results prior to publication, the the Committee will be advised of any new Independent Committee, assisted by its effectiveness and reliability of the Groups hires caught by this policy.
In January system of internal control, the internal Misys plc Annual Report 2007 45 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report The Treasury Committee was established Board of Directors.
Its membership 2007 the Nomination Committee by the Board to review the function and comprises three or more directors and its recommended to the Board the operation of the Groups centralised initial members are the Chief Executive, appointment of Jeff Ubben as a nontreasury, whose primary role is to the Chairman of the Board and the senior executive Director, having satisfied itself manage the foreign exchange, interest independent Director.
It is chaired by the that he was a suitable candidate with rate, liquidity and credit risks arising Chief Executive.
It may exercise all of the relevant and valuable experience.
from the operation of the business.
The powers and authority of the Board within Committee is governed by written terms certain parameters set out in its terms of The Remuneration Committee was of reference and meets as necessary, reference.
The minutes of the Executive chaired by Sir Dominic Cadbury until 5 October 2006 when he was succeeded reporting its decisions to the next Committee meetings are circulated to all by John King.
The Committee consists of meeting of the Board.
Its membership members of the Board for information.
all the non-executive Directors, other comprises the Chief Executive, the Chief than Jeff Ubben, and meets when Financial Officer, the Group Treasurer The General Purposes Committee necessary, but at least three times a year.
and John Ormerod as the non-executive transacts routine business of the Board, It met nine times during the year six Director nominated by the Board.
The principally in relation to the Companys times during 2005 06 and participants minimum attendance required for a employee share plans.
The Committee attended either in person or by telephone.
quorum is two Directors, one of whom operates within clearly defined written The Chief Executive and other executive must be the Chief Executive or the Chief terms of reference and financial limits.
Directors are invited to attend the Financial Officer.
It meets when necessary and reports to Committees meetings as the members the Board on its decisions on a regular consider appropriate.
Details of the The Executive Committee was basis.
All the Directors, together with the Committees main functions, and its established by the Board in January 2007 Company Secretary, are members of the remuneration policies for the Companys to facilitate the management of the Committee, with a minimum of two Directors and senior executives, are business and affairs of the Company in Directors required to attend.
provided in the Remuneration report on the interim between meetings of the pages 49 to 58.
The Attendance Record of each Director during the year is set out below: Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held during the year 8539 i A G L Alexander retired 4 October 2006 3113 Sir Dominic Cadbury 829 i G L Farr died 5 November 2006 3213 J G King 8538 J Ormerod 8539 A Ramji 616 i J Ubben appointed 16 January 2007 31 Dr J Zech 8537 i M Lawrie appointed 1 November 2006 5 i J K Lomax stepped down 2 October 2006 2 H Evans 8 J P McMahon stepped down 18 January 2007 6 i T K Skelton stepped down 18 January 2007 6 During the year those Directors who joined or stepped down from the Board during the year attended the maximum possible number of Board Committee meetings during their period of i service on the Board.
The General Purposes Committee and Treasury Committee hold a number of ad hoc meetings attended by the Directors and accordingly are not included in the above table.
All the Directors attended the 2006 AGM.
46 Misys plc Annual Report 2007 Misys is changing are made available on the Companys identified the Audit Committee requires Relations with shareholders website.
Further details are contained in the appropriate action to be taken by Investor information section on page 101. management to remedy these.
The Company acknowledges the importance of maintaining a purposeful Internal control Financial monitoring and reporting relationship with its investors.
The Once a year the Board approves a budget.
Chairman and executive Directors hold The following section summarises the The Group operates a system of rolling briefing meetings with financial analysts Groups system of internal control which forecasts, which are updated quarterly, and institutional shareholders, including comprises a number of distinct individual such that forecasts covering the next 12 presentations following the interim and processes and procedures that, when months are always available.
The actual final results announcements, and their taken together, provide a reasonable, but results, including key performance views are communicated to the Board.
not absolute, assurance against material indicators, are reported on a monthly mis-statement or loss.
The Groups basis and both the month and cumulative In addition, business and market system of internal control complies fully results are compared with the budget and briefings are held periodically to with the Turnbull guidance.
the then latest forecast as well as the ensure that the analysts and investor prior year.
There is a high emphasis community receive a broader view of the The Audit Committee reviews the placed on cash generation with cash Groups operations and the issues faced effectiveness of the system of internal flows and balances monitored at by the business.
On 8 March 2007 a control on behalf of the Board, to which business, divisional and Group level by seminar was held in London which it regularly reports.
It carries out this a system of weekly and monthly cash provided an opportunity for analysts to review principally by discussions with reports.
Treasury and taxation policies gain a deeper understanding of the management of significant risks and the are reviewed at least annually and are Misys Turnaround strategy.
review of plans for, and the results of, themselves subject to regular reporting internal and external audit work.
The executive Directors regularly conduct one-on-one and or group meetings with Risk management Authority levels institutional shareholders.
The Chairman, A comprehensive risk management A clearly defined organisation structure the senior independent Director, and the process has been developed that has been established.
There are defined non-executive Directors, are available to identifies, evaluates and manages the responsibilities which are retained by meet with shareholders on request.
key business, operational, financial and the Board.
Defined levels of authority During the year, a number of meetings compliance risks that are considered to delegated to management at Group, with major shareholders were held to be important both from an overall Group divisional and business unit level are discuss the offer process, the turnaround and individual business perspective.
The established for the approval of major strategy, the appointment of the new development and update of the Groups development projects, contractual and Chief Executive, the Transformation strategic plan which is reviewed by other commitments of a revenue nature Incentive Plan and other strategic issues.
the Board is based in part on the and capital expenditure.
Authority levels The Transformation Incentive Plan was identification and management of key are reviewed regularly and approved by put to a shareholder vote at an EGM held risks and opportunities.
The risk the Group or divisional Board as in March 2007. management process also involves each appropriate.
division regularly reviewing the most The Board, including the non-executive important risks to which the business is Investment appraisal Directors, has access to the services exposed and the control processes in Potential capital investment or of Makinson Cowell, which provides place that manage and or mitigate the acquisition opportunities are reviewed independent advice concerning the potential exposure to those risks.
rigorously against the Groups standards relationship between the Company and for investment return, growth potential its institutional investors, and produces The business risks and controls are then and normal terms and conditions before regular written reports to the Board.
evaluated by the senior management contractual commitment.
team who determine which risks, in their The principal communications with opinion, are the most significant to the System of operating unit control private investors are through the Group overall.
Senior executives are procedures Companys website www.
com, the given responsibility to deal with any Business unit performance and internal annual report and financial statements, items requiring action and to report control are monitored by regular the interim report and the AGM.
All the regularly on progress.
The risks, divisional Board and management Directors aim to attend the AGM, which identified controls, and progress against meetings, which are attended by Misys provides shareholders with the any actions are reported to the Audit Directors and executives.
Financial opportunity to question the Chairman and Committee on a regular basis.
The Audit controls and procedures are detailed in the Board.
The Company responds as Committee considers any significant a Group Finance Manual, which is necessary to enquiries from individual control matters raised in these reports, circulated to all business units, regularly shareholders on a wide range of issues.
and in other reports from management updated, and published on the Groups and from the internal and external intranet.
Written confirmation of The financial and other information, auditors.
It then reports its findings to compliance with internal financial control including presentations to analysts and the Board.
Where weaknesses are policies is obtained from the finance investors in audio, video and text formats, Misys plc Annual Report 2007 47 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report interests to those of shareholders and directors and general managers of the they make regular formal and informal operating units.
In addition, compliance reports to the Board.
with the Groups policies and procedures is monitored by means of regular visits to The process and systems described operating units by the Groups financial above have been in place during the management and the Group Internal financial year ended 31 May 2007, or were Audit function.
In addition, each operating adopted during the year in response to units general manager and finance changes in the risk profile during the head is required to certify in writing turnaround programme.
All remained in compliance or identify cases of noncompliance with the Groups policies place up to the date of the approval of the and procedures, including the whistle Annual Report and Accounts.
The Directors acknowledge that they Internal audit have overall responsibility for the Groups The internal audit function, through a system of internal control and for structured review process, assesses reviewing its effectiveness and confirm the key financial controls and levels of that they have reviewed its effectiveness compliance with the Groups policies and during the year.
The central Group functions, including Group Finance, Group Tax and On behalf of the Board Group Treasury, are also reviewed as part of internal audits work plan.
During the Dan Fitz financial year the output of the internal General Counsel and Company Secretary audit function has been supplemented by 24 July 2007 work carried out by KPMG.
The Audit Committee reviews regularly the work plan and key findings arising from the internal audit process.
On an annual basis the Audit Committee reviews the remit and effectiveness of the internal audit function.
The revised strategy Misys is in the early stages of a three to five year turnaround programme that is intended to deliver increased value to customers and increased returns to shareholders.
The strategic plan includes a focused strategy and simplified, integrated portfolio for each business and it will take three to five years for the benefits to be fully evident.
The plan was developed by the new management team and execution will bring changes to operations, suppliers, products and services.
Over time, these changes inevitably will alter the risk profile of the business and consequently will require changes to the controls that are required to manage that new risk profile.
The key controls to strategy execution include prioritising the changes to be made into three phases over the five years and implementing the changes by recruiting an experienced management team who have previous turnaround experience and who are supplemented by access to experienced quality consultants.
The management team has been incentivised by aligning their 48 Misys plc Annual Report 2007 Misys is changing
