Overview Operating Reports Accounts Shareholder Audit Committee report and financial information review The Companys Audit Committee has met Audit Committee composition During the year, the Committees the requirements of the Combined Code The Audit Committee is chaired by meetings considered the following on Corporate Governance throughout George Fairweather who, as a Chartered matters: the year.
A copy of the Audit Committees Accountant and the finance director of a terms of reference is publicly available former FTSE 100 company, has current Interim and full year financial results: within the Investor section of the and relevant financial experience and is Companys website.
considered to be the Committees financial The Companys proposed approach expert.
The Committees other members to Interim Management Statements: Role of the Audit Committee are Drummond Hall, Sir Tim Lankester The Audit Committees principal and Sara Weller.
The Committee wishes The scope and cost of the external audit: responsibilities are to: to retain the knowledge, experience and judgement of the Chairman of the Board, Non-audit work carried out by the review the Companys public statements but, reflecting recommendations within external auditors and trends in the on internal control and corporate the Smith Guidance, Roger Carr is not non-audit fees in accordance with governance compliance prior to their a member of the Committee, but attends the Committees policy to ensure the consideration by the Board: at the invitation of the Committees safeguard of audit independence: Chairman.
The Committee regularly review the Companys processes invites the external auditors, the Chief The scope of the annual internal audit for detecting fraud, misconduct and Executive, the Finance Director and plan, the Internal Audit departments control weaknesses and to consider the Director of Group Assurance to its terms of reference, its resourcing and the Companys response to any such meetings.
Discussions are however held external support: occurrence: in private when appropriate.
All of the Committees members are independent The external auditors interim and full review managements evaluation of Non-Executive Directors.
year reports: any change in internal controls over financial reporting: Audit Committee frequency Periodic internal control and assurance The Committee meets at least four reports from the Internal Audit function: review with management and the times a year.
During 2006 07 four full external auditors any financial meetings of the Committee were held.
The effectiveness of the external statements required under UK There was full attendance at all these auditors and consideration of their legislation before submission to meetings other than one at which Sara reappointment: the Board: Weller and one at which Sir Tim Lankester were unable to attend.
On those occasions Periodic reports on allegations made via establish, review and maintain the all the papers and information relating the Groups whistleblowing procedures role and effectiveness of the Group to the meetings were provided and they and the effectiveness of these procedures: Assurance function: were able to discuss issues arising with the Committee Chairman.
The effectiveness of the Internal Audit assume direct responsibility for function: the appointment, compensation, Audit Committee process resignation, dismissal and the The Committee discharges its The resignation and steps taken to overseeing of the external auditors, responsibilities, as defined in its terms replace the Director of Group including review of the external audit, of reference, through a series of Audit Assurance: its cost and effectiveness: Committee meetings throughout the year at which detailed reports are presented Management representations granted pre-approve non-audit work to be for review.
The Committee commissions to the external auditors and the carried out by the external auditors and reports, either from external advisers, the Companys procedures to ensure all the fees to be paid for that work along Director of Group Assurance, or Company relevant audit information has been with the monitoring of the external management, after consideration of the disclosed: auditors independence: Companys major risks or in response to developing issues.
The Committee meets Major changes in the Groups internal oversee the process for dealing with privately with the external auditors and controls: complaints received by the Group the Director of Group Assurance at least regarding accounting, internal four times a year and liaises with accounting controls or auditing matters Company management in considering and the confidential, anonymous areas for review.
submission by employees of concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters: and adopt and oversee a specific Code of Ethics for the Executive Directors, the Executive Committee and all other senior officers which is consistent with the Companys overall statement of business ethics.
Mitchells & Butlers 33 Annual report and accounts 2007 Audit Committee report The co-ordination of the internal and External auditors independence external audit functions: The Audit Committee has adopted a policy on the utilisation of the external The Groups framework for the auditors for non-audit work that is in identification and control of major compliance with the Combined Code.
risks, its Risk and Assurance Register The external auditors may carry out and the annual assessment of control certain specified non-audit work, in effectiveness: areas that have been pre-approved by the Committee, up to a monetary limit Compliance with the code of ethics for of half the audit fee per transaction the Executive Directors, the Executive and subject to an annual total cap of no Committee and all other senior officers: more than the audit fee.
Any other work for which management wishes to utilise Corporate governance developments: the external auditors must be approved by the Committee.
In this regard the Review of the steps taken by the Group Audit Committee specifically considered to achieve SEC deregistration: and approved managements request to utilise Ernst & Young for one transaction Review of the suitability of the Groups during the year where management felt accounting policies and practices: Ernst & Young were best placed to provide the service.
The status of litigation involving the Group: and Approved by the Board The Committees own terms of George Fairweather reference, membership and its Chairman of the Audit Committee effectiveness.
28 November 2007 The Companys public financial statements are reviewed by the Audit Committee in advance of their consideration by the Board.
Adequate time is allowed between the Committees review and the Boards approval for any actions or further work requested by the Committee to be completed.
Evaluations of the Committee in the year have been performed with the assistance of the Director of Group Assurance.
34 Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2007
