Corporate Governance report Combined Code compliance In addition, the Audit Committee receives: There are nine Board meetings currently The Board recognises the importance planned for 2008, and there were eight of good corporate governance in creating reports from Group Assurance on the scheduled meetings during 2006 07. a successful, sustainable and profitable work carried out under the annual Sir Tim Lankester and Sara Weller business.
It is committed to compliance internal audit plan: and were each unable to attend one meeting, with the principles of corporate otherwise there was full attendance.
governance as set out in the Combined reports from the external auditors.
Seven additional Board meetings were Code on Corporate Governance held during the year.
George Fairweather, the Combined Code and considers that Through the monitoring processes set Tony Hughes, Sir Tim Lankester and the Company has complied throughout out above, the Board has conducted a Sara Weller were each unable to attend the year ended 29 September 2007 with review of the effectiveness of the system one of these additional meetings.
Where all the provisions of the Combined Code, of internal control during the year ended a Director was unable to attend a meeting, except where explained below.
The system of he or she was provided with all the papers internal control is designed to manage, and information relating to that meeting The Board is responsible for the rather than eliminate, the risk of failure and was able to discuss issues arising with Groups system of internal control and to achieve business objectives and, as such, the Chairman and Chief Executive.
risk management and for reviewing its it can only provide reasonable and not effectiveness.
In order to discharge that absolute assurance against material The Board is responsible to shareholders responsibility, the Board has established misstatement or loss.
In that context, the for the strategic direction, development the procedures necessary to apply the review, in the opinion of the Board, did and control of the Group.
It therefore Combined Code, including clear operating not indicate that the system was ineffective approves strategic plans and annual procedures, lines of responsibility and or unsatisfactory and the Board is not capital and revenue budgets.
These procedures have aware of any change to this status up significant investment proposals and the been in place since the Group was listed to the approval of this Annual Report.
performance of past investments and and are regularly reviewed by the Board.
maintains an overview and control of Although the Company is no longer the Groups operating and financial Business performance is managed closely required to comply with the requirements performance.
It monitors the Groups and, in particular, the Board and the of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to certify the overall system of internal controls, Executive Committee have established effectiveness of its financial controls, the governance and compliance and ensures processes, as part of the normal good Directors remain fully committed to that the necessary financial and human management of the business, to monitor: ensuring that the Group operates a good resources are in place for the Company control environment.
The Board has strategic plan achievement, through a established a schedule of matters which comprehensive series of strategic With regard to insurance against risk, it is are reserved for its attention which are reviews: not practicable to insure against every risk published on the Companys website.
The Group regularly financial performance within a reviews both the type and amount of The Board has adopted objective written comprehensive financial planning and external insurance that it buys, bearing criteria for the appointment of Directors accounting framework: in mind the availability of such cover, its and the roles of the Chairman, Chief cost and the likelihood and magnitude Executive and Non-Executive Directors capital investment and asset of the risks involved.
have been defined in writing.
management performance, with detailed appraisal, authorisation and post Board and committee structure The Company Secretarys responsibilities investment reviews: To support the principles of good include ensuring good information flows corporate governance, the Board and to the Board and its committees and consumer insight data and actions to committee structure operates as set between senior management and the evolve brands and formats to ensure that out below: Non-Executive Directors.
The Company they continue to be relevant: and Secretary is responsible through the The Board Chairman for advising the Board on all risk management, through an ongoing The Board consists of the part-time corporate governance matters and for process, which accords with the Turnbull Non-Executive Chairman, four Executive assisting the Directors with their guidance and provides assurance and four independent Non-Executive professional development, as well as through reports from Group Assurance, Directors.
facilitating the induction of Directors.
This that the significant risks faced by the includes regular corporate governance Group are being identified, evaluated and business issues updates, as well as and appropriately managed, having the use of operational site visits and the regard to the balance of risk, cost and provision of external courses where opportunity.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
30 Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2007 Overview Operating Reports Accounts Shareholder and financial information review Directors Chairman Non-Executive Directors The following were Directors of the Roger Carr is Chairman of the Board and The Company has experienced Company during the year: has responsibility for the smooth running independent Non-Executive Directors of the Board and for ensuring that all who represent a strong source of advice Appointed Directors are fully informed of matters and independent judgement.
In addition Roger Carr Chairman 10.02.03 relevant to their roles.
He also ensures to the Chairman, who was independent Tim Clarke Chief Executive 10.02.03 that appropriate communication is upon his appointment, there are Mike Bramley Managing Director, maintained with shareholders.
Rogers four Non-Executive Directors, who Pubs & Bars 15.04.03 external appointments include chairing the Board considers to be wholly George Fairweather Independent a FTSE 100 company and he is deputy independent.
Other than their fees Non-Executive Director 15.04.03 chairman of another.
On 20 April 2007, which are disclosed on page 39, the Tony Hughes Managing Director, the Company entered the FTSE 100. independent Non-Executive Directors Restaurants 15.04.03 As a result, the requirement in the received no remuneration from the Karim Naffah Finance Director 15.04.03 Combined Code that a chairman should Company during the year.
When Sara Weller Independent Non-Executive Director 15.04.03 not chair more than one FTSE 100 Non-Executive Directors are considered company is no longer met.
The for appointment, the Nomination Sir Tim Lankester Independent Non-Executive Director 16.05.03 independent Non-Executive Directors Committee will take into account their Drummond Hall Independent led by the Senior Independent Director other responsibilities in assessing whether Non-Executive Director 30.07.04 specifically considered the impact of they can commit sufficient time to their this and his continued contribution prospective directorship.
Adam Fowle was appointed to the as part of the Board effectiveness review Board on 1 October 2007 and referred to on page 32.
This confirmed All Directors are briefed by use of Tony Hughes will stand down from that he demonstrates through his energy, comprehensive papers circulated in the Board on 31 December 2007. commitment, wealth of experience and advance of Board meetings and by dedication, that he is more than capable presentations at the meetings in addition Directors biographical details are of devoting sufficient time to his role of to receiving minutes of previous meetings.
set out on page 28 of the Annual review Chairman of the Company alongside his Their understanding of the Groups and summary financial statement 2007 other external appointments.
operations is enhanced by business and these include their main commitments presentations and operational visits outside the Company.
The Chairman separately met with the to the Companys businesses.
Separate Non-Executives without the Executive strategy meetings and meetings with The Company ensures that Directors Directors present as part of the Board senior executives are attended.
submit themselves for re-election at least Effectiveness Review.
Committees Chief Executive The Committees of the Board each have Mike Bramley, Roger Carr and Drummond Tim Clarke is the Chief Executive and written terms of reference approved by Hall will retire by rotation and offer has responsibility for implementing the the Board, which are available on the themselves for reappointment at the 2008 strategy agreed by the Board and for Companys website.
As Adam Fowle was the executive management of the Group.
appointed during the year, he will also He has authority to approve capital Audit Committee stand for reappointment at the 2008 AGM.
expenditure projects up to a level The Audit Committee, which is chaired authorised by the Board.
by George Fairweather, consists of the four More information about the Directors independent Non-Executive Directors.
standing for reappointment is set out Senior Independent Director The Chairman of the Board, the Chief in the AGM Notice.
Drummond Hall was appointed Executive and the Finance Director attend the Senior Independent Director at the invitation of the Committees Details of the Executive Directors service on 23 February 2007.
During 2006 07 the Committee contracts are set out on page 40.
The Senior Independent Director until then.
Chairman and the four independent Drummonds responsibilities include Non-Executive Directors have letters being available to liaise with shareholders Further details about the Committee are of appointment.
He is a member included in the Audit Committee Report of the Remuneration Committee, on page 33. the Nomination Committee and the Audit Committee.
Mitchells & Butlers 31 Annual report and accounts 2007 Corporate governance report Remuneration Committee Executive Committee Shareholder relations During the year, the Remuneration The Executive Committee, which is The Board recognises that it is Committee, which is chaired by Sara chaired by the Chief Executive, consists accountable to shareholders for the Weller, comprised the four independent of the Executive Directors and certain performance and activities of the Non-Executive Directors and the other senior executives as shown on Company.
The Company has a regular Chairman.
Roger Carr was appointed page 29 of the Annual review and programme of meetings with its major to the Remuneration Committee on summary financial statement 2007. institutional shareholders which provides 1 October 2006, in line with revisions an opportunity to discuss, on the back made to the Combined Code during The Executive Committee meets every of publicly available information, the the year, although the Remuneration four weeks and has everyday responsibility progress of the business.
The Chairman, Committee noted that these changes come for the running of the Groups business.
It the Chief Executive and the Finance into effect for financial years beginning develops the Groups strategy and annual Director report to the Board the views of on or after 1 November 2006.
This revenue and capital budgets for Board major shareholders about the Company, Committee met six times during 2006 07. approval.
It reviews and recommends to and the Senior Independent Director the Board any significant investment and other Non-Executive Directors are Further details about the Remuneration proposals.
available to shareholders on request.
Committee are included in the Institutional investors and analysts are Remuneration Report on page 35.
This Committee monitors the financial also invited to briefings by the Company and operational performance of the after the announcement of its interim and Nomination Committee Group and allocates resources within the preliminary results.
The content of these This Committee consists of the Chairman budgets agreed by the Board.
It considers briefings is posted on the Companys of the Board, who chairs the Committee, employment issues, ensures the Group has website, together with general information the four independent Non-Executive an appropriate pool of talent and about the Company so as to be available Directors and the Chief Executive.
The develops senior management manpower to all shareholders.
Presentations are also Company Secretary is Secretary to this planning and succession plans.
made to groups of individual shareholders.
The terms of reference for this Committee are consistent with the Board effectiveness evaluation The AGM provides a useful interface requirements of the Combined Code.
An internal evaluation of the Boards with private shareholders, many of The Nomination Committee is responsible effectiveness was carried out shortly after whom are also customers.
All proxy votes for nominating, for the approval of the the year end, which included a review received in respect of each resolution at Board, candidates for appointment to the of the performance of the Chairman the AGM are counted and the balance Board.
It is also responsible for succession and of the individual Directors.
The for and against, and any votes withheld, planning and reviewing the output of the evaluation considered the processes are indicated.
The Chairmen of the Board effectiveness review.
It met three of the Board and its committees, and the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination times during the year to consider range and balance of skills demonstrated Committees attend to answer questions.
succession planning and to recommend by the Executive and Non-Executive the appointment of Adam Fowle to the Directors.
It also reviewed the Directors Board.
Although Sir Tim Lankester and involvement in strategic, operational George Fairweather were each unable and financial matters, and their exposure to attend one meeting, they were to senior managers.
Output from the nevertheless provided with all the papers Board effectiveness review is considered and information relating to that meeting by the Nomination Committee to ensure and were able to discuss issues arising with that an appropriate balance of skills, the Chairman of the Committee.
knowledge and experience is represented on the Board and that the Board and its General Purposes Committee committees continue to work effectively.
The General Purposes Committee comprises any two Executive Directors Independent advice or any one Executive Director together Members of the Board may take with a senior officer from an agreed and independent professional advice in the restricted list of senior executives.
It is furtherance of their duties and they have always chaired by a Director.
It attends to access to the advice and services of the business of a routine nature and to the Company Secretary.
administration of matters, the principles of which have been agreed previously by the Board or an appropriate committee.
32 Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2007
