Corporate governance The Board recognises that the manner in which the Group Sir John Jennings retired from the Board and from his positions is governed is critical to the long-term success of the business.
as Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director This includes managing all internal day to day aspects of the and Chairman of the Nomination Committee on 30 March 2007 business but also managing the impact MITIE has on the wider having served on the Board for nine years.
Cullum McAlpine community and environment.
The Board strives to act responsibly was appointed to the role of Senior Independent Non-Executive in everything it does and when interacting with its stakeholder Director and David Jenkins was appointed Chairman of the groups.
The Board is committed to ensuring that high standards Nomination Committee.
of corporate governance are achieved throughout the Group Chairman and Chief Executive and strongly believes that any corporate governance initiatives To ensure that there remains a clear division between the role need to promote and support good business practices.
of Chairman and Chief Executive, the responsibilities associated This statement, together with the Directors report and Directors with these roles have been reviewed and their Terms of remuneration report, provides details of key aspects of MITIEs Reference updated.
corporate governance environment and explains the manner As Chairman, David Ord is responsible for the effective running in which the Board of MITIE Group PLC has applied the principles of the Board.
This includes ensuring that the Non-Executive and provisions of good governance as set out in section 1 Directors contribute effectively, that there are constructive of Combined Code issued in July 2003. relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and that The Board the Board is aware of the views of major Shareholders.
David is Board responsibility also responsible for ensuring that the Board addresses major challenges faced by MITIE and that the performance of the Matters that are exclusively dealt with by the Board include Board and its Committees is effective.
setting Group objectives and strategies: approving business plans and budgets and monitoring performance against these: The Chairman is available to consult with Shareholders throughout approving material tenders, acquisitions, disposals, and business the year and is available at the AGM.
start-ups: approving the Groups Interim and Annual Reports: As Chief Executive, Ian Stewart was responsible for all aspects of appointing and removing the Chairman, Directors and Company the operation and management of the Group and its business Secretary: and monitoring the Groups corporate governance during the year within the authorities delegated by the Board.
These matters are set out in the Groups Schedule responsibility passed to Ruby McGregor-Smith on 30 March 2007. of Matters Reserved for the Board which was updated during the year and approved by the Board on 19 May 2006 and which is The role of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors available on the Groups website, www.
co. uk The Executive Directors are collectively responsible for proposing Board of Directors strategy and for making and implementing operational At the start of the year there were six Executive Directors, four decisions.
Non-Executive Directors are responsible for exercising Independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
As their independent skill and judgement and contributing to the a result of a number of changes to the Board during the year, formulation of strategy, policy and decision making.
details of which are set out in this statement, at 31 March 2007 The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors the Board consisted of six Executive Directors, five Independent and the Executive Directors service contracts are available for Non-Executive Directors, one Non-Executive Director, Ian Stewart, inspection at the Companys Registered Office, the Head Office not considered independent and the Chairman.
and biographical details of these Directors are set out on page 36.
The balance of the Board is discussed in the Nomination Company Secretary Committee section of this statement.
Suzanne Baxter, the Group Finance Director, was appointed Company Secretary on 30 June 2006 following the resignation On 30 March 2007 Ruby McGregor-Smith was appointed Chief of Corina Ross.
As Company Secretary, Suzanne is responsible Executive following the retirement of Ian Stewart who assumed for ensuring that Board procedures and applicable rules and the role of Non-Executive Deputy Chairman.
Ruby joined the regulations are observed, including advising on all governance Board of MITIE in December 2002 as Group Finance Director matters.
and was subsequently appointed as Chief Operating Officer in September 2005.
Director independence On 10 April 2006 Suzanne Baxter was appointed to the Board During the year Non-Executive Director independence was as Group Finance Director.
Suzanne is a Chartered Accountant considered by the Board.
The Board determined that all and has extensive experience of the sector following seven years Non-Executive Directors at 31 March 2007, with the exception operating at divisional board level within Serco Group plc.
of the Deputy Chairman Ian Stewart, were independent in mind Two new Independent Non-Executive Directors have also been and judgement, and free from any material relationship that appointed during the year: Graeme Potts on 27 July 2006 and could interfere with their ability to discharge their duties Roger Matthews on 4 December 2006.
Specific consideration was given to David Jenkins Managing Director for Inchcape UK, Europe & South America previous role with Deloitte & Touche LLP, MITIEs external auditor.
Retail and a member of the Board of Inchcape Plc.
He has The Board determined that David is independent given that he extensive experience in the automotive retail and business was not involved in the provision of services to MITIE.
Additional services sectors as well as the PLC environment.
Roger is currently consideration was given to directorships held by both Cullum a Non-Executive Chairman for LSL Property Services PLC and McAlpine and David Jenkins on the Board of Renewable Energy Land of Leather Holdings PLC.
Roger has gained extensive Systems Holdings Limited and two of its subsidiaries.
The Board experience in the food retail and business services sectors as does not consider these directorships to adversely impact either Group Finance Director for J. Sainsbury PLC and as a main Board of the Non-Executive Directors independence after giving due member of Compass Group PLC.
consideration to the integrity, contribution and conduct of each of these Directors.
Specialist recruitment consultants were used to help identify suitable candidates for these positions after due consideration was given by the Nomination Committee to the nature of the role and the skills and experience required by the Board.
Following an assessment of all individuals identified and a detailed interview process, the Nomination Committee recommended these appointments to the Board.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 45 Corporate governance continued External appointments and commitments Director appointment, induction, training and appraisal Executive Directors are permitted to accept appointments Subsequent to appointment by the Board, all new Directors are outside the Group providing permission is sought from the Chief subject to re-election by the Shareholders at the first AGM after Executive and that the additional appointments do not interfere their appointment.
All Directors have also been re-elected within with the Directors ability to effectively discharge their duties.
The a three-year period, as required by MITIEs Articles of Association.
commitments outside the Group of the Executive Directors are Directors due for re-election at the next AGM are shown in the described within the Board of Directors profiles on page 36.
Executive Directors are entitled to retain any fees earned from None of the Executive or Non-Executive Directors has a service these external appointments.
contract with a notice period greater than twelve months.
Board meetings Each new Director receives a tailored induction suitable to their Procedures are in place to ensure that each Director is supplied role.
For example, the induction for the Group Finance Director, with an agenda and supporting papers for all meetings on Suzanne Baxter, included formal meetings with, and a timely basis.
This ensures that each Director is appropriately presentations from, key Directors and senior managers of the briefed and able to properly discharge their duties.
Papers Group and a two-week tour of key operating businesses and submitted regularly for the Boards review include a report on meetings with the respective management of those businesses.
current trading and performance, matters relating to corporate The induction for Graeme Potts and Roger Matthews, two new development activities for example, acquisitions and minority Non-Executive Directors, included meetings with the Chief share acquisitions and matters relating to corporate Executive and Group Finance Director.
All new Directors also governance.
The Board will also receive, from time to time, received a tailored information pack which included a copy of detailed presentations from non-Board members on matters MITIEs Memorandum and Articles of Association, latest Annual of significance.
Report and Accounts, Committee Terms of Reference and copies of recent Board Minutes and supporting papers.
All Directors The Board, its Committees and its Directors have access to the have access to management and the operating businesses advice and services of the Company Secretary and, if required, in MITIE at their request.
Associated costs are funded by MITIE.
The Board is committed to effective and rigorous review of its performance and that of the Committees and individual All Directors are expected, where possible, to attend all Board Directors.
To this end, an evaluation of the performance and meetings and the AGM.
During the year ended 31 March 2007, effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and of each Director there were seven scheduled Board meetings.
Additional is performed each year.
unscheduled Board meetings were held to deal with specific matters, predominantly for the approval of the issue of shares, Executive Director performance evaluation for the current year while dedicated strategy and budgeting meetings have also has been carried out using a combination of formal appraisal been held.
questionnaires completed by all Board members, assessing performance against agreed targets and through various Directors attendance at scheduled Board and Committee meetings with the Chief Executive.
The performance of the meetings Audit, Remuneration and Nomination of which they Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, the Board are members is shown in the following table: as a whole and its Committees is also evaluated using formal appraisal questionnaires, completed by all Board members, and through informal meetings and discussions.
Feedback from Director Board Audit Remuneration Nomination these activities is collated and reported to the Chairman, Chief Executive and the Board.
Results of the prior year appraisal Number of process identified an overall level of satisfaction with the meetings held performance of the Board and that of its Committees and in year 73 5 5 Directors.
Additionally, action taken in response to this feedback D C Ord 6 5 included the need to continue to monitor the balance of 1 I R Stewart 7 Executive and Independent Non-Executive Directors, and the C S Acheson 7 sector relevant expertise of the Independent Non-Executive 1, 2 S C Baxter 7 Directors, and minor changes to the information reported to the N R Goodman 7 Board.
Similarly, action will be taken throughout the current year C S Hale 7 to introduce improvements as identified in the evaluation exercise 1 R McGregor-Smith 7 undertaken for the year ended 31 March 2007.
W Robson 5 The Committees D S Jenkins 73 5 5 3 Sir J S Jennings 63 5 5 Executive Committee I J S Macpherson 73 5 5 The Executive Committees current members include the 4 R J Matthews 2 Executive Directors of MITIE Group PLC.
Senior divisional C McAlpine 73 5 5 management are also invited to attend all scheduled meetings.
5 G Potts 4 During the year the Committee was chaired by the then Chief Operating Officer, Ruby McGregor-Smith.
Ruby continues to chair 1 Ian Stewart, Ruby McGregor-Smith and Suzanne Baxter all attended the Committee in her role as Chief Executive.
the Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
2 During the year the specific responsibilities of the Executive In her capacity as Company Secretary, Suzanne Baxter also attended Committee were reviewed by the Board.
Subsequently the Remuneration and Nomination Committee meetings on one occasion.
3 Committees Terms of Reference were updated and approved Sir John Jennings retired from the Board on 30 March 2007.
Roger Matthews was appointed to the Board on 4 December 2006 and has attended all meetings since being appointed.
These responsibilities include assisting the Board and Chief 5 Graeme Potts was appointed to the Board on 27 July 2006 and has Executive to develop and implement strategy, operational plans, attended all meetings since being appointed.
policies, procedures and budgets, manage the day to day affairs of the Group, monitor operating and financial performance and assess and control risks that impact upon the business.
In addition to scheduled Board and Committee meetings during the year, the Chairman met with the Non-Executive Directors on In advance of each Executive Committee meeting a pack is eight occasions without the Executive Directors being present.
distributed to each member and attendee.
This pack includes reports on operational performance, health and safety, finance, corporate responsibility, marketing, quality, risk management, internal audit, human resources and strategic projects.
The Committee also regularly receives presentations from senior managers in conjunction with the reports submitted.
46 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Eight scheduled Executive Committee meetings were held during Remuneration Committee the year with additional unscheduled meetings being held more During the year the Remuneration Committees members were regularly to deal with specific matters.
David Jenkins, Sir John Jennings, Ishbel Macpherson and Cullum McAlpine, all of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Audit Committee The Committee is chaired by Ishbel Macpherson.
On 30 March The Audit Committee consists entirely of Independent Non- 2007 Sir John Jennings ceased to be a member of the Committee Executive Directors and is chaired by Cullum McAlpine.
During following his retirement from the Board and Graeme Potts was the year the Audit Committee comprised David Jenkins, Sir John appointed to the Committee.
The members attended all Jennings, Ishbel Macpherson and Cullum McAlpine.
On 30 Remuneration Committee meetings of which there were five March 2007 Sir John Jennings ceased to be a member of during the year.
the Committee following his retirement from the Board.
Roger Matthews was appointed to the Committee on that date.
The key duty of the Remuneration Committee is to make All members of the Committee are considered as being recommendations to the Board on the individual remuneration appropriately experienced to fulfil its duties, while David Jenkins packages of Executive Directors and the Chairman.
As a part and Roger Matthews are deemed by the Board to have of this process the Committee also considered the introduction significant, recent and relevant financial experience through of a LTIP to reward, retain and incentivise senior members of the their qualifications and their previous appointments.
External remuneration consultants New Bridge Street Consultants LLP were also used to assist the During the year the Audit Committee invited the external auditors, Committee to determine levels of remuneration through Chief Executive, Chief Operating Officer, Group Finance Director comparisons with market and industry, and to advise on and Head of Internal Audit to attend all meetings.
The Committee the introduction of the proposed LTIP.
also met separately with the external auditors and the Head of Internal Audit without the presence of the Executive Directors.
During the year the members of the Committee met to take into consideration the performance of each Director and implement Report of the Audit Committee its remuneration policy.
The Committee also considered and During the year the Audit Committee held three meetings which approved the level of remuneration for the new Group Finance were all attended by each member.
The matters under Director and Company Secretary.
Details of the remuneration consideration at these meetings included: policy and the remuneration of the Directors are contained within the Directors remuneration report.
The Groups Interim Report and Annual Report and Accounts: The day to day monitoring and approval of senior management Critical accounting policies and judgements: remuneration is delegated to the Executive Committee with any The review of the external auditors audit plan, nature significant variations to the structure of senior management and scope of work and overall summary of key issues and remuneration being referred to the Remuneration Committee.
judgements: The re-appointment of the external auditors: The Board is responsible for reviewing and setting the The approval of the letter of representation and fees remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
of the external auditors: Nomination Committee The effectiveness of the external auditors including the During the year the Nomination Committee comprised David appropriateness and skills of the audit team: Jenkins, Sir John Jennings, Ishbel Macpherson, Cullum McAlpine Compliance with the Group policy on the provision of non-audit and David Ord.
On 30 March 2007 Sir John Jennings ceased to services by the external auditors and maintenance be Chairman and a member of the Committee following his of auditor independence: retirement and David Jenkins was appointed Chairman.
During The approval of the Internal Audit plan for the year ending the year five meetings took place which all members attended.
31 March 2008: The review of key Internal Audit reports and findings: and A key function of the Committee is to evaluate the balance and composition of the Board and ensure that new Directors bring The effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
the requisite skills, knowledge and experience required for the role The Audit Committee is committed to ensuring the being considered.
independence and objectivity of the external auditors and The Board and Committee recognise that, following changes confirm that the requirements of the Groups policy on the to the membership of the Board during the year, there remains provision of non-audit services were met.
This policy restricts the an imbalance in the number of Executive and Independent external auditors from performing work which will result in them Non-Executive Directors and that the composition of the Board auditing their own work, making management decisions for the has not complied with provision A.
3.2 of the Combined Code Group, creating a conflict of interest, finding themselves in the role regarding the balance of the Board.
The Board and Committee of advocate for the company or creating any potential threat to are satisfied that the current composition is appropriate having their independence.
Additionally, the external auditors will only be regard in particular to the integrity, skills, knowledge and considered for the provision of non-audit services if they are best experience of its Directors and the size and nature of the suited to perform the work in question.
Deloitte & Touche LLP also business.
The Committee is also keen to ensure that the Board maintains its own internal controls designed to safeguard their does not become too large and unwieldy.
the Board will remain under review and, if considered necessary, A summary of the fees paid to the external auditors is given will be subject to change as the need arises.
The Committee ensured that on appointment to the Board the The remit of the Audit Committee also includes monitoring new Non-Executive Directors received a letter of appointment the arrangements by which employees may raise concerns setting out their obligations and commitment.
regarding matters of financial reporting or other improprieties A full evaluation of succession planning was also undertaken across the Group.
During the year whistle-blowing activity has by the Committee during the year.
As such, the Committee also been communicated to the Committee along with the results fulfiled its obligations in considering the retirement of Sir John of investigations carried out.
These investigations have not Jennings and Ian Stewart and the succession of Cullum identified any material risks to the Group.
McAlpine as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Ruby McGregor-Smith as Chief Executive.
The specific duties and responsibilities of each Committee are set out in its Terms of Reference which are available on the Groups website, www.
co. uk No individual Director is Chairman of more than one Committee to ensure that undue reliance is not placed on a particular Director or Committee member.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 47 Corporate governance continued Shareholder communications To support the business further, the Group Head Office has a team of specialist resources with individuals responsible for The Board of Directors is committed to an ongoing dialogue specific functions including legal, health and safety, IT, insurance, with institutional and private investors.
The principal method of human resources, finance and internal audit.
Regular dialogue communication between the Board and Shareholders remains between these functions and the operating businesses provides news announcements, the Interim Report, the Annual Report and additional support, forms a key part of the system of internal Accounts, the CR Report and MITIEs website, www.
A control and ensures that compliance with policies and full programme of formal and informal events, institutional investor procedures is effectively monitored.
meetings and presentations are also held following the Interim and Annual Results announcements which are led by the The level of support provided to the business by the Group Head Executive Directors.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Office is constantly under review and, where necessary, has been may attend and are available for additional meetings with enhanced during the year to strengthen the Groups system Shareholders on request.
Latest Group information, financial reports, corporate governance Information and communication and corporate responsibility matters, Interim and Annual The Group maintains a number of systems and processes that Results presentations, major Shareholder information and all report relevant information to Group management and the announcements are made available to Shareholders via the MITIE Board and Executive Committee as necessary.
This includes website which has a specific area dedicated to investor relations.
financial and non-financial information regarding business Significant importance is attached to investor feedback on the performance, compliance with policy and procedure, relevant Groups performance, and as such the Executive Committee regulations and business critical matters.
receives an Investor Relations Report at each meeting detailing At a local level each company and division hold regular Board corporate news, share price activity, investor relations activity meetings.
To maintain and develop relationships between and major Shareholder movements.
The Board is updated by separate divisions, and to address specific matters, regional the Executive Directors on these matters and receives analyst meetings are also held and are attended by regional feedback following the Interim and Annual Results presentations.
Senior Group management The AGM also allows for Shareholders to address and discuss any regularly attend these meetings.
issues surrounding the Group directly with the Executive and NonThe Group also maintains an extensive intranet which allows all Executive Directors.
employees to access key information as well as Group policies, Internal control and risk management procedures and guidelines.
The Board recognises that it is responsible for the Groups system Risk management of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
This system The Board confirms that there is a continuing process for is designed to support the Groups pursuit of achieving its identifying, evaluating, and managing significant risks faced objectives and strategies and also the identification and by the Group.
The Board also confirms that this process has been management of risks that may impact upon MITIE and the in place throughout the year under review and up to the date environment in which the Group operates.
The system of internal of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, and that this control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of process is monitored by the Board in accordance with the failing to achieve these objectives and strategies, and it will only revised guidance on Internal Control issued by the Financial provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against Reporting Council.
The process for identifying, evaluating and managing principal Key features of MITIEs system of internal control are set out below.
risks requires each division and the Group Head Office to Culture, responsibility and accountability consider strategic, operational, financial and compliance risks and the effectiveness of the mitigating controls based on a pre The Board and senior management are responsible for and post controls risk evaluation.
Larger divisions maintain similar maintaining and developing a culture of integrity, competence, processes on a subsidiary, regional or contract basis, depending fairness and responsibility throughout the Group.
Essential to this upon the structure of each division and the nature of contracts is the recruitment and retention of highly skilled individuals who undertaken, and consolidate the information into a divisional promote the highest standards of integrity, competence, risk register.
These risk registers are reported to the Groups Business Risk Group policies and procedures support the business by providing function for review every six months and are consolidated into an operational internal control framework for the Group, each a Group Risk Register which is reviewed by the Board and the division and operating subsidiary to work within which is Executive Committee twice a year.
appropriate to the nature of the business being undertaken.
This framework is designed to balance the need for Group-wide The Groups risk management framework is regularly reviewed consistency and control with the autonomy local management to ensure that it is effective and tailored to meet the needs of the require to develop and manage each operating subsidiary business.
Changes during the year include refining the process successfully.
for identifying, evaluating and reporting principal risks, revision of the Group Risk Management Policy and the provision of In order to delegate responsibilities clearly and effectively to the associated training.
Groups operating subsidiaries, and to ensure consistency with the updated Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board, a revised Delegated Authorities Matrix has been approved by the Board and implemented in the year.
The matrix focuses on both financial and non-financial authorities and includes matters relating to strategy, contract approval, recruitment, capital expenditure, banking transactions and specific Group policies.
Each operating subsidiary is headed by a Managing or Regional Director who has authority to manage their business within this framework of delegated authorities and Group policies and procedures outlined above.
48 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Monitoring the system of internal control The Board is responsible for monitoring the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Monitoring is carried out throughout the year via the receipt and review of various reports, presentations and discussions with management, as discussed earlier in this statement, and by reviewing the work of each Committee.
For example, the Audit Committee supports the Board by monitoring and guiding the activities of the Internal Audit function, including approving the internal audit programme, reviewing regular reports from the function and via meetings with the Head of Internal Audit.
The internal audit programme is designed to provide a level of assurance over key risks as identified in the Group Risk Register and is developed by the Head of Internal Audit who reports to the Group Finance Director and independently to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee also receives regular reports from the external auditors who contribute a further independent perspective on certain aspects of the internal financial control systems arising from their work.
As necessary the Audit Committee will have dialogue with the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director on their control responsibilities, and in particular, those relating to specific matters reported by internal or external audit.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control Monitoring the system of internal control ensures that any relevant matters are brought to the Boards attention and allows the Board to consider on a day to day basis the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Additionally, the Board performs a formal assessment of the operation and effectiveness of the system of internal control and updates this assessment prior to the signing of the Annual Report and Accounts.
This includes consideration of reports on principal risks, controls and their effectiveness from the heads of each Head Office function and an independent report from the Head of Internal Audit summarising key audit findings.
The Board also holds discussions with senior management and reviews the results of a formal internal controls review and system effectiveness confirmation from each operating subsidiary.
The Board confirms that management has taken steps during the year to improve further the system of internal control, embed effective controls further into the operations of the Group and to address improvements as they come to managements attention.
These steps are monitored to ensure they are implemented appropriately and that ultimately they are effective.
Compliance with the Combined Code The Board confirms that throughout the year ended 31 March 2007 the Group has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code issued in July 2003 with the exception that the Board has not consisted of an at least equal number of Executive and Independent Non-Executive Directors.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 49
