Corporate governancereport Compliancestatement Mondiiscommittedto Mondi has complied with the principles contained in the South African  King II Code of Corporate Practices and Conduct and Section 1 of the UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial  Reporting Council since 3 July 2007 when Mondi was listed on the JSE activities.
Asanessential and the London Stock Exchange, save that Cyril Ramaphosa, the joint chairman, was not considered to be independent upon appointment, partofthiscommitment as explained below.
 Boardsofdirectors andMondiplc togetherthe Pursuant to the DLC structure under which Mondi operates, the Boards are identical.
The Boards manage Mondi as if it were a single unified Boards supportthehighest economic enterprise and, in addition to their duties to the company standardsofcorporate concerned, have regard to the interests of the ordinary shareholders of both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc in the management of the Mondi Group.
 As at 31 December 2007 there were eight directors: the joint chairmen, andarecommittedtothe two executive directors and four independent non-executive directors.
An additional executive director, Peter Oswald, chief executive officer of , the newly created Europe & International division, was appointed on 1 January 2008.
This provides a good balance between executive and .
non-executive directors, with three executives and four independent nonexecutives excluding the joint chairmen, resulting in a strong mix of skills and experience, particularly in South Africa and Europe, relevant for Mondi as a newly listed enterprise.
 On appointment each non-executive director receives a letter of Mondi operates under a dual listed company DLC structure, which appointment setting out, among other things, their term of appointment, requires compliance with the corporate and accounting regulations of the expected time commitment for their duties to Mondi and details South Africa and the UK.
Mondi Limited and Mondi plc together the of any DLC committees of which they are a member.
Non-executive Mondi Group or Mondi have separate corporate identities and separate directors are initially appointed for a three year term after which, whilst stock exchange listings.
Mondi Limited has a primary listing on the not automatic, their appointment may be extended for a second term Johannesburg Stock Exchange JSE, while Mondi plc has a primary listing subject to mutual agreement and shareholder approval.
on the London Stock Exchange and a secondary listing on the JSE.
Under The directors holding office as at 31 December 2007 are listed below, the DLC structure, any ordinary share held in either Mondi Limited or together with their attendance at board meetings of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc gives the holder an effective economic interest in the whole Mondi plc held during the period from listing to the end of the financial Mondi Group.
Those in office as at the date of this report, together with their The relationship between Mondi Limited and Mondi plc is underpinned biographical details, can be found on pages 28 to 30. by the DLC structure principles, which provide that: Mondi Limited board Mondi plc board Mondi Limited and Mondi plc and their subsidiaries must operate as Directors 3 meetings 5 meetings if they are a single corporate group, with Mondi Limited and Mondi plc Sir John Parker 3 5 having boards of directors comprised of the same individuals: and Cyril Ramaphosa 3 5 the directors of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc will, in addition to their David Hathorn 3 5 duties to the company concerned, have regard to the interests of the Paul Hollingworth 3 5 Mondi Limited shareholders and the Mondi plc shareholders as if the Colin Matthews 2 4 two companies were a single unified economic enterprise and for that purpose the directors of each company will take into account, in the Imogen Mkhize 3 5 exercise of their powers, the interests of the shareholders of the other.
Anne Quinn 3 5 David Williams 3 5 Colin Matthews was unable to attend the meetings held on 27 July 2007.
At that time, he was chief executive of Severn Trent plc and his commitments in dealing with the effects of the severe flooding in the UK in July prevented his attendance at the meetings.
Corporate governance report Annual report and accounts 2007 MondiGroup 3 Corporate governancereport continued In line with the DLC structure, certain of the Board meetings are combined The joint chairmen and chief executive officer work together to ensure DLC Mondi Limited and Mondi plc meetings.
Six have been scheduled that there is effective coordination of their roles and responsibilities.
In addition, each company holds additional meetings to cover particular, they work closely together on matters such as the relationships any specific local requirements.
All Board meetings are convened by with major shareholders, government, analysts, media and other external formal notice, incorporating a detailed agenda.
relationships at a senior level and on major acquisitions and disposals.
The Boards have collective responsibility for providing entrepreneurial David Hathorn, chief executive officer, does not hold any directorships leadership and for the development of a long-term strategy for the Group.
The main positions held by Sir John Parker and Cyril In addition, each of the Boards has a schedule of matters reserved to them Ramaphosa outside the Mondi Group are detailed in their biographies which enable them to ensure that effective controls and risk management set out on page 28. procedures are in place to protect the Groups assets and to ensure that Whilst Sir John Parker was independent upon appointment, Cyril the Group operates within a framework of robust corporate governance Ramaphosa was not considered independent upon appointment in and ethical behaviour.
The Boards also oversee major capital expenditure, view of his existing connection with Mondi as chairman of the Shanduka acquisitions and disposals, as well as monitoring financial reporting and Group, which has shareholdings in Mondi Shanduka Newsprint controls, shareholder matters and the implementation of Group policies Proprietary Limited and Mondi Packaging South Africa Proprietary including the code of business ethics and the share dealing code.
Notwithstanding this, Mondi benefits greatly from of the full schedule of matters reserved for the Boards is available on the his considerable knowledge and experience, particularly of the South Mondi Group website at www.
The Boards have African business environment, and the Boards firmly believe that this delegated certain specific duties to committees as detailed below.
Between Board meetings, to enable the directors to fulfil their duties, Since his appointment to the Boards Sir John Parker has taken on a additional relevant information is provided to them via hard copy, e-mail non-executive directorship at European Aeronautic Defence and Space and telephone, as appropriate.
This was reported to the Boards which One meeting per year has been scheduled for the joint chairmen and considered that the additional commitment would not affect Sir John non-executive directors to meet without executive management present.
Parkers availability to perform his duties as Mondis joint chairman.
A policy is in place pursuant to which each director may obtain  independent professional advice at Mondis expense in the furtherance of their duties as a director of either Mondi Limited or Mondi plc.
David Williams is the senior independent director.
His responsibilities include chairing meetings of the non-executive directors at which the Throughout the period to 31 December 2007 Mondi maintained directors performance of the joint chairmen is considered.
He is also available and officers insurance.
to shareholders should they have any concerns that contact through other channels has failed to resolve or for which such contact may  be inappropriate.
Mondi has joint chairmen, Sir John Parker and Cyril Ramaphosa, with the chief executive officer role held separately by David Hathorn.
The division Companysecretaries of responsibilities between the joint chairmen and the chief executive Philip Laubscher is the company secretary of Mondi Limited and Carol officer has been clearly defined and approved by the Boards.
Hunt is the company secretary of Mondi plc.
The appointment and removal The principal responsibilities of the joint chairmen include to: of the company secretaries is a matter for the Boards.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretaries.
The lead the Boards, ensuring their effectiveness and setting their agenda: company secretaries are responsible for ensuring that the correct board ensure high standards of corporate governance: procedures are followed and that the Boards are advised of all relevant corporate governance and regulatory matters, including the provision of ensure that the Boards set a clear and appropriate strategy for the advice on the performance of directors duties.
Group: and Under the direction of the joint chairmen, the company secretaries manage ensure effective communication with shareholders and other the prompt provision of information and documentation, in particular stakeholders.
meeting papers, to the Boards, allowing them sufficient time to prepare The principal responsibilities of the chief executive officer include to: fully for any Board or committee meetings.
lead the business: chair the DLC executive committee and lead the management team: ensure that the Group has effective processes and controls: and ensure that the Boards receive accurate, timely and clear information about the Groups performance.
40 MondiGroup Annual report and accounts 2007 The results of the questionnaires and interviews were very positive.
The  Boards were considered to be operating well, with non-executive board In the lead up to the demerger of the Mondi Group from Anglo American members investing appropriate time to develop a good understanding plc on 2 July 2007 and the listing of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc on of the Groups businesses and structure and the industry sector.
It was 3 July 2007, the individuals who had indicated their agreement to join the agreed that during the initial period following listing it was particularly Boards met informally on several occasions and received presentations important for the Boards to keep abreast of investor views about the from management regarding the business and products of the Group Group and that detailed discussion of key projects would remain critical.
together with its operation and structure.
In addition, key issues such as Changes to the composition of the DLC nominations committee were sustainable development were discussed.
Site visits were arranged and agreed following comments received at the one-to-one interviews, these have continued where the opportunity has arisen in conjunction with resulting in the two independent non-executive directors who had not board meetings.
Where possible, opportunities to introduce the Boards to previously served on the committee being appointed as members on personnel below senior executive level are taken, utilising site visits, 17 January 2008. meetings and board presentations.
The performance of the joint chairmen was reviewed at a meeting of the A formal induction programme has been devised for future board non-executive directors held in February 2008.
It was concluded that the appointments.
This includes meetings with divisional business unit chief leadership and combined business knowledge of the joint chairmen executives and other members of the DLC executive committee, site visits served Mondi well at this stage in its development as an independent and meetings with key advisers.
In addition, a briefing from one of the organisation.
company secretaries will be provided on the DLC structure and its implications for the Boards, as well as the corporate governance issues Boardcommittees in South Africa and the UK affecting the Group.
The DLC committees, to which the Boards delegate specific areas Continuing professional development is provided to directors to meet their of responsibility as described below, have authority to make decisions individual needs.
As required, updates are provided on relevant topics according to their terms of reference.
Copies of the terms of reference including corporate governance, legislative and financial matters.
Directors can be found on the Mondi Group website at www.
are also made aware of relevant external training courses and workshops Each committee is empowered, through its terms of reference, to seek which may support their position on the Boards or on a committee.
independent professional advice at Mondis expense in the furtherance The directors are briefed on changes in regulation and governance with of its duties.
particular emphasis on matters relating to their role and responsibilities.
Certain non-executive directors have taken up the opportunity to attend Whilst only committee members are entitled to attend committee meetings, external training courses.
the chairmen of each committee can invite, as they consider appropriate, management and advisers to meetings to assist the committees in It is recognised that executive directors can gain valuable experience carrying out their duties.
To ensure that the Boards as a whole have an through serving as non-executive directors on the boards of other understanding of any key issues under consideration by a committee, companies.
A policy is in place requiring the executive directors to seek each committee chairman provides a report to the Boards following each the approval of the Boards on the appropriateness of any proposed committee meeting.
appointment and also to ensure that the number of any such commitments is contained, so that an appropriate balance is maintained.
The company secretaries of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc each act as secretary to each of the DLC committees dependent upon their availability and the location of the meetings.
 The membership of each of the DLC committees, together with the Whilst it was recognised that it was still early in the development of the attendance at committee meetings held in the period since the committees Boards and committees, it was considered a worthwhile process for the were established by the Boards in May 2007, is detailed below.
Boards to test, at the end of 2007, whether there were any particular areas that required adjustment or focus going forward.
It was agreed that, for Membership of each committee is kept under review and, in particular, this initial period as an independent listed Group, an internally facilitated will be considered when each committee undertakes its annual evaluation, performance evaluation of the Boards, principal committees and individual as demonstrated by the recent change to the composition of the DLC directors was most appropriate.
The evaluations were led by the joint nominations committee.
Each committee reviews its terms of reference chairmen and supported by the company secretaries and comprised a on an annual basis and these are available at the Mondi Group website: questionnaire completed by each director regarding various aspects of the www.
performance of the Boards and further questionnaires completed by each member of the principal DLC committees relating to the activities of each committee.
In addition, the joint chairmen interviewed each director on a one-to-one basis, Sir John Parker interviewing those directors based in the UK and Cyril Ramaphosa interviewing those based in South Africa.
Corporate governance report Annual report and accounts 2007 MondiGroup 41 Corporate governancereport continued DLCauditcommittee a review of non-audit services approved during the period: and DLC audit committee status reports from the Group heads of internal audit which included Members 2 meetings a review of the internal audit charter, audits carried out and the results Colin Matthews 1 thereof, the programme for 2008, reports received via Speak-Up the Groups whistleblowing facility and fraud.
Anne Quinn 2 David Williams Chairman 2 The DLC audit committee has concluded that, based on the foregoing, it is satisfied that auditor independence and objectivity have been maintained.
The DLC audit committee operates on a Group-wide basis.
The committee  met twice during the period and has four meetings scheduled for 2008.
The Group heads of internal audit and representatives from the external DLC nominations committee auditors, Deloitte & Touche and Deloitte & Touche LLP, are regularly in Members 2 meetings attendance at meetings.
The committee has responsibility, among other Sir John Parker Chairman 2 things, for monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and Cyril Ramaphosa 2 reviewing the results announcements.
It oversees the relationship with the external auditors, reviews the effectiveness of the external audit process as Anne Quinn 2 well as the objectivity and independence of the external auditors and has David Williams 2 established the principles for the use of the external auditors for non-audit services.
It also has responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the Colin Matthews and Imogen Mkhize, both independent non-executive Groups system of internal controls and risk management systems.
Time directors, were appointed as additional members of the DLC nominations has been scheduled at one meeting each year for the committee to meet committee on 17 January 2008. separately with the internal and external auditors without executive The DLC nominations committee operates on a Group-wide basis.
The committee meets periodically as required but at least annually and A policy on the provision of non-audit services provided by the auditors met twice during the period to the end of December 2007.
The chief of Mondi Limited and of Mondi plc to the Group sets out the procedures executive officer is usually invited to attend meetings of the committee, for the pre-approval of such services.
Reports are presented to the as is the Group human resources and legal director, both of whom provide committee at each meeting detailing any non-audit services approved information to support the work of the committee.
since the previous meeting, to enable the committee to keep under review The committee is responsible for making recommendations to the the provision of these services to ensure that they do not impair the external auditors independence and objectivity.
The provision of certain Boards on the composition of each board and the committees and on retirements and appointments of additional and replacement directors.
non-audit services, including financial information systems design, internal audit outsourcing and actuarial valuation services, is prohibited.
Whilst one of the joint chairmen chairs this committee, he is not permitted to chair meetings during discussions regarding his performance or when The Boards consider that David Williams, who is a chartered accountant the appointment of a successor is being discussed.
and was finance director of Bunzl plc until his recent retirement, has recent During the period the committee considered, in particular, changes to and relevant financial experience.
In addition, each of the members of the the DLC executive committee and executive representation on the Boards DLC audit committee has appropriate knowledge and understanding of following completion of the Mondi organisational review.
in the recommendation to, and acceptance by, the Boards of the The committee has discharged its responsibilities as set out in its terms of appointment of Peter Machacek to the DLC executive committee in reference to the extent appropriate during the period and specific matters November 2007 and the appointment of Peter Oswald as an executive reviewed by the committee included: director of the Boards in January 2008.
There were no proposed appointments of additional non-executive directors during the period.
the approval and implementation of a policy for the provision of nonA formal process for the consideration of new directors has been agreed audit services by the external auditors: by the committee and will be implemented going forward.
The process the approval and implementation of a policy restricting the recruitment includes, where appropriate, the involvement of external search agencies.
of former external audit staff: In addition, the committee considered and recommended to the Boards a review of the Mondi Group half-year results and also the year end an internal evaluation process, the results of which were presented to, results and annual report, including reports from the Group controller and discussed by, the committee at its meeting in January 2008 following and the external auditors on the results: which recommendations were made to, and accepted by, the Boards.
the review and approval of the external audit plan and proposed fees for the 2007 year end: 42 MondiGroup Annual report and accounts 2007 At its meeting in January 2008 the committee also reviewed succession The report from the directors on the Groups sustainable development plans for the senior executive roles, which followed a detailed talent review practices is set out on pages 32 to 35 and further details, including the by the Group.
The committee also considered the election of the directors full sustainability report, can be found at the Mondi Group website: at the annual general meetings of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc, although www.
as each director was newly appointed at the time of the demerger of Mondi  from Anglo American plc, all the directors will be standing for election by The DLC executive committee operates on a Group-wide basis.
The the shareholders on the occasion of the annual general meetings to be members of the executive committee are detailed on pages 30 and 31. held in May 2008.
The committee is chaired by David Hathorn and met seven times during  the period, with nine meetings scheduled for 2008.
DLC remuneration The DLC executive committee is responsible for the day-to-day committee Members 4 meetings management of the Group and its business operations within the limits set by the Boards, together with policy implementation in line with the Groups Colin Matthews 3 strategy agreed by the Boards.
Imogen Mkhize 4 Anne Quinn Chairman 4  David Williams 4 The DLC executive committee, mandated by the Boards, has established a Group-wide system of internal control to manage Group risks.
This The DLC remuneration committee operates on a Group-wide basis.
system, which complies with corporate governance codes in South Africa The committee met four times during the period and plans to meet three and the UK, supports the Boards in discharging their responsibility for times in 2008. ensuring that the wide range of risks associated with Mondis diverse The committee has responsibility for making recommendations to each international operations is effectively managed.
board on the Groups policy on remuneration of senior management, for Internalcontrol the determination, within agreed terms of reference, of the remuneration The system of internal control, embedded in all key operations, provides of the joint chairmen and of specific remuneration packages for each of the executive directors and members of senior management, including reasonable rather than absolute assurance that the Groups business objectives will be achieved within risk tolerance levels defined by the pension rights and any compensation payments.
In addition, the committee is responsible for the implementation of employee share plans.
Regular management reporting provides a balanced assessment of key risks and controls and is an important component of the Boards The committees full report on directors remuneration is set out on pages assurance.
In addition, certain Board committees focus on specific risks, 46 to 50. such as safety, and provide relevant assurance to the Boards.
 The finance heads of the business units provide six-monthly confirmation DLC sustainable that financial and accounting control frameworks have operated development satisfactorily.
The Boards also receive assurance from the DLC audit committee Members 3 meetings committee, which derives its information in part from regular internal and external audit reports of the Groups risk and internal controls.
Sir John Parker 3 David Hathorn 3 The Groups internal audit function formally collaborates with the external auditors to ensure efficient coverage of internal controls and is responsible Colin Matthews Chairman 3 for providing independent assurance to the DLC executive committee and Boards on the effectiveness of the Groups risk management process.
The DLC sustainable development committee operates on a Groupwide basis.
The committee met three times during the period and plans Key elements of the Groups system of internal control are: to meet six times in 2008.
The committee has responsibility for overa clearly-defined organisation structure with established responsibilities: seeing the Groups policy, targets and performance on safety, health, the environment, social responsibility, other sustainable development a simple and focused business strategy, restricting potential risk matters and business ethics.
exposure: During the period the committee reviewed the Groups key sustainable Group financial, business conduct, operating and administrative policies development policies, received detailed reports of major incidents within and procedures which incorporate statements of required behaviour: the Group and monitored the senior managements response to a continuous review of operating performance: such incidents.
Corporate governance report Annual report and accounts 2007 MondiGroup 43 Corporate governancereport continued a comprehensive reporting system, including monthly results, annual  budgets, and periodic forecasts, monitored by the Boards: The markets for paper and packaging products are highly competitive, with many participants and prices determined by market conditions approval by the Boards of all major investments, with proposals being including industry operating capacities and exchange rates.
Prices of subject to rigorous strategic and commercial examination: Mondis key paper grades have experienced substantial fluctuations a centrally coordinated internal audit programme, using internal in the past: however, Mondi is flexible and responsive to changing market and external resources to support the Boards in ensuring a sound and operating conditions and the Groups significant exposure to low control environment: cost emerging markets provides some measure of protection from market conditions.
completion by business unit management of an annual internal control assessment, confirming compliance with Group policies and  procedures, detailing controls in operation and listing any weaknesses: Materials, energy and consumables used by Mondi include significant amounts of wood, pulp, recovered paper, packaging papers and assurance activities covering the key business risks summarised and chemicals.
Increases in the costs of any of these raw materials, or any reported annually to the Boards, the DLC audit committee or, where difficulties in procuring wood in certain countries, could have an adverse appropriate, the DLC sustainable development committee: and effect on Mondis business, operational performance or financial condition.
annual risk-profiling by local businesses to identify, monitor and manage However, given Mondis relatively high level of integration and access to its significant risks, with the results discussed at business review and own fibre in Russia and South Africa, this acts to help mitigate this risk.
internal control, audit and risk meetings.
 Riskmanagement projectrisk Mondi has announced two significant capital investments to expand and The Boards risk management policy encompasses all significant financial, upgrade existing facilities in Poland and Russia respectively, as well as operational and compliance-related risks which could undermine the completed several acquisitions during 2007.
These projects and the Groups ability to achieve its business objectives.
integration of acquisitions carry risks and Mondi has put in place dedicated Mondis dynamic risk management system has the commitment of the teams to ensure delivery of the projects on time and within budget as well Groups senior management and is designed so that different businesses as dedicated personnel to assist with the integration of acquisitions.
can tailor their processes to the specific circumstances.
Clear Furthermore, several of the large capital components have already been accountability for risk management is a key performance criterion for the ordered at committed prices.
Groups line managers, who are provided with appropriate support through  Group policies and procedures.
The requisite risk and control capability is assured through Board challenge and appropriate management selection The Boards are required to present a balanced and understandable and skills development.
Continuous monitoring of risk and control assessment of the Groups financial position and prospects, which are processes across all key risk areas provides the basis for regular reports provided in the joint chairmens and chief executive officers statements to management, the DLC executive committee and the Boards.
and in the Group operations and financial review set out on pages 6 to 27 of this annual report.
The responsibilities of the directors and external The risk assessment and reporting criteria provide the Boards with a auditors are set out on pages 51 to 53.
Group-wide perspective on the key risks identified by the operating units.
Reports to the Boards include an assessment of the likelihood and potential  impact of risks, as well as any risk-mitigation initiatives undertaken.
The Group has maintained a whistleblowing programme in almost all operations following the demerger from Anglo American plc.
In conducting its annual review of the effectiveness of risk management, The programme, monitored by the DLC audit committee, enables the Boards consider key findings from ongoing monitoring and reporting employees, customers, suppliers, managers or other stakeholders, processes, management assurances and independent assurance on a confidential basis, to raise concerns about conduct which is reports.
The Boards also take account of material changes and trends considered to be contrary to our values.
It makes communication in the risk profile and consider whether the control system, including channels available to any person in the world who has information reporting, adequately supports each of the Boards in achieving their about unethical practice in the Groups operations.
During 2007 reports were received via the global programme facility  covering a number of areas.
Reports were kept strictly confidential It is in the nature of our business that Mondi is exposed to risks and and referred to appropriate line managers for resolution.
uncertainties which may have an impact on future performance and financial results, as well as upon our ability to meet certain social and environmental objectives.
The Group believes that it has effective systems and controls in place to manage the key risks identified below.
44 MondiGroup Annual report and accounts 2007  Dealinginsecurities The Boards consider communication with shareholders, whether The Boards have adopted a share dealing code for dealing in securities institutional, private or employee, to be extremely important.
A variety of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc which is based on regulatory and of communication mechanisms are used, with the Mondi Group website, governance best practice.
The code sets out the restrictions placed www.
com, providing a range of financial and business on directors, senior management and other key employees with regard information about the Group, including an archive of past announcements to their share dealing to ensure that they do not abuse their access to and share price information, as well as the Groups sustainable information about the Group pending its public release and availability development policies.
to shareholders and other interested parties.
The DLC structure requires Mondi to comply with the disclosure All dealings by directors and persons discharging managerial obligations forming part of the Listings Requirements of the JSE Limited responsibilities and their connected persons are announced to the JSE and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and Listing Rules of the UK and London Stock Exchange when they occur.
The remuneration report Listing Authority.
The Boards ensure that procedures are in place to ensure on pages 46 to 50 contains details of the directors interests in compliance and have agreed to apply on each issue whichever is the the shares of both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc.
higher standard of governance and regulation between South Africa and the UK.
Businessethics The chief executive officer and chief financial officer have a programme The Boards have adopted a Code of Business Ethics, which applies of regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, analysts and fund throughout the Group and sets clear principles for the conduct of the managers.
During the period this included site visits to help increase the Groups business activities.
The directors believe that the Group has knowledge and understanding of the Group.
Summaries of the feedback robust compliance systems and procedures in place in relation to the from these discussions and meetings were presented to the Boards, which code.
The directors are not aware of any material non-compliance helps them to gain an understanding of the views and opinions of those against the code.
The code is available at the Groups website: interested in the Group.
In addition, the Boards are supported by the www.
All contact with investors and other interested parties is strictly controlled through the application of Group  guidelines to ensure that no price sensitive information is made available on a selective basis and that all shareholders are treated equally.
The annual general meetings of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc will be held on 7 May 2008 in Johannesburg and London respectively and will provide Responses are given to letters and emails received from shareholders and an opportunity for shareholders to ask questions of the directors and other interested parties on a variety of subjects.
For those shareholders chairmen of each Board committee about Mondis activities and wishing to receive communications from the Group via electronic means, prospects.
All directors and, in particular, the chairmen of the principal facilities are available for this, including for the submission of proxy votes Board committees are expected to be present.
The annual general meetings provide opportunities for shareholders to question the directors directly regarding the Groups Separate resolutions will be proposed for each substantially separate activities and prospects.
item of business for consideration at the annual general meetings.
All resolutions at the meetings will be voted on by taking polls, with indicative results advised to the meeting and the verified results announced as soon as practicable after the meeting.
The proxy voting results will also be available at the Mondi Group website: www.
The notices of the annual general meetings, which include explanations of all resolutions, are contained in separate circulars which are being sent to all shareholders in advance of the meetings, in accordance with the corporate governance codes of South Africa and the UK.
Corporate governance report Annual report and accounts 2007 MondiGroup 45
