28 Annual Report 2007 Our Governance www.
com Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee presents a separate report in relation to the period from Listing until 31 December 2007.
The Audit Committee was established on 19 September 2007 following the appointment of Rob Rowley as a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
Composition of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises the three Non-Executive Directors, Rob Rowley, Gerald Corbett and Michael Wemms.
Rob Rowley and Michael Wemms are considered by the Board to be independent.
Biographies of the members of the Audit Committee are set out on page 20.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee, Rob Rowley, is a qualied accountant and formerly a finance director of Reuters plc and chairman of the audit committee at Prudential plc.
The Board is satisfied that Rob Rowley has recent and relevant financial expertise.
Operation of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee met once between its establishment on 19 September 2007 and 31 December 2007.
The attendance record of the Non-Executive Directors at the Audit Committee meeting is set out on page 25.
Prior to the establishment of the Audit Committee, the external auditors presented to the Board on 13 September 2007 in relation to their work in conducting an interim review of the financial results of the Company for the period ended 30 June 2007.
The Chief Financial officer, together with the external auditors, will normally attend meetings at the invitation of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Audit Committee.
The members of the Audit Committee can, where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The external auditors may also request a meeting of the Audit Committee if they consider it necessary.
The Audit Committees duties include: reviewing the Companys financial statements and the material financial reporting judgements contained in them: reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and the Companys internal control and risk management systems: advising on the appointment and removal of external auditors and the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors: developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services: and considering the requirement for an internal audit function.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are published on the Companys website at www.
The Audit Committee intends to undertake its activities in line with an annual work plan.
The Audit Committee will receive reports from the external auditors and will hold discussions with the external auditors without management present.
The Audit Committee will periodically review the Companys procedures for handling allegations from employees who raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters in order to ensure that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
In order that the Board is kept fully appraised of the Audit Committees work, the Chairman of the Audit Committee will report on the Audit Committees work at the next Board meeting.
The Board will also receive a copy of the minutes of each meeting of the Audit Committee.
Internal control and risk management The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control which includes risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Audit Committee will monitor and undertake an annual review of the effectiveness of, and the framework for, the Groups system of internal control and risk management.
This will include annual consideration as to whether there is a need to establish an internal audit function.
Prior to Listing, the Board considered the need to establish an internal audit function and concluded that the control mechanisms at that time were sufficient for the size and complexity of the Group such that an internal audit function was not required.
On 27 November 2007, the Audit Committee commenced a review of the effectiveness of, and the framework for, the Groups system of internal control and risk management, which it will conclude during 2008.
This review will include consideration as to whether there is a need to establish an internal audit function.
Review of the work of the external auditors Subject to the annual appointment of the auditors by shareholders, the Audit Committee conducts a continuous review of the relationship between the Group and the auditors.
This review includes: the consideration of audit fees and advance approval of fees for non-audit related work: the consideration of the external auditors independence and objectivity: and the nature and scope of the external audit.
The Audit Committee, having considered the external auditors performance during their period in ofce, recommends their re-appointment.
A full breakdown of the audit and non-audit related fees is set out in note 5 to the financial statements on page 51.
The Audit Committee discussed the level of fees and considered them appropriate given the current size of the Group and the level of corporate activity undertaken by the Company during the financial year, including the Listing.
The Audit Committee believes the level and scope of non-audit services does not impair the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
This report was approved by the Board on 25 February 2008 and signed on its behalf by: Rob Rowley Chairman of the Audit Committee
