com Annual Report 2007 Our Governance 23 Corporate Governance Report Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC the Company was incorporated on 14 March 2007.
The Company became the holding company of the Moneysupermarket.
com group the Group when it acquired the entire issued share capital of Moneysupermarket.
com Financial Group Limited and its subsidiaries on 22 June 2007.
The Company was admitted to the Ofcial List and to trading on the London Stock Exchange on 31 July 2007 Listing.
The Board of Directors the Board of the Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The requirements of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in June 2006 by the Financial Reporting Council the Combined Code first applied to the Company on Listing on 31 July 2007.
In the period between the incorporation of the Company and Listing, the Company was not required to comply with the Combined Code.
It is the Boards view that, throughout the period from Listing until 31 December 2007, it complied with the Combined Code except as set out below.
Board of Directors The Board currently has five members, comprising the Non-Executive Chairman, Gerald Corbett, two Independent Non-Executive Directors, Michael Wemms and Rob Rowley, and two Executive Directors, Simon Nixon and Paul Doughty.
All of the Directors bring strong judgement to the Boards deliberations.
The Board is of sufficient size and diversity that the balance of skills and experience is considered to be appropriate for the requirements of the Group.
In anticipation of Listing, the Board appointed Gerald Corbett and Michael Wemms as Directors on 28 June 2007 and 10 July 2007 respectively.
Michael Wemms was designated as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
With effect from Rob Rowleys appointment as a Non-Executive Director on 19 September 2007, half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, comprised NonExecutive Directors.
The Board considers that all the Directors are able to devote sufficient time to their duties as Directors.
Biographies of the Board are set out on page 20 including details of the significant commitments of the Chairman.
In the period to 31 December 2007, Gerald Corbett has ceased to be chairman of Woolworths Group plc.
The Board considers that Gerald Corbett was independent on appointment and considers Michael Wemms and Rob Rowley to be independent, being independent in character and judgement and free from relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
When determining the Chairmans independence on appointment, the Board had regard to his share award Share Award.
Under the Share Award, Gerald Corbett purchased ordinary shares in the Company on Listing at 1.70 per ordinary share to the value of 200,000 and provided he completes three years service as Chairman of the Company from Listing and retains the ordinary shares he purchased on Listing during that three year period, he will be entitled to subscribe at nominal value for two times the number of ordinary shares he purchased on Listing.
The Board believes that the number of ordinary shares subject to the Share Award is not sufficient to have an impact on his independence and thus concludes that the Chairman was independent on appointment.
Shareholder approval was obtained prior to the entry by the Company into the Share Award.
To enable the Non-Executive Directors to more freely discuss the performance of the Groups management, the Chairman meets with the Non-Executive Directors at least once each year without the Executive Directors present.
The Directors have direct and unfettered access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Both the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
The Company Secretary is responsible for good information ow, ensures that Board procedures are complied with and provides advice to the Board on corporate governance.
Directors can, where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities as Directors, obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Furthermore, Directors have the right to request that any concerns they may have are recorded in the appropriate Board or Committee minutes.
The practice of the Company is to appoint Non-Executive Directors for specified terms of three years, subject to a maximum of up to 12 months notice within that period and also subject to re-election and to Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of a Director.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, currently holds a letter of appointment reecting this.
Simon Nixon and Paul Doughty were appointed Directors of the Company on 12 April 2007.
With effect from Listing, they each entered into new service agreements with the Company which provides for 12 months notice to be given by either the Director or the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association require that new Directors appointed by the Board must submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
Each of the present Directors were appointed by the Board on or after the Companys incorporation on 14 March 2007 and therefore retires and offers himself for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Companys Articles of Association require that all Directors stand for re-election at intervals of not more than three years.
However, in view of the date upon which all Directors were first appointed, this provision of the Articles of Association has no practical effect in relation to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, but it will be applied in future years.
The Board will confirm to shareholders when proposing the re-election of a Director in the future that the Directors performance continues to be effective and that the Director continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
24 Annual Report 2007 Our Governance www.
com Corporate Governance Report continued The positions of Chairman and Chief Executive officer are not combined, ensuring a clear division of responsibility at the head of the Company.
The division of roles and responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive officer is clearly established, set out in writing and was agreed by the Board on 27 November 2007.
All members of the Board take collective responsibility for the Groups performance.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved to it for decision making and matters delegated to Committees of the Board which are available on the Companys website at www.
The Board determines the Groups strategy: risk management policies: business plan and annual operating budget: acquisitions and disposals and other major investments and capital projects: accounting policies and changes thereto: dividend policy: shareholder communications: prosecution, defence or settlement of material litigation: remuneration policy: the terms of reference of Board committees: and Board structure, composition and succession.
The Board has delegated through the Chief Executive officer and the Chief Financial officer appropriate responsibilities to the Executive Management Team who are responsible for the day-to-day running of the Group, carrying out agreed strategy and implementing specic Board decisions relating to the operation of the Group.
The Company provides Directors and ofcers insurance cover for the benefit of Directors in respect of claims arising in the performance of their duties.
Relationship Agreement The majority shareholder of the Company is Simon Nixon.
Simon Nixon has considerable knowledge and experience of the price comparison market.
Accordingly, the other Directors believe that his membership of the Board and participation in the management of the Company is important to the continued success and growth of the Company.
The Company and Simon Nixon entered into a relationship agreement on 11 July 2007 to regulate the ongoing relationship between the Company and Simon Nixon the Relationship Agreement.
The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that the Company is capable of carrying on its business independently of Simon Nixon, and that transactions and relationships with Simon Nixon are at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
The Company and Simon Nixon have agreed in the Relationship Agreement that Simon Nixon is entitled to appoint such number including himself as a Director one Non-Executive Director for as long as he holds the beneficial interest in at least 15% of the ordinary shares in the Company, two Non-Executive Directors for as long as he holds the beneficial interest in at least 30% of the ordinary shares in the Company and three Non-Executive Directors for as long as he holds the beneficial interest in at least 50% of the ordinary shares in the Company.
The Relationship Agreement will terminate if Simon Nixon holds less than 15% of the ordinary shares in the Company.
The Relationship Agreement also includes a protocol to be observed in relation to any Non-Executive Director appointed by Simon Nixon to deal with potential conicts of interest and the provision of condential information.
As at 31 December 2007, Simon Nixon had not appointed any Non-Executive Directors pursuant to his rights in the Relationship Agreement.
Board Committees The Board has three principal Committees Audit, Nomination and Remuneration to which various matters are delegated.
The Committees all have formal written terms of reference that have been approved by the Board which are published on the Companys website at www.
com and which are available in hard copy form on application to the Company Secretary.
The Directors who served on each of the Committees from Listing to 31 December 2007, and their dates of appointment to those Committees, are set out below: Committee Chairman Member Member Audit Rob Rowley Gerald Corbett Michael Wemms 19 September 2007 19 September 2007 19 September 2007 Nomination Gerald Corbett Michael Wemms Rob Rowley 31 July 2007 31 July 2007 19 September 2007 Remuneration Michael Wemms Gerald Corbett Rob Rowley 31 July 2007 31 July 2007 19 September 2007 Details of the work of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are given in the reports of those Committees on pages 28 to 35.
Board and Committee attendance The Board meets regularly to review the affairs and trading progress of the Group.
If and when required, meetings in addition to the scheduled meetings are held either in person or by telephone conference.
The Board intends to meet at least eight times in each year.
com Annual Report 2007 Our Governance 25 The attendance of the Directors at Board and Committee meetings for the period ended 31 December 2007 are shown in the following table: Audit Nomination Remuneration Name Board Committee Committee Committee Gerald Corbett 4 4 1 1 1 1 3 3 Simon Nixon 4 4 Paul Doughty 4 4 Michael Wemms 4 4 1 1 1 1 3 3 Rob Rowley 2 2 1 1 0 0 2 3 The number in brackets represents the maximum number of meetings in the period that each individual Director was entitled to attend.
The Executive Directors of the Company may attend meetings of the Committees at the invitation of the Chairman of the respective Committees.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met without the Executive Directors being present.
Performance reviews and Directors development The Board has only recently been established with its current membership and it would be premature to conduct any evaluation of the Board until it has been in place for one year.
It is therefore the intention of the Board to undertake formal evaluation of its own performance, of its Committees and of individual Directors in 2008.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director will be responsible for conducting the evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
During the period ended 31 December 2007, each of the appointments of Gerald Corbett, Michael Wemms and Rob Rowley were made on merit and after a selection process conducted with the aid of third party executive search consultants.
The Chairman and Company Secretary are responsible for preparing and implementing an induction programme for Directors, including guidance as to their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a Director of the Company and business familiarisation.
Business familiarisation involves Directors visiting the Companys ofces and giving the Directors the opportunity to meet the Executive Management Team and other senior managers in the business.
They also have the opportunity to discuss organisational, operational and administrative matters.
Every Director has access to appropriate training as required subsequent to appointment.
Shareholder relations The Board is committed to maintaining good communications with shareholders.
Senior executives, including the Chairman, Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer have dialogue with individual institutional shareholders in order to develop an understanding of their views which is fed back to the Board.
General presentations are given to analysts and investors covering the annual and interim results.
The Company Secretary generally deals with questions from individual shareholders.
The results and results presentations, together with all information reported to the market via a regulatory information service, press releases and other shareholder information, are published on the Companys website at www.
com to be viewed and accessed by all shareholders.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive officer or Chief Financial officer have failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
All shareholders will have the opportunity to ask questions at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and at all other times, by e-mailing or writing to the Company.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees will be available to answer questions at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders may also contact the Chairman, the Chief Executive officer or, if more appropriate, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director to raise any issue with one or all of the NonExecutive Directors of the Company.
The Company will prepare separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue.
The results of the votes on each resolution will be published on the Companys website after the Annual General Meeting and will be announced via a regulatory information service.
In the period prior to Listing, the Executive Directors met on a number of occasions with a large number of prospective shareholders of the Company.
Internal control and risk management The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There are inherent limitations in any system of internal financial control and accordingly even the most effective system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance with respect to the preparation of financial information and safeguarding of assets.
26 Annual Report 2007 Our Governance www.
com Corporate Governance Report continued The Board reviews the reports from the Executive Management Team meetings, which are held shortly before a Board meeting, to consider whether significant risks are identied, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
Board members are given appropriate documentation in advance of each Board or Committee meeting.
This normally includes a detailed report on current trading, a financial review and full papers on matters where the Board or Committee will be required to make a decision or give its approval.
Specic business related presentations are given when appropriate.
Additionally, the Board considers reports from the Executive Management Team.
This ensures the Board are briefed on the latest developments and are able to make fully informed decisions.
There is an established procedure for the preparation and review, at least annually, by the Board of business plans and the annual budget.
The Board receives regular reports on performance against the business plan and budget each time it meets.
This information enables business performance to be monitored, evaluated, discussed and challenged where necessary and enables informed, sound decisions to be made.
Prior to Listing and as part of the Listing process, the Board documented and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
The Board meeting held in October 2007 was combined with a two day strategy event to highlight, evaluate and address the key risks facing the Group using an external independent facilitator.
The Executive Management Team were invited to join the strategy event to present to the Board and participate in discussions.
Action plans have been developed following the strategy event to address and manage the key risks facing the Group.
The Groups internal controls are further strengthened by an established governance framework including matters reserved to the Board and the terms of reference of each of its Committees.
The Board is reasonably satisfied that effective controls are in place and that risks have been managed to an acceptable level.
Compliance with the Combined Code The Company was not required to comply with the Combined Code prior to Listing on 31 July 2007.
The Directors consider that during the period between Listing on 31 July 2007 and 31 December 2007, the Company complied with the Combined Code except as follows: A.
6.1 Gerald Corbett was appointed Chairman of the Company with effect from 28 June 2007 and had not completed one year as Chairman before 31 December 2007.
Led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, the Non-Executive Directors will meet without the Chairman present in 2008 to appraise the Chairmans performance.
As at 31 December 2007, this appraisal had not taken place.
2.1 The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive officer was clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board at the Board meeting held on 27 November 2007.
Prior to that date, the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive officer was not formally set out in writing.
3.2 With effect from Rob Rowleys appointment as a Non-Executive Director on 19 September 2007, at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, comprised Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
Prior to Rob Rowleys appointment, excluding the Chairman, the Board comprised two Executive Directors and Michael Wemms who the Board determined to be independent.
The Board considers that Gerald Corbett was independent on appointment as Chairman.
4.1 With effect from Rob Rowleys appointment as a Non-Executive Director on 19 September 2007, a majority of members of the Nomination Committee comprised independent Non-Executive Directors.
Prior to that date, the Nomination Committee comprised Michael Wemms who the Board determined to be an independent Non-Executive Director, and Gerald Corbett.
2.1 The Remuneration Committee comprises Michael Wemms and Rob Rowley, both of whom the Board has determined to be Independent Non-Executive Directors, and Gerald Corbett.
Accordingly, the Remuneration Committee does not comprise at least three independent Non-Executive Directors.
C. 2.1 In 2007, prior to Listing and as part of the Listing process, the Board documented and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
In the period between Listing on 31 July 2007 and 31 November 2007 the Board did not conduct a further review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
In November 2007, the Audit Committee commenced a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls which will be concluded during 2008. www.
com Annual Report 2007 Our Governance 27 C. 3.1 The Audit Committee was established on 19 September 2007 following the appointment of Rob Rowley as a Non-Executive Director.
With effect from Rob Rowleys appointment as a Non-Executive Director, the Audit Committee has comprised Rob Rowley and Michael Wemms, both of whom the Board has determined to be independent Non-Executive Directors, and Gerald Corbett.
Accordingly, the Audit Committee does not comprise at least three independent Non-Executive Directors.
C. 3.4 In 2007, prior to Listing and as part of the Listing process, the Board reviewed arrangements by which staff of the Group may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
These arrangements formed part of the Employee Handbook of the Group during 2007.
In the period between the establishment of the Audit Committee on 19 September 2007 and 31 December 2007, the Audit Committee did not undertake such a review although it scheduled a review for 2008.
On 19 February 2008, the Audit Committee reviewed the arrangements by which staff of the Group may, in confidence, raise such concerns and approved a new policy to enable such concerns to be raised.
C. 3.5 Prior to Listing, the Board considered the need to establish an internal audit function and concluded that the control mechanisms at that time were sufficient for the size and complexity of the Group, such that an internal audit function was not required.
On 27 November 2007, the Audit Committee commenced a review of the effectiveness of, and the framework for, the Groups system of internal control and risk management, which it will conclude during 2008.
This review will include consideration of the need to establish an internal audit function.
D. 1.1 As a result of regular feedback provided to the Board by the Chief Executive officer, Chief Financial officer and Chairman following their dialogue with major shareholders, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director believes he is aware of the views of major shareholders.
Unless requested by major shareholders, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director does not attend meetings with them.
