com Annual Report 2007 Our Governance 29 Nomination Committee Report The Nomination Committee presents a separate report in relation to the period from Listing until 31 December 2007.
The Nomination Committee was established with effect from the Listing of the Company on 31 July 2007.
Composition of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises the three Non-Executive Directors, Gerald Corbett, Michael Wemms and Rob Rowley.
Rob Rowley and Michael Wemms are considered by the Board to be independent.
Gerald Corbett was considered by the Board to be independent on appointment.
Biographies of the members of the Nomination Committee are set out on page 20.
Rob Rowley became a member of the Nomination Committee with effect from his appointment as a Non-Executive Director on 19 September 2007.
Operation of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee met once between its establishment on 31 July 2007 and 31 December 2007.
The attendance record of the Directors at the Nomination Committee meeting is set out on page 25.
The Nomination Committee meets as necessary and is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and, where appropriate, recommending to the Board persons who are appropriate for appointment as Directors.
Careful consideration is given to ensure appointees have enough time available to devote to the role and that the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board is maintained.
When dealing with the appointment of a successor to the Chairman, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director will chair the Nomination Committee instead of the Chairman.
When the Nomination Committee has identied, following an interview process, a suitable candidate to be appointed as a Director, the Chairman of the Nomination Committee will make a recommendation to the Board with the Board making the final decision.
Prior to the Listing of the Company, each of the appointments of Gerald Corbett and Michael Wemms were made by the Board on merit and after a selection process conducted with the aid of third party executive search consultants.
During the year, the Nomination Committee identied, nominated and recommended to the Board the appointment of Rob Rowley as an additional Non-Executive Director of the Company, with the Board making the final decision.
The selection process for the appointment of Rob Rowley was conducted with the aid of third party executive search consultants.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Nomination Committee.
The members of the Nomination Committee can, where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
At the invitation of the Chairman of the Nomination Committee, the Chief Executive officer, Chief Financial officer and Human Resources Director attend the meetings of the Nomination Committee.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are published on the Companys website at www.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors has written letters of appointment.
Their respective letters of appointment set out their expected time commitment to the Company.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors has undertaken that they have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them.
In order that the Board is kept fully appraised of the Nomination Committees work, the Chairman of the Nomination Committee will report on the Nomination Committees work at the next Board meeting.
The Board will also receive a copy of the minutes of each meeting of the Nomination Committee.
This report was approved by the Board on 25 February 2008 and signed on its behalf by: Gerald Corbett Chairman of the Nomination Committee
