Corporate Governance structure and asset base of the Group, the Board Introduction believes that full adherence to the Combined Code Antofagasta plc Antofagasta has an uncommon is not practicable.
Nevertheless, the Board considers ownership structure for a company listed on the that its structure and balance as set out in more London Stock Exchange.
The E. Abaroa Foundation, detail below under the heading Directors provide an entity in which members of the Luksic family are an appropriate basis for ensuring its effectiveness interested, controls 60.65% of the ordinary share and the protection of the interests of all shareholders capital and 94.12% of the preference share capital in the Company.
of the Company through two investment vehicles, Metalinvest Establishment and Kupferberg The Board describes below how it applied the corporate Establishment.
Aureberg Establishment, which is governance principles contained in the Combined Code controlled by Antofagastas Chairman, Mr. J-P Luksic, during 2007.
Two areas where the Company did not holds 4.26% of the ordinary share capital of the comply with the detailed Combined Code provisions Company.
While incorporated in the United Kingdom are set out at the end of this report under the heading and listed on the London Stock Exchange, the Groups Statement of Compliance with the Detailed businesses, which comprise mining, transport and Provisions of the Combined Code.
water distribution, are principally located in Chile, the largest copper-producing country in the world.
Directors Antofagastas Board is committed to managing the The Board operations of the Group with a view to maximising The Directors collectively have responsibility for the value for all shareholders.
The Board currently has conduct of the Groups business.
The Board, which nine members, comprising an Executive Chairman met seven times during 2007, comprises an Executive and eight Non-Executive Directors.
Two of the nine Chairman and eight Non-Executive Directors, six of Directors including the Chairman are members of whom are considered by the Board to be independent.
Seven of the Directors, including There is a schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Chairman, are based in Chile, where the Groups the Board.
The Board is responsible for: operations are principally located: one Director is providing leadership: based in the United Kingdom, where the Company is setting the Groups strategic objectives and key incorporated and listed on the London Stock Exchange: policies: and one Director is based in the United States.
ensuring that appropriate resources are in place The day-to-day operations of the Group are carried to enable the Group to meet its objectives: on through the boards of each division of the Group, Antofagasta Minerals S. A. mining, Antofagasta reviewing the Groups performance: and Railway Company plc FCAB railway and other overseeing the Groups internal control systems.
transport services and Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. water distribution.
Each division is headed by a chief The Chairman will always attempt to persuade the executive officer who reports to his divisional board Board to act as a single team by obtaining consensus and the Chairman of the Group.
The Antofagasta at Board meetings but, in exceptional circumstances, Board oversees these divisional boards and provides decisions will be taken by majority.
The agenda for strategic direction.
Board meetings are set by the Chairman in consultation with the other Directors.
In its consideration of Corporate Governance matters, the Board is mindful of the principles set out in the Responsibility for developing and implementing the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by Groups strategic and financial objectives is delegated the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the to the senior management of the Group.
However, given the ownership the boards of Antofagasta Minerals S. A. mining, the Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 64 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Antofagasta Railway Company plc railway and other from the Chairman responsibility and control of certain transport services and Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. key areas of Board responsibility, and the delegation water distribution meet monthly to consider strategic, of management responsibility to the chief executive operational and risk management issues in more detail.
There is substantial overlap between membership of Board balance and independence the Board of Antofagasta plc and these three divisional The Board considers six of its eight Non-Executive boards.
The chief executive officer of each division Directors to be independent Mr. C H Bailey, reports to his divisional board and the Chairman of the Mr. G S Menendez, Mr. D E Yarur, Mr. J W Ambrus, Group, and the Board oversees these divisional boards Mr. J G Claro and Mr. W M Hayes.
The Board is and provides strategic direction.
The Board is also satisfied that this balance limits the scope for an responsible for reviewing the performance of individual or small group of individuals to dominate the management.
The Non-Executive Directors scrutinise Boards decision-making.
The Directors Report sets the performance of management in meeting goals and out biographical details of each Director and identifies objectives and also monitor the reporting of performance, those Directors standing for re-election on page 61. through the activities of the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee.
Mr. Yarur, Mr. Claro, Mr. Ambrus and Mr. Hayes meet the independence criteria set out in Combined Code Directors who served during 2007 are set out on provision A.
3.1 and the Board is satisfied as to their page 153.
There were no changes to the membership independence.
The Board is satisfied that Mr. Bailey remains The recognised senior independent Non-Executive independent in character and judgement, notwithstanding Director is Mr. C H Bailey, who is also Chairman of the that he has served on the Board for more than nine Audit Committee.
Mr. G S Menendez is Chairman of years, since he does not receive any remuneration the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The from the Company other than Non-Executive Directors Board does not have a Director formally designated as fees, nor does he have any other relationships with the Chief Executive.
Company or its majority shareholder.
The Board is also Chairman and Chief Executive satisfied that Mr. Menendez remains independent in Mr. J-P Luksic is Chairman of the Board.
His role is that character and judgement, notwithstanding that he has of a full-time Executive Chairman, and he has no other also served on the Board for more than nine years and significant commitments that prevent him from devoting notwithstanding that he is a non-executive director of sufficient time to this role.
As explained above, the Group Quienco S. A. a Chilean-listed company also controlled does not have a Board member who is designated as by the Luksic family and Banco fide Chile, part of the Chief Executive.
Mr. Marcelo Awad is chief executive Quienco Group.
This is because he does not receive officer of Antofagasta Minerals S. A. : Mr. Miguel any remuneration from the Group other than in a Sepulveda is chief executive officer of the Antofagasta Non-Executive capacity.
His position in the Quienco Railway Company plc: and Mr. Marco Kutulas is the group is also solely as a non-executive director.
The chief executive officer of Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A.
Board considers that Mr. Baileys and Mr. Menendezs length of service is of considerable benefit to the Board The Board believes that the Company is not at risk given their wealth of knowledge and experience of the from a concentration of power by Mr. J-P Luksic Group and of Latin America and the mining industry, having executive responsibilities as Chairman.
In and therefore proposes both for re-election.
reaching this conclusion, it has taken into consideration the strong presence of Non-Executive Directors on the Mr. Ambrus was appointed a Non-Executive Director Board, the structure of the Audit, Remuneration and of Antofagasta plc in 2005, and consequently has Nomination Committees designed to devolve away served as a Director of the Company for two years.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 65 Corporate Governance continued He was appointed a non-executive director of The Nomination Committee periodically reviews Antofagasta Minerals S. A. a subsidiary of Antofagasta the composition of the Board including the balance plc, in 1997, and has consequently served as a director between Executive and Non-Executive Directors of that company for ten years.
While this is not a and considers succession planning for both Executive circumstance listed in Combined Code provision A.
3.1 and Non-Executive Directors and the Groups senior as relevant to determining a directors independence management.
It is also responsible for the process unlike the length of service as a Director of the listed for new Board appointments and makes Company, the Board has nevertheless considered this recommendations to the Board on the appointment and remains satisfied that Mr. Ambrus remains of new Directors and is responsible for ensuring that independent in character and judgement as he does appointments are made on merit and against objective not receive any remuneration from the company other criteria.
In fulfilling these responsibilities, the than in a Non-Executive capacity and does not have Nomination Committee consults the Chairman, any material business relationship with the company.
The Nomination Committee meets Details of fees paid by the Group to Ingeniera y as necessary and, in any case, at least once a year.
Servicios Computacionales Geovectra S. A. a company Its terms of reference are available from the Companys controlled by Mr. Ambrus, are disclosed in Note 37 registered office and may be viewed on the Companys to the financial statements.
The Board has also website www.
considered these amounts and does not consider In making appointments to the Board, the Nomination them material either to Mr. Ambrus or the Group.
Committee considers the skills, experience and The Board does not consider Mr. R F Jara or knowledge of the existing Directors and assesses Mr. G A Luksic to be independent.
Mr. Jara provides which of the potential candidates would most benefit advisory services to the Group, as explained in the the Board.
It considers the potential candidates Remuneration Report on pages 72 and 73.
Mr. G A knowledge and experience of Chile, the mining Luksic is the brother of Mr. J-P Luksic, the Chairman of industry in Latin America, capital markets and the Antofagasta plc.
Mr. G A Luksic is chairman of regulatory environment and that he has sufficient time Quienco S. A. and Madeco S. A. and a director of to devote to the role.
The Chairman ensures that any Quiencos other listed subsidiaries.
Mr. J-P Luksic new Directors are provided with a full induction on and Mr. Menendez are also non-executive directors joining the Board.
of Quienco and some of its listed subsidiaries.
All Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment Like Antofagasta, Quienco is also controlled by with the Company, for an initial period of three years the Luksic family.
from the date of their appointment, subject to reappointment at the Annual General Meeting.
Appointments to the Board These letters require the Non-Executive Directors The Nomination Committee currently comprises to undertake that they will have sufficient time to Mr. G S Menendez Chairman, Mr. C H Bailey and discharge their responsibilities.
appointment are available for inspection at the As explained above, Mr. Bailey and Mr. Menendez Companys registered office during normal business are considered by the Board to be independent hours and at the Annual General Meeting for Non-Executive Directors.
15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 66 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors based outside the United Kingdom also Information and professional development regularly visit this country, again at least once a year.
The Directors receive information for review ahead of each Board or Committee Meeting.
In addition, they Group management in the United Kingdom and Chile receive regular reports and forecasts for the Group and is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and each significant operation to ensure that they remain applicable rules and regulations are complied with and properly briefed about the performance and financial for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all position of the Group throughout the year.
Company secretarial advice is have access to management and to such further provided by Petershill Secretaries Limited.
information as is needed to carry out their duties and Performance evaluation responsibilities fully and effectively.
Furthermore, all The Board periodically considers its performance Directors are entitled to seek independent professional and effectiveness.
A performance evaluation was advice concerning the affairs of the Group at the conducted during 2007 by Mr. G S Menendez, with Companys expense.
the assistance of senior management, covering the The Company also provides Directors with the Board, its committees and its individual members.
necessary resources to develop and update their Mr. C H Bailey, as the senior independent knowledge and capabilities.
In particular, the Directors Non-Executive Director was responsible for the are continually updated on the Groups business, the evaluation of the Chairman.
The results were competitive and regulatory environment in which it discussed with the Chairman and considered by the operates and other changes affecting the Group as a Board and were taken into account in the decision whole.
The Directors based outside of Chile visit the to recommend re-election at the forthcoming Annual country regularly and at least once a year, and the General Meeting during 2008.
The Board is satisfied Directors attendance at meetings in 2007 The number of Board and Committee meetings held during 2007, together with details of each Directors attendance, is set out below: Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum attended possible attended possible attended possible attended possible J-P Luksic 7 7 C H Bailey 77441133 G S Menendez 77441133 R F Jara 6 7 1 1 1 D E Yarur 5734 33 G A Luksic 4 7 J W Ambrus 7 7 J G Claro 6 7 W M Hayes 7 7 1 Mr. D E Yarur was unable to attend 1 Board meeting and 1 Audit Committee meeting between August and October 2007 due to a serious accident during the year from which he has now fully recovered.
All Directors in office at the time of the Annual General Meeting in June 2007 attended that meeting.
Each Director withdrew from any meeting when his own position was being considered.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 67 Corporate Governance continued that each Director continues to contribute effectively In the case of the Groups IFRS financial statements, and demonstrates commitment to his role.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial Re-election year the Groups financial position, financial Each Director is elected by shareholders at the Annual performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful General Meeting following his first appointment.
The representation of the effects of transactions, other Companys Articles of Association provide that not less events and conditions in accordance with the than one-third of the Directors must retire by rotation definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, each year and that each Director is re-elected at least income and expenses set out in the international once every three years.
Non-Executive Directors who Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the have served for more than nine years are subject to Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
annual re-election in accordance with provision A.
7.2 In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will of the Combined Code.
be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
Directors are also required to: The Directors retiring and standing for re-election at properly select and apply accounting policies: this years Annual General Meeting are Mr. J-P Luksic, Mr. C H Bailey, Mr. G S Menendez, Mr. G A Luksic, present information, including accounting policies, in Mr. J W Ambrus and Mr. J G Claro.
Biographical details a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable of these Directors are set out in the Directors Report and understandable information: and on page 61. provide additional disclosures when compliance with The Chairman confirms that the Board is satisfied the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to that each of the Directors proposed for re-election enable users to understand the impact of particular continues to be effective and continues to transactions, other events and conditions on the demonstrate commitment to his role.
entitys financial position and financial performance.
In the case of the Companys UK GAAP financial Remuneration statements, the Directors are required to prepare The membership of the Remuneration Committee, a financial statements for each financial year which give statement of the Companys policy on remuneration, a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the and the remuneration details and shareholding Company and of the profit and loss of the Company interests of each Director are contained in the for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, Remuneration Report on pages 72 to 75. the Directors are required to: Accountability and Audit select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Financial reporting statement of Directors responsibilities make judgements and estimates that are reasonable The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual and prudent: and Report and the financial statements.
The Directors are state whether applicable accounting standards have required to prepare financial statements for the Group in been followed, subject to any material departures accordance with International Financial Reporting disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and have chosen to prepare Company financial The Directors are responsible for keeping proper statements in accordance with United Kingdom accounting records which disclose with reasonable Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP.
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 68 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking During the course of its review of the system of reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of internal control, the Board has not identified nor been fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has of the Directors Report and the Remuneration Report determined to be significant.
Therefore a confirmation which comply with the requirements of the Companies in respect of necessary actions is not required.
Corporate social responsibility The Boards statement on going concern is included The Board takes into account the community, social, in the Financial Review on page 32. environmental and ethical impact of its decisions and is responsible for the relevant policies of the Group.
Internal control Through the Groups risk management processes The Board has applied principle C. 2 of the Combined described under Internal Control above, key issues Code by establishing a continuous process for of social responsibility are identified and assessed.
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant More information on corporate social responsibility risks the Group faces.
The Board regularly reviews is given on pages 36 to 59 of the Annual Report.
the process, which has been in place from the start of the 2007 financial year to the date of approval of Whistleblowing procedures this report and which is in accordance with revised The Audit Committee, whose other functions guidance on internal control published in October 2005 are described below, is responsible for reviewing the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board is responsible for arrangements by which employees of the Group the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve matters.
An Ethics Code is in place across the Group, business objectives, and can only provide reasonable which includes a procedure to enable employees to and not absolute assurance against material raise concerns, anonymously if necessary.
An Ethics misstatement or loss.
Committee is responsible for implementing, developing and updating the Ethics Code and investigating any In compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the Combined allegations of impropriety.
The Ethics Committee reports Code, the Board regularly reviews the effectiveness directly to the Audit Committee, which considered the of the Groups system of internal control.
The Boards results of its work and the operation of the Ethics Code monitoring covers all controls, including financial, together with its annual review of the effectiveness operational and compliance controls and risk of internal control.
It is based principally on reviewing reports from management to consider whether Audit Committee and Auditors significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed The Audit Committee currently comprises and controlled and whether any significant Mr. C H Bailey Chairman, Mr. G S Menendez and weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a Mr. D E Yarur, all of whom are considered by the Board need for more extensive monitoring.
The Board has to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
All three also performed a specific assessment for the purpose members are considered to have recent and relevant of this Annual Report.
This assessment considers all financial experience.
significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by the report including the work The Audit Committee meets at least twice and of internal audit.
The Audit Committee assists the normally four times a year with the external auditors in attendance.
The Audit Committees purpose is to Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 69 Corporate Governance continued assist the Board in meeting its responsibilities relating work.
The Audit Committee has also considered the to financial reporting and control matters.
In particular, effectiveness of the external audit function through it reviews the scope and nature of the audit and issues the year through meetings with Deloitte & Touche LLP, arising from it and is responsible for ensuring the a review of their audit plan and a consideration of the independence of the external auditors including results of work performed by the external auditors their objectivity and effectiveness, monitoring the prior to release of the interim and full year results.
provision of any non-audit services and for making Relations with Shareholders recommendations to the Board for the appointment, Directors and senior management regularly meet reappointment or removal of the external auditors.
with institutional shareholders and analysts in the It reviews the internal control and risk assessment United Kingdom, Europe, Chile and the United States.
procedures adopted by the Group described in the The senior independent Non-Executive Director, section under the heading Internal Controls above, Mr. C H Bailey, also attends a number of meetings including a review of the effectiveness of the internal with major shareholders during the year.
It also monitors the integrity of the Non-Executive Directors are given the opportunity financial statements and Directors statements on to meet with major shareholders and attend meetings internal controls and reviews the going concern basis if requested to do so by shareholders.
These prior to its endorsement by the Board.
The Committee meetings ensure that the Board is able to develop also reviews the preliminary announcement, the an understanding of the views of several of the interim report and any other public reports relating Companys major investors.
to the Groups financial performance.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available from The Company carries out a formal programme of the Companys registered office and may be viewed presentations to update institutional shareholders on the Companys website www.
and analysts on developments in the Group after the announcement of the interim and full year results.
The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to In addition, quarterly production figures and financial investigate any activity within its terms of reference.
results are published for the mining, transport and It is authorised to seek any information it requires water divisions.
Copies of these results and from any employees and all employees are directed production announcements, presentations and other to co-operate with any request made by the press releases issued by the Company are available Audit Committee.
The Companys external auditors, Deloitte & Touche The Companys Annual General Meeting AGM is LLP, have provided non-audit services to the Company, also used as an opportunity to communicate with both which amounted to US$95,000.
This comprised the institutional and private shareholders and the Board of provision of services relating to tax compliance, Directors encourages their attendance.
The notice of implementation advice regarding IAS 32 39 on financial the AGM is sent to shareholders at least 20 working instruments and other consultancy services.
days in advance of the meeting.
At the meeting, the The Audit Committee has reviewed the level of these Company complies with the Combined Code as it services in the course of the year and is confident that relates to voting, including votes withheld, the the objectivity and independence of the auditors are separation of the resolutions and the attendance not in any way impaired by reason of such non-audit of committee chairmen.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 70 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of Compliance with the Detailed Provisions of the Combined Code As explained above, the Company complied with the detailed code provisions contained in the Combined Code throughout 2007 and to the date of this report except as follows: the Board does not have a separately identified Chief Executive and there is no formal separation of the functions of Chairman and Chief Executive at Board level provision A.
As explained above, the Group has separate chief executives for its mining, transport and water distribution divisions who report to their respective divisional boards and the Chairman of the Group.
The Board considers that its predominantly non-executive composition combined with the delegation of management responsibility to the chief executive officer of each division achieves an appropriate balance and prevents a concentration of power by its Executive Chairman: and performance related pay measures did not apply to Board members provision B.
The Board considers this appropriate given its predominantly Non-Executive composition and the role of the only Executive Director, who is a member of the controlling family, as Chairman of the Board.
Performance related bonuses are paid to senior management in the Group based on a combination of personal, divisional and Group performance assessed against targets set at the start of each year.
Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 71
