CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of compliance with the Combined Code Throughout the year ended 4 January 2008 the Company has been in compliance with Section 1 of the June 2006 edition of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code which was adopted on a voluntary basis for the year beginning 5 January 2007.
This statement describes how the Company has applied the main and supporting principles of the Code.
It should be read in conjunction with the Business review and Remuneration report on pages 16 to 39 and pages 50 to 59 respectively.
Directors The Board The Board is collectively responsible to the Companys shareholders for the success of the Company.
The Board is satisfied it has met the Codes requirements for its effective operation.
It has set the Companys strategic aims, which were reviewed during the year and has ensured that there is a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the Companys values and standards which are contained in the Statement of Core Values and Ethics Policy, both of which are referred to on page 34 in the Business review.
The Board met formally nine times during the year to review current performance against agreed objectives and to make and review major business decisions.
There is a schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Board, including significant contractual commitments acquisition or disposal of companies businesses, treasury and intellectual property transactions, the review of the effectiveness of risk management processes, major capital expenditure and corporate responsibility.
Various matters are delegated to duly authorised subcommittees of the Board.
During the year a number of changes to the Board were announced.
On 7 December 2007, Andrew Given was appointed as a non-executive Director and it was announced that Joe MacHale will retire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in April 2008.
At that point, Andrew Given will become Chairman of the Audit Committee.
On 2 January 2008, Mark Lejman resigned from the Board.
As at 4 January 2008, the Board comprises Tim Stevenson, Chairman: Mark Robertshaw, Chief Executive Officer: Kevin Dangerfield, Chief Financial Officer and four independent non-executive Directors.
Joe MacHale is the Senior Independent Director.
Biographies of the Directors are set out on page 41.
All Directors submit themselves for election by the shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and for re-election at least once every three years.
Should a non-executive Director serve for more than six years his re-election would be subject to particularly rigorous review.
Should any Director serve for longer than nine years he would then be subject to annual re-election.
The attendance of each Director at Board, Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committee meetings is set out in the table below.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Eligible Eligible Eligible Eligible Director to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended Tim Stevenson 99 66 33 Mark Robertshaw 9 9 3 3 Kevin Dangerfield 9 9 Mark Lejman 9 9 Joseph MacHale 9 95 56 63 3 Martin Flower 97 55 66 33 Andrew Given 1 1 1 1 Simon Heale 9 95 56 63 3 Excludes meetings attended by invitation for all or part of a meeting.
During 2007, the Chairman and the non-executive Directors met without the executive Directors present.
An appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance policy is in place.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC 45 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman, who is responsible for running the Board, and the Chief Executive Officer, who is responsible for running the Companys business, is clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
Board balance and independence In the year under review, the Company complied with the requirement of the Code that at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
At the year end, in addition to the Chairman, whom the Company deemed to be independent on appointment, the Board comprised two executive Directors and four independent non-executive Directors.
Appointments to the Board As is further detailed in the report of the Nomination Committee, set out on page 49, there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for appointments to the Board.
The Board is satisfied that there are succession plans in place for appointments to the Board and for senior management.
Information and professional development The Board receives, in a timely manner, information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties, with Board papers generally sent out five working days before each meeting.
All Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the Board, and have letters of appointment confirming what is expected of them.
Training and development needs are assessed as part of the Board Performance Review process and the Directors regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge, including their familiarity with the Company.
In addition to the Directors visiting operations and meeting with management, each year at least one Board meeting is held at an operating facility.
During 2007 this took place at the Thermal Ceramics manufacturing site at Bromborough, Merseyside, UK.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who, with the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are observed.
The Directors may also seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense in connection with their duties as Directors, and a procedure is in place to facilitate this.
Performance evaluation The performance of the Board, its committees and of the individual Directors was formally reviewed during the year.
The process was facilitated by external specialists and included structured interviews with each Director and with certain members of the Executive Committee covering overall and individual performance, Board composition, Board dynamics, processes and communications, the effectiveness of committees and benchmarking.
The results of the review were presented to the Board with one-to-one feedback where appropriate.
The non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, met without the Chairman present to evaluate the Chairmans performance during the year, taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
Remuneration Remuneration policy and practice is discussed in the Remuneration report on pages 50 to 59.
Accountability and audit The assessment of the Companys position and prospects as required by the Code is included in the Business review on pages 16 to 39.
The Board also presents updated information in its Interim reports and other price sensitive announcements.
A summary of the statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual report and the financial statements is set out on page 49 and the going concern statement is set out in the Business review on page 31.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
Through the Audit Committee, the Board reviews the effectiveness of the internal control system annually.
This review covers all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management systems.
Over the past year, internal audits have been focused on smaller sites and in emerging countries to help ensure that practices are brought into line with Morgan Crucible codes of conduct and business ethics, including in respect of import export control compliance, EHS and accounting.
In addition, crisis management and business continuity plans have been reviewed.
As is detailed further in the Business review, the anti-competitive behaviour compliance programme is ongoing.
The review of internal controls also includes consideration of the Turnbull Risk Review and the effectiveness of the various risk management systems in place to manage the risks identified.
The Board delegates the establishment and implementation of the systems for internal control and risk management to the operating Divisions which are responsible for the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their areas of business together with the design and operation of suitable internal controls.
The Board delegates the monitoring and review of the internal control and risk management systems to the Audit Committee assisted by the Risk Management Committee.
The Risk Management Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, reviews the full range of risks faced by Morgan Crucible as a Group, ensures there are adequate systems in place and evaluates their effectiveness.
Where necessary, the Risk Management Committee initiates action to improve the systems and ensure compliance.
46 THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Directors believe that the Groups system of internal financial controls provides reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the assets of the Group are safeguarded: transactions are authorised and recorded in a correct and timely manner: and that such controls would prevent and detect, within a timely period, material errors or irregularities.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and to address key business and financial risks, including social, environmental and ethical risks.
The internal control framework complements the Groups management structure.
The main features of the formal system for assessing the potential risks to which the Group is exposed are summarised as follows:  Financial reporting A detailed budgeting system for each Division exists with an annual consolidated budget reviewed and approved by the Board.
Businesses present their revenue and capital expenditure budgets for approval.
Monthly results for the Group are presented to the Executive Committee and the Board, including comparisons against budget and the prior year.
The Groups annual and half-yearly results are reported externally, in addition to interim management statements.
The annual results are audited and the half-yearly results are reviewed by the auditors.
 Performance monitoring There are regular meetings of the Board and of the Executive Committee.
A comparison of forecast and actual results is considered, including cash flows and comparisons against budget and the prior year.
Divisional management teams also meet regularly to review performance.
Presentations of actual and forecast performance are made to the Executive Committee by the Groups Divisional Chief Executive Officers.
In addition, regular site visits are made by members of the Executive Committee.
 Risk management The identification of major business risks is an ongoing process, and, as noted in the Internal Control section, this is carried out in conjunction with operating management.
Steps are taken to mitigate or manage any material risks identified.
The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, receives reports on financial, taxation, insurance, pension, legal and social, environmental and ethical risks from management.
The Divisional Chief Executives cover risk issues at their management meetings and the Director of Operational Risk helps to ensure that internal control and risk management is embedded into the Groups operations.
 Risk factors The businesses of Morgan Crucible are affected by a number of factors, many of which are influenced by macroeconomic trends and are therefore outside the Companys immediate control, although as described above and in the Business review, the identification and management of such risks is carried out systematically.
Audit Committee and auditors The Board has formal and transparent arrangements for considering how the Directors apply the financial reporting and internal control principles, and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Companys auditors.
This requirement is met by the work of the Audit Committee, as described below, and by the audit work carried out by the Companys external auditors, KPMG Audit plc.
The Audit Committee has received confirmation from KPMG Audit plc that its general procedures support the auditors independence and objectivity in relation to non-audit services.
After considering such procedures the opinion of the Audit Committee was that the auditors objectivity and independence was safeguarded despite the provision of non-audit services by KPMG Audit plc.
Relations with shareholders Dialogue with shareholders The importance of dialogue with major shareholders is recognised and meetings are held in order to help achieve a mutual understanding of objectives.
In this respect, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer make themselves available to major shareholders as appropriate throughout the year, in particular at the time of the preliminary and interim announcements.
The Chairman also discusses governance and other matters directly with shareholders.
The Chairman has attended investor briefings and other non-executive Directors are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and attend if requested.
The Senior Independent Director is available to attend separate meetings with major shareholders on request.
To help facilitate dialogue with shareholders, the Investor Relations section of the Companys website includes details of stock exchange announcements, press releases, presentations, webcasts and other information relevant to investors.
Following the announcement of the Groups Preliminary and Interim results and after other significant statements and presentations, an investor survey is carried out and the results are presented to and discussed by the Board.
In addition, the Board is provided with brokers reports and feedback from shareholder meetings on a regular basis.
Constructive use of the AGM The Annual General Meeting is normally attended by all members of the Board and by a representative of the auditors.
The results of the proxy voting on all resolutions are provided for all attendees.
At the AGM held in April 2007, the Chief Executive Officer made a short business presentation.
Shareholders are also invited to ask questions during the meeting, and have the opportunity to meet the Directors and other members of senior management before and after the formal meeting.
Board committees The full terms of reference of the following Board committees are available upon request and are available on the Companys website.
Audit The Audit Committee assists the Board in effectively discharging its responsibilities for financial reporting and corporate control.
Andrew Given joined the Committee on his appointment to the Board on 7 December 2007 and as at 4 January 2008, membership of the Committee consisted of Martin Flower, Andrew Given, Simon Heale and Joe MacHale who is the Committee Chairman, all of whom are independent Directors.
The Committee has the power to, and does, request the attendance at meetings of any Director, auditor or member of management as may be considered appropriate by the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee also meets the external and internal auditors without the executive Directors or other members of management present.
The Audit Committee met five times during the year.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC 47 The Audit Committees terms of reference include:  monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained in them:  reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and the Companys internal control and risk management systems:  monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function:  making recommendations to the Board, for it to put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors:  reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity, and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: and  developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors: and to report to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
The Committee has the authority to investigate any matters according to its terms of reference and may obtain external advice at the cost of the Company.
The Director of Operational Risk has access to the Chairman of the Committee and meets, when appropriate, with the Committee without other executives present.
The work of the Committee in discharging those responsibilities in 2007 included:  reviewing the Groups 2006 financial statements and 2007 interim results statements prior to Board approval.
 consideration of the Groups main business risks and receiving regular updates on areas of risk in accordance with the Turnbull Committee guidance.
 reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit and risk management systems.
 consideration of the work and plans for the internal audit function.
 appraisal of the Companys whistleblowing and related procedures and policies.
 confirmation of the external auditors terms of engagement and fee structures: and  monitoring the level of non-audit work of the auditors, which in 2007 included services amounting to 0.5 million, mainly in connection with acquisitions in the USA, internal control audits undertaken in a number of developing countries and tax services in various jurisdictions in connection with compliance work.
To ensure the objectivity and independence of the external auditors the policy implemented by the Committee for the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors is in summary as follows:  certain non-audit services may not be provided by the external auditors:  any non-audit work proposed to be placed with the external auditor with a fee in excess of 200,000 should be referred to the Audit Committee: and  the prior approval of the Audit Committee is required for any non-audit work which, when added to the fees paid for other non-audit work, would total more than 80% of the audit fee.
The external auditors have processes in place to safeguard their independence and have written to the Committee confirming that, in their opinion, they are independent.
The Company last changed its auditors in late 2001 and during the year undertook a formal review of the external auditor which included a re-tender presentation.
Following the review the Committee recommended to the Board that the Groups audit work should not be put out to third party tender during 2007.
Remuneration As is further described in the Remuneration report on pages 50 to 59, the Remuneration Committee has responsibility for setting remuneration for all executive Directors and the Chairman, including benefits such as share options and awards under the Companys incentive plans, pension rights and any compensation payments.
The Committee also monitors the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
Andrew Given joined the Remuneration Committee on his appointment to the Board, and as at 4 January 2008, membership of the Committee consisted of Tim Stevenson, Martin Flower, Andrew Given, Joe MacHale and Simon Heale who is the Committee Chairman.
The Committee is assisted in its duties by the Group Chief Executive, the Company Secretary and the Director of Human Resources, none of whom takes part in discussion of their own remuneration or votes on any resolution.
The Committee also has the power to request, for all or part of any meeting, the attendance of any Director or member of management as may be considered appropriate by the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee met six times during the year.
The Committee reviews contracts and authorises the remuneration, performance-related and discretionary bonuses including performance targets and other benefits of the executive Directors.
All executive Directors are employed on contracts subject to 12 months notice of termination at any time.
It is policy to disclose the fees of any executive Director who serves as a non-executive Director of another company.
During the year Mark Robertshaw served as a non-executive Director of Rathbone Brothers plc and Mark Lejman served as a non-executive Director of Delta plc.
The fees received by Mark Robertshaw and Mark Lejman in this regard are shown on page 56.
48 THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE As is further detailed in the Remuneration report, the Committee uses specialist consultants and advisers where appropriate.
The Committee sets relevant criteria for awards granted under the Companys various share and share option schemes.
The non-executive Directors do not participate in share schemes and bonuses nor do they qualify for pension benefits.
The Report of the Remuneration Committee, which includes details of Directors remuneration and Directors interests in options and shares, is set out on pages 50 to 59.
Nomination The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new Directors.
A majority of members of the Nomination Committee are independent non-executive Directors.
At 4 January 2008, membership consisted of Tim Stevenson as Chairman, Martin Flower, Andrew Given, Simon Heale, Joe MacHale and Mark Robertshaw.
Andrew Given joined the Committee on his appointment to the Board on 7 December, 2007.
The Committee has the power to request the attendance of any other Director or member of management, for all or part of any meeting, as may be considered appropriate by the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee met three times during 2007.
The Nomination Committee reviews the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board: succession planning and the leadership needs of the Group.
In light of this review, the Committee prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
Candidates for appointment as Director are considered by the Committee, taking advice from external consultants where appropriate.
These procedures, including the use of external search consultants, were used in the appointment of Andrew Given as a non-executive Director with effect from 7 December 2007.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors are available for inspection.
Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, are asked to undertake that they will have sufficient time to meet their commitments to the Company.
Their other significant commitments are disclosed to the Board before appointment, with a broad indication of the time involved and the Board is informed of any subsequent changes.
The terms of appointment for non-executive Directors do not include a notice period.
Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and the performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation and of the profit or loss of the parent Company for that period.
The parent Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent Company and of the profit or loss of the parent Company for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to:  select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
 for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
 for the parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent Company financial statements: and  prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors report, Directors Remuneration report and Corporate Governance report that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By Order of the Board Paul Boulton Secretary 19 February 2008 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THE MORGAN CRUCIBLE COMPANY PLC 49
