36 Group Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report Report and Accounts 2007 Mouchel Parkman plc Corporate Governance Report The Board is committed to the principles of good corporate governance Chairman set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance adopted by Richard Benton became Chairman of Mouchel plc in 2001 and of the the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Code.
This report sets combined Group in 2003.
He also chairs the Nomination Committee.
out the Companys compliance with the Code.
The Chairman carries responsibility for ensuring the efficient operation of the Board and its Committees, for ensuring that corporate governance Statement of compliance with the Combined Code matters are addressed, and for representing the Group externally and During the year the Company conducted a review of corporate communicating with shareholders when required.
governance and has complied with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code except in respect of the number of independent Chief Executive Non-Executive Directors appointed to the Audit and Remuneration The Chief Executive, Richard Cuthbert, is responsible for the executive Committees throughout the year ended 31 July 2007. management of the Group.
He has responsibility to recommend and to implement the Groups strategic objectives.
Following the Companys promotion to the FTSE 250 index in September 2006, the Company was unable to take advantage Senior Independent Director of the exemptions available to small companies within the Combined The Senior Independent Director is Rodney Westhead.
His Code in respect of the number of independent Non-Executive Directors responsibilities include being available to liaise with shareholders appointed to the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
In recognition should this be necessary.
of the need for the appointment of an additional Non-Executive Director, Debbie Hewitt was appointed in September 2007 following an Board processes extensive search and has been appointed to the Audit, Remuneration The Board is scheduled to meet monthly and no less than 10 times a and Nomination Committees.
The Board also meets at least once a year to review the strategic direction of the Group.
In addition to normal scheduled meetings, The Board the Board will convene to deal with urgent matters.
A table showing The Board comprised the Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive attendance of the main Committees and the Board is on page 39.
Directors and three Non-Executive Directors during the year under review.
Debbie Hewitt was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company September 2007.
The Board believes that all Non-Executive Directors Secretary and Directors may, in furtherance of their duties, seek are independent of management and have no business or other independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The relationships which could materially interfere with the exercise of their Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures independent judgement.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive and applicable rules and regulations are followed.
The Company are separate and clearly defined.
Secretary, in consultation with the Chairman, ensures that the information presented to the Board is not only timely but of sufficient The Board annually reviews the composition of the Board and is aware quality to enable members to make an informed decision.
that as the Company grows there may be the need for additional Non-Executive Directors to be appointed.
Directors biographical details The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet annually without are set out on page 31. the Executive Directors present.
The Senior Independent Director is responsible for leading the appraisal of the Chairmans performance The role of the Board with the other Non-Executive Directors.
The Boards principal responsibility is to deliver shareholder value and provide an overall vision and leadership for the Group.
It also has an In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, one-third of oversight role, monitoring operational plans and ensuring internal the Board is required to retire by rotation each year, but if any Director controls and risk management are effective.
There is a formal schedule has, at the start of the AGM, been in office for three years or more since of matters reserved for the Board, which provides a framework for his last appointment or re-appointment, he shall retire at the AGM.
In the Board to oversee the control of the Groups direction and affairs.
addition, any Director appointed during the year is subject to election These include the approval of the Financial Statements and dividends, at the AGM after their appointment.
The Non-Executive Directors are strategy, acquisitions and disposals, major projects, contracts, appointed for an initial three-year term after which they are subject to delegated authorities, major capital expenditure, risk management annual re-appointment.
strategies, health and safety and succession planning.
Whilst the Board is responsible for the overall strategy of the Group, and meets at least once a year to review strategy and the future of the business, the implementation of the strategy is delegated to the Chief Executive.
The Board is assisted in carrying out its duties by the Board Committees which are described on pages 37 and 38.
The Directors are satisfied that the Board continues to deliver a strategic vision and effective leadership for the Group.
37 Group Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report Report and Accounts 2007 Mouchel Parkman plc Board performance and evaluation Each Committee has clearly defined terms of reference which The Board is committed to evaluating its own performance.
This year, are reviewed annually.
The terms of reference are available on the the Board undertook a formal evaluation of its own performance and Companys website.
The Board is kept fully informed of the decisions that of its Committees.
The evaluation was conducted in accordance of its Committees and the minutes are circulated with the Board with suggestions for good practice contained in the Higgs Report.
A summary of the Committees of the Board and their Board member completed a detailed questionnaire, the responses to membership is provided below.
which were all reviewed by the Chairman and discussed in detail with the entire Board.
Group Management Board The Group Management Board GMB supports the Chief Executive The evaluation covers areas such as the Boards role and culture, and other Executive Directors in the performance of their duties, including: strategy, current issues and performance, investors, risk management and controls, individual board member contributions, knowledge the development and implementation of strategy, the Group and skills, board structure, succession planning, board meetings, corporate plan and operational plans, policies, procedures Committees including Audit, Remuneration and Nomination and budgets: Committees.
The outcome of the evaluation was positive and a the monitoring of operating and financial performance on a number of actions already taken.
There has been an increase in the day-to-day basis: availability of continued professional development for the Directors.
In the assessment and control of risk: relation to the Board and Committee composition, Debbie Hewitt has the prioritisation and allocation of resources: been appointed to the Board in September 2007 as a Non-Executive ensuring active co-operation and communication between Director, and to each of the Remuneration and the Audit Committees all parts of the business: in October 2007.
Succession planning throughout the Group and monitoring of competitors: and up to Board level has also been improved.
leading and facilitating change and learning in the organisation.
Directors induction and training The GMB is chaired by the Chief Executive, and comprises the In order to address the Boards continuing professional development, Group Finance Director, the Company Secretary, the Director the Board is required to meet with key senior managers regularly in of Human Resources, the IT Director and the Managing Directors order to gain a better understanding of the businesses.
A formal of the principal businesses.
schedule of annual updates on legislative and regulatory changes with respect to Directors duties, listing rules, health and safety and Audit Committee corporate governance is built in to the Board agenda when required.
The Audit Committee, chaired by Ian Knight, assists the Board in These presentations are provided, where relevant, by the Companys observing its responsibilities regarding the Groups Financial Statements corporate lawyers, brokers, Health and Safety Director or Company and associated announcements, the adequacy of internal control and Secretary.
External training is also made available where appropriate.
risk management systems and the work of the external Auditors.
The Board members are able to attend external courses where they feel terms of reference of the Audit Committee were reviewed during the that these will keep them updated or will improve their effectiveness year, a copy of which is available on the Companys website.
Westhead is also a member of the Committee.
The Board believes that both members of the Committee have recent and relevant On appointment, new Directors are required to undertake an induction financial experience.
programme, which consists of an introductory pack prepared by the Company Secretary, providing information on the Company, such as During the year under review, the Company was promoted to the terms of reference and business area reviews.
The Director is required FTSE 250 index and was no longer able to take advantage of the to meet with the Managing Directors of each business stream and small company exemptions within the Combined Code in respect of key senior management within six months of the start of his her the number of independent Non-Executive Directors appointed to the appointment.
Debbie Hewitt successfully completed her induction Audit Committee.
Debbie Hewitt was appointed to the Audit Committee programme within the required time-period.
in October 2007 in recognition of the requirement to appoint a third Non-Executive Director.
Board Committees The Board is assisted in discharging its responsibilities through the The external Auditors, the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial Audit Committee, Banking Committee, Remuneration Committee, Controller and the Chief Executive regularly attend meetings at the Nomination Committee, General Business Committee, Disclosure invitation of the Committee.
The Audit Committee is scheduled to meet Committee and Shares Committee.
Membership of the Audit, no less than three times a year and met three times during the year Remuneration and Nomination Committees consists wholly of under review.
At the beginning of each meeting, the Committee meets Non-Executive Directors.
the Auditors without the presence of the Executive Directors, and then separately with the Executive Directors without the presence of the Auditors.
38 Group Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report Report and Accounts 2007 Mouchel Parkman plc Corporate Governance Report continued The Audit Committee is responsible for the integrity of the Financial Disclosure Committee Statements and the Groups internal controls and risk management The Disclosure Committee assists and informs the Chief Executive structure.
During the year, the Committees deliberations included the on his decisions concerning the identification of inside information and following matters: its disclosure.
The Disclosure Committee comprises the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director and or any other Director of the Company the review of interim and full-year financial results in advance of their and meets as and when required.
The Disclosure Committee also consideration by the Board, paying particular attention to significant reviews the Companys Annual Reports, Interim Results announcements financial reporting judgements, any changes in accounting policies and all other material disseminated to shareholders.
The minutes are and practices and any findings post audit: circulated and noted by the Board at subsequent Board meetings.
the review of the nature and scope of the external audit and the findings of the Auditors in respect of Annual and Interim Reports: General Business Committee the review of the Auditors independence and the policy on the The General Business Committee enables the Board to deal with provision of non-audit services: time-critical issues that arise between Board meetings that are within the recommendation of the re-appointment of the ordinary course of business.
Its membership consists of any two  LLP as Auditors and the setting of their Directors.
The minutes are circulated and noted by the Board at remuneration: subsequent Board meetings.
monitoring the Groups financial and non-financial risk and internal controls: Nomination Committee the review of the effectiveness of the internal systems with respect The Nomination Committee is chaired by Richard Benton.
Its members to financial control and Group risk: are Ian Knight, Sir Michael Lyons, Rodney Westhead and Debbie Hewitt, a review of the necessity for an internal audit function: who was appointed to the Committee in October 2007.
The Chief a review of the means by which employees may raise concerns Executive attends at the invitation of the Committee.
The Committee regarding the systems of internal financial control: and is responsible for reviewing the structure, size, composition and skills a review of the whistle-blowing policy.
of the Board, presenting suitable candidates to fill Board vacancies, reviewing succession planning for the Board and senior managers, In the absence of an internal audit function, the Audit Committee evaluating the time commitment of the Chairman and Non-Executive reviewed the necessity for such a function.
In 2007, the Executive Directors, undertaking the performance evaluation of the Board Directors conducted a review of the audit and risk review processes and reviewing the re-appointment of Non-Executive Directors.
The that are in place across the Group and the need to establish an internal Committee is responsible for assessing the composition, diversity and audit function.
Following the review, the Audit Committee concluded skill set of the Board and is aware that as the Company grows there that the review and risk management processes in place were sufficient may be a future need to expand the size of the Board.
The Committee to meet the needs of the Group: however, it was agreed to introduce will regularly review this need.
There is a robust procedure for selecting an internal independent review function in order to provide further candidates for vacancies.
The Committees performance was evaluated rigour to the internal control and risk management process.
This as part of the overall Board evaluation exercise.
recommendation will be actioned during the first half of the 2007 08 financial year.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Sir Michael Lyons.
The audit and risk review processes are discussed in more detail on Its other members are Rodney Westhead and Debbie Hewitt, page 39.
The Audit Committee annually reviews the non-audit work who was appointed to the Committee in October 2007.
The Chief by the external Auditors.
It reviewed the provision of non-audit services Executive, Group Finance Director, Director of Human Resources and and the independence of the Auditors in July 2007.
Company Secretary attend by invitation.
The Committee met four times during the year under review.
The report of the Remuneration Banking Committee Committee can be found on pages 41 to 45.
The Banking Committee comprises any two Directors and is authorised, amongst other things, to carry out administrative matters relating to Shares Committee the Groups bank accounts, to approve agreements relating to loans The Shares Committee facilitates the exercise of awards under the and other facilities, to approve changes to authorised instruments, to Companys various share schemes.
Its membership consists of any enter into any corporate treasury transactions up to a maximum amount two Directors.
Its terms of reference are narrowly defined and limited of 25 million in respect of finance leases, debentures, bonds, loan to the allotment of new shares and transfer of shares from the notes and other securities and to approve any documents amending employee benefit trusts with respect to satisfying awards under all or the Companys banking facilities provided that the amendments are any of the Companys sharesave schemes, approved and unapproved not material.
The minutes are circulated and noted by the Board at share option schemes, the Co-Investment Plan and any other long-term subsequent Board meetings.
Following recommendation by the Board, it may also authorise the grant of options under the Companys share schemes.
39 Group Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report Report and Accounts 2007 Mouchel Parkman plc Board attendance table Strategic control Directors attendance of both Board and Committee meetings during The Board reviews the Groups strategic plans once a year at a strategy the year ended 31 July 2007 was as follows: event.
Progress is monitored at Board and GMB meetings.
The GMB is responsible for monitoring the Groups strategic process and is Name of Director Board Audit Remuneration Nomination accountable to the Board in this regard.
Number of meetings held 13 3 4 1 Delegated authorities Non-Executive Directors The Board has set clear terms of reference for its Committees, all 1 1 Richard Benton 12 3 4 1 of which were reviewed this year.
The Group has an organisational 1 Ian Knight 11 3 4 1 reporting structure with clearly defined delegated authorities to 1 Michael Lyons 9 1 41 executive management and reporting systems for financial results, Rodney Westhead 11 3 4 1 risk exposure and control assessment.
Executive Directors 1 1 1 Financial control Richard Cuthbert 12 3 4 1 1 1 1 The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial results Kevin Young 13 3 4 1 to the Board.
Each business stream prepares monthly results with Note a comparison against budget and forecast.
The Chief Executive and 1 Attendance at the meeting was by invitation from the Committee.
Group Finance Director hold monthly review meetings with each of the Managing Directors of the individual business streams.
Actions are Internal control and risk management identified and a financial report prepared for the Board for review The Board is responsible for establishing, reviewing and maintaining the of the Group as a whole.
Groups systems of internal control and risk management and ensuring that these systems are effective for managing the business risk within IT systems the Group.
The Group has established controls and procedures over the security of data held on IT systems and has put in place disaster recovery The Group has established a framework for identifying, evaluating and arrangements.
managing significant risks faced by the Group.
The framework of risk management and internal control operating within the Group has been Business stream controls in place throughout the year and is in accordance with the Turnbull Each business is responsible for identifying, evaluating and managing Guidance 2005.
The framework is reviewed annually and is designed major business risks.
Procedures are in place to ensure that risks are to safeguard shareholders investments and the Groups assets whilst identified from project bidding stage through to project completion ensuring that proper accounting records are maintained.
stage and include reviews against key performance indicators.
It is the responsibility of management to ensure that the controls Risk management and procedures that operate within the framework are followed and The Board has overall responsibility for identifying, evaluating and that the Board is kept fully appraised of any risks and control issues, managing major business risks facing the Group.
It regularly reviews both operational and financial, that arise from the reporting structures business assessments of risk exposure and control and determines which exist within the Group.
The Board recognises that any system appropriate action.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, of internal control exists to minimise the risk of failure rather than to evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the business.
eliminate it, and that any system of internal control can only provide The process involves monthly reports, by management, of the risk and reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement internal control issues faced by their business.
These risks are then or loss.
reported to the GMB and the Board is kept fully appraised of any risks and internal control issues arising from these reports.
A bid committee The risk management of joint ventures and strategic partnerships meets fortnightly and reviews all material bids.
The Board also receives is agreed between the parties and periodic reviews are carried out monthly reports and key performance measures on health, safety and where appropriate.
The Group annually reviews the effectiveness of the risk management system and its internal controls.
The framework through which the Group mitigates both operational and financial risk is described below.
The Group continually looks for ways to improve these processes and this year there have been a number of initiatives designed to reduce the commercial exposure of the Group and further embed a risk management culture within the Group.
40 Group Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report Report and Accounts 2007 Mouchel Parkman plc Corporate Governance Report continued Internal audit In 2007, the Board reviewed the need for an internal audit function and resolved that for a growing company in the FTSE 250, it would be appropriate to introduce an internal independent review function in order to provide further rigour to the internal control and risk management process.
As a result of the review, the Company has introduced a Business Review function, reporting to the GMB, Audit Committee and the main board.
The Business Reviews remit is to review, as part of the Groups risk management, the performance and conduct of the Groups projects, contracts, joint ventures and partnerships, examining any relevant components of performance, including: client relationship and feedback, staffing and resourcing issues, timetable and programme, and financial and commercial statistics.
It will also review and report on the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls including systems and processes.
Relations with shareholders The Board is committed to a continuing dialogue with its institutional shareholders.
Following the announcement and presentation of the interim and year-end results, there are a series of formal meetings with institutional shareholders.
These meetings are a two-way dialogue whereby the Executive Directors can appraise the investors of the Groups business and future plans and the shareholders can communicate any concerns they may have.
The Non-Executive Directors and Chairman are available to attend these meetings if requested.
The Companys brokers and financial PR advisors provide feedback from the shareholder and analyst meetings and present the results to the Board.
The Groups investor relations section on its website contains information on the Groups financial results, its corporate policies, its stock exchange announcements, analysts presentations and the terms of reference for each of the Board Committees.
Additionally, the AGM provides a useful interface with shareholders.
All shareholders are invited to attend the AGM and all members of the Board will be available at the meeting to answer questions.
The Company is seeking to promote the use of e-communications and will encourage shareholders to sign up and receive Company circulars by email.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf Amanda Massie Group Company Secretary 31 October 2007
