Corporate Governance Statement Combined Code have written letters of appointment.
These is entirely devoted to the development The board is committed to high standards letters of appointment previously stipulated and review of corporate strategy and of corporate governance and compliance three-year renewable terms of office.
the groups three year plan.
The board with the principles in the Combined Code On renewal, the board intends to replace delegates the day-to-day management of on Corporate Governance issued by the the three-year term with one of indefinite the group to the J D Williams & Company UK Financial Services Authority in July duration but terminable on six months Limited operational board.
The purpose of this notice.
All letters of appointment are Comprehensive briefing papers including statement is to explain how the group has subject to early termination provisions, management accounts, broker analyses applied the principles of good governance for example allowing earlier termination and shareholder analyses are circulated set out in the Code.
without compensation in the event a to each director not less than seven days director is not re-elected upon retirement For the year in review the board has prior to each board meeting.
Procedures by rotation in accordance with the articles.
are in place to enable all directors to obtain In line with the Code all non executive independent professional advice in respect The directors confirm that the business directors who have served for nine years of their fiduciary duties and obligations and is a going concern.
will be subject to annual re-election.
As all board members have full and direct such, Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE, access to the company secretary, who Board composition Nigel Alliance OBE and Ivan Fallon will be attends all board and committee meetings The board currently comprises seven subject to re-election at the forthcoming and is charged with providing advice to the members five of whom are non executive.
Sufficient biographical detail will be board on matters of corporate governance, There is a clear division of responsibilities provided in the circular accompanying the continuing director education and ensuring between the chairman, Lord Alliance of AGM notice to enable shareholders to the timely provision of information.
Manchester CBE, who is responsible for make an informed decision on any rethe effective operation of the board and Since the last report the board has once election resolution.
the Chief Executive, Alan White, who is again undertaken a formal appraisal of its responsible for the groups operational Board operation own performance, that of the chairman performance.
An effective board of directors leads and and that of its committees.
The process controls the group.
The members of the consisted of individual assessment by The five non executive directors comprise board are shown on page 20 of this report.
detailed questionnaire completed by all the chairman, Lord Alliance of Manchester The board met 8 times during the year.
The results were compiled by CBE, Nigel Alliance OBE, both of whom Directors attendance at board meetings the company secretary for review by the are not regarded by the board as was as follows: chairman and then joint review by the independent under the provisions of board.
The performance of the chairman the Code, and Ivan Fallon, Lord Stone was appraised by the senior non executive Attendance Apologies of Blackheath and John McGuire all of director in consultation with the other Lord Alliance of whom are considered by the board to board members.
The Chief Executives Manchester CBE 8 be independent.
The senior independent performance was appraised by the non executive director is Ivan Fallon.
Ivan Fallon 8 chairman and the non executive directors.
Ivan Fallon was appointed to the board in The Finance Director the only other Alan White 8 October 1994.
Ivan Fallon has served on executive director on the board was Lord Stone of Blackheath 8 the board for a period beyond which the subject to the same process.
Code suggests that his independence may Nigel Alliance OBE 7 1 be affected.
The board, nonetheless, holds Committee structure Dean Moore 8 Ivan Fallon to be independent and that his The board has delegated specific John McGuire 8 broad-based commercial experience, allied authorities to a number of sub committees with his extensive knowledge of the to deal with specific aspects of management groups businesses gained during his and control of the group.
All of these The board is collectively responsible thirteen years as a non executive director committees meet regularly and have for providing effective leadership and with the group is invaluable to the board.
formal written terms of reference which promoting the success of the group.
are available for inspection on request The board considers that it had a majority It has a formal schedule of matters and are also available on the companys of independent non executive directors reserved for its approval a copy of which website.
The minutes of the meetings during the year.
It is considered that the is available on the companys website, of these committees are circulated to composition of the board during the year www.
This document all board directors in advance of the next had the necessary balance of skills and includes decisions on all major strategic following board meeting, at which they a experience appropriate for the issues, approval of financial statements, re ratified.
The following committees of requirements of the business.
capital and operating expenditure, the board have been established: All directors joining the board are required investment, treasury and dividend policy, Audit committee to submit themselves for election at the overseeing the groups risk control Remuneration committee next following annual general meeting.
procedures, board membership and that of Nomination committee They are subject to re-election every third its committees.
Currently, at least one of its year thereafter.
All non executive directors meetings in each year held over two days 26 N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Governance Statement Audit committee Some due diligence and other corporate reference, information regarding the The audit committee consists entirely strategic work is handled by other external business and guidance on their roles and of independent non executive directors.
The audit committee has duties as directors and meetings site visits The current chairman is John McGuire.
concluded that in the circumstances, with key employee contacts are arranged The other members are Ivan Fallon and the auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, as appropriate.
The nominations committee had no of the audit committee are regarded as occasion to meet this year.
Remuneration committee having recent and relevant financial The remuneration committee consists experience.
Internal control entirely of independent non executive The committee met three times during The directors have overall responsibility for directors.
The current chairman is Ivan the year.
Committee attendance was as ensuring that the group maintains a sound Fallon.
The other members are Lord Stone follows: system of internal control, to give them of Blackheath and John McGuire.
reasonable assurance regarding effective The remuneration committee met three and efficient operations and compliance Attendance Apologies times this year.
Members attendance was with laws and regulations.
There are, of Lord Stone of Blackheath 3 0 as follows: course, inherent limitations in any system John McGuire 3 0 of internal control and accordingly even Ivan Fallon 3 0 Attendance Apologies the most effective system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance Lord Stone of Blackheath 3 0 against loss or failure.
John McGuire 3 0 The audit committee considers the nature The board continues to operate a formal Ivan Fallon 3 0 and scope of the audit process both risk management process throughout the internal and external and its effectiveness.
A cyclical programme of The committee reviews and approves the assessments of operational, financial and The purpose of this committee is to review internal audit programme, meets with the other business risks has been implemented and formulate the companys remuneration external auditors and considers the annual at each principal operating subsidiary of policy and consider how the company is and interim financial statements before the group each cycle comprising at least applying the principles of the Code in submission to the board.
The committee two reviews annually, which takes into respect of directors remuneration.
also reviews the groups system of internal account the internal controls that exist to control and reports its findings twice yearly Further details are set out in the mitigate the impact of those risks.
The committee holds an remuneration report on pages 29 to 37 significant residual risks are then evaluated away day each year, which is a meeting which will be put to an advisory vote by and action plans to further reduce their to which certain executives and senior the members at the companys annual impact are initiated and monitored where employees of the group are invited, but general meeting.
Fifteen such cycles have been otherwise the meeting is not attended by carried out to date.
A risk management executive directors or the chairman.
Nominations committee committee, which met three times last year, The committee meets with the external The nominations committee is chaired oversees the above process and reports auditors, in the absence of the executive by Lord Stone of Blackheath.
The other progress to the audit committee, which directors, at least twice a year.
members are currently Lord Alliance of thereafter reports to the board and draws Manchester CBE, Ivan Fallon and John all appropriate matters to its attention.
The board consider that the processes McGuire.
The formal terms of reference The risk management committee, of the audit committee comply with the for this committee require it to make together with the audit committee, is also guidance issued by the Smith Committee.
recommendations to the board for responsible for ensuring that the principles As stated above, part of the role of the appointments of directors including of sound risk management and effective audit committee is to review the directors of the operating company internal control are fully embedded within independence of the companys auditors.
board JD Williams & Company Limited the organisation, a process which the The companys external auditors, Deloitte and other senior executive staff.
Where board has satisfied itself has continued & Touche LLP have provided non-audit appropriate, the chief executive and to operate during the year.
services to the company in the form of tax company secretary attend meetings In pursuance of the above, the board of advice.
The audit committee is aware that of the nominations committee.
directors through the audit committee providing audit and non-audit advice could Appointments to the board are made on has reviewed the effectiveness of the give rise to a potential conflict of interest.
merit, against objective criteria, taking into system of internal control for the year To address this concern recognised by account the skills and experience required.
As well as receiving regular the audit committee, when the need has Where appropriate, external search reports from the risk management arisen the remuneration committee has consultants are enlisted.
committee described above, the board sought advice on executive remuneration through the audit committee discusses issues, where appropriate, from independent The company secretary is responsible with the external auditors the results of advisors who do not provide the group for the induction of new directors.
New with other services further details are set directors are provided with a comprehensive their work and any resulting internal control out in the remuneration report on page 29. pack of information including terms of issues, and also reviews the work carried N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2007 27 Corporate Governance Statement out by the internal audit department, The company aims to ensure that all including monitoring the implementation shareholders have full and timely access of actions arising from previous audits.
to information it discloses and that shareholders have opportunities to meet The internal audit function is independent with management through ad hoc and of management and the head of the one-to-one meetings at least twice a year function has direct access to the chief at the announcement of results and also executive and the chairman of the audit at events such as the Open Day and committee.
Internal audit plans are discussed constructive use of the AGM.
As well and agreed annually between the head of as being provided with a copy of our internal audit and the audit committee.
annual report and results announcements, Appropriate internal financial controls are our website provides shareholders with operated throughout the group, some of comprehensive and accessible information which have already been referred to in about the group.
Other examples include the existence of a well defined group Compliance with the Code organisation structure, with clear lines Throughout the year ended 24 February of responsibility and explicit authority 2007, the group has been in compliance delegated to divisional boards and with the Codes provisions set out in executive management, and a section 1 of the Code.
comprehensive financial reporting system Details of directors contract terms are which communicates plans, budgets and shown in the remuneration report on monthly results to relevant levels of page 33. management, including the board.
The company has complied and continues to comply with the provisions of the Combined Control on internal controls, and the relevant parts of the Turnbull and Smith Guidance.
There is an ongoing process in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks facing the group that has been in place throughout the year under review and to the date of approval of the accounts.
This process has been reviewed regularly by the audit committee and the board, and accords with guidance appended to the Code.
Relations with investors The company believes in the importance of good communications with shareholders, both institutional and individual investors.
Institutional investors, fund managers and analysts are kept informed of the companys overall strategy through regular meetings and roadshows.
All non executive directors are kept informed of shareholders views through detailed feedback and analysts reports tabled at each board meeting.
The senior independent director is available to meet with, and understand, the views of major shareholders.
In January 2006 a group comprising of around 40 analysts and institutional shareholders attended an Open Day presentation at the companys offices in Manchester.
28 N Brown Group plc Report and Accounts 2007
