41 National Express Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Summary Corporate Governance Report The Board supports the highest standards of corporate governance and ethical practices within all its operations and continues to review its policies on an ongoing basis.
The Board has endorsed a set of principles which establish the framework for how its businesses operate.
Key to these is working in an open and honest manner.
Statement of Compliance with the Combined Code In the opinion of the Directors the Company has complied with Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in 2006 the Combined Code throughout the year apart from provision B.
6.1 performance evaluation of the Board as follows: The notice period of Ray OToole, which previously had been 12 months, was increased to 24 months as at 1 September 2006.
This period reduced on a daily basis such that on 1 September 2007 the notice period will be 12 months once again.
This change was approved by the Remuneration Committee on the appointment of a new Chief Executive to the Group to try to ensure continuity of management.
During the year the Board implemented the recommendations arising from the Board effectiveness review carried out in 2006.
The next evaluation of the Boards and Chairmans performance will take place in 2008.
The Board and its principal Committees Details of the Board and its principal Committees are set out below.
The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board and its Committees during the year and individual attendance by the Board and Committee members at these meetings.
All of the Committees are authorised to obtain legal or other professional advice as necessary, to secure the attendance of external advisers at their meetings and to seek information required from any employee of the Company in order to perform their duties.
The full terms of reference of the Committees are available on the Companys website at www.
The Board of Directors Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Safety and Environment Name of DIrector Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Richard Bowker Chief Executive 15 16 David Ross Chairman 15 16 2244 Executive Directors Ray OToole 16 16 Adam Walker 15 16 Non executive Directors Jorge Cosmen 14 16 2244 1 Roger Devlin 441111 11 Sir Andrew Foster 15 16 3 4 2244 Barry Gibson 14 164455 44 2 Sue Lyons 14 16 452244 Tim Score 14 164455 44 Company Secretary: Tony McDonald also acts as Secretary to the Board Committees 1.
Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2007.
Resigned from the Board on 19 December 2007.
Appointments to the Board The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board.
External advisers are normally appointed when recruiting Board members: they use as a basis for their search a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment proposed by the Nomination Committee.
Information and professional development Reports from the Executive Directors, which include in-depth financial information, are circulated to Board members prior to every Board meeting.
Senior management and advisers give presentations to the Board on significant matters during the year.
Under the direction of the Chairman, the Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring Board procedures are followed and applicable rules and regulations are complied with and advises the Board on governance matters.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and the appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
There is a procedure in place for any Director to take independent professional advice where considered necessary.
On appointment, Directors are offered an appropriate training course and are thereafter encouraged to keep abreast of matters affecting their duties as a Director and to attend training courses relevant to their role.
An induction process is in place for new Directors.
42 National Express Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Summary Corporate Governance Report continued Re-election In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association all Directors submit themselves for election at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment and thereafter by rotation at least once every three years.
Non Executive Directors are appointed for specific terms, subject to re-election.
Non Executive Directors will only be put forward for re-election if, following performance evaluation, the Board believes the Directors performance continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
Internal control The Boards responsibilities The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board maintains full control and direction over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues and has put in place an organisational structure with formally defined lines of responsibility, delegated authorities and clear operating processes.
The systems that the Board has established are designed to safeguard both the shareholders investment and the assets of the Group, and are described below.
Key elements of the control framework Strategic and financial planning an annual budgeting and strategic planning process has been established whereby each division and constituent operating company assesses its competitive position and goals, taking account of the strategic risks faced.
This strategy is translated into a financial plan with clear milestones and performance indicators.
Performance management the performance of each division and operating company against its plan is closely monitored by a formal monthly reporting process and by the attendance of the Executive Directors at monthly divisional board meetings.
Annual tness check process a self assessment review takes place at each operating company to assess the integrity of the balance sheet and to challenge the effective operation of key financial and information systems controls within each material accounting cycle.
This process is led by divisional finance directors and is closely monitored by group finance and validated by the internal audit function.
Capital investment a clear process is in place for the approval of capital expenditure, which includes detailed appraisal of the benefits of the proposed investment and any associated key risks.
Material capital expenditure requires Board approval.
Health and safety health and safety standards and benchmarks have been established in all our businesses and the performance of operating companies in meeting these standards is closely monitored.
Risk management reporting process each division and operating company evaluates its internal control environment and key risks, and the results are reviewed at management level and passed to the Audit Committee before being presented to the Board.
This process is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure the validity and relevance of the key risks reported and presented to the Board on a quarterly basis, unless exceptional issues arise.
The review covers strategic, financial, compliance and risk management controls.
These procedures are mandated and designed to manage risk in order to ensure that the operations achieve their business objectives.
Internal audit the internal control system is independently monitored and supported by an outsourced internal audit function.
The internal audit function reports to management and the Audit Committee on the Groups financial and operational controls, and reviews the extent to which its recommendations have been implemented.
Board-level reporting on internal control during the year the Audit Committee reviews regular reports from the internal audit function, the external auditors, and executive management on matters relating to internal control, financial reporting and risk management.
The Audit Committee provides the Board with an independent assessment of the Groups financial position, accounting affairs and control systems.
In addition, the Board receives regular reports on how specific risks that are assessed as material to the Group are being managed.
