Corporate Governance C Co om mb biin ne ed d C Co od fide e c co om mp plliia an nc ce e The Group complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance until the publication in June 2006 of a revised Code.
The Group subsequently adopted the updated Code on a voluntary basis.
T Th he e B Bo oa ar rd d o of f D Diir re ec ct to or rs s The Board is responsible for major policy decisions whilst delegating more detailed matters to its committees and officers including the Chief Executive.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for monitoring implementation of its policies by the Chief Executive.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board holds regular meetings where it approves major decisions, including significant items of capital expenditure, investments, treasury and dividend policy.
The Board is responsible for approving semi-annual Group budgets.
Performance against budget is reported to the Board monthly and any substantial variances are explained.
Forecasts of each half years anticipated results are revised and reviewed monthly.
Certain other important matters are subject to monthly reporting to the Board or Board Committee, including treasury operations and capital expenditure.
The Board held nine formal meetings during the year.
All directors were present at all nine meetings, with the exception of Mr Barton and Mrs Cross who were each unable to attend one meeting and Mr Jones who attended two meetings prior to his retirement.
All directors are required to submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at least once every three years.
Board papers including reports from the Chief Executive and Finance, Property and Product Directors are circulated in advance of each Board meeting.
There is a regular flow of written and verbal information between all directors irrespective of the timing of meetings.
Induction is provided to new appointees to provide an introduction to all major areas of the business, and training is provided where a need is identified or training requested.
The Board includes four independent non-executive directors and the Chairman who bring considerable knowledge, judgement and experience to the Group.
Terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
Meetings of the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present are held at least annually, both with and without the Chairman.
The Board has appointed committees to carry out certain of its duties, three of which are detailed below.
Each of these Committees is chaired by a different director and has written terms of reference which are available for inspection on the Companys website or on request.
Authority for day to day management of the Group is delegated to other committees.
The Company Secretary attends all Board meetings and is responsible for advising the Board on corporate governance matters and facilitating the flow of information within the Board.
A Au ud diit t C Co om mm miit tt te ee e The Committee consists of four independent non-executive directors including the senior non-executive director and at least one member with recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee holds regular, structured meetings and consults with external auditors and senior management where appropriate.
The Committee considers financial reporting and reviews the Groups accounting policies and annual statements.
In particular, any major accounting issues of a subjective nature are discussed by the Committee.
The Committee also reviews the effectiveness of the risk management process and significant risk issues are referred to the Board for consideration.
Five meetings were held during the year and all were fully attended with the exception of two which Mr Barton was unable to attend prior to his appointment as Chairman.
2 20 0 Corporate Governance R Re em mu un ne er ra at tiio on n C Co om mm miit tt te ee e The Committee consists of the Chairman and four independent non-executive directors.
The Committee, which is chaired by the senior non-executive director, determines the remuneration of the executive directors and reviews that of senior management.
A Remuneration Report is included in this Annual Report.
Four meetings were held during the year and all were fully attended, with the exception of one meeting which Mrs Cross and Mr Barton were unable to attend.
N No om miin na at tiio on n C Co om mm miit tt te ee e The Committee consists of the Chairman and four independent non-executive directors, including the senior non-executive director.
The Committee meets as required to fulfil its duties of reviewing the Board structure and composition and identifying and nominating candidates to fill Board vacancies as they arise.
One meeting was held during the year, which was attended by all members of the Committee.
External consultants are used to assist in identifying suitable candidates, based on a written specification for each appointment.
The Chairman is responsible for providing a shortlist of candidates for consideration by the Board.
The final candidate is then subject to formal nomination by the Committee and approval by the Board.
C Ch ha aiir rm ma an n The Company maintains a division of responsibilities between the offices of Chairman and Chief Executive, which is set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman manages the Board to ensure that the Group has appropriate objectives and an effective strategy: that there is a Chief Executive with a team of executive directors able to implement the strategy: that there are procedures in place to inform the Board of performance against objectives: and to ensure the Group is operating in accordance with a high standard of corporate governance.
The current Chairman was an independent non-executive director of the Company prior to his appointment as Chairman on 17 May 2006.
His other significant commitments are noted on page 19, and the Board considers that these are not a constraint on his agreed time commitment to the Company.
C Ch hiie ef f E Ex xe ec cu ut tiiv five e The Board sets objectives and annual targets for the Chief Executive to achieve.
The Board is responsible for general policy on how these objectives are achieved and delegates the implementation of that policy to the Chief Executive.
The Chief Executive is required to report at each Board meeting all material matters affecting the Group and its performance.
M Ma an na ag ge em me en nt t d fide elle eg ga at tiio on n The Chief Executive has delegated authority for the day to day management of the business to operational management drawn from executive directors and other senior management who have responsibility for the respective areas.
The most important management meetings are the weekly NEXT Brand trading and capital expenditure meetings which consider the performance and development of the NEXT Brand through its different distribution channels.
These meetings cover risk management of all business areas in respect of the NEXT Brand including product, sales, property, warehousing, systems and personnel.
Key performance indicators are monitored daily and weekly.
P Pe er rf fo or rm ma an nc ce e e ev va allu ua at tiio on n The performance of the Board, its non-executive directors and committees was formally evaluated during the year.
The evaluation was conducted by means of a detailed questionnaire completed by all directors.
The results of this questionnaire were compiled by the Company Secretary for review by the Chairman and the Board as a whole.
The senior independent non-executive director appraises the performance of the Chairman through discussions with all the directors individually and, together with the Chairman, appraises the performance of the Chief Executive.
The performance of the executive directors is monitored throughout the year by the Chief Executive and the Chairman.
R Riis sk k m ma an na ag ge em me en nt t The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management process and has delegated responsibility for its implementation to the Chief Executive and senior management best qualified in each area of the business.
The Board sets guidance on the general level of risk which is acceptable and has a considered approach to evaluating risk and reward.
2 21 1 Corporate Governance The Board confirms that it has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control covering financial, operational, compliance and other controls and risk management.
This includes identifying and evaluating key risks, determining control strategies for these risks and considering how they may impact on the achievement of the business objectives.
The risk management process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts and is in accordance with the guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Risk management and internal control is a continuous process and has been considered by the Board on a regular basis during the year.
The Board promotes the development of a strong control culture within the business.
During the year the Board addressed the business risks which had been identified as key, taking into account any changes in circumstances over the period.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the level of internal audit resource available within the Group and believes that it is appropriate to the size, structure and business risks of the Group.
The Board considers that the Groups management structure and timely and continuous monitoring of key performance indicators provide the ability to identify promptly any material areas of concern.
Business continuity plans, procedures manuals and codes of conduct are maintained in respect of specific major risk areas and business processes.
Through these measures the management of business risk is an integral part of Group policy and the Board will continue to enhance risk management and internal control where practical.
E Ex xt te er rn na all a au ud diit to or rs s The Groups external auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, have reported to the Audit Committee that, in their professional judgement, they are independent within the meaning of regulatory and professional requirements and the objectivity of the audit engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
The Audit Committee has reviewed this statement and concurs with its conclusion.
In order to ensure the continued independence and objectivity of the Groups external auditors, the Board has established policies regarding the provision of non-audit services by the auditors.
The Audit Committees approval is required in advance for any non-audit services to be provided where the fees exceed 100,000 for an individual assignment or 150,000 in aggregate for the year.
The Committee reviews details of audit and non-audit fees twice a year in conjunction with these policies.
Proposed assignments of non-audit services with anticipated fees in excess of 50,000 are subject to independent tender, and decisions on the allocation of work are made on the basis of competence, cost-effectiveness and relevant legislation.
A tender process is not always undertaken where Ernst & Youngs existing knowledge of the Group enables them as the Groups auditors to provide the required services more cost-effectively than other parties, for example shareholder circulars and certain overseas taxation compliance services.
The Groups auditors are prohibited from providing any services that would conflict with their statutory responsibilities.
P Pe er rs so on na all u us se e o of f c co om mp pa an ny y a as ss se et ts s The Board carried out a review during the year and confirmed that there has been no improper personal use of company assets by directors or other employees.
Policies are in place to ensure proper approval procedures are applied to expense claims and that these are in accordance with service agreements.
The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the level of benefits in kind provided to executive directors.
R Re ella at tiio on ns s w wiit th h s sh ha ar re eh ho olld fide er rs s The Board acknowledges that its primary role is to represent and promote the interests of shareholders.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities of the Group.
The Board communicates with its shareholders in respect of the Groups business activities through its Annual Report and Accounts, yearly and half yearly announcements and regular trading updates to the Stock Exchange.
Full year, interim and other public announcements are presented in a consistent format with a particular focus on making the presentations as meaningful, understandable and comparable as possible.
This information is also made publicly available via the Companys website.
2 22 2 Corporate Governance All shareholders have an opportunity to ask questions or represent their views to the Board at the Annual General Meeting.
The Companys largest shareholders are invited to the annual and interim results presentations, at which executive and non-executive directors are present.
Non-executive directors may attend other meetings with shareholders on request.
Shareholder views are also communicated to the Board through the inclusion in Board reports of shareholder feedback and statements made by representative associations.
The Board takes care not to disseminate information of a share price sensitive nature which is not available to the market as a whole.
D Diir re ec ct to or rs s r re es sp po on ns siib biilliit tiie es s The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which present fairly the position of the Company and the Group and the financial performance and cash flows of the Company and the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements of IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and performance: and state that the Company has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors confirm that the accounts comply with the above requirements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
G Go oiin ng g c co on nc ce er rn n The Directors report that having reviewed current performance and forecasts they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
