Corporate governance report Number of Compliance meetings held Northern Foods is committed to high standards of corporate 1 2 3 4 1 April 2006 to Board Audit Remuneration Nomination governance.
The Board has overall responsibility for corporate 31 March 2007 845 3 governance and is accountable to the companys shareholders Number of meetings attended for good governance.
S Barden 8 8 n a n a n a R J S Bell 8 8 n a 4 5 1 3 The directors recognise the importance of this responsibility and can 5 C Dyer 4 4 0 2 1 3 0 1 confirm that the company has complied fully throughout the year A J Hobson 8 8 4 4 4 5 3 3 with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on 6 A K Illsley 4 4 2 2 2 2 1 1 Corporate Governance the Combined Code published in 2003 J K Maiden 8 8 n a n a n a and the associated Turnbull Guidance, as annexed to the Listing Rules.
O G Ni-Chionna 8 8 4 4 5 5 3 3 D T Nish 7 8 4 4 3 5 2 3 This section provides a current view of the companys governance 7 P A ODriscoll 7 7 n a n a n a policies and explains how the company has applied the main and supporting principles of the Combined Code.
Notes 1 A J Hobson is chairman of the Board Directors 2 D T Nish is chair of the audit committee 3 O G Ni-Chionna is chair of the remuneration committee 4 A J Hobson is chair of the nomination committee The Board 5 C Dyer resigned from the Board on 6 September 2006 The Board determines the strategic direction of the company and 6 A K Illsley was appointed to the Board on 2 October 2006 reviews its operating and financial position.
It has a schedule of 7 P A ODriscoll resigned from the Board on 1 February 2007 matters specifically reserved to it, which can only be amended by Senior executives below Board level are periodically invited to attend the Board itself and which is reviewed annually.
Board meetings to make presentations on their areas of responsibility.
The chairman is not a member of the remuneration committee but These matters include approval of the overall group strategy and attends by invitation.
financial policy, membership of the Board and its committees, acquisitions and divestments, and major capital expenditure.
This Chairman and chief executive schedule is available on the companys website.
All other matters There is a clear, written division of responsibility between the chairman relating to the management of the company are delegated to the and the chief executive.
The chairman is responsible for leadership of Operating board within clearly defined limits of authority.
The Board the Board, setting the agenda and ensuring its effectiveness.
He is also monitors the performance of management and aims to ensure that responsible for ensuring that the directors receive accurate, timely and the strategy, policies and procedures adopted are not only in the long clear information, and for effective communication with shareholders.
term interest of shareholders but also meet the needs of Northern The chairmans other significant commitments and any changes during Foods customers, employees, suppliers and the local communities in the year, and up to the publication of this report, are detailed in his which it operates.
The Operating board is responsible to the Board for biography on page 32.
The chief executive is responsible for operating developing the strategy and the overall performance of the group and the business and implementing the Boards strategies and is supported for managing the groups businesses as defined by the Board.
in these matters by the Operating board.
The Board, chaired by Anthony Hobson, has seven directors, comprising Board balance and independence two executive directors and five non-executive directors.
The executive The company complies with the requirement of the Combined Code directors are Stefan Barden, who joined the company in January 2006 that there should be a balance of executive and non-executives such and was appointed Chief Executive on 5 February 2007, following the that no one individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
There is resignation of Pat ODriscoll: and Jez Maiden, Chief Finance Officer.
a succession plan, approved by the Board, to ensure continual review Orna G Ni-Chionna is the senior independent director.
Following of the balance of skills and experience.
the resignation of Colin Dyer in September 2006, Tony Illsley was appointed to the Board on 2 October 2006 as a non-executive The Board uses criteria to assist in arriving at its decision that the director.
The non-executive directors possess a range of skills and non-executive directors are independent.
These include: experience and bring independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance and resources that are vital to the success a deep appreciation of the groups business and activities so of the group.
that a thorough evaluation of information received can be made objective decision making after debate Attendance at Board meetings and committees of the Board objective challenge of management There were eight Board meetings held during the year.
The chairman a clear and consistent approach demonstrating that he she has the held two separate meetings with the non-executive directors without good of the group uppermost in his her behaviour when challenging the executive directors being present.
These discussions covered Board others and defending his her viewpoints.
related issues including Board structure and succession planning.
The non-executive directors also met once without the chairman present Following the annual review of their independence, the Board is of the to appraise his performance.
The Board holds meetings in London opinion that all of the current non-executive directors are independent and Leeds.
by these criteria and are free from any relationship or circumstance which could affect, or appear to affect, their independent judgement.
The following table shows the number of meetings of the Board, Influence is balanced within the Board by virtue of the strong audit, remuneration and nomination committees held during the year, independent elements of a non-executive senior independent director and the number of meetings attended by each director.
The directors and a further three non-executive directors whose skills and business attended Board and committee meetings wherever possible unless experience are invaluable in constructively challenging and developing personal circumstances prevented their attendance as shown.
the groups strategy and direction.
The Board was further enhanced by Northern Foods plc Corporate governance report 35 Corporate governance report continued the appointment of Tony Illsley who brings a wealth of knowledge in discussed with the executive and non-executive directors when a variety of roles and relevant experience, having held senior positions the chairman was not present.
The outcome of these discussions within the food industry, including at Pepsico and Walkers Snack Foods.
confirmed that the performance of the chairman continued to be effective and he provides strong leadership to the Board.
Appointments to the Board Appointments to the Board are the responsibility of the full Board on The chairman assesses the independence and performance of the recommendation of the nomination committee.
There is a formal, the non-executive directors, after consultations with the executive rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors and the senior independent director.
directors which is made on merit and against objective criteria.
In October 2006, Tony Illsley was appointed to the Board following such Re-election of directors a process and using external consultants, Odgers Ray & Berndtson.
Under the companys articles of association all directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors appointment and then to re-election at intervals of no more than are available for inspection at the companys registered office three years.
Retiring directors may offer themselves for re-election.
during normal business hours and at the Annual general meeting for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting.
Tony Illsley, appointed to the Board on 2 October 2006, as required, puts himself forward for election by shareholders at the Annual general Information and professional development meeting.
His biographical details are contained on page 32 of the All directors have unlimited access to information regarding the Annual report and in the explanatory notes contained in the Notice company, the advice and services of the company secretary, whose of meeting.
No other director is required to stand for re-election under appointment and removal requires the approval of the Board, and the provisions of the companys articles of association at this years they may obtain external advice, as required, at the expense of Annual general meeting.
Remuneration In the week prior to each scheduled Board meeting, the chairman and Remuneration is covered by the Remuneration report on pages 40 the company secretary ensure that the directors receive all relevant to 51 and the work of the remuneration committee is set out on papers so that they are properly appraised of the companys current page 38 of this report.
performance and information on any other matter which is referred to the Board for consideration.
Accountability and audit There is a comprehensive induction process, tailored to the needs of Financial reporting the individual directors, which is arranged by the company secretary.
The Board is required to present a balanced and understandable This includes meetings with management and external advisors so assessment of the companys position and prospects.
This that the new director receives an appreciation of the activities of responsibility extends to annual and half year reports and other the group, the key drivers of business performance and the significant price sensitive reports.
The company is also required for the first time current issues.
Visits to operational sites are encouraged.
The training to present interim management statements covering the first and also covers the role of the Board and its committees, corporate third quarter trading for the financial year 2007 08 following governance practices and procedures, and the duties, responsibilities implementation of the Transparency Directive in January 2007. and liabilities of a director of a public listed company.
Following his appointment, Tony Illsley has undertaken such an induction process.
The Board is satisfied that it has met its obligations in presenting a balanced and clear assessment of the companys position and Additional training is arranged, by the company secretary, on a group prospects.
This assessment is primarily provided in the Chairmans or individual basis as needs arise: for example when a non-executive review, the Chief executives review and the Performance review director is appointed to a Board committee.
The statements of directors responsibilities in respect of the financial statements are set out on page 52.
During the year, in order to assist them in their duties, the directors received presentations on the developments in financial reporting Internal control and risk management since March 2006, changes to the regulatory regime following the During the year under review and up to the date of approval of the implementation of the Transparency Directive in January 2007 and Annual report, the company has complied with principle C2 of the the Companies Act 2006 and on new ABI guidelines issued in Combined Code, that the Board should maintain a sound system December 2006. of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment and the companys assets, this system is regularly reviewed by the Board Board performance evaluation and is prepared in accordance with revised guidance.
The performance of the Board, the chairman and its principal committees is evaluated annually.
As in the previous two years, this The Board has overall responsibility for the companys system of has taken the form of obtaining completed detailed questionnaires internal controls which covers all aspects of the business.
Key risks which have been revised this year from all Board members, analysing are identified in the Performance review on pages 8 to 25 and include the responses, and providing opportunity for directors to comment strategic, commercial, operational and financial risks.
These risks on any issues not covered directly by the questionnaire.
The results are managed through a comprehensive internal control and risk of the evaluation were considered by the Board.
It was agreed that management system as outlined below.
the results confirmed the effectiveness of each directors contribution, each committee, and of the Board as a whole.
Underlying this process is the Boards aim to safeguard shareholders investments and the companys assets.
It also aims to ensure that Orna G Ni-Chionna, senior independent director, has analysed proper accounting records are maintained, and that the financial responses to a pro-forma detailed questionnaire designed to evaluate information used within the business and for publication is accurate, the performance of the chairman.
The results of the survey were reliable and fairly presents the financial position of the company and results of its business operations.
36 Corporate governance report Northern Foods plc In line with the Turnbull Report, Internal Control: Guidance for Directors Asset management and engineering: the engineering team on the Combined Code Turnbull, the directors regularly review the approves contractors in respect of building, engineering and effectiveness of the groups system of controls and risk management.
It also provides an expert consultancy The directors believe that the company maintains an effective, for the acquisition, management and disposal of physical assets, embedded system of internal controls and complies with Turnbull.
as well as assessing and approving suppliers of capital equipment The system is designed to provide reasonable not absolute assurance and non-saleable revenue items.
of effective operations and compliance with laws and regulations.
Procurement: the central procurement team identifies and As part of its review process, the Board considers new and emerging manages key suppliers on a group wide basis.
risks and also considers key external business drivers such as market trends and competitive activity.
The Board also plays an important Finance: each business unit prepares detailed annual budgets and role in driving continuous improvement in the management of risk strategic plans, which are reviewed and updated on a regular basis.
by encouraging the sharing of best practice across the business.
Weekly and monthly accounts are prepared for each business unit and performance is monitored against the original budget, and A summary of the principal control structure and processes in place updated forecasts.
The groups chief executive and chief finance across the group is set out below.
officer meet on a formal basis each month to review the performance of each business unit with its managing director.
Control structure and processes The Board assesses key areas of internal control and risk management During the year, a capital committee met every two months and sets policy accordingly.
It tasks each business unit to identify and to set policy, to oversee the capital expenditure planning and document each significant risk and to implement appropriate controls budgeting process, and to approve expenditure up to an agreed for that risk.
The Board also requires the business units to manage, level delegated by the full Board.
monitor and report on the effectiveness of these controls.
The internal audit function reviews the standard of internal The business units are supported by appropriate corporate financial control and the accuracy of financial reporting through management resource which provides the technical skills and expertise a rolling cycle of audit visits under a programme of activity needed to supplement the business units own resource and to provide approved by the audit committee.
overall assurance for the major areas of risk.
There are clearly defined lines of authority and accountability.
The central finance function obtains advice and provides adequate insurance cover for major losses with appropriate levels of Both the internal and external auditors have reviewed the overall deductibles, through a group programme with external insurance approach adopted by the company towards its risk management brokers.
This cover is reviewed and negotiated annually.
Financial and treasury management oversee the principal areas The audit committee oversees both internal and external audit of treasury risk including liquidity, interest and currency risk.
procedures and monitors response to any significant control issues raised.
Information technology: the Information Services function provides appropriate infrastructure and back up services to Roles and responsibilities for each area of identified risk are outlined the business.
below: Legal: provides and obtains advice on a full range of legal issues Strategic delivery: through its regular meetings the Board across the group, and ensures good title to properties and assesses performance against objectives.
In doing so it considers intangible assets.
performance data and also considers external dynamics, such as shifting customer and consumer trends that could affect the delivery Corporate responsibility: there are effective systems in place of these objectives.
for evaluating and managing social, environmental and ethical SEE risks.
Further information is provided in the Corporate Health and safety: a central team provides professional advice on responsibility report on pages 26 to 31. best practice, audits health and safety procedures, and coordinates the investigation of all major reportable incidents.
Review process An ongoing review process includes an assessment of internal controls, A dedicated risk management steering group identifies and in particular, internal financial controls.
It also includes reports from manages fire risk through site audit and implementation the internal audit function as well as the external auditor on matters of recommendations and standards, together with sharing identified in the course of its statutory audit work.
Business units and specialist functions report by exception on any Talent management and human resources: a central team matters arising during the year to the monthly performance review ensures the adequacy of existing management and plans meetings.
The results of the formal half yearly reviews are taken succession through its organisational capability review.
forward to the audit committee.
Food safety and quality: the technical services team assesses The Board is therefore able to confirm that there is an ongoing process and approves raw material suppliers, audits the quality management for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by systems in the group, provides guidance on compliance with food the group, that it has been in place for the year under review and up related and environmental legislation, sets technical standards and to the date of approval of these financial statements, and that it is offers expertise on a wide range of food science and technology.
regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with Turnbull guidance.
That expertise and governance is reflected in the independent accreditation of the team as UKAS Certification Body No.
199 and UKAS Testing Laboratory No.
Northern Foods plc Corporate governance report 37 Corporate governance report continued Audit committee and auditors Appointments to the committees are made on the recommendation A principle of the Combined Code is that the Board should establish of the nomination committee but subject to Board approval.
Those formal and transparent arrangements for considering how it should to the audit committee are for periods of up to three years, normally apply the financial reporting and internal control principles and for extendable by no more than two additional three year periods.
maintaining an appropriate relationship with the external auditors, Appointments to the remuneration committee and nomination Deloitte & Touche LLP.
These responsibilities are delegated to and are committee are reviewed annually as part of the Board performance discharged by the audit committee whose work is described below.
The company secretary acts as secretary to the Board committees.
Relations with shareholders Nomination committee Dialogue with shareholders A J Hobson Chair The Board attaches great importance to maintaining good R J S Bell relationships with all shareholders, who are kept informed of C Dyer Resigned 6 September 2006 significant company developments.
Presentations are made of A K Illsley Appointed 2 October 2006 the half year and full year results, briefings are given to analysts, O G Ni-Chionna and other meetings to discuss company direction are held with D T Nish institutional shareholders on a regular basis.
The committee meets as required to review the structure, size and The chief executive and chief finance officer are closely involved in composition of the Board.
During 2006 07 the committee met four investor relations and report back to the Board the views of major times.
When the need for a new director is identified, the criteria in shareholders.
Investor meetings are arranged through the companys respect of the background and competencies of potential candidates broker, UBS Investment Bank, and others.
The chairman, the senior are approved by the Board before the search is started.
This specification independent director and other non-executive directors are available is drawn up after consideration of the skills, knowledge and experience to meet major shareholders whenever necessary, and the chairman of existing Board members.
The committee also ensures that candidates regularly did so during the year.
have enough time available to devote to the position.
Search consultants have been used extensively in the identification of new Board All material information reported to the regulatory news services appointments and during the year Tony Illsley was recruited using is simultaneously published on the companys website affording the services of Odgers Ray & Berndtson.
all shareholders full access to company announcements.
In addition, the group has introduced an electronic communication facility to The committee also reviews annually the need for succession allow shareholders to receive information more quickly and in a planning, particularly for the chairman, chief executive and other manner more convenient for them.
The company is also proposing key Board positions, and makes recommendations accordingly.
to take advantage of provisions under the Companies Act 2006 which allow the use of the website to communicate with shareholders as Remuneration committee an alternative to receiving hard copies.
A resolution to this effect will O GNi-Chionna Chair be proposed at the companys Annual general meeting and further RJS Bell information is contained in the Notice of meeting.
C Dyer Resigned 6 September 2006 A K Illsley Appointed 2 October 2006 Constructive use of the Annual general meeting D T Nish The Board regards the Annual general meeting as an opportunity to communicate directly with private investors.
Wherever possible, The remuneration committee, which is chaired by the senior all directors attend the Annual general meeting.
Tony Illsley will not independent director, determines the broad policy and framework be attending this years Annual general meeting due to a previous for the remuneration of executive directors and senior managers.
engagement, to which he was committed prior to his appointment.
No director is permitted to be present when his her own remuneration A presentation is made at the Annual general meeting to facilitate is being discussed, nor to vote on his her own remuneration.
greater awareness of the groups activities.
Shareholders are invited to The committee also determines the nature and scale of incentive ask questions and are able to meet the directors informally.
Separate performance arrangements that encourage enhanced performance resolutions are proposed on each substantially separate issue and the and which reward individuals in a fair and responsible manner for their number of proxy votes cast for and against each resolution, as well contribution to the success of the business.
In setting the remuneration as the number of votes withheld, are announced to the meeting policy for executive directors and senior managers, the committee following voting by a show of hands.
A poll would be called on any also takes into account the reward policies for managers generally.
resolution where it was appropriate or required.
The company offers an electronic voting facility to investors.
An integral part of the role of the remuneration committee is to carry out an appraisal of the performance of the chief executive.
Details of proxy voting by shareholders, including votes withheld, are announced through the London Stock Exchange and are also placed Audit committee on the companys website.
D T Nish Chair C Dyer Resigned 6 September 2006 Board committees A J Hobson Each Board committee has written terms of reference which define A K Illsley Appointed 2 October 2006 the role and responsibilities of the committees and are reviewed O G Ni-Chionna annually.
The terms of reference of each committee are available from the company secretary or can be viewed on the companys website.
38 Corporate governance report Northern Foods plc The main duties of the committee, set out in its terms of reference, Internal audit are to: It is the role of internal audit to advise management and the Board on the extent to which systems of internal control are effective and make recommendations on the appointment and remuneration to provide independent and objective assurance that the processes of external auditors and to monitor their performance by which significant risks are identified, assessed and managed approve and monitor the policy for non-audit services provided are appropriate and effectively applied.
The internal audit plan, by the external auditors to ensure that the independence of the which covers the scope, authority and resources of the function, auditors is not compromised is determined through a structured process of risk assessment and review and advise the Board on the companys financial statements, is approved by the audit committee.
its accounting policies and on the control and mitigation of its financial and business risks The nature and scope of the work of the internal audit team review the nature and scope of the work to be performed by the was reviewed and approved, the reports of results received and external and internal auditors, the results of their audit work and the responses of management considered.
The plan set out at the of the response of management beginning of the year was achieved and the outcome of the work was review and advise the Board on the effectiveness of the companys in line with expectations.
To ensure the independence of the internal internal control environment, including its whistleblowing procedures.
audit function, the senior internal auditor has the right of direct access to the chair of the committee and to the chairman of the Board: D T Nish took over the chair of the committee on his appointment this right was not invoked in the year under review.
He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland and is Group Finance Director of Standard Life plc.
He is External audit considered to have the recent and relevant financial experience required The committee reviews auditor independence annually.
The committee by the provisions of the Combined Code.
The other members of also monitors the cost effectiveness and objectivity of the external the committee have a wide range of business experience, which auditors.
To assist in ensuring independence, the appointment of is evidenced by their biographical summaries on page 32. the senior audit partner on the audit is rotated every five years.
The provision of non-audit services by the external auditors is considered Meetings in line with the committees terms of reference.
During the year, The committee invites executive directors, management, external and the auditors also provided tax advice, amongst other services.
In internal auditors to attend meetings as it considers appropriate for the addition, the auditors report annually on the actions taken to comply matters being discussed.
with professional and regulatory requirements and on current best practice required to ensure independence.
Work of the committee During 2006 07, the audit committee met on four occasions and Operating board reported its conclusions to the Board.
It met privately with the internal During the year, in line with the simplification of the business, the and external auditors without executives present.
It also met with Northern Foods Operating board was restructured.
It now comprises senior managers and executive directors.
the chief executive, the chief finance officer and five managing directors with responsibility for the individual business units.
The committee discharged its obligations in respect of 2006 07 as follows: Going concern The directors are satisfied that the company has adequate resources Financial reporting to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly the During the year the committee reviewed the half year and annual financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 31 March 2007 have financial statements.
The committee received a report from the been prepared on the going concern basis.
external auditors setting out the accounting or judgemental issues which required its attention.
The auditors reports were based on By order of the Board a full audit Annual report and a high level review Interim report respectively.
Carol Williams Company Secretary The committee has also advised the Board on accounting policies, disclosure and controls.
30 May 2007 Internal controls and risk management The committee considers reports at the half year and year end from internal audit on the operation of, and issues arising from, the groups internal control procedures, together with observations from the external auditors.
The committee monitored the effectiveness of the groups risk management process, which considers the key risks, both financial and non-financial, facing the group and the effectiveness of the groups controls to manage and reduce the impact of those risks.
Northern Foods plc Corporate governance report 39
