CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2425 UK listed companies are required by the Financial Services Authority the All Directors in office at that time were present at the Annual General IDENTIFICATION OF RISKS 2 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION designated UK Listing Authority to include a statement in their annual Meeting held in September 2006.
The Board and the Groups management have a clearly defined responsibility The Companys policy on remuneration and details of the remuneration accounts on compliance with the Principles of Good Corporate Governance for identifying the major business risks facing the Group and for developing of each Director are given in the Remuneration Report on pages 16 to 21.
The external auditors attended three Audit Committee meetings.
and Code of Best Practice set out in the Combined Code the Code.
systems to mitigate and manage those risks.
The control of key risk is reviewed by the Board and the Groups management at their monthly meetings.
The internal audit manager attended two Audit Committee meetings.
The provisions of the Code applicable to listed companies are divided into 3 ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT The Board is therefore able to confirm that there is an ongoing process four parts, as set out below: for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Before appointment, non-executive Directors are required to assure the An assessment of the Companys position and prospects is included in Group, that it has been in place for the year under review and up to the Board that they can give the time commitment necessary to properly fulfil the Chairmans Statement and in the Operational and Financial Reviews 1 DIRECTORS date of approval of these accounts and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
their duties, both in terms of availability to attend meetings and discuss on pages 6 to 11. matters on the telephone and meeting preparation time.
The business of the Company is managed by the Board of Directors, INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION INTERNAL CONTROL currently comprising four executive and three non-executive Directors, The Companys Articles of Association provide that at each Annual General The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial results to the Provision C2.1 of the Code requires the Directors to conduct an annual details of whom are shown on pages 12 and 13.
All the non-executive Meeting of the Company all Directors who held office at the time of the two Board.
Each operating unit prepares monthly accounts with a comparison review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
The Directors are considered to be independent both in the sense outlined in preceding Annual General Meetings and did not retire by rotation shall be against their business plan and against the previous year, with regular review Turnbull guidance, revised and updated by the Financial Reporting Council the Code and in terms of the criteria laid down by the National Association subject to re-election.
In addition, any Director appointed by the Board by management of variances from targeted performance levels.
A business in October 2005, provides relevant guidance for directors on compliance of Pension Funds for judging the independence of non-executive Directors.
during the year is obliged to seek re-election at the next following Annual plan is prepared by management and approved by the Board annually.
with the internal control provisions of the Code.
Following Mr Rogersons appointment as Chairman on a permanent basis General Meeting.
Each operating unit prepares a three-year business plan with performance on 5 June 2007, Mr Brown was appointed Senior Independent Director.
The The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal controls reported against key performance indicators on a monthly basis together offices of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate.
The division The Board has established a Nomination Committee, which was chaired which aims to safeguard Group assets, ensure proper accounting records with comparisons to plan and prior year.
These are reviewed regularly by of their responsibilities has been set out in writing, approved by the Board by Mr Ballinger until his retirement in November 2006, since when it has are maintained and that the financial information used within the business management.
Forecasts are updated regularly throughout the year.
and is available on the Companys website.
been chaired by Mr Rogerson.
All the non-executive Directors and the Chief and for publication is reliable.
Although no system of internal controls can Executive are members.
Its main function is to lead the process for Board CONTROL PROCEDURES provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, the Groups The Board meets regularly to review trading results and has responsibility appointments by selecting and proposing to the Board suitable candidates The Board and the Groups management have adopted a schedule of system is designed to provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that, for the major areas of Group strategy, the annual Business Plan, financial of appropriate calibre.
The Committee would normally expect to use the matters which are required to be brought to it for decision, thus ensuring should any problems occur, these are identified on a timely basis and dealt reporting to and relationships with shareholders, dividend policy, internal services of professional search consultants to help in the search for that it maintains full and effective control over appropriate strategic, with appropriately.
The key features of the Groups system of internal controls, financial and other controls, financing and treasury policy, insurance policy, candidates.
The Committee has written terms of reference which are financial, organisational and compliance issues.
Measures taken include which was in place throughout the period covered by the financial major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals, Board structure, available on the Companys website.
clearly defined procedures for capital expenditure appraisal and authorisation, statements, are described below: remuneration policy, corporate governance and compliance.
physical controls, segregation of duties and routine and ad hoc checks.
The Committee met formally on one occasion during the year.
CONTROL ENVIRONMENT The Chairman ensures that all Directors are properly briefed to enable them MONITORING The Group has a clearly defined organisational structure within which to discharge their duties.
In particular, detailed management accounts are Following Mr Rogersons appointment as Chairman on a permanent basis The Board has delegated to executive management implementation of individual responsibilities of line and financial management for the prepared and copies sent to all Board members every month and, in advance on 5 June 2007, he initiated an evaluation process of the performance of the system of internal control.
The Board, including the Audit Committee, maintenance of strong internal controls and the production of accurate of each Board meeting, appropriate documentation on all items to be individual Directors, of the Board as a whole and of its committees.
The receives reports on the system of control from the external auditors and and timely financial management information are identified and can be discussed is circulated.
process consists of a formal and detailed questionnaire to be completed from management.
An independent internal audit function reports bi-annually monitored.
Where appropriate, the business is required to comply with by each Director, to be followed by an evaluation of the results, one-to-one Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the to the Audit Committee primarily on the key areas of risk within the business.
the procedures set out in written manuals.
meetings with the Chairman and a Board discussion.
In addition the nonfinancial year is detailed below.
The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, have begun a To demonstrate the Boards commitment to maintaining the highest system of internal controls covering financial, operational and compliance review process of the performance of the Chairman, taking into account BOARD AUDIT REMUNERATION business and ethical standards and to promote a culture of honesty and matters and risk management, for the period covered by these financial the views of the executive Directors.
integrity amongst all staff, the Board has established a confidential telephone statements in accordance with the Turnbull guidance.
No of Meetings 11 4 4 service, operated by an independent external organisation, which may P Rogerson 10 4 4 be used by all staff to report any issues of concern relating to dishonesty M Ballinger 5- 1 or malpractice within the Group.
All issues reported are investigated by S J Smith 11 - - senior management.
J Astrand 11 4 4 T Brown 11 4 4 P J Moorhouse 11 - - G T Murray 10 - - A T Noble 10 - - NORTHGATE PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007
