36 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Corporate governance report Introduction and general compliance statement committee meetings from 1 April 2006 until his The Board believes best practice in corporate governance retirement from the Board on 27 July 2006.
Ron Lepin, is an important tool in helping it carry out its responsibilities.
who resigned from the Board on 1 December 2006, The Board considers that, during the year and up to the attended three out of the five Board meetings he was date of this report, it has complied with the main and eligible to attend.
supporting principles and the provisions of the Combined Code 2003, except in respect of membership of the At each meeting the directors receive reports from the Remuneration Committee.
The reason for this departure Managing Director, the Finance Director and the is set out in the directors remuneration report.
This chairmen of any committees which have met since the report, the directors report and business review and previous Board meeting.
the directors remuneration report describe how the Company has applied the principles of the Combined The Chairman ensures that important issues are given Code during the year.
A revised Combined Code applies enough time at meetings and that all directors can to the current financial year which commenced on 1 April express their views.
This enables full and vigorous 2007, and the Board considers that it complies with the discussion of key items.
provisions of the revised Code.
The non-executive directors met formally on two The board of NWL also endeavours to maintain its own occasions without the executive directors and are in high standards of corporate governance and to comply regular contact with each other throughout the year.
with the Combined Code, wherever practicable.
The non-executive directors also met once without the Chairman, but did not consider additional formal The Board endeavours to act in accordance with the meetings to be necessary.
Groups code of conduct, which addresses the Groups responsibilities to a range of stakeholders and for the Board balance and independence environment.
This code is on the Companys website.
There are currently eight directors the Chairman, two executive directors, the senior independent non-executive The Board director and four other non-executive directors.
Sir Derek The Board sets and implements the Companys strategy Wanless is the non-executive Chairman.
He is also a and ensures compliance with Group policies and legal non-executive director of Northern Rock plc.
The Groups mission and executive directors are John Cuthbert Managing Director strategy is set out in the directors report and business and Chris Green Finance Director.
Sir Patrick Brown is the review on page 7. senior independent non-executive director and the other independent non-executive directors are Martin Ngre, The Board agenda is proposed by the Managing Director Alex Scott-Barrett and Jenny Williams.
Claude Lamoureux and Company Secretary, with input from NWLs is also a non-executive director, but is not independent as management team, for approval by the Chairman.
he is President and CEO of OTPP, which holds 25% of the issued share capital of the Company.
During the year, the Company revised its guidelines which set out the matters reserved to the Board for approval The Company complies with the Combined Codes and matters which are, or can be, delegated to the requirement that half of the directors, excluding the committees and management.
These guidelines include Chairman, are independent non-executive directors.
financial limits for each level of authority below Board The Chairman was independent on appointment.
Terms of reference of the main committees have Biographical details of the directors appear on pages been approved by the Board, and are on the Companys 34 and 35 and details of their service contracts are in website.
Standing or Executive Committees can take the directors remuneration report on page 44. decisions not delegated to specific committees between Board meetings.
All directors receive notice of Standing Committee meetings and are able to participate if they The Chairman and Managing Director have clearly wish.
Decisions taken by the Standing or Executive defined written responsibilities that have been agreed Committees are reported at the next Board meeting.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and for creating the conditions for overall The Board met seven times during the year and held an Board and individual director effectiveness, both inside additional strategy meeting in March 2007.
Attendance and outside the boardroom.
He also conducts an at meetings was good throughout the year, with all annual performance evaluation of each of the directors.
current directors recording 100% attendance at Board The Managing Director is responsible for running the and appropriate committee meetings.
Sir Fred Holliday Companys business on a day to day basis, and is assisted recorded 100% attendance at Board and appropriate by NWLs management team.
CLICK TO RETURN TO CONTENTS 37 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Sir Patrick Brown, as senior independent non-executive and NWL strategy meetings.
The performance of NWLs director, is available to shareholders who wish to raise any board, committees and individual directors was evaluated concerns, and leads the non-executive directors in their at the same time.
The Chairmans comments on the evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
evaluation of the directors seeking appointment or re-appointment at the AGM, and the non-executive The non-executive directors bring to the Board many directors comments on the evaluation of the Chairman, years of business experience as well as financial expertise who is also seeking re-appointment at the AGM, are and the ability and willingness to challenge and support provided in the notice of the meeting.
External appointments The Company Secretary, Martin Parker, assists the Board To date, executive directors have only accepted to ensure that good corporate governance compliance is non-executive positions outside the Group where this achieved.
He is also Company Secretary of NWL, and is would benefit either the Group or the local community.
secretary to all committees other than CRC.
These positions have tended to be with educational institutions, economic regeneration groups or similar Information and professional development bodies and any fees received have been paid over to All directors have access to independent professional the Company or donated to charity.
The Board has advice to assist them in the performance of their duties, now agreed that executive directors of the Company at the Companys expense, and to the Company Secretary who are appointed to non-executive directorships of a for advice and assistance.
The Chairman, with the more commercial nature may retain the fees, subject to assistance of the Company Secretary, monitors the obtaining the Chairmans consent before an appointment induction and training requirements of directors.
Only one such external appointment per new directors receive an induction information pack director will generally be permitted and there are and are offered site visits and meetings with managers.
Managers from within the Group submit papers or give presentations at Board meetings.
Industry representatives Board committees meet the Board to discuss current issues.
The Board has Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees to assist it in the performance of its duties.
The Company Secretary ensures that directors are kept During the year, the Treasury Committee was disbanded informed and that information flows effectively within and its work taken on by the Board as a whole.
The Board the Group by: sets the terms of reference of the committees and keeping in regular contact with directors: receives regular reports from their chairmen at board sending Board papers to directors before each meetings.
The terms of reference of committees were Board meeting: updated during the year, and are available on the sending briefing packs to directors in the months when Companys website or from the Company Secretary.
Board meetings are not held: and providing a Directors Team Room intranet site Remuneration Committee containing Board and committee papers, minutes, The work of the Remuneration Committee and details of analyst reports and reference documents, such as the the directors remuneration are set out in the directors Combined Code and the Articles, to which all directors remuneration report on pages 41 to 49. have access.
Nomination Committee Performance evaluation The members of the Nomination Committee are Sir Derek A full evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Wanless Chairman, Sir Patrick Brown, John Cuthbert, committees and of individual directors was conducted Martin Ngre, Alex Scott-Barrett and Jenny Williams, and in October 2006.
Each director completed a detailed the membership is compliant with the Combined Code.
questionnaire prior to a personal discussion with the Sir Fred Holliday was Chairman of the Committee until he Chairman.
The questionnaire was prepared by the retired from the Board on 27 July 2006.
Alex Scott-Barrett Chairman and Company Secretary and was designed to joined the Committee on 30 November 2006. address strategic issues as well as the approach of the Board to operational and financial matters, the role of the The main duty of the Nomination Committee is to identify non-executive directors and the quality of information and nominate candidates to fill Board vacancies for received by the Board.
The results of the evaluation were approval by the Board.
The Committee also reviews considered by the Board at its meeting in November and succession planning for the Board, NWL board and senior were generally very positive, but the Board agreed to appointments and will make recommendations to the improve the induction process, to refine its work on Board when appropriate.
The Committees general policy regulatory developments and to expand the NWG is to use external recruitment consultants or to advertise CLICK TO RETURN TO CONTENTS 38 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Corporate governance report continued in order to identify suitable candidates.
Since 1 April The Committee members receive regular briefings from 2006, all non-executive directors are appointed for a the external auditors to enable them to keep up to date term of one year.
In accordance with the Articles, all on financial reporting standards.
directors are subject to re-election at the AGM at least every three years.
The purpose of the Audit Committee is to assist both executive and non-executive directors of NWG to The Nomination Committee met five times during the discharge their individual and collective responsibilities year and all members attended all appropriate meetings.
in relation to: During the year, the Committee considered: ensuring the financial and accounting systems of the appointment of Alex Scott-Barrett to the NWG NWG and its subsidiaries are providing accurate and Board.
External consultants were not used for this up to date information on their current position: appointment as Mr Scott-Barrett was already a director ensuring NWGs published financial statements of NWL and had demonstrated his experience and represent a true and fair reflection of this position: and expertise.
External consultants had, however, been assessing the scope and effectiveness of the Groups used to facilitate his appointment to the NWL board: risk management systems and the integrity of its the appointment of Simon Lyster to the NWL board internal financial controls.
following a search by external recruitment consultants and interviews with potential candidates: The Committee met four times during the year and its the appointment of Claude Lamoureux to the NWG work included: and NWL boards, following Ron Lepins resignation monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of from the boards and from OTPP: the Company: treatment of fees received by executive directors for reviewing the Companys internal financial controls by external directorships: and considering reports of both the internal and external extensions to the appointments of non-executive auditors, directing questions to management and directors on the NWG and NWL boards whose reviewing the financial risks and controls information contracts for services expired during the year.
provided to them on an annual basis: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Accountability and audit internal audit function by reviewing the scope of the Audit Committee annual audit plan, the results of those audits, and The Audit Committee members are Sir Patrick Brown monitoring the completion of actions identified during Chairman, Alex Scott-Barrett and Jenny Williams.
In addition, a formal questionnaire was sent Sir Patrick and Jenny Williams have both served to committee members and directors: throughout the year.
Sir Derek Wanless stood down monitoring and reviewing the performance and from the Committee on 27 July 2006 when he became effectiveness of the external auditors, in particular by Chairman of the Board, and was replaced by Alex reviewing the scope and costs of the audit process: Scott-Barrett.
All members recorded 100% attendance reviewing the external auditors independence at committee meetings.
by monitoring the extent of the provision of non-audit services and receiving reports from Sir Derek is a former director and Group Chief Executive the external auditors: of National Westminster Bank plc and a non-executive monitoring the potential impact and management of director of Northern Rock plc.
Alex Scott-Barrett is a significant risks on the business using a risk chartered accountant and was Chief Operating Officer of methodology which meets the recommendations of Cazenoves fund management division before becoming the 2005 Turnbull guidance.
This methodology sets non-executive Chairman of Suffolk Life Group plc, and a out and rates all identified risks, including operational, non-executive director of General Capital Group plc.
external, financial, environmental, social and The Board is satisfied that Sir Derek and Alex Scott-Barrett governance risks: both have recent and relevant financial experience.
monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups whistleblowing policy by receiving reports on The Committees membership complies with the any incidents: and Combined Code.
The Chairman, Managing Director and reviewing the Companys interim and preliminary Finance Director are invited to Audit Committee meetings results announcements and the associated interim with the permission of its Chairman, but have no right of and final reports and financial statements.
Managers from within the Group are invited to Audit Committee meetings to discuss issues relating to their Given the importance of NWL to the Groups business, areas of the business.
Sir Patrick meets regularly with the the Committee works closely with the Audit Committee Internal Audit Manager, and with the external auditors.
In particular, both committees review significant CLICK TO RETURN TO CONTENTS 39 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 regulatory reports for Ofwat, and regularly review NWLs process whereby all of the financial controls within the debt recovery strategy and performance.
Company are identified and certified by the relevant manager as having operated for the full year.
As part of The Audit Committee Chairman reports to the Board a programme of work which is agreed with the Audit following each meeting of the Committee, and Committee, these controls are tested throughout the committee minutes are circulated to the Board.
A report detailing any areas of concern is produced after each audit.
As part of the same process all of the External auditors key business risks are identified.
Each risk is assessed Ernst & Young LLP have been the Groups auditors since on an unmanaged basis, the controls that are in place 2003.
The key audit partner will change every five years.
to mitigate the risks are detailed and the risk is then re-assessed after these controls.
Non-audit services The Committee has approved a procedure for the Internal Audits findings and recommendations are approval of non-audit services to safeguard the objectivity presented to the Audit Committee along with agreed and independence of the external auditors, which actions.
Internal Audit updates progress against any complies with the requirements of the APBs Ethical agreed actions until the control weakness is resolved.
The external auditors are not permitted to provide bookkeeping, financial information systems Organisational structure design and information, or internal audit outsourcing The trading subsidiaries have their own boards of services.
Permitted services require prior approval, either directors the Subsidiary Boards which are responsible from the Audit Committee Chairman, if under 50,000, for the operational and financial control of their own or from the Audit Committee, if over 50,000.
The Subsidiary Boards report to the Managing Company requires the auditors to report annually details Director, or Finance Director, and to the Companys Board of all non-audit services provided.
A breakdown of the on matters including major strategic, financial, cost of audit and non-audit services provided by the organisational, compliance and regulatory issues.
auditors is set out in note 4 to the financial statements.
The NWL management team manages the major business On 29 May 2007, Ernst & Young confirmed to the Audit of the Group and consists of John Cuthbert Managing Committee, in accordance with ISA260 Communication Director, Chris Green Finance Director, Graham Neave of audit matters to those charged with governance, Operations Director and on NWL board, Ceri Jones that they have considered their relationship with the Regulation & Scientific Services Director and on NWL Company and that, in their professional judgement, the board, John Devall Water & Networks South Director, objectivity of the audit engagement partner and audit Ian Donald Customer Services Director, Diane Morton staff is not impaired.
HR Director, Colin Price Technical Director and Henry Wilson Waste Water & Networks North Director.
The Review of internal control NWL management team meets monthly to consider and The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining a discuss progress against annual and monthly financial and sound system of internal control and for reviewing its operational targets.
It prepares an annual budget and effectiveness.
The system is designed to manage rather business plan for consideration and approval by the NWL than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business board.
NWL operates a balanced scorecard system which objectives.
Regular reviews of the effectiveness of the monitors progress against KPIs and which covers all areas internal control system are carried out in accordance with of operation of the business.
The actions necessary to address weaknesses and otherwise improve the system The Board is able to monitor the impact of social, of internal control are communicated to management.
environment and ethical matters on the Groups business, Internal Audit monitor implementation of these actions to assess the impact of significant risks on the business, and report back to the Audit Committee.
This process has and to evaluate methods of managing these risks through been in place throughout the year and up to the date of reports it receives from the Subsidiary Boards and the approval of the annual report and financial statements Audit Committee.
The only environmental risk considered 2006 07.
There are inherent limitations in any system of to be significant by the Board is the potential loss of the internal control and even the most effective system can use of agricultural land for processed sewage treatment only provide a reasonable, and not absolute, assurance sludge disposal.
How NWL is managing this risk is described against material misstatement or loss.
in the directors report and business review on page 30.
For a number of years, the Subsidiary Boards have The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups performed a full annual business risk analysis, to meet system of internal control, outlined below, as follows the recommendations of the 2005 Turnbull guidance.
The Internal Audit team manages a CLICK TO RETURN TO CONTENTS 40 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Corporate governance report continued This methodology is described above, in relation to the The Board therefore believes that there are effective work of the Audit Committee.
The results of the risk systems in place to identify and manage significant risks reviews are reported in detail to the Audit Committee, and that it receives sufficient information to enable it to and a summary is reported to the Companys directors.
Accompanying the risk model is a detailed review of each companys internal financial controls, along with either The work of the CRC is described on page 13 and confirmation that the controls have operated throughout on the corporate responsibility section of the the year or details of any exceptions.
Action points arising Companys website.
from these reviews are followed up as part of the internal audit process.
Investor relations The Company welcomes constructive communication Some subsidiaries, such as NWL, consider risks more with all its shareholders.
Details of the Companys investor frequently.
The NWL management team considers relations activities during the year are described in the significant risks in a structured way every two months, directors report and business review on page 11.
Investor assessing the likelihood and potential impact of the feedback reports from investor meetings, prepared by the relevant risks both before and after risk management Companys advisers, are considered at Board meetings, measures have been put in place.
Further details about and analysts notes on the Company are made available how risks and uncertainties facing the Group are assessed to all directors on the Boards intranet Team Room.
The and managed are included in the directors report and Board believes that these methods of investor feedback business review on pages 28 to 30. provide the senior independent non-executive director and the other non-executive directors with a balanced On a monthly basis, the Managing Director and the understanding of the issues and concerns of major Finance Director compare the actual operational and shareholders.
The senior independent director is available financial performance of each business with its plan and to shareholders who wish to raise any matters of concern budget.
Targets are set to measure performance and and the Chairman welcomes contact with any shareholders regular forecasts are made.
who have matters they wish to discuss.
From February 2007, it was agreed that the Chairman would write to any Information and reporting system new shareholders with holdings over 1% of the issued Each Subsidiary Board holds a copy of the Companys share capital confirming that the non-executive directors financial control manual and terms of reference, which are available to meet them upon request.
The Company contain full details of the procedures for distribution of has not received any requests from institutional information and financial reporting.
Each Subsidiary shareholders to meet with non-executive directors.
Board has developed financial control systems appropriate to its activities.
All shareholders are encouraged to contact the Company with queries or suggestions.
A welcome letter is sent to Budgets and business planning all new non-corporate shareholders, which includes The Group prepares detailed medium term business plans information on services available to shareholders.
and annual budgets which are reviewed by the Managing Director and Finance Director and submitted to the Board AGM for approval.
Business plans and budgets include an Shareholders are encouraged to attend the Companys assessment of the key risks and success factors facing AGM at which they can meet and question the directors.
The Company will make a presentation at the AGM to highlight the key business developments and events The approval of the Board is required for major during the year.
The full Board is expected to be available investments, including those in new markets, and at the AGM to answer shareholders questions.
Voting at large capital expenditure programmes.
The treasury the AGM will be on a show of hands but the proxy votes strategy, which is approved by the Board, requires that cast on each resolution will be displayed after each investments are limited to certain money market and resolution has been voted on.
If the voting on a show of treasury instruments, and that the Groups exposure to hands produces a different result from that which would any single bank, building society or market is controlled, have been achieved on a poll, the Chairman will call a poll with maximum deposits allowed with any single so that the result of the voting on that resolution reflects counterparty.
The Groups investment strategy aims to the wishes of the majority of shareholders.
The proxy fix interest rates for part of the Groups borrowings and votes cast at each AGM are disclosed on our website.
investments for periods determined by the forecast cash flow of the individual businesses.
This manages the exposure to the risk of changes in short term interest Martin Parker rates.
Foreign currency exposure is also managed as Company Secretary part of the treasury strategy approved by the Board.
5 June 2007 CLICK TO RETURN TO CONTENTS
