20 Corporate Governance Introduction The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the July 2003 Combined Code on Corporate Governance which is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Code and for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
Statement of Compliance with the Provisions of the Combined Code The maintenance of effective corporate governance remains a priority for the Board of the Company.
The Company considers that, from 23 March 2007, it complied with the recommendations of the Combined Code following the appointment of additional Non-Executive Directors to the Board and changes made to the membership of its committees during the course of the year.
The Board is of sufficient size that the balance of skills and experience is appropriate for the requirements of the business.
The Company considers the Chairman, five Non-Executive Directors and four Executive Directors to be entirely sufficient at the present time.
Mr Jos Sluys has been invited to join the Company as an Executive Director.
As noted on page 15, the exception on compliance before 23 March 2007 was through the Chairman being a member of the Audit Committee.
Applying the Principles of Good Governance The Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in section 1 of the Code, including both the Main Principles and the Supporting Principles, by complying with the Code as reported above.
Further explanation of how the Principles have been applied is set out below and in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review and the Group Finance Directors Review set out an assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
The Board of Directors The Board comprises ten Directors: the Chairman, five Non-Executive Directors Mr Jack R Fryer, Mr David C Hodgson, Sir Stephen J Lander, Mr J Nicholas Starritt and Mr Andrew M Robb and four Executive Directors.
Mr Jos Sluys has been invited to join the Company as an Executive Director following the acquisition on 28 June 2007 by the Company of a majority interest in ARINSO International NV.
The Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent, have no day-to-day management responsibilities within the Group and are free from any conflicts of interest.
If any conflicts of interests are identified then they are entered in a conflicts register and the Director does not participate in that discussion.
Mr Ron W Mackintosh joined Northgate as an independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman designate on 1 September 2006 and formally took over the role of Chairman on 1 January 2007.
Mr Mackintosh currently holds the positions of Non-Executive Director and Chair of Remuneration Committee at CSR plc and Fidessa Group plc, as well as Chair of Smartstream and Differentis.
He has over 35 years experience in the IT and management consulting sectors, including twelve years at Computer Sciences Corporation where he was European President and Chief Executive from 1992 until 2000.
He was also a board member of Gemplus between 2001 and 2004.
He is a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
Mr Andrew M Robb joined the Board on 22 February 2007 and is also a member of Northgate's Audit Committee.
Andrew is a NonExecutive Director of Corus Group plc, Kesa Electricals plc, Laird Group plc and Paypoint plc.
Andrew was Group Finance Director of Pilkington plc for 12 years and, prior to that, was Group Finance Director of P&O Steam Navigation Co.
He is also Chairman of the Pilkington Pension Scheme Trustees.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Considered independent by the Board is Mr David C Hodgson a Non-Executive Director who is a Managing Director of General Atlantic Partners, a major shareholder in the Company.
The Company considers that Mr Hodgsons contribution to the Board is significant and that he demonstrates independent judgement at Board meetings.
Mr Hodgson has wide involvement in a number of complementary businesses and the Company benefits from his substantial level of valuable sector-specific experience and knowledge.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 21 The Board of Directors continued The Directors biographies appear on page 19 of this report and these demonstrate that the Board has the necessary range of backgrounds, qualities and experience to lead and maintain effective control over Northgates activities.
Northgate has separate posts of Chairman and Chief Executive to differentiate the running of the Board from the executive responsibility for running the Companys business which have been documented and agreed by the Board and Mr Jack R Fryer is the Senior Independent Non-Executive.
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment by the Board and to re-election at general meetings at least every three years.
The Board discharges its responsibilities by providing leadership of the Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
It sets the Companys strategic aims, ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives and reviews management performance.
The division of responsibilities between the CEO and the Chairman is clearly established and set out in writing as agreed by the Board.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters which are specifically reserved to its decision which was reviewed and updated during the year.
It has also adopted a framework of delegated commercial and operational authorities which define the scope of the Chief Executives powers and those of subsidiary management.
The Board of Directors meets at least ten times a year at formal Board meetings.
In addition, the Directors attend a strategic planning away day.
The attendance of the Directors at Board meetings is shown below.
In addition, ad hoc meetings of the Board and its committees were held during the year to deal with administrative and similar matters.
Board meeting Audit Remuneration Nomination 10 meetings 4 meetings 6 meetings 2 meetings N J Irens 63 R W Mackintosh 7 Chairman 2 J R Fryer 10 4 6 Chairman 2 Sir Stephen J Lander 10 4 Chairman 6 2 J N Starritt 9 4 2 Chairman D C Hodgson 10 A M Robb 3 0 C M R Stone 9 J R Stier 10 M S Aldis 10 D J Meaden 9 Mr Irens retired from the Board and Audit Committee on 31 December 2006.
Mr Mackintosh joined the Board as Non-Executive Director on 1 September 2006.
The maximum number of Audit Committee meetings that Mr Robb could have attended since joining was one.
The Board believes that progressive organisations appreciate the challenge of operating in todays business environment and particularly the requirement for more transparency in determining Board memberships and assessing the performance of Directors.
Therefore, during the year, Northgate completed self-assessment performance evaluations of the Board, its Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and its individual Directors adopting an industry standard approach to analyse individual and collective behaviours and processes.
The results for the Board evaluation showed improvements in understanding strategy and managing its relationship with its external stakeholders.
In addition, there was a noticeable improvement in the function of the Company Secretary over the course of the year.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 22 Corporate Governance continued Principal Board Committees The Nomination Committee The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, including its role and the authority delegated to it by the Board, are reviewed annually.
The Committee keeps under review the Board structure, size and composition.
It selects and proposes to the Board suitable candidates for appointment as Directors of the Group, helps induct new members and considers Board succession plans.
The Committee comprises Mr J Nicholas Starritt Chairman, Sir Stephen J Lander and Mr Jack R Fryer.
The Chairman attends by invitation.
Specialist recruitment agencies are used as appropriate.
The Committee meets as required.
In line with best practice, Northgate does not consider internal candidates or employees that have left the Company within the last five years for appointment as Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee, including its role and the authority delegated to it by the Board, are reviewed annually.
The Committee ensures that the Executive Directors and senior management are appropriately rewarded, giving due regard to the financial and commercial health of the Group.
The Committee comprises Mr Jack R Fryer Chairman, Mr Ron W Mackintosh appointed on 22 March 2007, Sir Stephen J Lander and Mr J Nicholas Starritt.
The Committee meets at least twice a year.
When necessary, the Remuneration Committee is advised independently by remuneration consultants who have no relationship with the Company itself.
The Boards policy and approach to the setting of remuneration for Directors and senior executives are described in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 33.
The Audit Committee The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, including its role and the authority delegated to it by the Board, are reviewed annually.
The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its overview responsibilities, primarily reviewing the reporting of financial and non-financial information to shareholders, the systems of internal control and risk management and the audit process.
It comprises Sir Stephen J Lander Chairman, Mr Jack R Fryer and Mr Andrew M Robb who joined the Committee on 23 March 2007.
The Committee meets at least four times a year and the Chief Executive Officer, the Group Finance Director and the Group Internal Audit Manager attend the meetings by invitation.
Until his retirement, the member with recent relevant financial experience was Nick Irens.
Since his appointment on 23 March 2007, it is now Mr Andrew Robb.
Northgate has an Internal Audit function that provides the Audit Committee with independent, objective assurance regarding internal controls and risk management processes.
Northgate has adopted and implemented a formal whistle-blowing policy and process that allows staff to raise concerns, in confidence, regarding possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
There are arrangements in place for the investigation and follow-up of any matters raised.
In addition to their statutory audit responsibilities, the Group will, on occasion, use the Groups Auditors KPMG Audit Plc for other work that they are well placed to undertake.
This includes work in respect of acquisitions and disposals, pension scheme and other ancillary audit work and tax compliance.
In such circumstances, due consideration is given by the Committee to the impact of the assignment on the independence of the Auditors and to their qualifications to carry out the role.
The Group Finance Director, Mr John R Stier, reviews all potential work and discusses this with the Committee where appropriate.
Having given consideration to the extra work undertaken by the Auditors and after careful discussion with the responsible audit directors and the Executive Directors, the Audit Committee is satisfied as to the independence of the statutory Auditors.
In addition to the above, the other work of the Audit Committee on areas such as risk assessment and internal controls is described below.
The terms of reference for all Board committees will be available for public inspection at the Companys AGM.
Responsibility for Internal Controls and Risk Management The Groups overriding objective is to maximise long-term shareholder value whilst meeting the needs of customers, employees and partners.
In doing so, the Directors recognise that creating value is the reward for taking and accepting risk.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 23 The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups approach to assessing risk and the systems of internal control, and for monitoring their effectiveness in providing shareholders with a return that is consistent with a responsible assessment and mitigation of risks.
This includes reviewing financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management procedures.
The role of executive management is to implement the Boards policies on risk and control and present assurance on compliance with these policies.
Further independent assurance is provided by an internal audit function which operates across the Group, and by the external auditors.
All employees are accountable for operating within these policies.
Because of the limitations that are inherent in any system of internal control, this system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve corporate objectives.
Accordingly, it can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Risk Assessment The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
As an integral part of planning and review, management from each business area identify their risks, the probability of those risks occurring, the impact if they do occur and the actions strategy being taken to manage those risks to the desired level.
This information is communicated upwards on a filter basis, culminating in a discussion of the Group Risk Profile by the Board.
This process has operated for the year under review and will continue going forward.
It has been reviewed by the Board and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors in the Combined Code.
Internal Control Whilst the Board maintains full control and direction over appropriate strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues, it has delegated to executive management the implementation of the systems of internal control within an established framework.
The Board has put in place an organisational structure with formally-defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
There are also established procedures for planning, capital expenditure, information and reporting systems and for monitoring the Groups businesses and their performances.
These include: review of divisional operating plans with the relevant Executive Directors prior to submission to the Board for approval: regular consideration by the Board of year-end forecasts: monthly comparison of each operating divisions actual financial performance with budget: operating policies and procedures: and regular reporting of accounting and legal developments to the Board.
Assurance On behalf of the Board the Audit Committee examines the effectiveness of the Groups: assessment of risk by reviewing evidence of risk assessment activity and a report from internal audit on the risk assessment process: and systems of internal control primarily through agreeing the scope of the internal audit programme and reviewing its findings, reviews of the annual and interim financial statements and a review of the nature and scope of the external audit.
Any significant findings or identified risks are closely examined so that appropriate action can be taken.
The work of the Internal Audit department is focused on areas of priority as identified by the risk analysis and in accordance with the annual audit plan approved by the Audit Committee and the Board.
External Auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the financial statements.
They review and test the systems of internal financial control and the data contained in the financial statements to the extent necessary to express their audit opinion.
They discuss with management the reporting of operational results and the financial position of the Group and present their findings to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee regularly meets with the Auditors without management being present.
The Directors, through the Audit Committee, have, during the year and up to the date of this report, reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 24 Corporate Governance continued Relations with Shareholders The Board actively seeks and encourages engagement with major institutional and other shareholders.
This provides the opportunity for meetings with the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director as well as the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director and other executives in order to establish a mutual understanding of objectives.
There is a structured programme of investor relations, based on formal announcements and publications covering the full year and interim results.
There are associated briefings for stockbroking analysts and investors, the presentation material for which is published on the Companys website.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting The Board encourages shareholders to participate in the Annual General Meeting AGM.
At the AGM there will be a statement by the Chairman regarding the Companys performance in 2006 07.
It is intended that all Directors will, as usual, attend the AGM if at all possible.
Whilst illness or other pressing reasons may mean this is not achieved, in normal circumstances the Chairmen of the Committees will attend the AGM and will be available to answer questions.
Shareholders attending the AGM will be advised of the number of proxy votes lodged for each resolution.
These will be advised after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands and placed on the Companys website after the meeting.
Going Concern After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors believe it is reasonable to expect that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
By order of the Board Mr John D Richardson Secretary 4 July 2007 NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC
