01-32 14 June 14 6 07 12:36 Page 9 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW SOUTH WEST WATER DRINKING WATER COMPLIANCE During 2006, South West Water maintained its overall high level of compliance with the drinking water quality regulations with 99.96% of its regulatory tests meeting the required standards.
Overall Water Quality Compliance 100 Typical water mains before 99.5 and after refurbishment 99 98.5 98 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Calendar years CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY RELATIONSHIPS manage performance and to identify and deliver continuous RELATIONSHIPS WITH REGULATORS AND CUSTOMERS improvement opportunities for further reducing cost while improving performance and service levels.
South West Water views relationships with regulators, Government bodies, customer representative organisations and its customers as EMPLOYEES central to its operations.
South West Water continues to take advantage of the introduction of The company maintains a continuing dialogue with Ofwat, the EA new technology, such as mobile computing to improve the efficient and DWI and contributes to national dialogue on developing issues operation of the workforce in the field.
In addition the company has through its membership of Water UK, the industry trade body.
been pressing ahead with upskilling programmes for its operational employees and, following a series of meetings with employee It works with the Consumer Council for Water to ensure representatives, new working arrangements have been introduced to a that customer issues and concerns are addressed and a full number of areas of the business.
During 2006 the new Service Centre understanding of the companys activities is maintained.
was opened at the companys headquarters in Exeter, designed to improve the planning of field staff activity as well as provide a much Customers are informed through a customer newspaper entitled more effective interface with customers.
Waterlevel and by regular press releases and media briefings.
All these measures will help to enhance the service to customers and Customer service improvement is a key focus for the company, as contribute to meeting the companys demanding efficiency targets for evidenced by the Service project and the recent introduction of a the K4 period.
It is anticipated that as a result of these and other new contact centre platform.
efficiency improvements, a number of employees will be released on early retirement or voluntary severance terms and this will enable the The company is also investing in a new debt recovery system to company to meet its target of a directly employed workforce of below provide improved management and structure of payment 1300 by 2010. arrangements for customers who, for whatever reason, do not South West Water has a highly skilled management team focused on or are unable to pay their bills.
It has invested significant sums to ensure that its staff have the experience and competencies to CUSTOMER SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIPS undertake their roles.
For example, NVQ training is provided to operators and craftsmen to ensure that basic skills are in place and No single customer accounts for more than 1.0% of revenue.
health and safety requirements met.
A range of training opportunities No supplier revenue accounts for more than 2.8% of including assistance to obtain professional qualifications is offered to turnover and South West Water sources all its purchases from office-based staff, and managers are encouraged to widen their competitive markets.
knowledge and skills through participation in company-wide programmes as well as bespoke external courses.
All training activity is South West Waters procurement strategy is focused on the undertaken under the Investor in People IIP standard and is closely management of around 50 key and strategic suppliers who account aligned with business requirements.
for the large majority of expenditure.
Regular meetings are held to 9 % compliance
