33-96 2-colour 14 June:33-96 14 June 15 6 07 00:36 Page 40 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL responses were then summarised and evaluated by the Group COMPLIANCE General Counsel & Company Secretary for the Board to consider and determine whether any changes were necessary for the Board The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate to be more effective.
Overall performance was considered to be governance with the aim of continuing to enhance its effectiveness.
satisfactory but a number of minor issues were identified where The Annual Report is the principal means of reporting to changes could be made to improve performance including, for shareholders on the Boards governance policies.
This section example, more visits by the Board to strategic business locations of the Group within the UK to gain additional understanding of sets out how the main and supporting principles of good corporate new developments.
The Chairmans performance was evaluated governance contained in Section 1 of the Combined Code pre-June separately by the Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior 2006 version have been applied by the Company in practice.
The Chairmans other The Company considers that it has complied with the provisions significant commitments outside the Group have not changed of the Code throughout the year.
during the year and the Board is satisfied that such commitments do not prejudice the Chairmans performance in relation to his Group role.
THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES All Directors are equally accountable for the proper stewardship of the Groups affairs with the Non-executive Directors having a The Board of Directors at the end of the year comprised the particular responsibility for ensuring that strategies proposed for Chairman, three Executive Directors and three Non-executive the development of the business are critically reviewed.
All of the Non-executive Directors are considered to be executive Directors also critically examine the operational and independent and Gerard Connell is the Senior independent Nonfinancial performance of the Group and fulfil a key role in executive Director.
The biographies on page 32 demonstrate a corporate accountability through their membership of the broad range of business and financial experience.
There is a clear Committees of the Board.
In addition, the Chairman during the division of responsibilities between the roles of Chairman and the year holds meetings with the Non-executive Directors without Chief Executives of South West Water and Viridor as recorded in the the Executive Directors present, to discuss performance and descriptions of the roles approved by the Board.
All Directors are strategic issues.
subject to re-election when they have held office for three years.
Group Policy allocates the tasks of giving detailed consideration During the year, the Board met in accordance with its schedule of to specified matters, to monitoring executive actions and to meetings on ten occasions.
At each meeting, all Directors were assessing reward, to the Board Committees as set out below.
present with the exception of Colin Drummond on one occasion.
In accordance with Group Policy, the Board has a schedule of matters AUDIT COMMITTEE reserved for its decision and delegates more detailed consideration The Audit Committee was chaired by Gerard Connell, who has of certain matters to Board Committees: to the subsidiary boards of current and relevant financial experience, and the other South West Water and Viridor: to the Executive Directors: and to the members of the Committee were Kate Mortimer and Dinah Nichols.
Group General Counsel & Company Secretary, as appropriate.
During the year, the Committee met on five occasions and all Recognising this policy, the matters reserved to the Board include members were present at each meeting.
In discharging its Terms the approval of financial statements, acquisitions and disposals, of Reference, the Committee receives reports and meets regularly major items of capital expenditure, authority levels for other in particular to: expenditure, risk management and approval of the Strategic Plan monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, and annual operating budgets.
The Board operates by receiving including a review of significant reporting judgements, prior written reports circulated in advance from the Executive Directors to approval by the Board: and the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary on matters keep under review the effectiveness of the Groups internal within their respective business areas in the Group.
Under the controls, including all material financial, operational and guidance of the Chairman, all matters before the Board are discussed compliance controls and risk management systems: openly and presentations and advice are received on occasions from monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal other senior executives within the Group or from external advisers.
audit function and approve the annual internal audit plan: Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group review the findings of the internal audit function and review General Counsel & Company Secretary and the Board has and monitor managements responsiveness to such findings: established a procedure whereby Directors, in order to fulfil oversee the relationship with the external auditors including their duties, may seek independent professional advice at the their remuneration, appointment, re-appointment and Companys expense.
The training needs of Directors are reviewed removal and in addition monitor their independence and on a regular basis.
objectivity including the supply of non-audit services: and receive internal control reports from the external auditors and The Board has an internal procedure to evaluate the performance meet with them in the absence of management at least once a of the whole Board, each Committee, the Chairman, each individual year to discuss their remit and any issues arising from the audit.
Director and the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary.
This evaluation procedure was adminstered for the year by the In addition, the Committee periodically reviews the arrangements Group General Counsel & Company Secretary seeking all participants for, and the effectiveness of, the Groups Whistleblowing views on a range of prescribed questions designed to ensure Policies details of which are set out on page 26 of the objective evaluation of performance.
4 40 0 33-96 2-colour 14 June:33-96 14 June 15 6 07 00:36 Page 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL The Committee pays particular attention to the independence results for the Committee: to finalise the appointment of an and objectivity of the auditors and has established a policy for Executive Director: to consider the appointment of a senior the engagement of the auditors for non-audit work by the executive: and to consider the appointment for a third three Group.
This involves the Group Director of Finance setting out in year term of two Non-executive Directors.
a report to the Committee reasons for appointing the auditors CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY for any material work and obtaining the approval of the ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE Committee to such appointment which the Committee will only grant if it is satisfied that the auditors independence and The Environment Committee was chaired by Bruce Hewett objectivity are safeguarded.
This is achieved by reviewing the a co-opted member and former Non-executive Director of the appointment with the auditors as considered appropriate and Company and also comprised the Chief Executives of South West receiving from the auditors at the year end a letter setting out Water and Viridor.
The Committee met three times during the how the auditors believe their independence and objectivity year with all members present.
In November 2006, the Committee have been maintained.
In addition, the Companys current was formally disbanded and its functions were subsumed into the auditors ensure that the senior partner responsible for the newly formed Corporate Responsibility Committee.
external audit of the Group remains responsible for such audit This new Committee was chaired by Dinah Nichols and also for no more than five years and that there is an independent comprises Gerard Connell and Kate Mortimer and the Chief partner who is involved in planning and in the reviewing of the Executives of South West Water and Viridor.
It met on two final accounts of the Company and also any critical matters that occasions towards the end of 2006 07 at which all members may be identified in the audit.
Details of audit and non-audit were present.
The Committees duties, in the context of the fees are contained in note 6 to the financial statements on requirement for companies to conduct their business in a page 61.
The Executive Directors, the auditors, the Group responsible manner including in relation to environmental, Financial Controller and the Companys internal auditor attend social and governance ESG matters, are to review the meetings of the Committee by invitation.
In addition, both the strategies, policies, management, initiatives, targets and external and internal auditors have the right of direct access to performance of the Pennon Group of companies in the areas of the Committee without the presence of any Executive Director.
occupational health and safety and security, environment, At the beginning of the year a review of the provision of external workplace policies, corporate policies, non-financial regulatory audit services was completed following the consideration of compliance and the role of the Group in society.
submissions and presentations from a number of audit firms on In reporting on corporate responsibility, the Company has their proposals for audit services.
Following this review, as sought to comply with the Association of British Insurers recommended by the Committee,  LLP Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure.
The Business was appointed at the Annual General Meeting last year to Review on page 26 contains details of ESG matters and continue as the auditors of the Group.
additional information is contained in the Groups annual report on corporate responsibility for environmental and social issues.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The 2007 report will be available from the Company Secretary The Remuneration Committee was chaired by Kate Mortimer.
from the end of July 2007 and will also be set out on the Gerard Connell and Dinah Nichols were the other members of the Companys website at www.
The Committee met on nine occasions during the year at which all members were present with the exception of COMMITTEES TERMS OF REFERENCE Dinah Nichols on one occasion.
The Committee is responsible for The Terms of Reference of the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination determining the remuneration and terms of engagement of the and Corporate Responsibility Committees are available upon Chairman and the remuneration and terms of employment of the request to the Company Secretary and are also set out on the Executive Directors and senior management of the Group.
co. uk Members of the Remuneration Committee do not participate in decisions concerning their own remuneration.
The Directors report on remuneration, which also provides more information INTERNAL CONTROL on the activities of the Remuneration Committee, appears on pages 33 to 39.
Wider aspects of internal control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal NOMINATION COMMITTEE control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed The Nomination Committee was chaired by Ken Harvey and to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve also comprised Kate Mortimer, Dinah Nichols and Gerard business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not Connell.
It meets as and when required to select and recommend absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
to the Board suitable candidates for appointment as Executive There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and and Non-executive Directors, determine the nomination process managing the significant risks faced by the Group that has been in place throughout the year 2006 07 and up to the date of and review succession plans.
During the year it met on three the approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board occasions at which all members were present with the confirms that it continues to apply procedures in accordance exception of Kate Mortimer and Dinah Nichols each on one with the Combined Code and the Guidance on Internal Control occasion to consider the annual performance evaluation 41 33-96 2-colour 14 June:33-96 14 June 15 6 07 00:37 Page 42 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL The Turnbull Guidance which suggests means of applying the internal GOING CONCERN control part of the Code.
As part of these procedures, the Board has a formalised risk management policy which provides for the identification The Directors consider, after making appropriate enquiries, that the of key risks in relation to the achievement of the business objectives of Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational the Group.
This policy is applied by all business units within the Group in existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to accordance with an annual timetable.
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Risk identification A full risk and control assessment is undertaken annually by the DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT management of each business to identify financial and non-financial risks and is continuously updated.
Each business compiles as part The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the of its regular management reports an enhanced and focused assessment Directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance of key risks against corporate objectives.
The Board at each meeting with applicable law and regulations.
receives from Executive Directors details of any new high-level risks Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for identified and how they are to be managed, together with details of any each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group changes to existing risks and their management.
The subsidiary Boards and Company financial statements in accordance with International of South West Water and Viridor also receive at each meeting similar Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
reports in respect of their own areas of responsibility.
All senior The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of managers are required to certify on an annual basis that they have the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss established effective controls to manage risks and to operate in of the Group for the year.
compliance with legislation and Group procedures.
All of these processes serve to ensure that a culture of effective control and risk management In preparing these financial statements the Directors are required to: is embedded within the organisation and that the Group is in a position select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently to react appropriately to new risks as they arise.
Details of key risks make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent affecting the Group are set out in the Business Review on pages 10 to 13, state that the financial statements comply with IFRS as adopted by 19 to 21 and 27. the European Union.
Internal control framework The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above As well as the risk management policy of the Group there is an requirements in preparing the financial statements.
established internal control framework which comprises: The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that a a clearly defined structure which delegates an appropriate level of disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the authority, responsibility and accountability, including responsibility Group and the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial for internal financial control, to management of operating units: statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the b a comprehensive budgeting and reporting function with an annual Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, budget approved by the Board of Directors, which also monitors monthly article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding achieved results and updated forecasts for the year against budget: the assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable c documented financial control procedures.
Managers of operating steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
units are required to confirm annually that they have adequate financial controls in operation and to report all material areas of RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS financial risk.
Compliance with procedures is reviewed by the Companys internal audit function: and The Company maintains a regular dialogue with its institutional d an investment appraisal process for evaluating proposals for all shareholders and has a comprehensive investor relations programme.
major capital expenditure and acquisitions, with defined levels of During the year, meetings with institutional shareholders were held and approval and a system for monitoring the progress of capital projects.
attended by the Group Director of Finance and the Companys Investor Internal control review Relations Manager.
On certain occasions the Chairman, the Chief An evaluation of the effectiveness of overall internal control Executive of South West Water and the Chief Executive of Viridor also compliance by the Group is undertaken in respect of each calendar attended.
The Board encourages the participation of shareholders at the year to assist the Audit Committee in considering the Group internal Annual General Meeting and complies with the provisions of the Combined Code in respect of relations with shareholders.
In particular, audit plan for the forthcoming financial year and also the Business Non-executive Directors are invited to attend meetings with institutional Review for the Annual Report.
The Group General Counsel & Company shareholders and analysts and brokers briefings.
The Group Director of Secretary initially carries out the review with Directors and senior Finance reports to the Board regularly on major shareholders views management, for consideration by the Audit Committee and about the Company.
Further, surveys of shareholder opinion conducted, subsequently for final evaluation by the Board.
usually on an annual basis, are evaluated and reported on to the Board.
In addition, the Audit Committee regularly reviews the operation The Group was awarded Overall Winner main market for its and effectiveness of the internal control framework and also annually communication skills in the South West Financial and Corporate reviews the scope of work, authority and resources of the Companys Communications Awards 2006. internal audit function and reports to the Board on such reviews.
For 2006 and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report By Order of the Board and Accounts, both the Audit Committee and the Board were satisfied KEN WOODIER, Group General Counsel & Company Secretary with the effectiveness of the risk management policy and the 22 June 2007 internal control framework and their operation within the Group.
