Persimmon Plc 48 Corporate Governance Report The Board acknowledges that by adopting and implementing the highest Nomination Committee standards of corporate governance, it sets the standard and values for the entire The members of the Nomination Committee are John White Chairman, Group.
The Board seeks to comply with best practice in all areas of corporate Hamish Leslie Melville and David Thompson.
Adam Applegarth resigned from the governance and sets out below how the principles of the Combined Code on Committee on 29 October 2007.
Corporate Governance 2006 the Code have been adopted and implemented by the Company.
The Committee met twice during 2007, to review and consider the composition of the Board and to review its terms of reference, the latter of which Directors remained unchanged.
The Board consists of four executive Directors and four non-executive Directors.
Following Mr Applegarths resignation on 29 October 2007, the Board instructed The executive Directors provide a direct line of control between the Company and the Committee to make recommendations for a non-executive Director who would its operating businesses.
The non-executive Directors provide a balance to the Board bring different skills and expertise to the Board.
At the date of this report the Board and bring a wide breadth of experience.
The Board considers all non-executive had not made an appointment.
The Senior Independent Director is David Thompson.
In addition the Committee is satisfied that appropriate succession planning for Hamish Leslie Melville has completed more than 12 years service as a nonsenior management is in place as evidenced by internal promotions made during executive Director.
Despite this long service, the Board considers Hamish Leslie 2007 to the Divisional Boards.
This is because his long standing appointment does not in any way affect his objectivity and his ability to advise and question the executive Remuneration Committee Directors, particularly in respect of strategy and the Companys financial affairs.
Adam Applegarth resigned as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on His long association with the Company has given him a sound and detailed 29 October 2007 and his position was taken by Nicholas Wrigley.
The other members knowledge of the Companys business which has enabled him to consider and of the Committee during 2007 were David Thompson and Neil Davidson.
evaluate information and responses from the executive Directors quickly and concisely.
His wise counsel has contributed significantly to the Companys success.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the remuneration of the Chairman and the executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee met once The Chairman has reviewed Hamish Leslie Melvilles performance and he during the year to consider and approve the bonus arrangements for executive believes that his performance continues to be very effective.
The Board considers it Directors from 1 January 2007.
Details of the remuneration package for each important to continue to have access to the judgement of Hamish Leslie Melville Director serving during 2007 are set out in the Remuneration Report on in managing the Company in the current challenging market conditions.
Hamish Leslie Melville will retire and be available for re-election to the Board on an annual basis.
In accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Remuneration Report will be put to shareholders for their approval at the Annual The Board meets six times a year and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for General Meeting on 24 April 2008. its consideration and decision.
This schedule includes the approval of financial and marketing strategy, dividend policy, approval of annual and interim results, major Accountability and Audit investments, review of performance, monitoring risk, ensuring adequate financial resources are available and reporting to shareholders.
The schedule is reviewed on The Company has an established Audit Committee to whom the external auditors, an annual basis.
During 2007 the Audit Committee was wholly comprised of independent non-executive Directors.
The members of the Committee are There was full attendance by all Directors at Board and Committee meetings during David Thompson Chairman, Neil Davidson and Nicholas Wrigley.
All members the year except that Adam Applegarth was unable to attend two Board meetings of the Committee have recent relevant financial experience: please see the Directors prior to his resignation.
The Board and the Audit Committee undertake a written self-evaluation of their The role of the Audit Committee is to review the Companys financial reporting, performance.
A verbal evaluation of the performance of the Remuneration and monitor the Companys internal controls and Group Risk management function Nomination Committees are undertaken by the Committees.
The non-executive and oversee the Companys relations with external auditors.
Directors undertake a verbal annual performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive Directors.
The Chairman undertakes a The Committees Terms of Reference were adopted on 25 February 2004. verbal evaluation of the executive Directors performance.
As a result of the During the year the Board reviewed the Committees Terms of Reference and no evaluations, a number of procedural and other changes have been implemented amendments were made.
The terms of reference of the Group Risk management during 2007: for example the Division Chief Executives make annual presentations function were recommended by the Audit Committee, approved by the Board and to the Board on the strategic operations and targets for their Divisions.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company The Committee met on four occasions during the year.
The Committee agreed Secretary and may also seek independent professional advice and training, at the the nature and scope of the audit with the auditors and monitored the quarterly Companys expense, if so required to carry out their duties.
All executive Directors findings of the auditors and Group Risk.
The Committee regularly meet the have 12 month rolling contracts.
The non-executive Directors do not have service auditors without the presence of the Companys management.
Persimmon Plc Corporate Governance Report 49 A formal evaluation of the auditors was undertaken by the Audit Committee The processes that the Risk Committee has applied in reviewing the effectiveness in April 2007 which took into account the calibre of the audit firm, quality of the system of internal control include the following: control processes, audit team members, the scope of the audit, audit fees, audit Ensuring that there is a continuous detailed involvement in land acquisition communications, audit governance and independence.
The results of the evaluation assessment and work in progress, together with regular site visits and discussion were positive and the Audit Committee concluded that the current auditor, KPMG with site based personnel by senior management: Audit plc should continue to provide its services to the Company.
Review of representations on risk and control from all Managing Directors of The Audit Committee formulates and oversees the Company policy on monitoring operating businesses following individual reviews of internal control within their auditor objectivity and independence in relation to non-audit services.
The policy operating businesses: is to ensure that the nature of non-audit services performed or the fee income relative to the audit fee does not compromise or is seen to compromise the auditors Review of representations on risk and control from key head office and independence, objectivity or integrity.
The auditors are excluded from undertaking divisional management: a range of work on behalf of the Company which includes appraisal or valuation Review of reports produced by the Group Risk Management function and services, management functions and litigation support, legal accounting and external audit on internal control and management of risk: remuneration services.
From time to time non-audit services are put out to tender to a number of accountants.
Ongoing review of Company performance in comparison to operational forecasts and financial budgets: The Company has had a whistle blowing procedure in place for a number of years which is publicised in the Staff Handbook.
All employees may raise concerns about Involvement in individual operating businesses board discussions, specifically malpractice or improper or potentially illegal behaviour in confidence without operational board meetings where all aspects of operational performance concern of victimisation or disciplinary action.
are analysed: Reviewing reports from the Corporate Responsibility Committee with particular Internal control reference to the social, environmental, sustainability and reputational risks facing The Company has complied with the Code provisions on internal control, having the Group.
continued to operate the procedures necessary to implement the guidance issued in The Risk Committee met six times during the year ensuring that there has been an the Turnbull Committee Report revised October 2005 throughout the year.
ongoing process for the identification, evaluation and management of the significant The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control risks that are faced by the Company.
and for the review of its effectiveness.
It is the role of management to implement The Companys system of internal control is designed to manage rather than the Boards policies on risk and control through the design and operation of eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide appropriate internal control systems.
All employees have some responsibility for reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
internal control as part of their accountability for achieving objectives.
The Risk Committee has the delegated task of overseeing the Boards Combined Code responsibilities with respect to risk and internal control.
Specifically this includes The Board supports the high standards in corporate governance and continues to determining appropriate control procedures and the review of the effectiveness review the Code as well as the Companys procedures to maintain proper control of internal control.
The members of the Risk Committee during 2007 were and accountability.
The Company complied with the Code throughout 2007.
John White, Mike Farley, Mike Killoran and the Division Chief Executives David Thornton, Jeff Fairburn and Nigel Greenaway.
The Risk Committee reports Relations with shareholders to the Audit Committee, which oversees the Risk Committees activities.
The Board has always sought good relations with the Companys shareholders As part of its ongoing activities, the Group Risk Management function has updated and believes it is important that shareholders receive timely information on their the Groups risk assessment during the year.
The results of this process have been Companys progress.
As well as the announcement of interim and final results, reported to the Risk Committee and have been used to drive a risk focused the Company issues regular trading statements to the London Stock Exchange.
programme of work designed to improve business processes and increase internal control effectiveness.
The Group Risk Management function has maintained the risk The Directors understand that it is important for both private and institutional intranet system resulting in an enhanced risk register being completed during the shareholders to have the opportunity to raise concerns or discuss matters with them.
The risk register has been approved by the Risk and Audit Committees.
The Group Chairman John White and the Senior Independent Director David Thompson maintain contact with major shareholders to understand their issues and concerns and report relevant information to the Board.
Mike Farley and Mike Killoran have responsibility for maintaining appropriate communications with institutional investors.
All the Directors attend the Companys Annual General Meeting and are available to answer questions at the meeting or privately.
By order of the Board Neil Francis Group Company Secretary 25 February 2008
