Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Summary of the Role of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the Non-Executive Directors of the Company and has defined Terms of Reference.
The Audit Committees terms of reference include matters indicated by the Combined Code and are available on the Companys website.
The Audit Committee is responsible for: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained therein: reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and, unless expressly addressed by the Board itself, the Groups internal control and risk management systems: making recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be put to the Shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the appointment of the external auditors and the approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors: reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: and developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm.
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and make recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
Composition of the Audit Committee The members of the Audit Committee are: Name Date of appointment Sir Malcolm Field Chairman 1 August 2006 Peter Hambro 12 December 2003 Sir Roderic Lyne 3 October 2006 Membership of the Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of the Committee and the Company Chairman, who is not a member of the Audit Committee, at regular intervals and they recommend new appointments to the Committee.
The Committee is normally comprised of three Non-Executive Directors and two members constitute a quorum.
The Board considers that the Chairman of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience through his career in business and his appointment to other Boards.
The Company has a policy of providing training to Directors where required.
Ongoing training can include attendance at formal conferences, internal briefings, briefings by external advisers and visits by Directors to operations in the business.
The Board expects the Audit Committee members to have an understanding of: the principles of, contents of, and developments in financial reporting including the applicable accounting standards: key aspects of the Groups operations including corporate policies, Group financing, and systems of internal control: matters that influence or distort the presentation of accounts: the principles of, and developments in, company law, sector-specific laws and other relevant corporate legislation: the role of internal and external auditing and risk management: the regulatory framework for the Groups businesses: and environmental and social responsibility best practices.
Meetings The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year and has an agenda linked to events in the Groups financial calendar, including a review of the Companys annual and half yearly results, the review of the internal controls of the Group and ensuring that the financial performance of the Group is properly reported on and monitored.
The agenda is predominantly cyclical and is approved by the Audit Committee Chairman in advance of each meeting.
Each Audit Committee member has the right to require reports on matters of interest in addition to the routine items.
The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and a representative of the Auditors are invited to attend meetings of the Audit Committee and attended all Audit Committee meetings held in 2007.
Senior management present such reports as are requested by the Committee to enable it to discharge its duties.
A Ar riic co om m p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 7 4 47 7 Job: 10301 ARICOM AR-MID AW.
indd Proof: 02 Proof Read by: Operator: TIM Date: 19.02.08 Server: Studio II Set-up: Tim First Read Revisions www.
uk Audit Committee Report continued Overview of the Actions Taken by the Audit Committee to Discharge its Duties Since the beginning of 2007 the Audit Committee has: reviewed the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2006, the interim report for the period ended 30 June 2007 and the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007.
The Committee received a report from the external auditors on their audit of the annual reports and accounts and review of the interim report and on their audit review of the restatements of the 2005 and interim 2006 Financial Information issued on adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards: reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be undertaken by the auditors: monitored the work being undertaken by the Group following the introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards: recommended to the Board the fees to be paid to the external auditors for their audit of the 2007 accounts: recommended to the Board that a Financial Reporting Procedures review take place and reviewed the results of this review: reviewed the accuracy of documents and disclosures in relation to the admission of the Companys shares and warrants to the Official List of the Financial Services Authority and to trading on the main market of the London Stock Exchange plc: reviewed the Letters of Representation provided to the auditors relating to the financial periods ended 31 December 2006, 30 June 2007 and 31 December 2007: and reviewed the Letter of Engagement relating to the review and audit for the financial periods ended 30 June 2007 and 31 December 2007 respectively.
External Auditors The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on external audit.
The policy assigns oversight responsibility for monitoring the independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical and regulatory requirements to the Audit Committee, and day to day responsibility to the Group Finance Director.
The Groups policy on external audit sets out the categories of non-audit services which the external auditors will and will not be allowed to provide to the Group, subject to fide minimis levels and Audit Committee Chairman approval in emergency situations.
To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the external auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed: the changes in key external audit staff in the external auditors plan for the current year: the arrangements for day to day management of the audit relationship: and the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditors, in addition to their case by case approval of the position of non-audit services by the external auditors.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed: the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and variations from the plan: and the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their handling of the key accounting and audit judgements.
As a consequence of its satisfaction with the results of the activities outlined above, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that the external auditors are re-appointed.
Internal Audit Function The Group does not currently have an Internal Audit function.
Whilst the scale and operations of the Group are such that there is currently deemed no requirement for an Internal Audit function, there will be a review of this decision during 2008.
The Audit Committee is required to review the Groups internal financial controls and, where required, review the Groups internal control and risk management systems and statement on internal control systems prior to endorsement by the Board.
Overview As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
Approval This report was approved by the Audit Committee and signed on its behalf by: Sir Malcolm Field Chairman of the Audit Committee 20 February 2008 48 Aricom plc Annual Report 2007 A Ar riic co om m p pllc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 7 4 49 9
