Corporate governance UK reporting Role of the board The board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and business integrity, which it believes are essential to maintaining the trust of investors and other stakeholders in the Group.
The board is responsible for setting the Groups strategic aims and standards of conduct, monitoring performance against the business plan and budget prepared by the executive directors and ensuring that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for it to meet its objectives.
The board and all employees are subject to a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, a copy of which is published on the corporate website at www.
The board has a formal schedule of matters specically reserved for its decision, which includes the approval of major business matters, policies, and operating and capital expenditure budgets.
The board is also responsible for sanctioning unusual commercial arrangements such as atypical licence agreements and investments.
The board delegates authority to various committees that are constituted within written terms of reference and chaired by independent non-executive directors where required by the Combined Code.
Compliance with the Combined Code The Group complies, and complied throughout 2007, with the Combined Code 2006, with the exception only that the board did not comprise a majority of independent non-executive directors throughout the year.
The board has considered the overall balance between executive and non-executive directors and believes that the number of executive directors is fully justied by the contribution made by each of them.
To increase the size of the board further to meet this particular provision is not considered appropriate.
Composition and operation of the board The board currently comprises six executive directors, six independent non-executive directors and the Chairman.
The executive directors are the Chief Executive officer, the Chief Operating officer, the Chief Financial officer, the Chief Technology officer, the Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing and the General Manager, Physical IP Division, all of whom play significant roles in the day-to-day management of the business.
The board reviews the independence of the non-executive directors on appointment and at appropriate intervals and considers the six non-executive directors to be independent in character, judgment and behaviour, based on both participation and performance at board and committee meetings.
There are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect the judgment of any of them.
The beneficial interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company are set out on page 41.
In the opinion of the board, these shareholdings do not detract from the non-executive directors independent status.
Young Sohn joined the board as an independent non-executive director on 2 April 2007.
He has extensive experience in the semiconductor industry both in Silicon Valley and in Asia.
A more detailed biography is included on page 23.
He was appointed to the audit and remuneration committees with effect from 15 May 2007.
As planned, Peter Cawdron retired from the board at the AGM on 15 May 2007 having served for nine years.
He was replaced as senior independent director by Jeremy Scudamore, who has a strong background in industry and commerce.
Lucio Lanza and John Scarisbrick both have a broad understanding of the Groups technology and the practices of major US-based technology companies.
Philip Rowley and Kathleen ODonovan are both financial experts with strong financial backgrounds.
The table below shows directors attendance at meetings which they were eligible to attend during the 2007 financial year: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board committee committee committee Number of meetings held 9541 Doug Dunn 9 9C 1 1C Warren East 9 9 Tudor Brown 9 9 Mike Inglis 8 9 Lucio Lanza 9 9 5 5 1 1 Mike Muller 9 9 Kathleen ODonovan 8 9 4 5 3 4 Philip Rowley 7 9 4 5C John Scarisbrick 7 9 1 1 Jeremy Scudamore 9 9 5 5 4 4C Tim Score 9 9 Simon Segars 8 9 Young Sohn 6 6 3 3 2 2 Peter Cawdron 3 4 1 2 2 3 1 1 Young Sohn was appointed to the board on 2 April 2007 and to the audit and remuneration committees on 15 May 2007.
Peter Cawdron retired from the board on 15 May 2007.
ARM Holdings plc 25 Corporate governance UK reporting continued There is a procedure in place for additional meetings or conference calls on any pertinent issues to be organised as necessary during the year.
In addition, the Chairman held at least two meetings with the non-executive directors without the executives present and the non-executive directors met on at least one occasion without the Chairman being present.
The directors have the benefit of directors and ofcers liability insurance and there is an established procedure for individual directors, who consider it necessary in the furtherance of their duties, to obtain independent professional advice at the Groups expense.
In addition, all members of the board have access to the advice of the Company Secretary.
Information and communication with shareholders Before each meeting, the board is furnished with information concerning the state of the business and its performance in a form and of a quality appropriate for it to discharge its duties.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual report and accounts and the quarterly reports, and for ensuring that they present a balanced assessment of the Groups position, lies with the board.
The board delegates day-to-day responsibility for managing the Group to the executive committee and has a number of other committees, details of which are set out below.
The board makes considerable efforts to establish and maintain good relationships with shareholders.
The main channel of communication continues to be through the CEO, the CFO and the VP Investor Relations, although the Chairman, the senior independent director and the other non-executive directors remain willing to engage in dialogue with major shareholders as appropriate.
There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders throughout the year other than during close periods.
The board also encourages communication with private investors and part of the Groups website is dedicated to providing accurate and timely information for all investors including comprehensive information about the business, its Partners and products, all press releases, RNS and Securities and Exchange Commission SEC announcements.
At present, around 20 analysts write research reports on the Group.
The Group publishes telephone numbers on its website, enabling shareholders to listen to earnings presentations and audio conference calls with analysts: and webcasts of key presentations are also made available through the website.
Members of the board, including some of the nonexecutive directors, attend the annual analysts day and develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders through any direct contact that may be initiated by shareholders, or through analysts and brokers briengs.
The board also receives feedback from the Groups brokers and financial PR advisers, who obtain feedback from analysts and brokers following investor roadshows.
All shareholders may register to receive the Groups press releases via the internet.
The board actively encourages participation at the Annual General Meeting, scheduled for 13 May 2008, which is the principal forum for dialogue with private shareholders.
A presentation will be made outlining recent developments in the business and an open question-and-answer session will follow to enable shareholders to ask questions about the business in general.
The resolutions put to shareholders at the meeting and the voting results will be published via RNS and the SEC and will be available on the Groups website.
Board evaluation, induction and training The board undertakes an annual board evaluation.
During 2007, this exercise was conducted internally with each director completing a questionnaire and was led by the Chairman and facilitated by the Company Secretary.
The evaluation covered board performance, processes, committees, composition, skills and director induction.
The overall conclusion was that individual board members are satisfied that the board works well.
They are also satisfied with the contribution made by their colleagues and that board committees operate properly and efficiently.
Various recommendations resulted from the evaluation which have been discussed by the board and will be reviewed further and acted upon by the board in 2008, as appropriate.
In particular, the non-executive directors now make a greater contribution to forward agenda setting.
It is intended that there will be a further board evaluation each year, involving external consultants as and when the board deems appropriate.
A full, formal induction programme is arranged for new directors, tailored to their specic requirements, the aim of which is to introduce them to key executives across the business and to enhance their knowledge and understanding of the Group and its activities.
The Group has a commitment to training and all directors, executive or non-executive, are encouraged to attend suitable training courses at the Groups expense.
During the year a presentation was given to the board on the key provisions of the Companies Act 2006, including directors duties.
Executive committee The executive committee is responsible for implementing the strategy approved by the board.
Among other things, this committee is responsible for ensuring that the Groups budget and forecasts are properly prepared, and that targets are met, and generally managing and developing the business within the overall budget.
Variations from the budget and changes in strategy require approval from the main board of the Group.
The executive committee, which meets monthly, comprises the Chief Executive officer, Chief Financial officer, Chief Operating officer, EVP Sales & Marketing, the General Managers of the Processor and Physical IP Divisions, the EVP Human Resources, the General Counsel and the Company Secretary and meetings are attended by other senior operational personnel, as appropriate.
26 ARM Holdings plc Audit committee The audit committee has written terms of reference which are published on the corporate website at www.
The committee has responsibility for, among other things, monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance, and for reviewing any significant financial reporting judgments contained in them: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls over financial reporting and providing oversight of the Groups risk management systems: making recommendations to the board in relation to the appointment, remuneration and resignation or dismissal of the Groups external auditors: reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services: and considering compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and the requirements of the SEC.
There is a procedure in place for employees to report areas of concern to management in confidence and, if they prefer, anonymously through a third-party telephone line.
The committee receives any such condential reports from the compliance committee.
No whistleblowing incidents were reported in 2007.
There has been one condential report to date in 2008, which has been fully investigated and the committee is satisfied that there is no evidence of impropriety.
The committee also keeps under review the value for money of the audit and the nature, extent and cost-effectiveness of the non-audit services provided by the auditors.
The committee has discussed with the external auditors their independence, and has received and reviewed written disclosures from the external auditors as required by the Auditing Practices Boards International Standard on Auditing ISA UK and Ireland 260 Communication of audit matters with those charged with governance, as well as those required by the US Independence Standards Boards Standard No.
1, Independence discussions with audit committees.
To avoid the possibility of the auditors objectivity and independence being compromised, the Groups tax consulting work is carried out by the auditors only in cases where they are best suited to perform the work.
In other cases, the Group has engaged another independent rm of accountants to perform tax consulting work.
The Group does not normally award general consulting work to the auditors.
From time to time, however, the Group will engage the auditors to perform work on matters relating to human resources and royalty audits.
The Group may also seek professional advice from another rm of independent consultants or its legal advisers.
The current audit committee comprises Philip Rowley Chairman, Kathleen ODonovan, Lucio Lanza, Jeremy Scudamore and Young Sohn.
Philip Rowley is the financial expert as dened in the Sarbanes Oxley Act 2002 US and Kathleen ODonovan is also qualied to full this role.
Both have recent and relevant financial expertise.
The external auditors, Chief Executive officer, Chief Financial officer and the Company Secretary attend all meetings in order to ensure that all the information required by the audit committee for it to operate effectively is available.
Representatives of the Groups external auditors meet with the audit committee at least once a year without any executive directors being present.
Remuneration committee A description of the composition, responsibility and operation of the remuneration committee is set out in the remuneration report on page 38.
The terms of reference of the remuneration committee are published on the Groups website at www.
Nomination committee The nomination committee leads the process for board appointments and makes recommendations to the board in relation to new appointments of executive and non-executive directors and on board composition and balance.
The terms of reference of the nomination committee are published on the Groups website at www.
It is chaired by Doug Dunn, and the other members are John Scarisbrick and Lucio Lanza.
The committee considers the roles and capabilities required for each new appointment, based on an evaluation of the skills and experience of the existing directors.
In relation to the appointment of new directors, the services of external search consultancies are generally used and this was the case in relation to the appointment of Young Sohn.
Internal control risk management The Group fully complies with the Combined Codes provisions on internal control, having established procedures to implement the guidance in the Turnbull Report 2005.
The board has established a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The board confirms that the necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identied from this process.
The board of directors has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains an adequate system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Building on the successful project to achieve compliance with section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act 2002 US for the 2006 financial year, a considerable amount of resource and effort continued to be committed during 2007 and compliance in relation to the 2007 financial year was also successfully completed.
This is reported on in more detail in the annual report on Form 20-F that is led with the SEC.
The processes and procedures have been successfully integrated into day-to-day business operations and proven to provide a sustainable solution for ongoing compliance.
The board has reviewed the system of internal control, including internal controls over financial reporting, which has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report.
Such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risks inherent in a fast-moving, high-technology business and can, therefore, provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
ARM Holdings plc 27 Corporate governance UK reporting continued The Group has a number of other committees which contribute to the overall control environment.
These include: Risk review committee The risk review committee consists of the Chief Technology officer, the Chief Financial officer, the Group Financial Controller and the Company Secretary and it receives and reviews quarterly reports from the divisions and corporate functions.
The committee is responsible for identifying and evaluating risks which may impact the Groups strategic and business objectives and for monitoring the progress of actions designed to mitigate such risks.
The risk review committee reports formally to the executive committee twice a year where its findings are considered and challenged and, in turn, the executive committee reports to the board once a year.
Compliance committee The compliance committee consists of the General Counsel, the Chief Operating officer, the Chief Financial officer, the EVP Human Resources, the VP Corporate Operations, the VP of IT and the Company Secretary.
It oversees compliance throughout the business with all appropriate international regulations, trading requirements and standards, including oversight of financial, employment, environmental and security processes and policies.
The compliance committee has a reporting line to the audit committee.
Disclosure committee The disclosure committee comprises the Chief Executive officer, the Chief Financial officer, the Group Financial Controller, the General Counsel, the VP Investor Relations and the Company Secretary.
It is responsible for ensuring that disclosures made by the Group to its shareholders and the investment community are accurate, complete and fairly present the Groups financial condition in all material respects.
In addition, there is a series of interconnected meetings that span the Group from the weekly management meeting chaired by the Chief Executive officer, and the weekly business review meeting chaired by the Chief Operating officer, the purpose of which is to monitor and control all main business activities, sales forecasts and other matters requiring approval that have arisen within the week, to the board meetings of the Group.
Each month there are customer satisfaction and process review meetings attended by managers representing different functions across the Group to review key performance indicators such as revenues, orders booked, costs, product and project delivery dates and levels of defects found in products in development.
The outputs of the weekly business review meeting and the monthly operations meeting are reviewed by the executive committee which, in turn, raises relevant issues with the board of the Group.
These processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant business, operational, financial, compliance and other risks facing the Group have been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements.
As required by the Combined Code, the audit committee has considered whether it would be appropriate for the Group to have its own financial internal audit function and has concluded that, taking account of its relatively small number of employees and a high degree of centralisation in the way the business is run, this is not appropriate at present.
The committee has confirmed this view to the board.
The Group does, however, have an operational internal audit function that audits the Groups business and product project management processes.
These processes are documented, maintained and continuously improved, for effectiveness and efficiency.
In addition, they are audited externally by Lloyds Register Quality Assurance for compliance with ISO 9001:2000.
Any significant control failings identied through the operational internal audit function or the independent auditors are brought to the attention of the compliance committee and undergo a detailed process of evaluation of both the failing and the steps taken to remedy it.
There is then a process for escalation of any significant control failures to the audit committee.
Environmental, social, corporate governance and ethical policies While the Group is accountable to its shareholders, it also endeavours to take into account the interests of all its stakeholders, including its employees, customers and suppliers and the local communities and environments in which it operates.
The Chief Financial officer takes responsibility for these matters, which are considered at board level.
A corporate social responsibility CSR report is on pages 30 to 32 of this report and also on the Groups website www.
The companys Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available on the Groups website and the Group regularly monitors employees awareness of Group policies and procedures, including ethical policies.
The Group also operates a whistleblowing policy which provides for employees to have access to senior management to raise concerns in strict confidence about any unethical business practices.
There is also a facility to make reports by telephone to an independent third party through a whistleblowing hotline.
As a company whose primary business is the licensing of IP, employees are highly valued and their rights and dignity are respected.
The Group strives for equal opportunities for all its employees and does not tolerate any harassment of, or discrimination against, its staff.
In January 2007, ARM was chosen as European Business of the Year, having been voted UK Business of the Year in 2006.
In November 2007, ARM received two further prestigious awards when Warren East was voted UK Business Leader of the year and ARM was recognised as techMARK Company of the year.
These represent considerable accolades for the Group and recognise the efforts of all ARM employees worldwide.
The Group endeavours to be honest and fair in its relationships with its customers and suppliers and to be a good corporate citizen respecting the laws of the countries in which it operates.
28 ARM Holdings plc Environmental, social, corporate governance and ethical policies continued The Groups premises are composed entirely of ofces since it has no manufacturing activities.
Staff make use of computer-aided design tools to generate IP.
This involves neither hazardous substances nor complex waste emissions.
With the exception of development systems products, the majority of products sold by the Group comprise microprocessor core and physical IP designs that are delivered electronically to customers.
The Group recognises the increasing importance of environmental issues and these are discussed at board level where the Chief Financial officer takes responsibility for them.
A number of initiatives in this area have continued in 2007.
The Groups environmental policy is published on its website within the CSR report.
An environmental action plan is implemented through various initiatives.
These include monitoring resource consumption and waste creation so that targets set for improvement are realistic and meaningful, ensuring existing controls continue to operate satisfactorily and working with suppliers to improve environmental management along supply chains.
Energy usage and resource consumption data is published in the Groups CSR report on its website.
At the 2007 AGM, resolutions were passed to amend the articles of association in line with the Companies Act 2006 to enable the Company to send information to shareholders electronically and make documents available through the website rather than in hard copy, which provide both environmental and cost benets.
Shareholders can opt to continue receiving a printed copy of the annual report if they prefer.
Health and safety Although ARM operates in an industry and in environments which are considered low risk from a health and safety perspective, the safety of employees, contractors and visitors is a priority in all ARM workplaces worldwide.
Continual improvement in safety management systems is achieved through detailed risk assessments to identify and eliminate potential hazards, and occupational health assessments for employees.
More detail about the Groups approach to environmental matters and health and safety is included in the CSR report on pages 30 to 32.
By order of the board Patricia Alsop Company Secretary ARM Holdings plc 29
