36 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company is committed to high The appointment letters for Financial Officer: and to approve the appointment of Andrew Dougal as a standards of corporate governance Non-Executive Directors include the throughout the Group.
The Board is time commitment expected of them and Non-Executive Director.
The Board has accountable to the Companys confirmation that they have sufficient a schedule of matters reserved to it shareholders for good governance and time available to meet this commitment.
for decision, including major capital this statement describes how the Non-Executive Directors are required to expenditure, significant investments principles identified in the Combined or disposals, treasury policy and the inform the Board of any changes to their Code on Corporate Governance are other appointments.
appointment and removal of the applied by the Company.
In certain areas, A formal and comprehensive induction purposes, the Combined Code is that specific responsibility is delegated to process is in place for new Directors.
Committees of the Board within defined issued in 2003, although the Company This includes presentations from has also considered the requirements of terms of reference.
the Combined Code as updated in 2006.
The Audit and Remuneration Any Director appointed during the year The Board confirms that the Company Committees have, respectively, five and is required, under the provisions of the four scheduled meetings each year, has complied with all of the provisions Companys Articles of Association, to set out in Section 1 of the Combined although additional meetings may be retire and seek election by shareholders held where required.
The Nominations Code throughout the year, except that at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Non-Executive Directors did not attend Committee meets as required.
Articles also require that every Director meetings with major shareholders.
This During the year, all Directors attended must retire and seek re-election at least point is explained below.
the Board meetings that were held every three years.
during their respective periods of As mentioned below, the posts of Chairman and Chief Executive were service, apart from Laurence Bain, The Board role and meetings who was absent for two meetings and combined for part of the year and part The role of the Board is to: Michael Lester and Cary Nolan, who of the prior year as a temporary Maximise the long-term performance were each absent for one meeting.
measure following the resignation of the of the Group through the development All of the members of the respective previous Chief Executive in July 2005. of a strategy designed to create committees attended the five Audit shareholder value Committee, seven Remuneration Directors Committee and four Nominations Appoint the Groups most senior There were a number of changes to Committee meetings that were held, management membership of the Board during the except for one meeting each of the Audit year.
At the start of the year, the Board Monitor progress towards the and Remuneration Committees that consisted of an Executive Chairman, achievement of objectives and Cary Nolan was unable to attend and four Non-Executive Directors and two compliance with governance and one meeting each of the Remuneration Executive Directors.
On 3 April 2006, other policies and Nominations Committees which Harriet Green joined the Board as the Give an account of the Groups Michael Lester was unable to attend.
Companys Chief Executive Officer and activities to its shareholders Complete copies of the terms of Sir Peter Gershon resumed his role as principally through the Annual reference of the Audit, Remuneration Non-Executive Chairman.
Report and Accounts and Nominations Committees are Andrew Fisher Group Finance Director The Board reviews strategic issues on a available on the Companys web site and Michael Lester Non-Executive regular basis and exercises control over at www.
The Director left the Board on 16 May 2006 membership of the Committees the performance of each operating and 13 June 2006 respectively, reducing company within the Group by agreeing appears on page 35. the number of Executive Directors to budgetary targets and monitoring The Non-Executive Directors held two and the number of Non-Executive performance against those targets.
meetings during the year without the Directors to three for a short period.
Certain matters are reserved for Executive Directors present to discuss, On 1 September 2006 Mark Whiteling approval by the Board and the Board among other things, the performance and Andrew Dougal joined the Board, has overall responsibility for the Groups of the Company and the Executive as Chief Financial Officer and system of internal controls and risk Directors and the Non-Executive Non-Executive Director respectively.
management, as described later in Directors met without the Chairman Andrew Dougal also became Chairman this report.
present to discuss the Chairmans of the Remuneration Committee performance.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief following his appointment to the Board.
Executive Officer are clearly defined There is an agreed procedure for All the Non-Executive Directors who and, in normal circumstances, separate.
Directors to take independent have served during the year are The Chief Executive Officer is responsible professional advice at the Companys considered by the Board to be for the executive management of the expense, if necessary, in the independent.
Groups business: the Chairman runs performance of their duties.
During the period from the Mr John Roques is the Companys addition to the access that every resignation of the previous Chief Senior Independent Non-Executive Director has to the Company Secretary.
Director and is available to shareholders Executive until the appointment of The Company Secretary is charged by Harriet Green, the role of Chairman and if they have concerns which contact the Board with ensuring that Board through the normal channels cannot Chief Executive Officer were combined, procedures are followed and for advising with Sir Peter Gershon acting as the resolve, or where the normal channels the Board on all governance matters.
The Board has adopted a number of Harriets appointment Sir Peter ceased Biographies of the Board members corporate governance policies, including to have any executive responsibilities.
These a Group Code of Ethics covering issues indicate the high level and broad range The Board has five scheduled meetings such as conflicts of interest, fraud and each year and others as required.
During of experience that they possess.
A copy of the Code is Directors knowledge of the Groups 2006 three additional Board meetings also available on the Companys business and of legal, accounting and were held: to consider the Groups web site.
The Company has implemented market developments is frequently strategy, following a review conducted arrangements with an independent updated by presentations made at Board by Harriet Green: to approve the organisation to receive information from and Board Committee meetings.
appointment of Mark Whiteling as Chief employees for whistle-blowing purposes.
PREMIER FARNELL PLC ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTS 2007 37 The Company has also adopted policies It would be valuable to hold one Audit Committee and dealing with share dealing and inside Board meeting each year other than internal control information.
at the Companys London office, The primary role of the Audit Committee where such a meeting could be To enable the Board to function effectively is to keep under review the Groups combined with an additional business and assist Directors to discharge their financial and other systems and controls purpose.
It is planned to hold one responsibilities, full and timely access is and its financial reporting procedures.
Board meeting during 2007 in the US given to all relevant information.
In the In fulfilling this role, the Committee to enable Board members to meet case of Board meetings, this consists of receives and reviews work carried out by more of the Groups US-based senior a comprehensive set of papers, including the Internal and External Auditors and managers and individuals with high regular business progress reports and their findings.
The Companys Internal potential discussion documents regarding specific Audit department works to an annual matters.
In addition, individual Directors The Nominations Committee should programme developed in consultation meet with senior management and are be more pro-active in considering the with the Committee, as well as covering future composition and membership specific matters arising during the year.
encouraged to make periodic site visits, including overseas where appropriate.
As a result, an additional The Audit Committees terms of meeting of the Committee was held in Senior managers are regularly invited reference are available on the to Board meetings and make business January 2007 to begin this process, Companys web site.
with particular emphasis on the following a recommendation from the need to find replacements for two Smith Report, the Committee has also The Chairman, supported by the Non-Executive Directors who will have adopted and implemented a Group-wide Company Secretary, maintains a rolling served for nine years by the time of policy restricting the appointment of twelve-month agenda for Board the Companys Annual General former employees of the External meetings to ensure all relevant matters Meeting in 2008 Auditors.
are planned in to the cycle of meetings and considered at the appropriate time.
John Roques, the Committees Remuneration Chairman, was formerly the UK senior The Board performance The composition and role of the partner at the accounting firm Deloitte & Remuneration Committee is set out evaluation Touche and brings financial expertise to in the Remuneration Report on pages the Committee.
During the year a performance 42 to 48. evaluation was carried out covering the The Committee keeps the scope and Full details of Directors remuneration cost effectiveness of both the internal Board, each of the principal Board and a statement of the Companys Committees and individual Directors.
and external audit functions under remuneration policy also appear in the review.
This now includes an annual The evaluation process consisted of a Remuneration Report.
review of the effectiveness of the one to one discussion between the External Auditors, including their quality Chairman and each of the other Each Executive Director abstains control procedures.
During the year the Directors and the Company Secretary.
from any discussion or voting at full Head of Internal Audit carried out a This discussion was based on a series Board meetings on Remuneration self-assessment of the Internal Audit of questions devised for the purpose Committee recommendations where Departments effectiveness in and circulated before each meeting.
the recommendations have a direct accordance with guidance from the In addition, each Director and the bearing on his or her own remuneration Institute of Chartered Accountants in Company Secretary completed a package.
The details of each Executive England and Wales ICAEW and the questionnaire appraising the Directors individual package are fixed results of that review were presented performance of each Director.
The by the Remuneration Committee in to and considered by the Committee.
results of these evaluations were line with the policy adopted by the collated by the Company Secretary and The independence and objectivity of the full Board.
considered by the Chairman or, in the External Auditors is also considered on case of the Chairman, by the Senior a regular basis, with particular regard Nominations Committee Independent Director.
The Chairman to the level of non-audit fees.
The split The Nominations Committee, discussed points arising from their between audit and non-audit fees for the comprising the Chairman, the Senior evaluations with each Director.
year to 28 January 2007 and information Independent Director and William Korb, on the nature of the non-audit fees The evaluation of the Chairman meets as necessary.
incurred appear in note 4 to the was discussed in a meeting of the The Committees principal function is to Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Non-Executive Directors led by the provide advice and recommendations non-audit fees were paid in respect of Senior Independent Director.
The to the Board on any appointments to the assurance and tax compliance work and Chief Executive was invited to attend Board.
The Committee also keeps the are considered by the Committee not to part of the meeting to give her views.
composition and balance of the Board affect the independence or objectivity The Senior Independent Director under review.
subsequently discussed the outcomes of this evaluation with the Chairman.
During the year, the Committee was The External Auditors appointment is involved in the appointments of subject to review every four years by the The performance of the Board as a whole, Mark Whiteling as Group Finance Committee and the lead audit partner is and of each of its principal Committees, Director and Andrew Dougal as a rotated at least every five years.
The was then discussed by the Board.
The Non-Executive Director and Chairman Committee also maintains a formal Chairman led this discussion, based on of the Remuneration Committee.
policy on the provision of non-audit the results of his one to one discussions.
As well as making recommendations services by the Auditors, which is The main outcomes of this review were to the Board as a whole, Committee reviewed each year.
This policy prohibits that: members consulted Non-Executive the provision of services such as While a focus on the Groups strategy and Executive Directors individually financial information systems design in scheduled Board meetings should on these appointments.
External and implementation, internal audit be maintained, the Chairman and the search agencies were used to identify outsourcing and legal services and suitable candidates, based on Chief Executive Officer should requires that others are subject to prior consider appropriate points at which descriptions of the roles and the approval by the Committee or its the Board should spend additional required capabilities supplied by Chairman.
This policy allows specific tax time dedicated to this subject the Committee.
compliance services within defined PREMIER FARNELL PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 38 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED monetary limits to be pre-approved by Internal Audit and External Audit A quarter-end controls checklist.
This the Committee at the beginning of the reports which, as well as commenting was recently enhanced to include sign year.
All other permitted non-audit on controls to manage identified risks, off from the principal executive officer services are considered on a case by also identify new risk areas and principal finance officer of each case basis.
business, and to include internal A Code of Ethics that encourages controls, legal and regulatory At each of its meetings, the Committee employees to report any areas of compliance, Code of Ethics, and tax is provided with information on all concern regarding compliance with issues as well as financial controls non-audit services provided by the financial and other controls, combined Auditors and the estimated cost of with a confidential whistle-blowing A process of internal control such services.
The Committee monitors helpline self-assessment, coordinated by such costs, in the context of the audit Internal Audit A Disclosure and Risk Committee that fee for the year, in order to ensure that meets at least four times a year to the value of non-audit services does Assurance review all financial statements issued not increase to a level where it has by the Company and to consider The risks and controls process the potential to affect the Auditors reports from the managers clearly identifies senior management objectivity and independence.
The responsible for identified business responsibilities for risk mitigation Committee also receives an annual risks.
The minutes of all meetings of action plans confirmation of independence from this Committee are received by the Internal Audit independently reviews the Auditors.
Audit Committee the risks and controls process Throughout the year, the Group has A quarterly process which collates operated by management been in full compliance with the all contingent liabilities identified by Internal Audit carries out independent applicable provisions on internal control business units and function heads audits.
The annual Internal Audit plan, contained in the Combined Code.
and leads to their presentation to agreed with the Audit Committee at The Board has overall responsibility for the Disclosure and Risk Committee the start of each year, provides a high the Groups system of internal controls and the Audit Committee degree of financial and location and risk management, designed to For current and future years, the coverage, as well as allocating a safeguard shareholder investment and identification of key risks will also be significant proportion of effort to the Companys assets.
The Audit embedded in the Groups ongoing reviewing the risk management Committee reviews and monitors the consideration of its strategy.
Quarterly frameworks surrounding major systems effectiveness on behalf of meetings of senior managers from the business risks the Board at least annually, while Groups business units and central Internal Audit reports include responsibility for the system rests with functions will be held to monitor recommendations to improve internal the Executive Directors.
The system progress in respect of the Groups controls, together with agreed senior includes an ongoing process for strategy and consider how it should management responsibility and target identifying, evaluating and managing respond to market developments.
The Internal Audit significant business risks.
However, any Part of each of these meetings will be reports, included in the papers for system can provide only reasonable and dedicated to identifying and addressing every Audit Committee meeting, not absolute assurance of meeting risks that may affect the Groups include summaries of these internal control objectives and is strategy.
recommendations designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of the Company failing Internal Audit follows up Controls to meet its business objectives.
A Code of Ethics that is widely The follow up process for high priority Summarised below are the ways in which communicated including via the Internal Audit issues includes monthly risks are identified, the controls that are Group intranet and supported by a status reporting to senior in place and the assurance steps that are module on the Groups online learning management and to the Audit taken.
The processes described have centre that clearly defines expected Committee been in place for the year and accord standards of business behaviour with the Internal Control Guidelines for The Audit Committee receives a full Defined organisational structure with directors on the Combined Code issued report from the Head of Internal Audit appropriate delegation of authorities by the Financial Reporting Council each year on the departments work the Turnbull Guidance.
Formal authorisation procedures for and findings, in addition to the all investments updates on specific issues provided at each meeting of the Committee Risk identification Clear responsibilities on the part of line and financial management for The effectiveness of the Internal Audit As well as the risks that management the maintenance of good financial function is externally assessed every identifies through the ongoing controls and the production and three years.
In each other year an processes of reporting and comparing review of detailed, accurate and timely internal self-assessment is carried out actual performance against detailed financial management information in accordance with ICAEW guidance.
financial and operating plans, analysing The results of external and internal significant variances and scrutinising The control of key financial risks assessments are reported to the Audit key performance indicators, the risk through clear authorisation levels and Committee identification processes include: proper segregation of duties A comprehensive External Audit plan An ongoing risks and controls A comprehensive financial review is agreed with the Audit Committee process for identifying, evaluating and cycle, which includes an annual budget managing major business risks.
During approved by the Board and review of The effectiveness of the External the year business and function leaders monthly variances against detailed Auditor is reviewed annually and have operated the process, which has financial and operating plans reported to the Audit Committee been coordinated by the Head of Certification is required from Internal Audit.
The results of the individual executive managers of process are reviewed by the Disclosure relevant sections of all financial and Risk Committee referred to statements below and the Audit Committee PREMIER FARNELL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 39 An executive management committee, All ordinary shareholders have the the Disclosure and Risk Committee, opportunity to ask questions at the monitors and reviews disclosure and risk Companys Annual General Meeting.
management processes and reports to All Directors are usually available to the Audit Committee.
The Disclosure take questions at the meeting.
and Risk Committee also reviews At the Annual General Meeting, separate disclosures made by the Company to resolutions are proposed on each the investment community before separate issue and proxy forms allow they are considered by the Board.
shareholders to vote for or against, or to The Audit Committee reports to the withhold their vote, on each resolution.
Board on its activities and all Board The results of proxy voting are made members receive copies of the minutes available on the Companys web site of Audit Committee meetings.
after the meeting and at the meeting The Audit Committee has completed itself to shareholders who attend.
its review of the effectiveness of the The notice of the Annual General Groups system of internal controls Meeting is sent to shareholders at least during the year and confirms that the 20 working days before the meeting.
necessary action plans to remedy As discussed in the Directors Report, identified weaknesses in internal employee communication is given high control are in place.
As well as formal structures, The statement of the Directors such as the Companys European and responsibilities in relation to the UK Works Councils, considerable time is accounts appears on page 41. devoted to other forms of employee communication.
These include extensive Going concern employee briefings conducted by the Chief Executive and other members of After making enquiries, the Directors senior management at regular intervals have a reasonable expectation that the and a Group-wide intranet that is Company and the Group have adequate updated daily with information relevant resources to continue in operational to employees.
existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt The Group also communicates widely the going concern basis in preparing with suppliers and customers, both the accounts.
individually and through Group events such as seminars on key industry developments and focus groups.
Communication with stakeholders The Group is also active in its local The Company places a great deal of communities, as described in the importance on communication with its Corporate Social Responsibility stakeholders.
There is regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders as well as general presentations after the interim and preliminary results.
Since Harriet Greens appointment as Chief Executive in April 2006, meetings have been held with over 50 such shareholders.
All Company announcements are published on the Companys web site, together with presentation materials.
The Board regards the discussion of the Companys strategy as primarily the role of the Chief Executive and this forms part of the regular meetings held with institutional shareholders.
The Board also receives copies of analysts reports on the Company.
During the year, external advisors have also been appointed to assist the Company with its investor relations activity.
Part of the role of these advisors will be to provide the Board with regular reports on the investment communitys views on the Company and its management.
The Chairman is available to shareholders at any time to discuss strategy and governance matters.
During the year, the Chairman met one of the Companys major shareholders at that shareholders request.
While other Non-Executive Directors do not ordinarily attend meetings with major shareholders, they would do so if this were requested by shareholders.
PREMIER FARNELL PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
