29 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Corporate governance Corporate governance Details of the directors service contracts, letters of The Board believes in conducting the Groups affairs in appointment, emoluments, the interests of the directors a fair and transparent manner and in maintaining the and their immediate families in the share capital of the highest ethical standards in its business dealings.
Company and options to subscribe for shares in the Company are shown in the directors remuneration Compliance statement report on pages 39 to 48.
This report set out on pages 29 to 38 describes how the Group has applied the principles of good Operation of the Board corporate governance as set out in section 1 of the The Board is responsible for the overall management revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Group and has an agreed schedule of matters issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 reserved to it, which includes setting long-term the Combined Code.
strategic and commercial objectives, approval of annual operating and capital budgets, dividend policy, In respect of the period from 1 January 2007 to overseeing the Groups internal control systems and 31 December 2007, the Board considers that the Group ensuring that appropriate resources are in place to has complied with the provisions set out in the enable the Group to meet its objectives.
The Board normally meets at least ten times in each The Board calendar year and also meets on other occasions as Board structure necessary.
Meetings are usually held at the Companys During the year the Board consisted of a non-executive head office, in St Albans, but the meetings also provide Chairman, two executive directors and four nonan opportunity for the Board as a whole to visit the executive directors, Ian Ramsay retired as a nonGroups operating facilities.
Details of the number of executive director on 10 May 2007, following the Board and Committee meetings and the attendance at Companys Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with those meetings is set out on page 30. the Combined Code, separate individuals, David Kappler and Robert Schofield, have been appointed to the The Chairman is primarily responsible for the operation positions of Chairman and Chief Executive respectively.
of the Board, and sets the agendas in consultation with David Felwick has been appointed the senior the Chief Executive and Company Secretary.
David Beever and Christine Cross papers, including copies of the minutes of Committee were appointed as additional non-executive directors on meetings held since the previous Board meeting, are 21 January 2008. circulated in advance of each meeting.
The Chairman periodically holds meetings with the non-executive The Board considers that all the non-executive directors directors without the executive directors present.
are independent in character and judgement and within the definition of this term in the Combined Code.
The The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for Combined Code states that the test of independence the executive management of the Group and for is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman after implementing Board strategy and policy within the his appointment.
The Chief Executive is supported by the Finance Director and the Operations The Chairman and the non-executive directors contribute Board, which consists of the senior executives who external expertise and experience in areas of importance head up the Groups principal operations.
to the Group such as marketing, customer and consumer focus, corporate finance, general finance and corporate The Chairman, David Kappler, is currently a nongovernance.
They also contribute independent challenge executive director of Shire plc and Intercontinental and rigour to the Boards deliberations.
The Board of Premier Foods plc is satisfied that these appointments do not conflict Directors and their interests with the Chairmans ability to carry out his duties and The following directors held office during the year ended responsibilities effectively for the Group.
The biographies 31 December 2007: of the directors and members of the senior management team appear on pages 22 and 23 respectively.
Designation Appointment Reappointment date Procedures are in place which allow directors to take David Kappler Chairman 14 June 2006 independent professional advice in the course of their Robert Schofield Chief Executive 22 June 2004 duties, and all directors have access to the advice and Paul Thomas Finance Director 22 June 2004 services of the Company Secretary, and where a director David Felwick CBE Senior independent director 20 July 2007 has a concern over any unresolved business he is Sharon Hintze Non-executive director 14 June 2006 entitled to require the Company Secretary to minute Louise Makin Non-executive director 1 October 2006 that concern.
Should he later resign over this issue, Ian McHoul Non-executive director 20 July 2007 the Chairman will bring it to the attention of the Board.
Ian Ramsay Non-executive director Resigned 10 May 2007 The Company purchases directors and officers liability and indemnity insurance to cover its directors and officers against the costs of defending themselves in civil proceedings taken against them in that capacity and in respect of damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
30 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Corporate governance continued Meetings There is also a process of rotation which ensures that no The following table sets out the number of meetings director holds office for more than three years without of the Board and its Committees and individual being reappointed at an AGM and also that one-third attendances thereat during the financial year to of directors rounded down will be required to retire 31 December 2007.
In addition to the meetings detailed and seek reappointment at each subsequent AGM.
below, 8 Board or Board Committee meetings were held Consequently Robert Schofield and Paul Thomas offer during the year and 1 written resolution was passed for themselves for re-election at the AGM to be held on the consideration of specific business.
The Chairman has reviewed the 5 written resolutions passed by the Remuneration performance of the Chief Executive and Finance Committee Members for consideration of specific Director and the Nominations Committee has business denotes attendance by invitation.
recommended their re-appointment to the Board.
Group Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Directors biographical details are provided on page 22.
Number of meetings held 10 5 3 7 David Kappler 10 5 3 7 Board Committees Robert Schofield 10 5 2 6 The Board has established an effective Committee Paul Thomas 10 5 2 structure to assist in the discharge of its David Felwick CBE 10 5 3 7 responsibilities.
The terms of reference of these Sharon Hintze 10 5 3 7 Committees comply with the provisions of the Combined Louise Makin 10 5 3 7 Code and are available for inspection on the Companys Ian McHoul 9 5 3 1 website, www.
Ian Ramsay 4 1 1 5 Audit Committee Ian Ramsay retired from the Board on 10 May 2007 Ian McHoul chairs the Audit Committee.
Its other and was entitled to attend 4 Board meetings and 5 members are David Felwick, Sharon Hintze and Remuneration Committee meetings and 1 Nominations David Beever with effect from 21 January 2008.
independent non-executive directors who have no links with external auditors may serve on the Committee.
Directors interests in contracts Two members of the Committee, Ian McHoul, as Group No director had a material interest at any time during Finance Director of Scottish & Newcastle plc, and David the year in any contract of significance, other than a Beever, as a member of the KPMG Advisory Board have service contract see directors remuneration report been identified by the Board as having recent and on pages 39 to 48, with the Company or any of its relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee is subsidiary undertakings.
scheduled to meet at least four times a year and meets with the internal and external auditors at least twice a Remuneration year without the executive directors present.
The directors remuneration report, providing a statement of the Companys policy on directors and The Audit Committee is responsible for making senior managers remuneration, benefits, share recommendations to the Board on the appointment of scheme entitlements and pension arrangements is the external auditors and their remuneration, for set out on pages 39 to 48. reviewing the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of the interim and The directors remuneration report sets out the status of annual accounts and reviewing the scope and findings of the Companys compliance with the requirements of the the audit.
The Committee assists the Board in achieving Combined Code with regard to remuneration matters its obligations under the Combined Code in areas of risk and includes a statement on the Companys policy on management and internal control, focusing particularly directors and senior managers remuneration, benefits, on compliance with legal requirements, accounting share scheme entitlements and pension arrangements.
standards and the Listing Rules, and ensuring that an A resolution to approve the directors remuneration effective system of internal financial and non-financial report will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual report and accounts Reappointment remains with the Board.
The Companys Articles of Association require directors appointed by the Board during the year to retire and The Committee will keep under review the external offer themselves for reappointment at the first Annual auditors independence including any non-audit General Meeting AGM following their appointment.
services that are to be provided by the external auditors.
David Beever and Christine Cross were appointed as The auditors are also requested to confirm their non-executive directors on 21 January 2008 and independence at least annually.
A formal policy has accordingly will offer themselves for re-election at the been developed and implemented, which ensures that forthcoming AGM.
The directors were recommended the nature of the advice to be provided could not impair by the Nomination Committee following a rigorous the objectivity of the external auditors opinion on the selection process carried out by the Committee in 2007.
The directors bring with them a wealth of experience from both the food industry and Corporate Finance.
31 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2007 The policy incorporates a fee limit, above which a formal Further information on the activities of the tender process must be undertaken and approval of the Remuneration Committee is set out in the directors Committee obtained prior to any proposed appointment.
remuneration report on pages 39 to 48.
Additionally, the use of delegated authorities to appoint the external auditors is routinely reported to the Nomination Committee Committee.
David Kappler chairs the Nomination Committee, and its other members are Ian McHoul, David Felwick, Ian The Committee has approved a formal whistle-blowing Ramsay who resigned on 10 May 2007 and Louise policy whereby staff may, in confidence, disclose issues Makin.
David Kappler will not chair the Committee when of concern about possible malpractice or wrongdoings it is dealing with a successor to the Chairmanship of the by any of the Groups businesses or any of its employees Company.
The Committee, which will normally meet not without fear of reprisal.
This includes arrangements less than twice a year, has responsibility for considering to investigate such matters and for appropriate the size, structure and composition of the Board of the follow-up action.
Company, retirements and appointments of additional and replacement directors and making appropriate During the year, the committee: recommendations so as to maintain an appropriate Received regular reports from the internal audit balance of skills and experience on the Board.
function, ensured it was adequately resourced, monitored its activities and effectiveness, and The Nomination Committee has established a process agreed the annual audit plan.
for Board appointments that it considers to be formal, Conducted a review of the effectiveness of the rigorous and transparent.
This process includes a Internal audit function.
review of the skills, experience and knowledge of the Approved an amended Internal Audit strategy existing directors, to assess which of the potential short following the acquisition of RHM in March 2007. listed candidates would most benefit the balance of the Approved the Internal Audit Charter as part of Board having regard also to the need for succession an annual process.
Considered the external auditors report for the year ended 31 December 2006.
During the year, the Committee: Conducted an internal review of the Groups external Approved directors for reappointment at the AGM.
auditors which included a review of the auditors Approved the selection and appointment of two new independence and objectivity and the effectiveness non-executive directors using an external search of the audit process.
Conducted an internal review of its own effectiveness.
Approved the Companys Risk Management policy and top ten business risks.
The terms of appointment for the non-executive Reviewed matters relating to the Groups key directors are available for inspection on the performance indicators and proposals to embed Companys website www.
good governance throughout the organisation.
Approved the amended Corporate Responsibility Performance and effectiveness reviews strategy, designed to develop a consistent approach The Board follows a performance evaluation throughout the business following the acquisition procedure which measures its own performance of RHM.
and that of its Committees.
Remuneration Committee In 2007 this was an internal process and was David Felwick chairs the Remuneration Committee.
combined with individual performance evaluation The other members of the Committee are Sharon as described below: Hintze, Louise Makin and Christine Cross with effect The Chairman appraises the Chief Executive annually.
Ian Ramsay was a member of The senior non-executive director meets with all the the Committee until his retirement from the Board non-executive directors to discuss the performance of on 10 May 2007.
Only independent, non-executive the Chairman, taking into account the views of the directors may serve on the Committee.
and Chief Executive attend Remuneration Committee The Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
Committees are appraised annually as part of the The Remuneration Committee will normally meet at Committee effectiveness review process and any nonleast twice a year.
executive directors due for re-election at the following Annual General Meeting are appraised initially by the The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for Chairman, and thereafter their suitability for remaking recommendations to the Board on the election is confirmed by the Nomination Committee Companys policy on remuneration of executive prior to those non-executive directors offering directors and senior managers and for determining, themselves for re-election.
within agreed terms of reference, specific remuneration The senior management are formally appraised packages for each of the Chairman, the executive annually by the Chief Executive, who also appraises directors of the Company and such members of senior the Finance Director.
management as it is delegated to consider, including pension rights: any compensation payments: and the implementation of executive incentive schemes.
In accordance with the Committees terms of reference, no director may participate in discussions relating to their own terms and conditions of service or remuneration.
32 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Corporate governance continued Shareholders The principal role of the Internal Audit function is to Relations with shareholders review the effectiveness of the controls operating within The Board recognises that its primary role is to the business by undertaking an agreed schedule of represent and promote the interests of its shareholders, independent audits each year.
The nature and scope of and that it is accountable to shareholders for the this annual audit programme is reviewed and approved performance and activities of the Company.
by the Audit Committee at the beginning of each calendar year and may be revised from time to time in The interim and annual reports remain the primary circumstances such as the acquisition or disposal of a means of communicating with the Companys business or any other significant business development.
shareholders, and the Groups website, www.
co. uk, contains the full text of The findings of these risk-based audits are reported such reports, together with Stock Exchange initially to executive management and any necessary Announcements, after their release to the market.
Summaries of these reports are presented to, and discussed with, the The Company announces its results on a half-yearly Audit Committee along with details of progress against basis.
Presentations are made to analysts and major action plans as appropriate.
In addition to the internal shareholders following the release of the interim and audit programme, senior business managers are year end results.
The Company announces trading required to complete internal control self assessment updates and or interim management statements at questionnaires confirming the operation of internal relevant times throughout the year followed by controls within the business units for which they are conference calls with analysts and major shareholders.
responsible throughout the year or from the date of In addition the Company also held an Analyst acquisition, if this was during the year.
The result of Conference in November 2007. this exercise, which also details any material control breakdowns, to the extent that they have occurred, is The Chief Executive and Finance Director are also reviewed by the Board.
available to meet with shareholders during the year.
The Chairman and, if appropriate, the senior independent The Groups comprehensive risk review process director are available to discuss issues and concerns of continued to operate during the year.
Shareholders are also provided with the built at a corporate and business unit level.
The Risk opportunity to ask questions of the Board, including the Review Committee is chaired by the Group Finance Chairmen of the various committees, and to present Director and is responsible for the identification of their views at the Annual General Meeting.
emerging risks and ensuring that progress and focus is maintained on implementing agreed action plans.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting, together with the Progress against action plans and key performance Annual Report and Accounts, is sent to shareholders at indicators are reported to the Operations Board.
least 20 working days before the meeting, and details of These include social, environmental and ethical risks the proxy votes for and against each resolution or in see also pages 33 to 38 which detail our approach respect of which a vote is withheld are announced after to corporate responsibility.
In addition the Operations the result of the vote on the show of hands and made Board formally reviews and reassesses the top ten risks available on the Companys website.
of the company on an annual basis and the results of this review are considered by the plc Board.
The risk Internal control management process is reviewed bi-annually with the The directors are responsible for the Groups systems Audit Committee.
of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness annually.
The Board has conducted a review of the Risk management effectiveness of the Groups internal controls covering The Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring all material controls, including financial, operational that key operational risks are effectively managed.
and compliance controls and risk management systems The Board has considered and approved the risk in place throughout the year under review.
Necessary management policy and risk appetite of the Company actions have been, or are being, taken to remedy any and has delegated the regular review of these risks to significant failings or weaknesses identified from the the Audit Committee.
The Board annually reviews the Boards review of the effectiveness of the internal top 10 operational risks of the Company, but delegates control system.
day-to-day responsibility for risk management to the Operations Board.
The Board has delegated day-to-day responsibility for reviewing the Groups system of internal control and Through its normal business operations, the Group is for regularly monitoring its effectiveness to the Audit exposed to a number of principal risks and uncertainties Committee.
The principal aim of the system of internal which could impact on the results of the Group.
control is to provide an ongoing process that identifies, evaluates and manages the risks that are significant Customers and consumers in relation to the fulfilment of the Groups business The Group operates in a highly competitive consumer objectives.
The internal control systems have been market.
Its ability to compete effectively will require designed to manage rather than to eliminate risk the successful sales and marketing of its existing and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, products, new product development and innovation assurance against material misstatement or loss.
33 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2007 New product development takes into account changing Treasury trends in consumer preferences, including dietary and The Groups current levels of bank borrowings require a nutritional concerns.
Market factors and the need to significant portion of cash flow generated to service this develop and provide modified or alternative products debt.
This may make it difficult for the Group to pursue may increase costs, and either or both of these factors its business strategy, and this debt level may limit may adversely affect the result of operations.
ability to react to changing market conditions, changes in the business and changes in the industry in which The consumer market in which the Group operates we operate.
is not normally subject to the volatility in purchasing decision-making that is experienced in other Because raw materials are sourced from around the consumer goods markets: however, the demand for world and products are exported to various countries, convenience foods can be influenced by such things as the Groups financial position and results of operations weather, including changes in the prevailing average are subject to currency transaction risk.
manage against this exposure to currency rate fluctuations, sustained movement in exchange rates Our products affects the results of operations.
The Group owns a number of popular UK domestic brands, and brand name recognition is a key factor in Pensions the success of many of these products.
There is a need Pension expenses are based on actuarial assumptions, to monitor closely all various trademarks, whether details of which are set out in note 24 to the financial registered or not, to ensure the appropriate level of statements.
The market value of the pension assets protection for current needs, whilst at the same time could decline and a change in assumptions could affect anticipating any future strategies.
Raw materials Corporate Responsibility The prices of raw materials used in the business are Premier Foods is committed to managing its business affected by among other things, the agricultural policies in a socially responsible manner: indeed it believes of the UK Government and of the European Union.
strongly that Corporate Responsibility should be A portion of the raw materials used are traded as one of its key strategic priorities.
In todays grocery commodity products, the prices of which are subject marketplace, all of our stakeholders - particularly to a number of factors that are not in our control.
employees, customers, suppliers and consumers - are concerned with the quality and healthiness of Movement in the price levels of these raw materials our products, the ethical way in which we interact with has in the past had, and may in the future have, our supply chain and the effect that the production and a corresponding impact on finished product cost.
transport of our products has on the environment.
Any failure to pass through price increases may adversely affect the Groups financial performance.
Our response to this has been to develop our Corporate Responsibility strategy into one based on doing the Business integration right thing across a number of key areas: Customer The Group has a number of ongoing integration and Consumer: Food Safety and Quality: Ethical programmes.
These include the introduction of a Trading: Health and Safety: Environment: Employees common technology platform across the Group and also and External Stakeholders.
We have established a the rationalisation of the Groups manufacturing base.
number of cross-functional working groups to There is a need to maintain close control of these implement the strategy, ensuring that we develop programmes in order to ensure that implementation our business and our brands in a socially responsible is successfully managed in terms of timing and cost manner.
Dedicated resource is in place to ensure the and to prevent any detrimental impact on the Groups co-ordination of the related activities.
Whilst the business units within Premier Foods pursue Regulations the policy of doing the right thing, it is the Boards Past and present business operations, and particularly responsibility to ensure that the Company operates those associated with the manufacture of products in a responsible manner.
Our Chief Executive, Robert intended for human consumption, are subject to a Schofield takes the leading role and chairs the Corporate broad range of environmental laws and regulations as Responsibility Steering Group by which our strategy is a result of which exposure to environmental costs and developed and delivered.
This Steering Group meets liabilities, including those associated with divested quarterly to discuss and ultimately approve actions and assets and past activities, may arise.
Future regulatory decisions driven out of the Working Groups.
developments may increase such costs and liabilities and could have an adverse affect on operational results.
As a manufacturer of products intended for human consumption we are subject to extensive regulation from the United Kingdom, and the European Union.
Modifications to existing legislation and or regulation and the introduction of new legislative and regulatory initiatives may affect our operations and the conduct of our business.
34 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Corporate governance continued Customers and consumers Food safety and quality The Group will always keep the consumer firmly at the The Premier Foods Group produces both branded and heart of the business.
We remain committed to offering own-label products for consumption and is responsible a balanced range of dietary choices to suit a wide range for protecting the quality of both much-loved brands and of consumers and their different needs at different of the products to which our customers attach their times throughout the day.
The number of products has increased clear, relevant and reliable information about the significantly following the acquisition of RHM plc in product and its content ensures they can continue March 2007.
The Groups approach to food quality and to rely upon our well-loved brands.
We do not market safety is enshrined within the Quality Management king-sized or super-sized portions and we drive the System that is operated at each site, we take our reformulation of products to ensure we keep abreast responsibility very seriously and expect every individual of changing consumer demands.
involved in the production process to ensure that our quality standards are properly applied.
A professional When marketing our products we always ensure technical function exists to provide guidance and advice compliance with relevant advertising standards and on discharging this responsibility.
food labeling regulations, including the accuracy of any disclosures about the products in relation to their All suppliers are required to comply with raw material nutrition and health benefits.
Our marketing activities specifications supplied by Premier.
This includes the do not portray or endorse inappropriate or excessive requirement for Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point consumption and we provide clear and concise information HACCP or equivalent food safety systems, and the in relation to the content of our products, with relevant compliance with Premier standards and other UK and serving sizes, which enable consumers to compare similar European food safety regulations.
We continually monitor these activities to make HACCP is in place for all products, with all critical sure that they remain appropriate to market and audience control points monitored, recorded and verified at needs and demands.
As an example we received the Best each relevant stage of production.
Internal systems Product of the Year award for our work in reducing fat in are constantly reviewed and opportunities for Mr Kipling Delightfuls.
We consider the environmental impact of the products In addition all manufacturing sites are subject to annual that we make and the use of raw materials, taking care British Retail Consortium BRC audits and internal to minimise the use of materials that deplete our audits by in-house technical teams.
All sites were natural resources and our strategy is to develop a scored B or above by the appointed external auditors, sustainability umbrella under which all of our where B is the second level of a four tier grade system brands can develop plans across a wide range of A-D.
It is the Groups intention to maintain or improve environmental issues.
these scores during 2008 across the enlarged Group.
The Group continues to work with the Food Standards It is Premiers policy to audit ingredient suppliers using Agency FSA, both directly and through the Food and a specialist team of technical auditors.
Suppliers are Drink Federation FDF, to find solutions to issues risk assessed by reference to criteria including product around the increasing variety of health and ingredient supplied and associated risks, known potential debates.
During the year we continued to roll out frontcontaminants, country of origin and volumes handled.
of-pack label information in line with FDF Guideline The results are used as a basis for developing the supplier Daily Amounts GDAs'' guidance.
In 2007, we commited to auditing 25% of the participated in Project Neptune, an FDF initiative to ingredient suppliers within the business as it existed at reduce the salt content of soups and sauces by 30% that time.
Against this target, we actually audited 27%.
This initiative then rolled into the FSA Salt It has been our policy that over time, we would audit all Model, which was published in Spring 2006.
We were ingredient suppliers, the frequency being dependent on instrumental in shaping the original Model and are the risk assessment and in addition we would support now actively participating in reporting progress to this with self-assessment questionnaires.
date against the Model targets, and attending interim progress report meetings.
As a business we are continuing to make good progress with salt reduction across all of our food categories and working towards the Model's 2010 targets.
Gradual small reductions in added salt, aimed at reducing consumer tolerance to salty food over time, have proved to be more acceptable than a single large reduction.
35 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2007 As well as auditing suppliers, ingredients have been A business decision has been made to standardise on risk assessed against known contaminants and a the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous testing regime developed that is applied across all Occurrences Regulations RIDDOR metric ex-Premier sites.
For example 100% of all spices at per 100,000 man hours, rather than per 100,000 risk of contamination with illegal colours are tested at employees.
This metric will be used moving forward accredited laboratories.
We also test incoming honey as the key RIDDOR measure for the full business.
and peanuts and have an extensive annual screening programme for pesticide and trace contaminants such Premier moved from.
49 - 2007 RIDDOR as heavy metals and mycotoxins.
The testing regimes frequency per 100,000 man hours.
This represents a are under constant review.
Premier Foods have 17% year on year improvement for the full business.
undertaken a major project with Campden and While there is a good overall improvement trend it Chorleywood Food Research Association to establish is still recognised that we need to improve on our best practices for the risk assessment of ingredients, performance and that all sites do not perform equally regular review, and identification of possible future well.
Safety focus during 2007 was therefore to areas of concern.
We are in the process of aligning assemble a combined business Health & Safety policy and raw material testing regimes across the strategy.
The strategy had to take into account the enlarged group.
varying types of manufacture, distribution and office based roles.
Delivery of the strategy commenced Ethical trading during 2007 and will continue through 2008.
Much of Premier Foods believes that its supply chain is critical to the framework of the strategy is taken from the Bread the quality of its products, and acts fairly with suppliers Bakery business which has demonstrated an excellent with the aim of ensuring that they operate to appropriate improvement curve over the past three years.
Operating in global and emerging markets, the Group recognises that there are The 2008 Business Safety Strategy revolves around challenges within the supply base and opportunities for 4 key themes: supplier development.
Clearly defined safety roles and responsibilities for all employees.
We have been involved in ethical supply chain work since 2.
A management led safety improvement process 1992 and are a founder member of the Ethical Trading that revolves around tours of the workplace to Initiative, which seeks to identify and promote good identify and remove hazards.
practice in the implementation of international labour 3.
Independent safety audits for each site that codes.
An Ethical Assurance Programme, incorporating produces a gap analysis and action plan.
a number of ethical supplier audits performed by an 4.
Focus on process safety and the detail behind in-house team of specially trained auditors, has been the safe control of the varying processes we run.
developed and designed to ensure that suppliers achieve these labour standards through a policy of The base principle of the full strategy is a greater site sustainable and continuous improvement.
focus on the removal of risk.
We believe that the sustainable quality of our products is Environment dependent on the sustainable development of the supply As a leading food producer, Premier Foods is aware of chain and we continue to encourage and support its its responsibility to the environment and is committed development.
There is an ongoing commitment to to monitoring, managing and seeking continually to working with all our suppliers and to maintaining good improve its environmental performance.
is to provide a comprehensive framework of good environmental management practices that are applied Health & Safety across the business and are extended as far as Premier Foods is committed to operating high practicable to our supply chain.
standards of Health & Safety, designed to minimise the risk of injuries and ill health to employees, contractors, Good environmental performance demonstrates high visitors and others who come into contact with the standards of corporate responsibility and generates business.
The Group believes that Health & Safety is a cost saving opportunities.
We believe that every fundamental ingredient to a successful business and individual has an important role to perform in we constantly review our standards for effectiveness, ensuring that the environmental standards are driving through and embedding a Health & Safety properly applied.
A professional Environmental culture throughout the organisation.
Regular external function has been established to provide advice and audits are undertaken as part of the Groups guidance in discharging this responsibility and in improvement strategy to help benchmark against both ensuring compliance with relevant environmental legal requirements and Company procedure.
The Company has in place emergency procedures to minimise the environmental impact of Through acquisition and restructure the base employee potential incidents.
number has increased by a factor of more than three from approximately 5,000 employees at the start of 2007 to approximately 18,000 employees at the end of 2007.
All data within this report now represents the full combined business performance.
36 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Corporate governance continued We aim to create a culture of awareness of the cost and The Company continues to improve its performance in impact of environmental issues across the business, terms of energy use.
The Specific Energy Consumption including assessing the environmental impact of capital SEC for the year was 525 kWh delivered energy per projects.
The Company considers the environmental tonne of product.
The Climate Change Agreement CCA impact of the products that it makes and the sourcing returns indicate that the Group is on track to meet its of raw materials, taking care to minimise the use of Milestone 4 target at the end of September 2008.
The materials that deplete natural resources, and Group now operates at 40.2 kilogrammes of carbon per recognising its responsibility with regards to the use of tonne of product, which is 10% less carbon emissions agrochemicals in the supply chain.
We do not currently per tonne than in 2000 Enviros.
Over the CCA year the use or intend to use biomass fuels, produced from Group achieved an overall reduction of 0.6% in its primary agricultural products, in our production carbon emissions per tonne of product.
We have developed an energy strategy and Groups manufacturing sites are or will be required to this involves evaluating alternative energy sources, join the European Emissions Trading Scheme in 2008 which we consider to be appropriate to our business and are working towards participation with this scheme.
We operate a utility reduction programme, the results of which are tracked on a Carbon Trust funded Waste disposal to landfill has been reduced to 9.3 database and we currently have projects looking at the kilogrammes per tonne of product.
This represents a viability of producing electricity and heat from process further reduction of waste sent to landfill of 11% year residues and waste: the feasibility of using wind on year.
This reduction has been achieved through a turbines on certain sites: and the use of biomass fuels combination of site based waste reduction initiatives derived from waste and by-product materials.
and improved waste segregation at source which has led to an increase in the number and quantity of The Company is developing a sustainability matrix in materials sent for recycling and recovery.
The Company relation to production and brands which seeks to set is actively seeking to eliminate waste from all areas of minimum standards that are applied and monitored operation and is working in conjunction with a waste for compliance and effectiveness, and to identify management service provider to identify further opportunities for improvement.
This includes setting opportunities for diverting waste from landfill by targets aimed at delivering and demonstrating increasing the proportion of materials sent for recycling continual improvement in relation to our carbon and recovery.
footprint, packaging including participation in the Waste Resources Action Programme WRAP, waste The Company has recently signed up to the Food and generation and handling, water, ethical trading, Drink Federation House Commitment, a high level animal welfare and sustainable agriculture.
commitment developed by the FDF in conjunction with Envirowise.
The Commitment will be used to measure The Company endorses and supports the Food and the collective contribution that FDF members make Drink Federations Five-Fold Environmental Ambition towards an industry-wide absolute target to reduce launched in October 2007, which challenges water use, outside of that embedded in products members to: themselves, by 20% by 2020 against a 2007 baseline.
Achieve a 20% absolute reduction in CO emissions The overall water consumption throughout the Group 2 by 2010 compared to 1990 and to show leadership was 2.49 cubic metres per tonne of product.
It is nationally and internationally by aspiring to a anticipated that significant reductions in water 30% reduction in CO emissions by 2020. consumption will be made over the next twelve months 2 Send zero food and packaging waste to landfill as a result of site based water reduction initiatives and from 2015. the completion of a number of infrastructure projects Make a significant contribution to WRAP's work to designed to recycle and reuse wastewater.
achieve an absolute reduction 340,000 tonnes in the level of packaging reaching households by 2010 Continuing efforts have been made to reduce the compared to 2005 and provide more advice to amount of packaging used on products.
The Company consumers on how best to recycle or otherwise has been actively working with WRAP to reduce the recover used packaging.
packaging weights on a range of products.
The weight Achieve significant reductions in water use to help of packaging used throughout the Group was 80 reduce stress on the nation's water supplies and kilogrammes per tonne of product.
The reduction in contribute to an industry-wide absolute target to the weight of packaging used as a result of the various reduce water use by 20% by 2020 compared to 2007. packaging reduction initiatives is expected to be Embed environmental standards in our transport reflected in the audited annual packaging submission, practices to achieve fewer and friendlier food which will be available at the end of March 2008. transport miles, and contribute to an absolute target for the food chain to reduce its environmental and social impacts by 20% by 2012 compared to 2002.
37 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Two major projects to upgrade and improve effluent We are committed to a fair but robust approach to equal treatment facilities were completed in 2007.
The Group opportunities in all areas of our business, with people continues to monitor and improve its record in relation gaining promotion on merit.
We recruit, train, promote to environmental management.
The Company views its and retain skilled and motivated people irrespective of obligations very seriously, and constantly takes steps to sex, age, marital status, disability, sexual orientation, improve effluent controls.
race, religion, ethnic or national origin.
In line with this commitment we also promote a culture of openness There are twelve manufacturing sites within the Group and responsibility within our business.
The Group has that are regulated under the Integrated Pollution in place specific disciplinary and grievance procedures, Prevention Control IPPC Regulations.
These sites and welcomes the reporting of genuine and serious have applied for and have been issued with Permits to grievances or alleged breaches of Company policy.
All sites undertake the No employee will suffer as a consequence of notifying prescribed emissions monitoring, and submit the such alleged breaches in accordance with the Whistle required reports within the prescribed timescales.
The Company avoids the use of genetically modified In accordance with our core values, we believe that every ingredients in its products.
It seeks to ensure that employee should be treated with the same respect and ingredients and products are sourced and produced dignity and we are committed to providing a working in a manner that addresses both security of supply and environment that is free from bullying and harassment.
The Company is committed to We will not tolerate bullying or harassment in the developing these areas with its supply chain partners workplace either as a management style or between and to developing sustainable sourcing programmes work colleagues and will take disciplinary action for agricultural raw materials, ingredients, goods against any employee who is proven to have bullied or and services.
Employees In order to promote career development, the Group As a major employer, Premier Foods is aware of its provides its employees with access to relevant training responsibility to its employees and our policy on and development schemes through in-house training, employee welfare and human rights sets a minimum educational assistance, participation in National standard to which all of the Group companies Vocational Qualification Schemes and encouraging adhere in order to meet their moral, legal, ethical and professional memberships.
The aim is to ensure that humanitarian responsibilities.
Our policy incorporates there is a highly trained and motivated workforce, the standards set out in the Ethical Trading Initiative and capable of meeting the highest standards required is encapsulated within our Ethical Assurance Policy by customers and investors.
A significant number Statement of Principles.
of employees participate in a formal performance and development review at least annually, and we It is our policy that each of our manufacturing sites is are continuing to develop this process across the audited over a 3 year rolling period for compliance with entire business.
A key element of our employment package relates to the We recognise that our employees are our single most provision of retirement benefits for employees.
Premier valuable asset and we strive to be an employer of choice in provides a valuable range of defined benefit and defined the areas in which we operate.
We have high expectations of contribution pension schemes in which the majority of all staff and everyone is required to perform and deliver our employees participate.
The Company also operates value.
This creates an environment that is both challenging an all-employee sharesave scheme that has been and rewarding, thus enabling employees to develop quickly developed to more closely align an element of employee and pursue new opportunities.
reward to business value enhancement.
Following the acquisition of RHM, we were committed to Premier Foods continues to seek ways in which the ensuring the appointment and retention of the best of Groups internal communications framework can be the best from the combined management group further enhanced as we recognise the value of good including the appointment of 2 ex-RHM directors to the communication in engaging our employees towards Operations Board.
We believe that this has provided a the achievement of common goals.
We have a number strong platform to support the integration and ongoing of employee consultation and communication performance of the underlying business.
mechanisms in place including: Regular communication meetings with employees within the organisation.
Specific consultation and involvement regarding major changes to business operations.
38 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Corporate governance continued Premier Foods Integration Employee Communication was Class Winner in the Strategic Change Merger category of the Communicators in Business Central Awards announced 1st February 2008 for its work bringing Premier and RHM together.
We recently conducted an exercise to review the employer brand of the new enlarged Premier Group with a selection of employees from across the business.
The output from this exercise has been invaluable in helping to shape the ongoing employee strategy and action plan.
Our progress in implementing this strategy will be a KPI, which is regularly reviewed by the Operations Board.
External stakeholders At Premier, we recognise the importance of participating in and having an open dialogue with our external stakeholders.
Our communities Each site is encouraged to actively participate with the local community and encourage regular dialogue.
We endeavour to be a good neighbour and minimise the impact of our operations on the local communities.
We bring employment opportunities, both directly and indirectly, to the areas in which we operate.
Our policy is to recruit local people where possible.
Charitable donations During 2007, the Group made charitable donations amounting to 158,000 2006: 52,000.
The annual donations budget is administered locally to a policy directed predominantly towards assisting those communities in which the Groups businesses are located and in addition the Group makes donations to national charitable organisations.
Industry forums We actively engage with industry forums that represent manufacturing in both the UK and Europe and that impact on our key product groups.
This assists in responding to and controlling legislative change, shaping future codes of practice and communicating industry issues.
Bodies that we participate with include but are not restricted to : The Food and Drink Federation Sustainability and Regulatory Affairs Committee Food Processors Association Campden and Chorleywood Food Research Association Organisation of European Industries transforming Fruit and Veg Leatherhead Food International BCCCA Biscuit, Cake, Chocolate and Confectionery Association Inter Company Consumer Affairs Association The Consumer Goods Study Group Health and Safety Affairs Association The Soil Association Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents The Honey Association British Safety Council The Ethical Trading Initiative Policy statements in relation to the above are available on our website: www.
