22 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Compliance and the role of our Board The company has established procedures and policies to ensure compliance with the code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
As required by the Code, we report below on how the main and supporting principles of the Code have been applied throughout the year and explain any areas where we have not complied with any of the Codes provisions.
While this is an important exercise, the Board does not believe that good governance can be defined merely in terms of compliance with a set of rules.
The overall purpose of the Board is to represent the companys owners, ensure that the companys strategic objectives are properly pursued and the major business risks are actively monitored and managed.
This goes beyond regulatory compliance and puts the interests of our shareholders as the Boards primary focus.
The Board considers that the company has complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the year under review and subsequently up to the date of this report except in those areas mentioned below.
The Board The Board of Directors currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, three other executive directors and seven independent non-executive directors.
Brief biographical details of each director and a note of their Board committee memberships are set out on page 20.
The Chairmans role is part-time and he is a non-executive director.
His key responsibility is the leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
Between Board meetings the Chairman is responsible for ensuring the integrity and effectiveness of the Board Executive relationship.
This requires regular contact with the Chief Executive between Board meetings, as well as contact with other Board members, shareholders, joint venture partners and host governments.
In 2007, the Chairman visited several of the companys overseas operations to meet senior industry and government representatives.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors meet periodically without the executive directors present and the non-executive directors meet once a year without the Chairman.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive has been clearly established.
Premier is an international business which has to manage a variety of political, technical and commercial risks.
It is therefore important that the Board contains the appropriate mix of skills and experience to meet these challenges.
Premiers Board has such a mix given the diverse business backgrounds of the non-executive directors.
They are encouraged to have direct contact with the companys senior executives between Board meetings and also encouraged to visit the companys operations abroad in order to familiarise themselves with their activities and to meet local management.
The Board visited the companys operations in Vietnam in January 2007 and in Indonesia in November 2007.
The Board is responsible for overall group strategy, acquisition and divestment policy, approval of major capital expenditure projects, corporate overhead costs and consideration of significant financing matters.
The Board has continued to focus its efforts in 2007 on strategic issues which will create shareholder value, monitoring performance against agreed objectives and discussing future business opportunities.
The formal agenda for each Board meeting is set by the Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
Formal Board and Board Committee minutes are circulated to all directors at the next Board meeting.
Board members receive a monthly report of the companys activities which incorporates an update on the annual budget and progress against major objectives.
In accordance with the authority given under the companys Articles of Association, the company has established a standing committee of the Board, consisting of any two directors, to carry out routine business.
The minutes of all meetings of this committee are circulated to the Board.
There are formal and transparent procedures for the appointment of new directors and it is the responsibility of the Nomination Committee to consider Board composition and succession planning, including the appointment and reappointment of directors.
Mr J R W Orange, who is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, is the companys senior independent non-executive director.
In this role, he is available to shareholders who have concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with the Chairman or Chief Executive.
Matters reserved for Board decision are clearly laid down in writing, including the appointment of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and rules are applied.
Formal procedures are in place to enable individual Board members to take independent advice where appropriate.
Details of the executive directors service contracts and the non-executive directors letters of appointment are laid out in the Remuneration Report on page 32.
The company has directors and officers liability insurance in place.
The company has granted indemnities to all its directors, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
Premier Oil plc 2007 Annual Report and Financial Statements GOVERNANCE 23 Executive Committee The Board has delegated the day-to-day running of the group to the Chief Executive who has established an Executive Committee to assist him in this role.
The Committee is made up of each of the executive directors and the Company Secretary.
The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive.
The responsibilities of the Executive Committee include the development of group strategy for approval by the Board, portfolio management and the monitoring of performance against the targets set by the Board.
At its weekly meetings it also reviews health, safety, environmental and security performance and operational business performance reports.
The Executive Committee is also responsible for reviewing the information provided to the Board.
Four regional business units North Sea: West Africa: Middle East-Pakistan and Asia have been established in order to manage effectively the increasing geographical spread of business in the group.
Each business unit is headed by a regional business manager who delivers against specific strategies and performance targets set by the Executive Committee.
Board performance evaluation The Board and its directors are subject to regular appraisal.
The aim is to improve both individual contributions and group achievement.
The Board carried out a questionnaire-based evaluation process in 2007, using an external facilitator.
In addition to completing the questionnaire, the directors were offered the opportunity to meet the facilitator in order to expand upon their answers or to raise other issues.
While it is not a fixed policy, the current view of the Board is that alternation between internal and external reviews has significant merits, not least in keeping the exercise fresh amongst Board members.
The results of the evaluation were reviewed by the Chairman and discussed in detail by the Board, at a special meeting attended by the facilitator.
The results in general were extremely positive, although there were one or two issues of a minor administrative nature that needed to be addressed and they are receiving attention.
Non-executive directors The non-executive directors bring independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance and resources including key appointments and standards of conduct.
Non-executive directors comprise over one half of the Board.
Selection of suitable nonexecutive directors is a matter for Board approval following recommendations made by the Nomination Committee.
We require that all our non-executive directors are free from any relationship with the executive management of the company that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
In the Boards view, all our non-executive directors fulfil this requirement.
It determined all six who served during 2007 to be independent directors.
Mr J R W Orange was appointed to the Board in 1997.
Whilst his service exceeds the term referred to in the Code, the Board considers that his experience and long-term perspective of Premiers business continues to provide a most valuable contribution and that it benefits from his input to the Boards deliberations.
The Board is strongly of the view that the important qualities when considering the issue of independence of non-executive directors are independence of spirit and objectivity of mind, and therefore regards Mr J R W Orange as an independent director.
In accordance with Code provisions, he will be considered for re-election at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Sir David John completed ten years of service in March 2008, and in accordance with Code provisions, he will be considered for re-election at the AGM.
The Board, in co-ordination with the Nomination Committee, has addressed the issue of ongoing Board succession and development, and in particular, the refreshing of the non-executive directors.
External search and recruitment consultants are utilised to identify appropriate candidates.
Interviews were conducted with a number of suitable candidates during the year, and as a result of this Mr J Darby was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 September 2007.
The process of refreshing the Board has continued in 2008 with the appointment of Mr D C Lindsell and Mr M Romieu, both on 17 January 2008.
Re-election of directors In accordance with the companys Articles of Association one third of directors retire each year, with their re-appointment being subject to the approval of shareholders.
This requires directors to submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
In addition, any nonexecutive director having held office for more than nine years will be subject to re-election on an annual basis.
Board committees The Board has established an Audit and Risk Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a Nomination Committee, each of which has formal terms of reference approved by the Board.
The terms of reference for each Committee can be found on the companys website www.
The Company Secretary provides advice and support to the Board and all Board committees.
Premier Oil plc 2007 Annual Report and Financial Statements 24 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Audit and Risk Committee An objective and professional relationship is maintained with the auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP.
The Audit and Risk Committee, comprising only non-executive directors, meets at least four times a year for a detailed review of the groups accounts and its internal controls.
During the year, the members of the Audit and Risk Committee were Messrs R V Emerson Chairman, J Darby, S J Dobbie and J R W Orange.
Mr D C Lindsell became a member of the Committee upon his appointment to the Board in January 2008.
Minutes of the meetings of the Committee are distributed to all Board members, all of whom are invited to attend meetings of the Committee as observers since the Board believes that the work of the Committee, particularly in the areas of risk management and internal control, is increasingly important for all Board members.
The Audit and Risk Committee has four scheduled meetings each year: the January meeting raises issues which need to be considered at the full-year results in March, allowing time for Committee members to consider these: the March meeting reviews the full-year results for the previous calendar year and also reviews the annual corporate governance report: the August meeting reviews the results for the six-month period ending on 30 June and the December meeting plans the audit work for the forthcoming year.
The Committee met five times in 2007.
The Audit and Risk Committee is mainly responsible for: reviewing the companys internal financial control and risk management systems: full details of which are shown on pages 25 to 26: reviewing accounting policies, accounting treatments and disclosures in financial reports to ensure clarity and completeness: overseeing the companys relationship with its external auditors, including making recommendations as to the appointment or reappointment of the external auditors, reviewing their terms of engagement and monitoring their independence: and reviewing the companys whistleblowing procedures and ensuring these are adequately published within the organisation, that the Committee Chairman is promptly informed of any issues, and that there are arrangements in place for the investigation of any alleged improprieties.
The Audit and Risk Committee also carried out its annual review into whether it is appropriate for the company to establish an internal audit function.
The Committee places great emphasis on the importance of imbuing a culture of risk management and control at all operating levels in the business and is confident that this culture is in place.
The Committee took account of the fact that the company obtains independent confirmation of its internal controls from a variety of sources: these include joint venture and government audits and the use of specific reviews using third-party specialists.
The Committee also took account of the business controls reviews and risk management process, more fully described on pages 25 to 26.
As a result, the Committee concluded that there was no need for a dedicated internal audit resource.
The Audit and Risk Committee also regularly reviews the issue of the independence of our external auditors, in the light of the fact that they provide tax advice to the group.
In all services purchased, the group aims to select the provider who is best placed to deliver the service in terms of quality and cost.
The Committee does not believe that the provision of tax advice to the group by the external auditor creates a threat to the independence of the audit process.
This is principally because neither the nature or scale of the non-audit service could, or could be seen to, impair the objectivity of the external auditors opinion on the financial statements.
The Committee also requires the external auditor to confirm that in providing non-audit services, it complies with Ethical Standards of the UK Auditing Practices Board.
This confirmation was received for 2007.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee normally meets at least four times a year and determines the remuneration of the executive directors and senior employees.
The groups remuneration policy is to provide a level of remuneration which is sufficient to attract and retain employees of the level of expertise we require.
In relation to executive directors and senior employees, the objective is that a significant element of the remuneration package is linked to corporate performance.
No director is involved in setting his own remuneration.
The members of the Remuneration Committee are Messrs J R W Orange Chairman, J Darby, S J Dobbie, R V Emerson and Professor D G Roberts.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive attend by invitation when appropriate.
Full details of the directors remuneration are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 40.
The role of the Remuneration Committee includes: considering and determining the remuneration policy for executive directors: within this agreed policy, considering and determining the total compensation package of each executive director of the company: considering and advising on the general principles under which compensation is applied to employees of the company: determining the awards to be made under the companys long-term incentive schemes: and determining the policy for pension arrangements, service agreements and termination payments to directors.
As in previous years, the principal focus of the Remuneration Committee in 2007 has been to ensure that the remuneration packages of the senior executives are set at levels which are sufficient to retain and attract high-quality individuals particularly at a time when the market for these individuals is extremely competitive.
The determination of the remuneration of the non-executive directors is a matter for the Board.
Premier Oil plc 2007 Annual Report and Financial Statements GOVERNANCE 25 Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises Sir David John Chairman, Messrs J Darby, S J Dobbie, R V Emerson, S C Lockett, J R W Orange and Professor D G Roberts.
The Committee met once in 2007.
The role of the Nomination Committee is to review the structure, size and composition of the Board and make recommendations to the Board on these matters and to put in place succession plans with regard to both Board and senior appointments.
This involves an ongoing assessment of the appropriate skills-mix required at Board level in light of the strategy of the company in the medium-term.
The Board considers that the membership of the Audit and Risk Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee are in compliance with the Code recommendation, on the basis that it considers Mr J R W Orange to be independent, notwithstanding his length of service.
The number of meetings of the Board and its committees during 2007 and individual attendance by directors, is shown below: Audit Board and Risk Remuneration Nomination 1 Number of meetings 6 5 5 1 Attendance: Sir David John 6 6 5 5 3 5 1 1 R A Allan 6 6 1 5 2 J Darby 1 2 3 3 2 2 0 0 S J Dobbie 4 6 5 5 3 5 1 1 A R C Durrant 6 6 4 5 R V Emerson 6 6 5 5 5 5 1 1 N Hawkings 6 6 1 5 S C Lockett 6 6 2 5 3 5 1 1 J R W Orange 6 6 5 5 5 5 1 1 Professor D G Roberts 5 6 2 5 0 1 Notes: 1.
There were four scheduled meetings of the Remuneration Committee during the year: the remaining meeting only attended by Messrs R V Emerson and J R W Orange was called to approve the detail of arrangements approved in principle by a prior scheduled meeting of the Committee.
Mr J Darby was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2007 and to the Audit and Risk Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee on 18 September 2007.
He attended one Board meeting and all Audit and Risk Committee and Remuneration Committee meetings following his appointment.
He attended one Audit and Risk Committee meeting and one Remuneration Committee meeting, by invitation, prior to his appointment.
There were no Nomination Committee meetings held after the date of his appointment.
Internal control The directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining the groups system of internal control.
The internal control system is regularly reviewed by the Board.
Internal control systems in any group are designed to meet the particular needs of that group and the risks to which it is exposed, and by their nature can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key procedures which the directors have established with a view to providing effective internal control required by Code provision C. 2.1 are described below.
These procedures have been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Management of business risks This is an ongoing process, in accordance with the Turnbull guidance, and has been established for identifying, evaluating and managing risks faced by the group.
This is based on each business unit and corporate function producing a risk matrix which identifies the key business risks financial, operational, environmental, social and political the probability of those risks occurring, their impact if they do occur and the actions being taken to manage those risks to the desired level.
Risk acceptance and reduction objectives are defined with particular attention given to safety and environmental factors, and applied to ensure that the risks are at a level that is as low as reasonably practicable.
The directors receive assurance directly from the business units and functional management through the completion of annual declarations confirming compliance with the groups policies, procedures and risk management processes.
These processes are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The company has adopted a framework model for application across the group and an annual report is produced in compliance with that model and with the group risk management process.
The report is presented to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Monitoring An enhanced Business Management System BMS is in force which regulates a wide range of day-to-day activities both in the UK and overseas offices, including environmental controls, health and safety regulations and political risks.
The application of internal control procedures is reviewed during visits to the overseas offices by head office staff.
Audits are carried out by partners in joint ventures from time-to-time.
Premier Oil plc 2007 Annual Report and Financial Statements 26 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED A process of business control reviews has been developed and implemented across the group.
This process is designed, inter alia, to provide assurance to the Board that the company is embedding effective risk management into its operations.
The report of each review is presented to the Audit and Risk Committee.
A rolling three year plan to cover all business units has been put in place and the groups Asian operations will be reviewed during 2008.
During 2007, the key business risks and internal control weaknesses identified were formally discussed by the Executive Committee and the Board on a periodic basis.
This process will continue during 2008.
The Board will receive regular reports on any major problems that have occurred and how the risks have changed over the period under review.
Management structure The Board has overall responsibility for the group and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
Each executive director has been given responsibility for specific aspects of the groups affairs.
The executive directors together with the Company Secretary constitute the Executive Committee which normally meets weekly.
Corporate accounting Responsibility levels are communicated throughout the group as part of corporate accounting and an authorisation manual which sets out, inter alia, authorisation levels, segregation of duties and other control procedures.
Quality and integrity of personnel The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards and subsequent training.
Budgetary process There is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget approved by the Board, covering capital expenditure, cash flow, the income statement and balance sheet.
Monthly results are reported against budget, and revised forecasts for the year are prepared regularly.
Investment appraisal The group has clearly defined procedures for capital expenditure.
These include authority levels, commitment records and reporting, annual budget and detailed appraisal and review procedures.
The authority of the directors is required for key treasury matters including changes to equity and loan financing, interest rate and foreign currency policy including foreign currency hedging, oil price hedging, cheque signatories and opening of bank accounts.
Comprehensive due diligence work is carried out if a business or an asset is to be acquired.
During 2007, the Board reviewed the groups system of internal control and is satisfied that all the controls in place are appropriate to provide reasonable assurance against any material misstatement or loss.
The review is conducted on a regular basis and changes are made to internal control systems to capture any new risks or exposures arising as a result of changes to the business or the business environment.
During the year, the Board approved an initiative to create a unified Business Management System BMS across the group.
Part of this BMS will be a documented review and assurance activity, which will deal with the risk review and audit processes.
The purpose of the audit process is to ensure that the policies and procedures within the BMS are being adhered to.
The purpose of the risk review process is to identify the significant risks to the business, rate them consistently, and ensure we have mitigating measures in place to manage them.
The Group HSES Manager is accountable for the overall running of the process with the Group Financial Controller specifically responsible for the financial aspects.
Going concern After making enquiries and in light of the groups loan facilities, the group budget for 2008 and the medium-term plans, the directors have reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
The going concern basis for the financial statements has therefore continued to be adopted.
Communication with shareholders Communication with shareholders is given significant attention.
Extensive information about the groups activities is provided in the Annual Report and Financial Statements and the Interim Report which are published for shareholders.
The company has also produced a separate brochure in each of the last five years highlighting Premiers capabilities and operations.
These documents are available to all shareholders.
com also provides detailed information on the groups activities.
In October 2007, the company wrote to all of its shareholders to inform them that, following the passing of the resolution at the companys AGM on 18 May 2007, the company would be using its website to publish statutory documents, such as the Annual Report and Financial Statements, as its default method of publication.
Shareholders were given 28 days to indicate whether they wished to continue to receive hard copies of all statutory documents by post, before being deemed as consenting to web-based communications.
Consenting shareholders will be sent notification in the post each time the company places a statutory document on its website.
Shareholders were reminded that they have the right to request at any time all future communications to be sent by post, or to request a hard copy of a particular document which has been published on the companys website.
The company believes that the reduction in the number of unwanted communications printed and sent by post, following this deemed consent process, will not only result in cost savings to the company, but also reduce the impact that the unnecessary printing and distribution of reports has on the environment.
Premier Oil plc 2007 Annual Report and Financial Statements GOVERNANCE 27 The company continues to promote the Premier Oil plc Shareholder Portal, at www.
By registering on the website, shareholders are able to access their shareholding online, at their convenience, and have the ability to update their shareholding account i. e. change their address and submit queries on their account directly to the companys Registrars.
Shareholders will also have the ability to vote online prior to the 2008 AGM.
The Shareholder Portal also encourages shareholders to register to receive communications by e-mail, rather than by post, thus further reducing the number of documents printed and distributed.
Shareholders who have registered for this service will receive an e-mail notifying them when the company has added a statutory document to its website, ensuring a prompt and efficient delivery of information.
For each new registration processed, the company will donate 1 to Climate Care, an organisation that funds projects that reduce greenhouse gases.
The company has posted on its website, guidelines advising shareholders of how to deal with potential Boiler Room scams, where shareholders may have received unsolicited phone calls concerning investment matters, often where callers have stated they work for a subsidiary of, or on behalf of, the company.
Shareholders were advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at discount, or offers of free analysis reports, as the company does not retain the services of any such business for these purposes.
There is regular dialogue with institutional investors, and the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director, who are the directors responsible for dealing with shareholders, ensure that other members of the Board receive full reports of shareholder meetings.
Enquiries from individuals on matters relating to their shareholding and the business of the group are welcomed and are dealt with in a timely manner.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM to discuss the progress of the group.
By order of the Board S C Huddle Company Secretary 12 March 2008 Premier Oil plc 2007 Annual Report and Financial Statements
