Corporate governance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance, for which the Board is responsible to the Companys shareholders.
The Company has complied throughout the financial year ended 18 August 2007 with all the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2003 and 2006 Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Following the appointment of Phil Dutton as an Executive Director on 10 September 2007, and prior to the retirement of Robert McDonald on 17 October 2007, the Company did not comply with the provisions of the Combined Code regarding the balance of executive and non-executive directors for this time period only.
During the year, the Company decided to take advantage of the amendment within the updated Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006.
Accordingly, the Chairman of the Board was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee from 24 January 2007.
The terms of reference for all board committees are available on the Companys website at www.
What are the responsibilities of the Board of Directors?
The Board sets the Companys strategic aims and ensures that necessary resources are in place in order for the Company to meet its objectives.
All members of the Board take collective responsibility for the performance of the Company and all decisions are taken objectively and in the interest of the Company.
The Board is responsible for satisfying itself as to the integrity of financial information and the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control and risk management processes and is responsible for ensuring that the Companys obligations to its shareholders are met.
Whilst the Board has delegated the normal operational management of the Company to the Executive Directors and other senior management, it has established guidelines requiring specific matters to be subject to decision by the full Board of Directors, including material acquisitions and disposals, investments and capital projects.
The Non-executive Directors have a particular responsibility to challenge constructively the strategy proposed by the Chief Executive and Executive Directors: to scrutinise and challenge performance: to satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and that financial controls are robust and defensible: and to ensure that appropriate remuneration and succession planning arrangements are in place in relation to the Executive Directors and other senior members of the management team.
How frequently are Board meetings held?
At least ten Board meetings are scheduled during the year and additional meetings are convened to consider matters that are timecritical.
The attendance records of individual Directors can be found in the table below.
The Chairman ensures that, at least annually, the Non-executive Directors meet without the Executive Directors present.
In addition, the Non-executive Directors meet at least annually without the Chairman being present.
Attendance at meetings The attendance by individual Directors at meetings of the Board and its Committees during the past year was as follows: Board meetings Committee meetings Director Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of meetings 11 6 5 3 1 Phil Cox 5 1 Giles Thorley 11 2 Robert McDonald 10 3 Adrian Fawcett 7 Jonathan Paveley 11 Fritz Ternofsky 11 5 5 4 Peter Cawdron 11 3 3 3 Mike Foster 11 5 3 Randl Shure 10 6 5 Martin Glenn 2 2 Ian Fraser 11 6 2 4 Phil Dutton 7 3 6 Andrew Knight 7 1 Phil Cox resigned on 24 January 2007 and therefore attended all Board and Nominations Committee meetings possible.
2 Robert McDonald resigned after the year end on 17 October 2007.
3 Adrian Fawcett resigned on 30 March 2007 and therefore attended all Board meetings possible.
4 Phil Dutton was appointed as a Non-executive Director on 24 January 2007 and replaced Peter Cawdron as an Audit Committee member.
Both Directors therefore attended all Audit Committee meetings possible.
Peter was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 24 January 2007 and therefore attended all Remuneration Committee meetings possible.
5 Martin Glenn resigned on 24 January 2007 and therefore attended all Remuneration Committee meetings possible.
6 Andrew Knight was appointed on 24 January 2007 and therefore attended all Board meetings possible.
com What are the responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive?
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and Chief Executive which has been formally documented and approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for: x leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda: x ensuring, through the Company Secretary, that the members of the Board receive clear, accurate and timely information: x arranging the regular evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors: and x facilitating the effective contribution of Non-executive Directors and ensuring constructive relations between Executive and Non-executive Directors.
The Chief Executive is responsible for: x developing strategic operating plans: x preparing annual budgets and medium term projections for the Company and closely monitoring performance against plans and budgets: x ensuring effective communication with shareholders: and x overseeing the day-to-day management of the Company.
How is the Board structured to ensure that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the Boards decision making?
The Board is considered to be of sufficient size such that the balance of skills and experience is appropriate to the size of the business.
Excluding the Chairman, at least half of the Board comprises Non-executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent in character and judgement and to have no relationships or circumstances that are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement as Directors of the Company.
The Board has reviewed the provisions in the Combined Code and has concluded that, under the definitions used, all four of the current Non-executive Directors are independent.
The Board has appointed Fritz Ternofsky as its Senior Independent Non-executive Director and, on appointment, the Chairman was considered by the Board to meet all of the independence criteria set out in the Combined Code.
How are Directors appointed to the Board?
The Company has a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors which is based on merit and against objective criteria.
The Nominations Committee leads the process for Board appointments and for succession planning and makes recommendations to the Board.
New directors stand for election at the AGM following their appointment.
Every Director is required to retire by rotation, and may stand for re-election if nominated by the Nomination Committee, at least every third year.
None of the Executive Directors has more than one non-executive directorship in a FTSE 100 company, nor the chairmanship of such a company.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
Membership of Board committees is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that members are refreshed and that undue reliance is not placed on certain individuals.
What information is provided to the Board?
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors are given appropriate documentation in advance of each Board meeting.
This normally includes a detailed report on current trading and full papers on matters where the Board will be required to make a decision or give its approval.
What is the role of the Company Secretary?
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board and its Committees.
The Directors, each of whom has received appropriate training, have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed, that applicable rules and regulations are complied with and that there are good information flows within the Board, its Committees and between the Non-executive Directors and senior management.
The Company Secretary facilitates the induction and professional development of Board members, all of whom are available to meet major shareholders if requested.
How is the performance of the Board evaluated?
During the year the Board undertook a formal evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
The Board considered that the best means of effectively undertaking this process was a combination of self and peer assessment.
This process was led by the Chairman except in relation to his own performance as Chairman, which was led by the Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
The results of the review were discussed by the Board and an appropriate action plan was agreed.
29 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 3 Corporate governance continued What are the Companys main internal controls?
The Board is responsible for the Companys systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing the effectiveness of those systems in order to safeguard shareholders interests and Company assets.
Such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve the Companys strategic objectives.
It should be recognised that such systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Combined Code requires the Directors to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls.
This relates to all controls, covering financial, operational, compliance and risk management matters.
The Company has ongoing processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks of the Group in the form of a risk management framework Company Risk Register which is reviewed and updated by the Board regularly as required.
The processes are in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee and have been in place for the whole of the financial year and up to the date of this report.
The key procedures which the Directors have established with a view to providing effective internal control are as follows: x regular Board meetings to consider a schedule of matters reserved for Directors consideration: x an annual review of corporate strategy, which includes a review of risks facing the business: x a risk management framework Company Risk Register which identifies the key risks facing the business and how these risks are monitored and managed on an ongoing basis: x an established organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority: x a review procedure for organisational restructuring following Company acquisitions: x documented and enforced policies and procedures: x appointment of staff of the necessary calibre to fulfil their allotted responsibilities: x comprehensive budgets and forecasts, approved by the Board, reviewed and revised on a regular basis, with performance monitored against them and explanations obtained for material variances: x a detailed investment approval process, requiring Board approval for major projects.
Post investment appraisals are conducted and are reviewed by the Board: x an Audit Committee of the Board, comprising independent Non-executive Directors, which considers significant financial control matters as appropriate: x an internal audit function which performs continuous assessments of the quality and effectiveness of risk management and internal control: x regular reporting by the Audit Committee to the Board of Directors regarding internal audit and control updates: x documented fraud and whistleblowing policies and procedures and regular review of current whistleblowing regulations: x reporting by the Audit Committee to the Board of Directors of any changes to accounting policies and of any accounting and legal developments: x a regular review of treasury policies and activities by the Audit Committee: and x an established programme of management and staff development and succession planning.
The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the year, and has considered any material developments which have taken place since the year end.
The review was carried out through the monitoring process set out above.
In the opinion of the Board, the review did not indicate that the internal control system was ineffective or unsatisfactory.
What is the role of the Audit Committee?
The Audit Committee is made up of Ian Fraser Chairman, Fritz Ternofsky and Randl Shure and meets at least four times each year.
Senior management, including the Finance Director, and internal and external auditors are invited to attend for part or all of each meeting.
The internal and external auditors have unrestricted access to the Audit Committee and its Chairman, and the Head of Internal Audit and Group Risk meets at least annually with the Chairman without the presence of management.
All of the members of the Audit Committee are independent Non-executive Directors and at least one meets the requirement of the Combined Code for recent relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee considers all matters relating to internal control and reporting, internal and external audits, the scope and results of the audits and the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
It also establishes that an effective system of internal financial control is maintained.
The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making a recommendation on the appointment or re-appointment of the external auditors.
In order to maintain the independence of the external auditors, the Board has determined policies as to what non-audit services can be provided by the Companys external auditors.
Under those policies, work of a consultancy nature is not offered to the external auditors unless there are clear efficiencies and value-added benefits to the Company.
The Audit Committee monitors the level of non-audit fees paid to the external auditors.
com During the year and to the date of this report, the work of the Audit Committee has included consideration of the following matters: x the financial statements in the 2006 and 2007 Annual Report and Financial Statements and the interim report issued in May 2007.
As part of this review, the Committee received reports from the external auditors in relation to the 2006 and 2007 final audits and the 2007 interim review: x the independence and objectivity of the external auditors: x the recommendation of the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the external auditors and the approval of the 2007 external audit plan and fee proposal: x the evaluation of the performance of the external auditors: x the review and approval of changes to accounting policies and treatments under IFRS: x the progress of the internal audit programme and matters arising and the effectiveness and workload of the internal audit department and the adequacy of available resource: x the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls: and x the Companys whistleblowing procedures including updates of any whistleblowing or fraud incidents which may occur.
What is the role of the Nominations Committee?
The Nominations Committee is made up of Mike Foster Chairman, Peter Cawdron and Ian Fraser and meetings are held as deemed necessary by the Chairman of the Committee.
The majority of the Nominations Committee members, including the Committee Chairman, are independent Non-executive Directors.
The Nominations Committee considers all matters relating to the structure, size and composition of the Board and makes necessary recommendations to the Board with regard to adjustments and new appointments where deemed necessary.
The Committee considers the mix of skills and experiences that the Board requires and seeks the appointment of directors to meet its assessment of what is required to ensure that the Board is effective in discharging its responsibilities.
What is the role of the Remuneration Committee?
The Remuneration Committee is made up of Fritz Ternofsky Chairman, Peter Cawdron and Mike Foster and meets at least twice a year and at such other times as the Chairman of the Committee deems necessary.
With the exception of Peter Cawdron, all of the members of the Remuneration Committee are independent Non-executive Directors.
The Chief Executive and other Directors may be invited to attend meetings as considered appropriate by the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee will consider all material elements of the remuneration policy to ensure that remuneration is sufficient to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors and senior management of the quality required to manage the Company successfully.
This is performed with reference to independent remuneration research and professional advice, which is provided by Hewitt, in accordance with the Combined Code.
The Remuneration Committee will recommend to the Board the framework for the remuneration packages of individual Executive Directors.
The Board is then responsible for implementing the recommendations although no Director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
The Directors are not permitted to vote on their own terms and conditions of remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for preparation of the Report on Directors remuneration which forms part of this Annual Report and can be found on pages 32 to 44.
How does the Company communicate with shareholders?
Communications with shareholders are given high priority and the Company aims to provide as much information as is commercially sensible to both existing and potential investors, recognising that transparency is the best way to develop understanding of the Companys strategy, performance and growth potential.
The Company encourages two-way communication with both its institutional and private shareholders and responds quickly to all enquiries.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders as well as presentations after the Companys preliminary announcement of the year end results and after announcement of its interim results.
The Board uses the Annual General Meetings to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
The Chairman aims to ensure that the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees and the Senior Independent Non-executive Director are available at the AGM to answer relevant questions.
The Chairman also writes to the top 20 major shareholders on an annual basis inviting them to correspond with the Non-executive Directors if they so wish.
31 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 3
