corporate governance application of principles The Group has applied the principles of good governance contained in the Combined Code 2006 Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice except as noted in the compliance statement below.
compliance The directors consider that the Company complied throughout the period ending 31 December 2007 with the provisions for companies set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code to the extent that they apply to the Company and that are contained in the rules of the UK Listing Authority, except as follows in this section Compliance.
The directors recognise that the Company having three executive directors and two nonexecutive directors does not have a majority of nonexecutive directors.
As the Chairman is a nonexecutive director and there is a strong and independent nonexecutive presence on the Board, the directors at present consider the current structure appropriate having regard to the size of the organisational structure of the Group and its current stage of development.
Mr Henderson is the recognised Senior Independent Director to whom concerns can be conveyed.
Board effectiveness The Board comprises the nonexecutive Chairman, one other nonexecutive director and three executive directors.
Brief biographical details of all members of the Board are set out on pages 12 to 13 and further information concerning the appointments are set out in the Directors Report.
The Board is responsible for leading and controlling the Group activities and, in particular: approving Group objectives, strategy and policies: business planning: substantial transactions, contracts and commitments: review of performance: risk assessment: dividends: and senior appointments.
The Board meets at least ten times per annum.
The nonexecutive directors were appointed with effect on 21 May 2007.
There is a schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision at Board meetings.
Executive directors are responsible for the implementation of strategy and policies and the daytoday decisionmaking and administration.
During 2007 the number of Board and committee meetings with individual attendances was as follows: Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Maarten Henderson 11 2 2 1 Hubert A Aulich 11 1 1 Iain A Dorrity 15 2 2 1 Peter J Finnegan 15 2 2 1 John K Sleeman 11 2 2 1 Nonexecutive directors.
18 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Board effectiveness continued The Board receives appropriate and timely information and the directors are free to seek any further information they consider necessary.
All directors have access to advice from the Group Secretary and independent professionals at the Groups expense.
Appropriate training is available for new directors and other directors as necessary.
The independent nonexecutive directors bring additional experience and knowledge and are independent of management and any business or other relationship that could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
This provides a balance whereby an individual or small Group cannot dominate the Boards decisionmaking.
The executive directors have entered into contracts with the Company that may be terminated with twelve months notice by either party and the nonexecutive directors have entered into arrangement for an initial three year period from the date of listing on the London Stock Exchange subject to six months notice in writing from either party.
The Board has established a separate nomination committee, comprising the nonexecutive directors responsible for making recommendations for appointments to the Board and also senior management appointments.
Formal procedures appropriate to the size of the business are in place for performance evaluation of the Board and its committees.
They include objectivesetting and review with the use of an external facilitator.
directors remuneration The Directors Remuneration Report is on pages 21 to 23.
It sets out the Groups policy and the full details of all elements of the remuneration package of each individual director.
relations with shareholders The Board values the views of its shareholders and recognises their interest in the Groups strategy and performance, Board membership and quality of management.
The Annual General Meeting is used to communicate with investors and documents are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The chairmen of the audit and remuneration committees are available to answer relevant questions.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantial issue so that they can be given proper consideration and there is a resolution to receive and consider the Annual Report and financial statements.
The Group counts all proxy votes and will indicate the level of proxies lodged on each resolution, after it has been dealt with by a show of hands.
accountaBility and audit The Board presents a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects in all interim and other pricesensitive public reports, reports to regulators and information required to be presented by statute.
The responsibilities of the directors as regards the financial statements are described on page 17, and that of the auditor on page 25.
A statement on going concern appears on page 16.
The audit committee of the Board comprises all the nonexecutive directors and is chaired by John Sleeman.
The terms of reference of the audit committee were approved on 22 August 2007 and copies are available to members of the public upon request.
The committee meets not less than three times a year because the nonexecutives were not appointed until 21 May 2007, the committee only met twice in that year to review the scope and findings of the auditors work on audit and nonaudit issues, the Interim and Annual Reports prior to their publication, the application of the Groups accounting policies and any changes to the financial reporting requirements.
The audit committee also plays an important part in reviewing the Groups systems of internal control which are described below.
The audit committee reviews the terms of engagement with the external auditor and ensures that the external auditor is independent via the segregation of auditrelated work from other accounting functions and has referenced fees with similar auditors.
The audit committee has primary responsibility for the appointment of the external auditor.
PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 19 corporate governance continued internal control The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining a sound system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal control is designed to meet the particular needs of the Group and the risks to which it is exposed, and by its very nature provide reasonable, but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The internal control system was in place for the period under review up to the date of approving the accounts.
There is an ongoing process to identify, evaluate and manage the risks facing the business.
The entire system of internal control was reviewed during the year.
This review has been undertaken in accordance with guidance published by The Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The key procedures, which exist to provide effective internal control, are as follows: clear limits of authority: annual revenue, cash flow and capital forecasts, reviewed regularly during the year, monthly monitoring of management accounts and capital expenditure reported to the Board, quarterly and half year revenue comparisons with forecasts: financial controls and procedures: clear guidelines for capital expenditure and disposals, including defined levels of authority: monthly meetings of the executive directors to authorise significant transactions: an audit committee, which approves audit plans and published financial information and reviews reports from external auditors arising from the audit and dealing with significant control matters raised: regular Board meetings to continuously monitor any areas of concern: annual review of risks and internal controls: and annual review of compliance with the Combined Code.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function but has decided that the size of the Group does not justify it at present.
However, it will keep the decision under annual review.
The Board has reviewed the operation and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 and the period up to date of approval of the financial statements.
By order of the Board dr peter finnegan GROUP SECRETARY 2 APRIL 2008 20 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007
