QinetiQ Group plc 42 Annual Report 2007 Statement of Corporate Governance Corporate Governance introduction The Board governance, processes and systems QinetiQs commitment to maintaining the highest standards of Composition of the Board corporate governance is fundamental to the Groups operations, Sir John Chisholm is the Non-executive Chairman of QinetiQ, having not only in terms of ensuring compliance with the Combined Code transferred all of his executive responsibilities to Graham Love, on Corporate Governance as revised by the Financial Reporting the Chief Executive Officer, on 1 October 2006.
The roles of Council in June 2006 the Combined Code, but more generally Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate, with their in the way the Group conducts its day-to-day business affairs.
responsibilities having been clearly articulated by the Board in The concept of good corporate governance is by no means new to writing.
The Chairman is responsible for the effective operation of QinetiQ the Company has been guided by the letter and spirit of the Board and ensures that all Directors are enabled and encouraged the Combined Code since its creation in 2001, a process which was to play their full part in Board activities.
The Chief Executive Officer formalised at the time of QinetiQs Initial Public Offering IPO in is responsible to the Board for directing and promoting the February 2006.
Since then, QinetiQs governance systems have profitable operation and development of the Group consistent with continued to evolve to meet best practice, both at a Board and enhancing long-term shareholder value, which includes the day-tooperational level, and in terms of the Groups interaction with its day management of the Group, formulating, communicating and key stakeholders, as described in more detail in this Statement of executing Group strategy and the implementation of Board policies.
Corporate Governance, together with the Report of the The Board comprises a Non-executive Chairman, six Non-executive Remuneration Committee on page 50.
Directors and two Executive Directors, namely the Chief Executive Combined Code Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, with the objective of On appointment as Chairman, Sir John Chisholm was not regarded achieving a balance of Executive and Non-executive Directors.
as independent under the Combined Code as he was formerly The Board considers its overall size and composition to be QinetiQs Chief Executive Officer.
The Combined Code recommends appropriate, having regard in particular to the independence of that a companys chairman be independent on appointment, and character and integrity of all the Directors and the experience and that its chief executive officer should not become chairman of the skills which they bring to their duties, which prevents any individual same company.
The Board considered that departure from the or small group from dominating the Boards decision-making.
Combined Code in this area was appropriate and gave its reasons The Senior Independent Non-executive Director is Sir David Lees.
for non-compliance both in the IPO documentation and the 2006 Sir David is also Deputy Chairman of the Board and serves as an Annual Report.
On 1 October 2006, Sir John handed over all additional point of contact for shareholders should they feel that executive responsibilities to the Chief Executive Officer in their concerns are not being addressed through the normal channels.
accordance with the Boards previously announced intentions.
Sir David is, furthermore, available to fellow Non-executive Directors, either individually or collectively, should they wish to discuss matters The Board considers Sir Johns extensive knowledge and experience of concern in a forum that does not include the Chairman, the of QinetiQs business an invaluable asset following its transition to Executive Directors or the senior management of QinetiQ.
The Board continues to believe that Sir John remains the most appropriate person to lead it as the new The Shareholder Relationship Agreement entered into between organisation, both in the US and the UK, becomes fully established QinetiQ and MOD at IPO entitles the MOD to nominate one and as it continues to oversee the development of QinetiQs Non-executive Director to the Board, for so long as the MOD does strategy.
The Company operates in a critical environment involving not dispose of any further ordinary shares in the Company, and national security and defence and engages with a highly complex thereafter for so long as it holds at least 10% of QinetiQs issued range of external stakeholders on both sides of the Atlantic.
Sir John brings a unique set of skills and experience to bear in this challenging area.
The Board is convinced that this is a suitable Directors independence departure from the recommendation of the Combined Code.
The Of the existing Directors of the Company, the Board considers Deputy Chairman, Sir David Lees, confirms that Sir John continues Sir David Lees, Nick Luff, Dr Peter Fellner, Noreen Doyle and George to perform effectively both as Chairman and a member of the Board Tenet to be independent of QinetiQs executive management and and demonstrates commitment to both roles.
free from any business or other relationships that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Of the As stated on page 54 it is proposed that with effect from 1 August remaining Non-executive Directors, the Board considers that both 2007 Sir Johns term of appointment will be on a 12 month rolling Sir John Chisholm and Colin Balmer are not independent for basis.
The Board intends that all Directors, including Sir John, should Combined Code purposes, Sir John on the basis that he was stand for re-election annually.
Each member of the Board will be put formerly QinetiQs Chief Executive Officer and exercised certain forward for re-election at the Annual General Meeting of the executive responsibilities until 1 October 2006, and Colin as he is a Company in 2007. nominee of the MOD, which is the largest shareholder on QinetiQs Save as stated above, QinetiQ has complied with the provisions of share register.
the Combined Code throughout the last financial year.
In October 2006, George Tenet was appointed as an additional independent Non-executive Director, the Board having concluded that Mr Tenets unparalleled exposure to Defence, Security and Intelligence communities worldwide, coupled with his extensive QinetiQ Group plc 43 Annual Report 2007 understanding of the workings of Government, particularly in the The Board took the decision during the last financial year to extend US, would enhance the operation of the Board as QinetiQ continues the length of time devoted to each Board meeting in order to allow its strategy of growing its US platform in the Defence and Security members of the Board to consider key strategic decisions in greater Technology domain.
depth: this has resulted in the number of Board meetings being reduced from ten to eight in the financial year commencing 1 April In February 2007, Glenn Youngkin resigned as a Non-executive 2007.
Members of the Board are also invited to attend a dinner on Director when Carlyle sold its remaining shareholding in QinetiQ.
the occasion of each Board meeting, which assists in the process of Mr Youngkin had not previously been considered by the Board to relationship building and ensuring that key strategic initiatives are be an independent Non-executive Director for Combined Code properly discussed.
In the last financial year the Board met on 10 purposes, on the basis that he was a representative of Carlyle which separate occasions: two of these meetings were unscheduled and was until February 2007 a significant shareholder in QinetiQ.
were convened to allow the Board to consider the merits of two separate acquisition opportunities in the US.
The Board held one Based on the above, the Board considers that at least half of of its scheduled meetings in the US in the past year, which gave its members excluding the Chairman were independent Nonmembers of the Board an opportunity to meet with senior executive Directors throughout the last financial year and that at management within QinetiQ North America.
It is proposed that the date of this report, five out of nine members of the QinetiQ in 2007 08, two Board meetings will be held in the US to allow Board are independent Non-executive Directors for Combined members of the Board greater opportunity to interact with this Code purposes.
fast growing part of the Groups business.
Board structure The Board receives written reports from the CEO and CFO QinetiQs IPO in February 2006 was a key stage in the Companys each month during the course of the financial year which are transformation from a government agency to an international considered at each meeting of the Board, together with a separate commercial enterprise.
The IPO also had a significant impact at report on investor relations which is prepared in consultation with Board level, it being recognised that the majority of Non-executive QinetiQs brokers and a report produced by the Company Directors were appointed in anticipation of the Companys IPO.
As Secretary on key legal and regulatory issues affecting the Group.
a consequence, the headline strategies described in the Companys The Board also considers reports from the respective Chairmen prospectus issued at IPO namely the continuation of QinetiQs of the Committees of the Board at the next scheduled Board focus on its MOD customer base, the further penetration into meeting following the date on which each such Committee defence markets, the application of technologies and services to Meeting was held.
The CEOs monthly report addresses the key adjacent non-defence markets, the focus on the development of the strategic initiatives impacting the Group since the last meeting of QNA business and selective acquisitions have guided the Board in the Board, and focuses in particular on the performance of each of its decision-making throughout QinetiQs first full year as a publicly the EMEA, QNA and Ventures businesses.
Other key areas of focus listed company.
It is the Boards belief that the skills and experience include health, safety, environmental, staff and organisational of individual members of the Board, particularly in the areas of issues, the status of key account management customer UK Defence and Security, the commercialisation of innovative relationship initiatives and the pipeline of potential acquisitions, technologies, corporate finance and mergers and acquisitions, disposals and investments.
Of particular significance in the last have been fundamental in QinetiQs pursuit of these growth financial year was the consideration given to a number of strategies.
In addition, the quoted company experience available acquisition opportunities in the US which culminated in the to members of the Board in a variety of industry sectors has also execution of the Analex and ITS acquisitions, reorganisation been invaluable to the Company in its first years trading as a activity in relation to the UK sectors which resulted in public company.
The Boards knowledge and experience has been restructuring within D&T in the early part of the financial year enhanced in the last financial year by the appointment of George and the creation of the EMEA Sector in April 2007 and the Tenet as a Non-executive Director.
consideration of the bidding process in respect of the award of both the Combined Aerial Targets System and Defence Training Although the Companys IPO has set the framework for the Boards Rationalisation programmes conducted through Metrix in the objectives in the last financial year, the Board evaluation process year.
Any proposed acquisitions, disposals and investments which which is described in more detail later in this report has presented exceed the CEOs delegated authority are considered by the Board an opportunity to refine further the Boards key targets, resulting in in the context of the CEOs report.
the creation of a detailed set of Board objectives which build upon the key corporate objectives put in place at IPO.
The CFOs monthly report addresses the financial performance of the Group and each of the Sectors, both on a monthly and yearOperation of the Board to-date basis, with the key performance indicators analysed being The Board is responsible for managing the Groups operations those identified on page 24 in the Business Review.
The Group Risk and in this capacity determines the Groups strategic and Register also forms part of the CFOs report on a quarterly basis investment policies.
The Board also monitors the performance of and highlights the 10 to 12 principal risks having a potential the Groups senior management team.
The following is a summary impact at a Group level, the materiality of each risk, the of the approach taken by the Board to corporate governance in the assumptions underlying each such risk, the actions required to financial year ended 31 March 2007: manage the risk and the relevant key performance indicators for each headline risk.
The risks covered by the Group Risk Register cover a range of financial and non-financial items, based on the QinetiQ Group plc 44 Annual Report 2007 Statement of Corporate Governance continued Principal risks and uncertainties identified on pages 22 and 23 of Performance of the Board the Business Review.
The CFO also reports on a monthly basis, as During the financial year ended 31 March 2007, the Board part of his investor relations report, on the key issues raised by undertook the first formal evaluation of its performance, and that shareholders, potential investors and other important stakeholders of its Committees and individual Directors, since the Companys IPO on QinetiQs performance and key strategic initiatives.
In the first half of the financial year, the Board provides an opportunity for the Executive Directors to take consulted widely in considering the range of options available to it soundings from the Non-executive Directors on matters which are in conducting such an evaluation exercise and decided that the considered important from an investor relations perspective.
review process would be based on a detailed self-assessment questionnaire, covering issues ranging from value creation and At each scheduled meeting, either the Sector heads, or the strategic planning through to the operation of the Board its Managing Director of QinetiQ Ventures, gives a presentation to Committees and risk management.
The evaluation process was the Board on the key strategic, operational and performance issues led by the Chairman, who supplemented the detailed responses impacting their businesses.
The Board also receives updates from derived from the self-assessment questionnaire with a series of the CEOs key functional reports such as the Group Director of meetings held individually with each of the Directors, at which the Human Resources on Pensions Strategy on an as needed basis performance of the Board as a whole, as well as the Committees and throughout the financial year.
The Board devotes one entire individual Board members were discussed.
In addition, Sir David Lees, meeting each year to consider strategy and planning issues in his capacity as the Senior Independent Non-executive Director, met impacting the Group, from which the five-year corporate plan is with individual members of the Board to evaluate the performance generated: a key part of this process involves the Board having of the Chairman.
The overall conclusion of the evaluation process, the opportunity to question the Sector heads and the Executive which was characterised by commonality of views expressed by Directors in relation to the formulation of the corporate plan at individual members of the Board, was that the Board conducts its Sector level and the impact of these plans on the Group strategy business in an extremely positive and open manner, with the Board as a whole.
The Non-executive Directors also have an opportunity possessing the requisite skills and diversity to fulfil its leadership to meet with other members of staff within the QinetiQ Group role and having a detailed understanding of its stewardship including, but not limited to, other members of the senior responsibilities.
The Board agreed that the evaluation process had management team at lunch-time events which are scheduled been an extremely worthwhile exercise and had highlighted very few to coincide with Board meetings: during the last financial year, weaknesses in terms of its method of operation, although the Board two such events were held in Malvern and Washington DC.
did suggest that improved performance benchmarking as against QinetiQs peers, improved objective setting for the Board and The Board operates through a comprehensive set of processes, increased Board contribution to management succession planning as which define the schedule of matters to be considered by the areas which could merit further development.
Each of the suggested Board and its Committees during the yearly business cycle, the areas for improvement arising out of the Board evaluation process level of delegated authorities both financial and non-financial have either been remedied or are in the process of being resolved: in available to both Executive Directors and other layers of particular, a new Board objectives paper has been approved by the management within the business, and QinetiQs Business Ethics, Board, which focuses in particular on the added value the Board brings Risk Management and Health, Safety and Environmental to the Group.
The Board also has a clearly articulated set of matters which are specifically reserved to it for consideration, which As a separate exercise, the Chairman held meetings with the include reviewing the annual budgets, raising indebtedness, Non-executive Directors on three separate occasions in the last granting security over Group assets, approving Group strategy financial year, without the Executive Directors present, in order to and the corporate plan, approval of the annual and interim report review both the operation of the Board and the performance of and accounts, approval of significant investment, bid, acquisition the Executive Directors.
In addition, the Executive Directors were and divestment transactions, approval of HR policies including appraised as part of the annual salary review process, which was pension arrangements, reviewing material litigation and overseen by the Remuneration Committee, which reviewed the monitoring the overall system of internal controls, including performance of the Executive Directors in detail as against their risk management.
personal objectives set at the start of the financial year.
In 2006, QinetiQ became a member of the UK Defence Industry Directors induction, training and information Anti-corruption Forum, which has the primary objective of All newly appointed Directors participate in an induction promoting the prevention of corruption in the international programme, which is tailored to meet their needs in relation to defence markets.
In furtherance of this objective, QinetiQ has information on the Group.
This induction programme includes an enhanced its existing internal procedures which are designed induction pack, which is refreshed to ensure it contains the most not only to comply with, but to exceed, international best practice up-to-date information available on the Group.
Any changes made in this area.
This is facilitated by the engagement of an to the information contained in the induction packs for example, independent, internationally recognised organisation known amendments to the Group Directors and Officers insurance policy as TRACE Transparent Agents and Contracting Entities which are made available to the entire Board.
conducts anti-bribery due diligence reviews and compliance training on behalf of the Group, particularly in circumstances in All Directors are encouraged to visit QinetiQs principal sites and to which QinetiQ is planning to engage third party agents overseas.
meet a wide cross-section of QinetiQs employee base.
During the last QinetiQ Group plc 45 Annual Report 2007 financial year, the Board held one of its meetings in Washington DC, Audit Committee be convened.
During the past financial year the which allowed members of the Board to better appreciate the Committee met with QinetiQs external auditors on two separate business dynamics of QinetiQs newly acquired Apogen, PSI and occasions without Executive Directors present to discuss the audit Ocean Systems businesses: the Board also held one of its meetings process, and the Committee Chairman also met with the Group at QinetiQs Malvern site, during which a site tour was undertaken internal audit function on the same basis.
Except where not which provided members of the Board with exposure to a range of permitted to attend, the Group Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, QinetiQ technologies including 3D imaging, low power microchips Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, Head of Internal and millimetre wave detection technologies, as well as a Audit and a representative of the external auditors normally attend commentary on the key stages of a successful MOD bid.
Training is also available to the Board on key business issues or During the last financial year, QinetiQs first as a listed company, developments in policy, regulation or legislation on an as needed the principal areas of focus for the Audit Committee were to oversee basis: by way of example, the Board was provided with an overview the audit process for the full year and interim results.
The Committee of the Companies Act 2006 during the last financial year, which also conducted a detailed review of the QinetiQ internal audit will be supplemented with additional training as the various parts function in year, which resulted in the approval of a detailed 12 of the Act are implemented.
Each of the Directors has access to the month work programme for the function, the adoption of a balanced services of the Company Secretary, and there is also an agreed scorecard approach to measure internal audit objectives and the procedure for the Directors to seek independent advice at the appointment of the Groups first head of internal audit for the Companys expense.
In the context of the Groups North American business, the Committee also reviewed the application of internal Directors responsibilities controls in respect of the proxy regime, through which the majority Statements explaining the Directors responsibilities for preparing of QinetiQs North American business is operated see below under the Groups financial statements and the auditors responsibilities the heading Management and control of US subsidiaries and for reporting on those statements are set out on pages 58 and 59.
KPMGs approach to auditing the newly acquired US businesses.
As part of its regular review of internal controls, the Committee paid Other Directors information particular attention to the effectiveness of QinetiQs whistleblower Details of Executive Directors service contracts and the policies in year, as well as those areas of internal audit review which Non-executive Directors letters of appointment are set out in the had failed to achieve at least a satisfactory rating: these were Report of the Remuneration Committee.
Copies of Directors service limited in number and principally related to the development of contracts and letters of appointment will be available for inspection certain software systems for customers and the conduct of certain at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
As part of the regular reporting process, the Committee also viewed the activities of the treasury, In October 2006, Sir John Chisholm, was appointed Chairman of the tax, and insurance functions, as well as overseeing the level of Medical Research Council, which is a non-fee paying role.
KPMGs audit fees: as part of this process, the Committee conducted Committees of Directors a detailed review of the Group Treasury policy in year and introduced The Board has established four principal committees, being the certain changes, related principally to the Groups attitude to risk in Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations conducting foreign exchange hedging activity.
Committee and the Compliance Committee, each of which operates In order to safeguard auditor independence, the Committee ensures within written terms of reference approved by the Board, details that any other advisory consulting services provided by the auditors of which are set out in the Investor Relations section of QinetiQs do not conflict with their statutory audit responsibilities and are website www.
Each of the Chairmen of the Board conducted through entirely separate working teams: such advisory Committees reports on the key issues discussed, and decisions consulting services only generally cover regulatory reporting, tax and taken, at the next meeting of the Board following the Committee mergers and acquisitions work.
Any non-audit services conducted by meeting in question.
the auditors require the consent of the Chief Financial Officer or the Details of each of these Committees are summarised below.
Chairman of the Audit Committee before being initiated, with any such services exceeding 50,000 in value requiring the consent of Audit Committee the Audit Committee as a whole.
In the last financial year, the only Each member of the Audit Committee is an independent Nonnon-audit activity conducted by KPMG on behalf of QinetiQ which executive Director.
The Committee is chaired by Nick Luff, who has exceeded this 50,000 threshold related to the provision of taxation been a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England advice and services to the Group, which the Committee concluded and Wales since 1991, and the Board considers him to have recent did not create any conflict of interest issues which might compromise and relevant financial experience given his former roles as CFO of the independence of KPMG audit work.
It is also QinetiQs policy that P&O and P&O Princess Cruises and his current position as Finance no KPMG employee may be appointed into a senior position within Director of Centrica.
The other members of the Committee are the QinetiQ Group without the prior approval of the Chief Financial Dr Peter Fellner and Noreen Doyle.
The Audit Committee meets as Officer.
The Committees policy regulating the award of non-audit necessary and at least four times a year.
During the financial year work to its auditors was reviewed during the course of the last ended 31 March 2007, the Committee met on four occasions.
The financial year, with the only material change being to allow the external auditors have the right to request that a meeting of the Chairman of the Audit Committee as well as the Chief Financial QinetiQ Group plc 46 Annual Report 2007 Statement of Corporate Governance continued Officer to approve non-audit fees below the 50,000 threshold.
The Nominations Committee cost of non-audit work undertaken by the auditors was reviewed by The Nominations Committee consists of the Committee Chairman, the Committee on several occasions during the last financial year: this Sir David Lees, together with Dr Peter Fellner and Sir John Chisholm.
process allows the Committee to take corrective action if it believes A majority of the Committee throughout the year were Nonthat there is a risk of the auditors independence being undermined executive Directors.
The Committee meets as necessary and when through the award of such work.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2007, the Committee met on two separate occasions.
The members of the Audit Committee have declared themselves satisfied with the performance of KPMG as the Companys auditors The principal focus of the Committees activity during the financial in the last financial year.
There will be a rotation of KPMGs lead year ended 31 March 2007 was to select an independent Nonaudit partner during the forthcoming financial year.
It is anticipated executive Director with experience of the US Defence, Security and that the incoming lead audit partner will continue in the role for a Intelligence community, which culminated in the appointment of maximum term of five years.
George Tenet to the Board in October 2006.
The Committee was responsible for initiating this recruitment process, using external Remuneration Committee recruitment agents, at the beginning of the financial year and Each member of the Remuneration Committee is an independent retained responsibility for finalising the terms of Mr Tenets Non-executive Director.
The Committee is chaired by Dr Peter engagement through to completion of his appointment.
The other members of the Remuneration Committee are activities undertaken by the Nominations Committee in the last Sir David Lees and Noreen Doyle.
The Committee meets as necessary financial year included consideration of the appointment of Clive although normally not less than three times a year.
During the Richardson as COO of the newly created EMEA region, as well as financial year ended 31 March 2007, the Remuneration Committee reviewing QinetiQs succession planning processes at both the met on four occasions.
Although not members of the Committee, Executive Director level and for other key management positions the Group Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Group Head within the Group, which the Committee considered in terms of need of Human Resources and the Head of Performance and Reward to plan for immediate cover in respect of key roles, as well as normally attend Committee meetings.
Executive Directors are not succession planning to cover vacancies arising over a two to five present when their own remuneration is being discussed.
During the last financial year, the Remuneration Committee focused Compliance Committee its attention in particular on reviewing the long-term share incentive QinetiQs breadth of technical knowledge and its depth of arrangements for Executive Directors, senior management and the understanding of the defence operating environment allows it to wider employee base, to ensure, as far as possible, that QinetiQs serve the interests of the MOD in two distinct ways.
It is able to existing incentive arrangements are competitive with its external partner with other manufacturers in the defence supply chain to comparator group.
This review exercise has culminated in the develop and deliver capabilities that give an operational advantage proposed adoption of the Performance Share Plan and Deferred to the armed forces and also to provide advice to the MOD during Annual Bonus Plan described in detail in the notes set out in the the entire procurement cycle.
In addition, the Committee approved the salary and benefit arrangements for the Executive Directors and the CEOs However, these distinct offerings may lead to conflict of interest, direct management reports in year, as well as approving the Group which, if unmanaged, could bring into question the MODs ability level targets under the Leadership Incentive Scheme pursuant to to be able to rely on impartial advice during any competitive which senior management receives cash bonus awards based on the evaluation of a procurement where QinetiQ wishes to operate on attainment of Group level turnover, EBIT and cash targets, as well both the buy and the supply sides.
To give MOD customers as tailored personal objectives which were also approved by the confidence that QinetiQ is able to perform these activities, QinetiQ Committee.
is required by its Articles of Association to implement a Compliance Regime, which was established on its creation out of DERA.
Central The Company continued to engage the services of Deloitte & Touche to this Regime is the requirement for QinetiQ to seek permission as remuneration consultants in the past financial year, to assist from the MOD prior to providing commercial defence services to the Remuneration Committee and the Board in framing the others where there is potential for a conflict of interest with the remuneration and benefits policies for the Executive Directors, services that QinetiQ provides to the MOD.
members of the senior management team and employees throughout the Group.
Deloitte & Touche have provided additional In designing the Compliance Regime, the MOD and QinetiQ consultancy services to the Company during the course of the past sought to achieve a balance between meeting the needs of the financial year in areas such as taxation, albeit through entirely procurement customers within the MOD principally Defence separate teams of advisers, none of whom have any other Equipment and Support fide&S and the need to allow QinetiQ connection with the Company.
flexibility to exploit research into the supply chain and pursue its planned commercial activities, without compromising the defence or security interests of the UK.
The Compliance Regime is largely self-policing, in that it is applied by QinetiQ in respect of its activities without extensive intervention or oversight by the MOD.
Since the inception of the Compliance Regime, over 97% of the requests to the MOD to allow QinetiQ to operate on the supply side of the commercial defence market have been approved.
QinetiQ Group plc 47 Annual Report 2007 Oversight of the operation of the Regime is provided by the computer.
A key element of the training has been the necessary Compliance Committee, chaired by Sir David Lees.
Colin Balmer, focus on individual accountability and responsibilities at the a Non-executive Director, is a member of the Committee and the different stages of QinetiQs business development process within Group Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Compliance Audit the compliance framework.
All staff whose activities may impinge Director are also members.
The Board nominates two senior on the Compliance Regime will complete the test annually.
executives to act as Compliance Implementation Director and The MOD reviews the operation and effectiveness of the Compliance Compliance Audit Director: currently, the Compliance Audit Director Regime, through its right to have an observer at the Compliance is Dr Graham Coley and the Compliance Implementation Director Committee meetings.
During the year, a total of 13 new permissions were sought from the QinetiQs Compliance Committee meets on four occasions each year MOD under the Compliance Regime where potential conflicts of to monitor the operation of the Regime.
It receives a report from the interest were identified by QinetiQ, with a further four permission Companys Compliance Implementation Director which describes requests outstanding from the previous year.
Of these 17 requests the permissions which have been sought and granted since the last 13 were approved, three were not pursued, none were rejected and meeting of the Committee, and the status of projects where the one was outstanding at the end of March 2007.
At the end of the potential conflicts of interest are being managed.
The Committee year, 37 firewalls were in place, with 14 being established and 12 also receives, from the Compliance Audit Director, a report on the being closed down during the year.
Since vesting in 2001, a total effectiveness of the controls that are in place to ensure that the of 105 firewalls have operated with 67 now closed.
No breaches Regime is operated correctly.
The Committee reviews the systems of the MOD Compliance Regime have been noted during the year.
that support the Compliance Regime and those that may impact it, A firewall is a series of rules and procedures governing written and directing changes if appropriate.
The Committee is the forum that oral communication between staff contributing to products in an would address any issues arising out of QinetiQs failure to comply MOD competition with industry outside the wall and staff with the requirements of the Regime.
assessing those products for MOD inside the wall.
One innovation during the year has been the introduction of a The Compliance Committee also provides oversight of QinetiQs web-hosted Computer Based Training CBT package.
This training activities that fall within the scope of the Helsinki Protocol covering package has been developed for UK staff, based on the MOD trials involving human volunteers and those other activities that are Compliance Regime and its implementation within the UK business.
The objective has been to implement a CBT package that will inform, train and test staff on the fundamental principles of the Compliance Regime and its implementation within QinetiQ via their desktop Attendance at Board and Committee meetings April 2006 March 2007 Remuneration Audit Compliance Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Colin Balmer 9 10 3 3 Sir John Chisholm 10 10 3 3 2 2 Noreen Doyle 8 10 3 4 4 4 Dr Peter Fellner 7 10 4 4 4 4 2 2 Sir David Lees 9 10 4 4 3 3 2 2 Graham Love 10 10 3 3 Nick Luff 10 10 4 4 1 George Tenet 3 4 Doug Webb 10 10 2 Glenn Youngkin 10 10 1 George Tenet was appointed to the Board on 24 October 2006.
2 Glenn Youngkin resigned from the Board on 8 February 2007.
QinetiQ Group plc 48 Annual Report 2007 Statement of Corporate Governance continued Going concern QinetiQ North America Operations, LLC a wholly-owned subsidiary The Directors are of the opinion that the Group has adequate of QinetiQ in the US and the US DoD have entered into a proxy resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future and agreement that regulates the ownership, management and have prepared the accounts on a going concern basis.
Pursuant to this proxy arrangement, QinetiQ appointed three US citizens holding requisite US security Communication with shareholders clearances as proxy holders to exercise the voting rights of QinetiQ The Company attaches significant importance to the effectiveness North America Operations, LLCs shares in the US subsidiaries.
The of its communications with shareholders.
During the last financial proxy holders are also appointed as directors of the relevant US year, the Company has initiated regular dialogue with institutional subsidiaries and, in addition to their powers as directors, have power shareholders and the financial community, which has included under the proxy arrangements to exercise all prerogatives of share presentations of the full-year and interim results including investor ownership of QinetiQ North America Operations, LLC.
The proxy road shows held in the UK, Europe and US, regular meetings holders agree to perform their role in the best interests of QinetiQ with major shareholders and industry analysts, participation in North America Operations, LLC and consistent with the national stockbrokers seminars and shareholder site visits held at security concerns of the United States.
QinetiQ does not have any Farnborough and Malvern.
In addition, each member of the Board representation on the boards of Apogen, Foster-Miller, Planning attended the Companys Annual General Meeting in July 2006 and a Systems, Westar, Ocean Systems, Analex or ITS and does not have number of Non-executive Directors attended key shareholder events the right to attend board meetings.
QinetiQ may not remove in the last financial year, including the full year and interim results the proxy holders except for acts of gross negligence or wilful presentations, at which they were available to take questions from misconduct or for breach of the proxy agreements with the shareholders.
All shareholders and potential shareholders can gain consent of the US Defense Security Service.
access to the Annual Report, presentations to investors and other Internal controls significant information about the QinetiQ Group on the Companys The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of website at www.
com internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness in safeguarding Holders of ordinary shares may attend the Companys AGM at which the shareholders interests and the Companys assets.
However, the Company highlights key business developments during the year such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the and at which the shareholders have an opportunity to ask questions.
risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide The chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Compliance Committees will be available to answer any questions misstatement or loss.
QinetiQ managers are responsible for the on the work of the Committees.
The Company confirms that it will identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their send the AGM notice and relevant documentation to all areas of business together with the design and operation of suitable shareholders at least 20 working days before the date of the AGM.
internal controls to ensure effective mitigation.
These risks, which For those shareholders who have elected to receive communications are related to achievement of business objectives, are assessed electronically, notice is given of the availability of documents on the on a continual basis and may be associated with a variety of Investor Relations section of the Groups website.
All shareholders internal and external events, including control breakdowns, will be entitled to vote on the resolutions put to the AGM and, competition, disruption, regulatory requirements and natural to ensure that all votes are counted, a poll will be taken on all the and other catastrophes.
resolutions in the Notice of Meeting.
The results of the votes on the A process of hierarchical self-certification has been established resolutions will be published on the Companys website.
within the organisation which provides a documented and auditable Responsibility for maintaining regular communications with trail of accountability for the operation of the system of internal shareholders rests with the Executive Team, led by the Chief control.
This process is informed by a rigorous and structured Executive Officer, assisted by an investor relations function which self-assessment that addresses all of the guidance cited in the reports to the Chief Financial Officer.
The Board is informed on Combined Code.
The process provides for successive assurances to a regular basis of key shareholder issues, including share price be given at increasingly higher levels of management and, finally, performance, the composition of the shareholder register and City to the Board.
The process is informed by the Internal Audit function, expectations.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and which also provides a degree of assurance as to the operation and Non-executive Directors make themselves available to meet with validity of the system of internal control.
Planned corrective actions shareholders as required.
are independently monitored for their timely completion.
Management and control of US subsidiaries The managers report on risks which are recorded at corporate, QinetiQs US subsidiaries, Apogen, Foster-Miller, Planning Systems, sector and divisional level of profit and loss as well as within all Westar, Ocean Systems, Analex and ITS are currently required customer-facing projects and how these are managed on a monthly by the US National Industrial Security Program to maintain facility basis to the QinetiQ Executive Team and the Board, formally, on a security clearances and to be insulated from foreign ownership, quarterly basis.
To comply with these requirements, QinetiQ Group plc 49 Annual Report 2007 The QinetiQ Executive Team reviews on a monthly basis the risk management and control process and considers: the authority, resources and co-ordination of those involved in the identification, assessment and management of significant risks faced by the organisation: the response to the significant risks which have been identified by management and others: the monitoring of reports from Group management: the maintenance of a control environment directed towards the proper management of risk.
The centrally provided internal audit programme is structured to address the risks identified by the Company and is integrated across all business and functional dimensions, thereby reducing issues of overlap or gaps in coverage.
These risks are identified dynamically and the Board is involved in this process as well as the QinetiQ Executive Team.
The Chief Financial Officer provides to the Board monthly information that includes key performance and risk indicators.
Where areas for improvement in the system of internal control are identified, the Board considers the recommendations made by the QinetiQ Executive Team, the Audit Committee and the Compliance Committee.
The Audit Committee reviews, on behalf of the Board, the key risks inherent in the business and the system of internal control necessary to manage such risks and presents its findings to the Board.
Internal Audit independently reviews the risk identification and control processes implemented by management and reports to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee also reviews the assurance process, ensuring that an appropriate mix of techniques is used to obtain the level of assurance required by the Board.
It presents its findings to the Board on a regular basis.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control that has been in operation during the financial year ended 31 March 2007.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated the process for the identification and evaluation of significant risks affecting the business and the processes by which these are managed.
However, the Board routinely challenges the management to ensure that the systems of internal control are constantly improving to maintain their continuing effectiveness.
