68 Corporate governance report for the year ended 31 December 2007 Except as noted below, the company has complied This section of the annual with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2007. report provides a description Every company should be headed by an effective of how the company has board, which is collectively responsible for the success of the company.
applied the principles set The board remains committed to guiding the strategic and entrepreneurial development of the group and out in section 1 of the 2003 supports the principle of collective responsibility Combined Code.
for the success of the company.
The board has reserved, for its sole discretion, the finalisation and adoption of the groups strategic plan, major fiscal policies including treasury and hedging policies, approval of the budget, approval of all mining development and any merger or acquisition.
The board undertook its annual evaluation exercise during the year to measure its own performance as well as those of its committees and extended the format to include the nomination and governance committee.
During the year the board met nine times.
Where it is deemed appropriate, the chairman meets with the non-executive directors without the presence of the executive directors and during the year meetings were held by the chairman and the non-executive directors.
Appropriate directors and officers insurance cover has been obtained by the company in respect of legal action against the directors.
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE Number of Total number meetings of board Directors Designationattended meetings P Litard Non-executive chairman 9 9 DM Bristow Chief executive officer 9 9 RA Williams Former chief financial officer 2 2 GP Shuttleworth Chief financial officer 7 7 BH Asher Senior independent director 9 9 NP Cole Jr Independent non-executive 9 9 RI Israel Independent non-executive 9 9 AL Paverd Independent non-executive 8 9 K Voltaire Independent non-executive 8 9 Mr Williams resigned from the board with effect from 30 July 2007.
Mr Shuttleworth was appointed to the board on 1 July 2007.
Drs Voltaire and Paverd were unable to attend a meeting called at short notice.
68 Randgold Resources | Annual Report 2007 There should be a clear division of contributions and believes that these During the year the nomination and responsibilities at the head of the company are still independent in character and governance committee met on several between the running of the board and the judgement: occasions to consider submissions relating executive responsibility for the running of the b Messrs Asher and Israel continue to to possible board candidates.
No one individual hold options in terms of the companys the committee commenced a review of the should have unfettered powers of decision.
These were company succession planning procedure The non-executive chairman, Mr Philippe awarded in 1998 and the board does which is ongoing.
This process involves Litard, is responsible for the leadership of not believe that this interferes with their executive and senior management within the board and to ensure effective independence.
A nomination and governance communication exists between the executive executive directors owned shares in the committee charter is published on the and non-executive directors.
executive directors also received an The CEO, Dr Mark Bristow, has been award of restricted shares in addition During the year the board considered and delegated the authority to manage the dayto their directors fees.
The board approved the appointment of Mr Shuttleworth to-day administration of the group.
A formal believes that this aligns their interests as finance director and in accordance with job description is in existence and this is with those of other shareholders without the articles of association, he will be subject reviewed annually by the board and the compromising independence.
to re-election at the April 2008 annual general CEO.
Meetings of the boards committees were The board should include a balance of held regularly.
Where appropriate, the In addition to the appointment of directors, executive and non-executive directors chairman and the executive directors are the appointment and removal of the company and in particular independent non-executive invited to be in attendance.
secretary remains a matter for consideration directors such that no individual or small Shareholders are referred to the by the board as a whole.
group of individuals can dominate the boards remuneration report on page 77 for decision taking.
The board should be supplied in a timely Currently the board comprises eight manner with information in a form and of a members, two executive and six nonThere should be a formal, rigorous and quality appropriate to enable it to discharge executive directors.
During the year, the transparent procedure for the appointment its duties.
All directors should receive board saw the resignation of Mr Williams of new directors to the board.
induction on joining the board and should and the appointment of Mr Shuttleworth as The members of the nomination and regularly update and refresh their skills and chief financial officer.
The board believes governance committee during the year knowledge.
that mining is a long-gestation business and appear at the bottom of this page.
The board continues to operate in a field as such justifies a longer period of service which is technically complex and directors for non-executive directors than many In terms of the directors remuneration policy, are provided with information which enables industries and that reasonable periods of Mr Litard receives a fee as the group them to fulfil their duties effectively.
Visits to service are therefore needed for the stability chairman and Mr Asher receives a fee as the mines, branch offices and technical of the board but that new appointments are senior independent director and therefore presentations provided by management are needed from time to time to add a fresh no additional payment for services to the used to further their knowledge in various perspective.
No fee was paid to Mr Cole for areas of specialisation.
It is the duty of the service to the nomination and governance company secretary to ensure an effective The board monitors compliance with the committee for the year.
flow of information between the board, its independence criteria included in the Code and save in certain instances set out below for a periods of service and b award of NOMINATION AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDANCE options and restricted shares, all nonexecutive directors meet the criteria.
For Number of Number of meetings meetings the reasons set out below the board believes Members Appointed attended held that the non-executive directors are independent.
a Currently Dr Paverd and Messrs Asher P Litard Chairman 27 October 2006 3 3 and Israel have all served as directors BH Asher 27 October 2006 3 3 for more than ten years.
The board has NP Cole Jr 27 October 2007 3 3 considered their objectivity and Randgold Resources | Annual Report 2007 69 committees and the management of the remuneration and for fixing the remuneration as, either individually or in a combination, packages of individual directors.
No director they could have a material adverse effect company.
should be involved in deciding his or her on its business: own remuneration.
The profitability of our operations and The board should undertake a formal and This is dealt with in the report of the the cash flows generated by our rigorous annual evaluation of its own remuneration committee.
operations are affected by changes performance and that of its committees in the market price for gold which in the and individual directors.
The board should present a balanced and past has fluctuated widely.
The boards evaluation procedure operates understandable assessment of the Our mining operations may yield less through a structured self assessment system companys position and prospects.
gold under actual production conditions allowing each director to rate the performance The Companies Jersey Law, 1991, and than indicated by our gold reserve of the board and its committees and focuses the Combined Code require, and the board figures, which are estimates based on on a number of key areas.
acknowledges, that it is responsible for a number of assumptions, including The individual assessments are then scored presenting a balanced and understandable assumptions as to mining and recovery and the results were tabled at assessment of the companys and the factors, production costs and the price a January 2008 board meeting for groups position and prospects.
The board continues to believe to the preparation and publication of the The profitability of operations and the that the exercise is beneficial.
annual report and any other release of cash flows generated by these information, price sensitive or otherwise.
operations are significantly affected by A formal session of the directors also fluctuations in the price, cost and supply assessed the chairmans performance.
The financial statements set out in this of inputs.
report have been prepared by management Our business may be harmed if the All directors should be submitted for reunder the direction of the board in Government of Mali fails to repay fuel election at regular intervals, subject to accordance with International Financial duties owing to Morila and Loulo.
Reporting Standards and are based on Our business may be harmed if the The board should ensure planned and accounting policies that the board considers Government of Mali fails to repay Value progressive refreshing of the board.
appropriate, supported by reasonable and Added Tax, or TVA, owing to Morila.
In accordance with the provisions of the prudent judgements and estimates.
We have invested in debt instruments Companies Jersey Law 1991 and the for which the market has become articles of association, directors are required The directors are of the opinion that the substantially illiquid.
to submit themselves to re-election.
Any financial statements fairly present the financial We may not be able to recover certain newly appointed director is subject to election position of the company and group as at funds from MDM Ferroman Pty Limited by shareholders after his her appointment.
31 December 2007, and the consolidated in liquidation.
Thereafter, by rotation, the entire board is results of operations and cash flows of the We may incur losses or lose subject to re-election every three years.
group for the year then ended.
The directors opportunities for gains as a result of our The articles of association specify neither an have continued to adopt the going concern use of derivative instruments to protect age limit for directors nor any restriction about basis in preparing the financial statements us against low gold prices.
because the directors are satisfied that Our underground project at Loulo, the group and company have adequate developing two mines at Yalea and Gara, Levels of remuneration should be sufficient financial resources available to ensure their is subject to all of the risks associated to attract, retain and motivate directors of continued operational existence for the with underground mining.
the quality required to run the company foreseeable future.
Actual cash costs of production, successfully, but a company should avoid production results and economic returns paying more than is necessary for this The group has operated a code of ethics may differ significantly from those purpose.
A significant proportion of executive since its United Kingdom listing in July 1997. anticipated by our feasibility studies for directors remuneration should be structured The code includes specific reference to the new development projects, including so as to link rewards to corporate and companys financial managers and the chief Tongon.
A copy of the code is We conduct mining, development and This is dealt with in the report of the available on the companys website: exploration activities in countries with remuneration committee.
developing economies and are subject to the risks of political and economic The company also believes that the following instability associated with these There should be a formal and transparent risk factors should be carefully considered countries.
procedure for developing policy on executive 70 Randgold Resources | Annual Report 2007 Under our joint venture agreement with update of the business control framework described earlier, the board considers that AngloGold Ashanti Limited, or AngloGold and believes that, through the procedures the members of the audit committee are all Ashanti, we jointly manage Morila noted above and below, it has complied independent.
Limited, and any disputes with with the requirements of the Code to review AngloGold Ashanti over the management the effectiveness of the groups internal One of the members has considerable years of Morila Limited could adversely affect controls at least annually.
The company of experience in the financial services sector, our business.
continues to adhere to the requirements of one has extensive experience in the mining The use of mining contractors at certain section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act.
industry and the other has a PhD in finance.
of our operations may expose it to delays The board believes that this level of or suspensions in mining activities.
At the beginning of July 2007, the company experience is sufficient to meet the standards We may be required to seek funding appointed BDO Stoy Hayward LLP as its imposed by the Combined Code, even from third parties or enter into joint auditors, who will also act as auditors for though none of the members has recent development arrangements to finance Loulo and Morila, and their findings from the and relevant accounting experience.
If issues the development of our properties and audits are communicated to the audit arose which were deemed outside the areas the timely exploration of our mineral committee.
AngloGold Ashantis internal of expertise of the members, independent rights, which funding or development audit department conducts regular audits of professional advice would be sought.
arrangements may not be available on the Morila mine and copies of these reports acceptable terms, or at all.
are submitted to the companys audit During the year the committee met six times We may not pay regular dividends to committee for consideration.
Given its size, and its members and their attendance appear shareholders in the future.
the group does not have a separate internal at the bottom of the following page.
If we are unable to attract and retain key audit department.
However, executive personnel our business may be harmed.
management undertakes regular audits of In terms of the directors remuneration policy, Our insurance coverage may prove various parts of the Morila and the Loulo Mr Asher receives a fee as the senior inadequate to satisfy claims against us.
mines and details of their reports are independent director and no additional It may be difficult for you to affect service submitted to the audit committee and board payment for services to the audit committee.
of process and enforce legal judgments for comment.
Financial and technical audits Fees paid to Dr Paverd and Dr Voltaire for against us or our affiliates.
of the companys branch offices and major service to the audit committee for the year We are subject to significant corporate assets are regularly conducted by group were US$35 000 each.
regulation as a public company and management.
The board notes that no cost failure to comply with all applicable effective system will preclude all errors and The committee makes recommendations to regulations could subject us to liability irregularities and so the groups system of the board in relation to the appointment, reor negatively affect our share price.
internal controls provides reasonable, but appointment and removal of the external not absolute assurance, against material auditors as well as the remuneration and Full details relating to these risk factors as misstatement or loss.
terms of engagement of the external auditors.
well as those relating to our industry can be The audit committee has recommended the found in our annual report on Form 20-F for The board should establish formal and re-appointment of BDO Stoy Hayward LLP the year ended 31 December 2006 and the transparent arrangements for considering as external auditors for the group.
The actual F-3 filed on 27 November 2007, copies of how they should apply the financial reporting re-appointment of the external auditors is which are contained on our website.
and internal control principles and for subject to the approval of shareholders at maintaining an appropriate relationship with the annual general meeting.
The board should maintain a sound system the companys auditors.
of internal control to safeguard shareholders The companys audit committee has been During the year,  investment and the companys assets.
set up to review the companys financial and BDO Stoy Hayward LLP were paid The group maintains a business control reports, internal control principles and risk US$1 million and US$0.6 million for their framework that documents the key business management systems, review significant services.
Non-audit services were provided risks, together with the related operational, financial reporting judgements and for dealing to the company by BDO Stoy Hayward and financial and compliance controls.
The with the appointment of the auditors and  in the year and business control framework is regularly monitoring their relationship with the company specific consent was granted by the audit reviewed and updated by management, who and its management.
committee for the audit reports in respect report quarterly to the board on any issues of the year-end equity raising exercise.
which might affect the risks and controls.
During the year, the audit committee The board acknowledges that it has comprised three members all of whom were The committee reviews and monitors the responsibility for the ongoing review and non-executive directors.
For reasons external auditors independence and the Randgold Resources | Annual Report 2007 71 objectivity and effectiveness of the audit The audit committee has continued to The board continues to use the internet for process.
This is undertaken within the oversee the groups compliance with the publication of announcements and to file these on its website to assist with framework of a detailed audit charter.
requirements of section 404 of the SarbanesA copy of the audit charter is available on Oxley Act.
In addition the board encourages shareholders to the companys website.
There should be a dialogue with shareholders access the annual report from the website rather than having it sent by post in printed The committee reviews the companys based on the mutual understanding of form.
published results, the effectiveness of its objectives.
The board as a whole has system of internal control, legal and regulatory responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory The board should use the AGM to compliance including the Sarbanes-Oxley dialogue with shareholders takes place.
communicate with investors and to Act and the cost effectiveness of the services The board acknowledges responsibility for encourage their participation.
provided by the external auditors.
The audit maintaining effective communication with all The board believes that the annual general committee has implemented a policy shareholders.
The CEO, corporate meeting is an appropriate forum for contact regarding the provision and pre-approval communications manager and the with shareholders and encourages their thereof of non-audit services by the external companys investor relations consultants attendance and participation.
In order to auditors and this mandate is reviewed prepare a quarterly report for the board reflect the sentiment of shareholders at the annually.
detailing the activities and presentations annual general meeting, it is an unwritten given to shareholders.
In addition, since policy that all resolutions should be The committee meets regularly and this September 2004 the company has considered by way of a ballot poll and the includes quarterly meetings which are used employed international market intelligence number of proxies received disclosed to to consider and approve the companys experts to provide a global shareholder members in attendance.
At each annual quarterly results.
The external auditors are identification service which has greatly general meeting all sub-committee chairmen regularly invited to attend meetings to report enhanced the focus of the companys as well as other non-executive directors are on their activities.
The committee also meets communication message.
present to address any queries raised by with the external auditors, independent of shareholders.
the executive directors or management, Whilst in general corporate communication where this is deemed necessary.
with shareholders is conducted by the CEO, Institutional shareholders should enter into the chairman, at least quarterly, participates dialogue with companies based upon the The Sarbanes Oxley Act required companies in an open forum with shareholders and mutual understanding of objectives.
In addition, the chairman leads It has been the policy of the company that geographical spread of the groups activities, a group of senior executives to the African twice a year lengthy roadshows are particularly in remote West African locations, Mining Indaba, one of the premier global conducted by the CEO and CFO where makes the system complex.
The first point mining conferences attended by a substantial meetings are held with most of the of contact is the companys legal counsel number of global players in the mining and companys major institutional shareholders who upon receipt of such an issue being related industries and in February 2008 the to brief them on the activities of the company.
raised would employ independent majority of the board was in attendance.
In addition after the publication of each set consultants and then pass the findings onto of quarterly results, the CEO follows up with the senior independent director to pursue Besides attendance at various industry meetings with many of the institutional any alleged irregularity.
Quarterly reports are conferences, a minimum of two roadshows shareholders.
These roadshows are in submitted to the audit committee concerning during the year are undertaken to enable addition to the companys attendance at any instances where complaints are company representatives to interact directly several key international gold mining submitted.
with shareholders and interested parties.
In the last year conferences attended were held in New York, San Francisco, Denver, London, Zurich, Tampa, Toronto and Cape Town.
AUDIT COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDANCE Number of Number of Institutional shareholders have a responsibility meetings meetings to make considered use of their votes.
Members Appointed attended held The company is pleased to see the increasing trend of institutional shareholders now exercising their rights to vote at general BH Asher Chairman 15 July 1997 6 6 meetings.
In the past three years the AL Paverd 1 May 2000 6 6 percentage increase of shareholders present K Voltaire 1 August 2006 6 6 and voting has increased dramatically.
