Corporate governance The policy of the Board is to manage the affairs of the Company in Board balance and independence accordance with the principles of the Combined Code 2006 on Corporate The Board includes a balance of executive and independent non-executive Governance and annexed to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services directors, whose biographical details are given on page 28.
This statement explains how the Company applies Greenhalgh has been the senior independent director since May 2006. the principles of the Code.
The directors have wide-ranging business experience, and no individual, or group of individuals, dominates the Boards decision-making process.
Board The Board also considered Peter Johnson as independent on his The directors believe that it is essential that the Company should be both appointment as a director.
led and controlled by an effective Board.
The Board has adopted a formal statement of its powers, duties and responsibilities, and recognises that its Appointment of the Board main functions are as follows: The Board accepts that there should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors.
The Board has formalised agreeing objectives, policies and strategies, and monitoring the and adopted terms of reference for its Nominations Committee which are performance of the executive management: available on request to the company secretary.
A report of the Nominations Committees work during 2007 is given on page 36.
The Board has agreed keeping under review the general progress and long-term development the terms and conditions for the appointment of non-executive directors, of the Group in light of the political, economic and social environments which are also available for inspection and comply with the Code.
Peter Gill in which it operates: and John Warren will retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and, controlling and monitoring the financial state and performance of being eligible, are offering themselves for re-appointment.
Peter Gill is the the Group including investment and nancing plans, determining Company's finance director and has a service agreement terminable on one the desired financial ratios and approving the objectives of the Groups year's notice: John Warren is chairman of the Audit Committee and a business plan: member of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees, he does not have a service agreement with the Company.
deciding on major changes in organisation and the shape of the Group, including entry into new elds of operation and departure from those Information and professional development which are no longer appropriate: The Board receives a steady ow of information to enable it to discharge its duties, including a monthly report detailing current and forecast approving major expenditure and transactions with other companies trading results and treasury positions.
It also receives regular updates including, for example, acquisitions, disposals, joint ventures and on shareholders views as part of the monthly report, and more formal significant supply arrangements: briengs on shareholders views are given to the Board following the ensuring that the Group pursues sound and proper policies in relation to: presentation of the Companys interim and annual results.
Board papers are generally distributed not less than five days in advance of the relevant a safety, health and environmental matters: and meeting to allow the directors fully to prepare for meetings, and minutes b corporate governance: of committee meetings are circulated to all directors.
The Board is kept fully informed of developments within the Companys businesses through delegating clear responsibility and authority to the chairman, regular presentations by divisional management.
Induction programmes committees of the Board, the chief executive, directors or groups for newly-appointed directors are devised to ensure that directors spend of directors, ofcers and others: and time with divisional management and can visit operational sites.
giving approval or support, as appropriate, to the most senior All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary, appointments in the Group and ensuring that adequate career who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed, and to development, succession and remuneration arrangements exist for them.
independent professional advice, if required, at the Companys expense.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision.
Performance evaluation The evaluation process for the performance of the Board as a whole, Regular Board meetings are held not fewer than eight times in a year.
and that of individual directors, was carried out through a questionnaire At least one meeting is devoted to strategy, and is held away from the process between the chairman and each director.
This was designed to Companys head ofce.
Ad hoc meetings may be convened in between provide an objective assessment and covered the areas of Board process regular meetings to address any matters requiring Board consideration.
and administration, and the contribution made by each individual.
In The chairman holds at least one meeting a year with the non-executive addition, led by Richard Greenhalgh, the chairmans performance was directors without the executive directors being present and, led by the evaluated by means of a questionnaire.
The outcomes of these assessments senior independent director, the non-executive directors meet without were then reported to, and discussed by, the whole Board.
The conclusion the chairman present at least once a year to appraise his performance.
was reached that the Board continues to function effectively and that both The Company has arranged insurance cover in respect of legal action the Board and its committees were discharging their duties in full against its directors.
To the extent permitted by UK law, the Company also accordance with their terms of reference.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover in situations where a director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The performance of the Remuneration Committee during the year was also appraised by the Board.
The Audit Committees performance and the Chairman and chief executive effectiveness of the external audit process were evaluated through the There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company, completion of suitable questionnaires.
The results of these evaluations, with the chairman responsible for the effective operation of the Board, which were carried out by the members of the Committee, were then encouraging the active participation of all directors, and the chief reviewed by the Board.
executive responsible for the running of the Companys businesses.
The Board has approved formal statements describing the role and remit of both the chairman and the chief executive, which emphasise this division of their responsibilities.
The Board is mindful of the need to ensure that the chairman has enough time available to devote to the job.
Peter Johnson was chairman from 1 March 2007 succeeding Alun Cathcart who left the Board on 28 February 2007 and the Board is satisfied that his other significant commitments had no material impact upon the amount of time that he was able to devote to his chairmanship of the Group during the year.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 35 Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance continued Re-election of directors The Remuneration Committee All directors are subject to re-appointment by shareholders at the first The Remuneration Committee is comprised solely of independent nonAnnual General Meeting following their appointment, and thereafter at executive directors.
Richard Greenhalgh has chaired the Committee since intervals of not more than three years apart.
Non-executive directors are April 2006, with Bill Shannon and John Warren being its other members.
engaged for an initial period of three years, subject to their re-appointment The committee meets not less than twice a year and is responsible for having been confirmed by shareholders as described above.
determining the remuneration packages of the chairman, the executive directors and other members of the executive committee.
Details of the The Board is satisfied that the chairman, and each non-executive director, Remuneration Committees deliberations during 2007 are contained in the is able to devote the necessary amount of time required to attend to the remuneration report on pages 30 to 34, which also summarises the Companys affairs.
Companys remuneration policy and contains details of directors remuneration.
The committee met formally on seven occasions during 2007.
The Audit Committee Ranks Audit Committee is comprised solely of independent non-executive Meetings attendance directors.
Details of the committees membership throughout 2007 are Details of attendances actual, and possible in brackets of directors and as follows: committee members at the principal Board and committee meetings held Date first in 2007 were as follows: appointed Board Audit Rem Nom Finance John Warren January 2006 Total 10 Total 4 Total 7 Total 4 Total 21 Brendan ONeill October 2004 Alun Cathcart 1 2 1 1 1 3 Bill Shannon April 2006 Peter Johnson 10 10 4 4 17 18 Resigned 31 December 2007 Ian Burke 10 10 4 4 19 21 Peter Gill 10 10 19 21 John Warren has chaired this committee since April 2006.
Richard Greenhalgh 10 10 7 7 3 4 Brendan ONeill 10 10 4 4 4 4 The Board is satisfied that all members of the committee have recent Bill Shannon 9 10 3 4 7 7 4 4 and relevant financial experience.
Normally the chairman, chief executive, John Warren 10 10 4 4 7 7 4 4 finance director and the company secretary as head of internal audit Resigned 28 February 2007 attend committee meetings, as do representatives of the external auditors.
Resigned 31 December 2007 The Audit Committees responsibilities are set out on page 29, its terms of reference are available on request to the company secretary.
In the few instances when a director was not able to attend Board or committee meetings, his comments on the papers to be considered The committee meets at least annually with the external auditors at that meeting were relayed in advance to the relevant chairman.
The committee keeps under review the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, and their The executive committee effectiveness.
In particular, the committee oversees the nature and amount The executive committee is not a committee of the Board.
Its role is of non-audit work undertaken by  LLP each year to assist the chief executive in fullling his responsibilities for directing to ensure that external auditor independence is safeguarded.
All non-audit and promoting the profitable operation and development of the Group, services above a value of 50,000 to be performed by the external auditors consistent with the primary objective of creating long-term shareholder are required to be approved by the Audit Committee in advance and the value.
The names of its current members, and the positions that they hold Groups policy is that, where appropriate, non-audit work is put out to within the Company, are set out on page 29. competitive tender.
Details of the years fees paid to the external auditors Accountability and audit are given in note 3 to the financial statements.
The process by which the Board applies the principles of accountability and During the year, the Gambling Commission undertook a compliance review audit is set out below: a statement of the directors responsibilities in relation of the Grosvenor and Mecca businesses and the results of that review were to the financial statements is given on page 39. considered by the committee.
Relations with shareholders The Finance Committee The Company maintains an active dialogue with its institutional The Finance Committees responsibilities are set out on page 29. shareholders and city analysts through a planned programme of investor relations, and regular meetings are held with principal shareholders.
The Alun Cathcart chaired this committee until Peter Johnson took over from outcome of these meetings is reported to the whole Board to ensure it him on 1 March 2007. keeps in touch with shareholder opinion.
The programme includes formal The Nominations Committee presentations of the interim and the full year results.
The Nominations Committees responsibilities are set out on page 29.
All shareholders are welcome to attend the Annual General Meeting Peter Johnson replaced Alun Cathcart as chairman of the committee on and private investors are encouraged to take advantage of the opportunity 1 March 2007. given to ask questions.
The chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees attend the meeting and are available to answer During 2007, the committee met formally on four occasions and endorsed questions, as appropriate.
A summary presentation of the Companys the re-appointment of Richard Greenhalgh as a non-executive director results and development plans is given by the chief executive at the and also, taking into account the existing balance of skills, knowledge Annual General Meeting prior to the commencement of the formal and experience on the Board, assessed the need for a replacement business of that meeting.
non-executive director for Brendan O'Neill following his retirement on 31 December 2007.
Compliance with the Code provisions Save in respect of the length of the contractual notice period of the newlyappointed chief executive, which did not reduce from 24 months to 12 months until 6 March 2007, the Company has, throughout the year, complied fully with the provisions of the Code.
36 The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements Risk management and internal control The Board maintained the procedures necessary to comply with the requirements of the existing code relating to internal control as described in the October 2005 publication entitled Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code Turnbull Report.
In relation to Code provision C. 2.1, the Board reports below on the procedures that have been applied in reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
The process has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and financial statements.
It is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the guidance set out in the Turnbull Report.
The directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Groups system of internal control, for setting policy on internal control and for reviewing the effectiveness of internal control.
The role of management is to implement Board policies on risk and control.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Considerable importance is placed on maintaining a strong control environment.
In particular, there is a simple organisational structure with clearly drawn lines of accountability and delegation of authority: adherence to specified codes of conduct is required at all times and the Board actively promotes a culture of quality and integrity.
A risk assessment process was established in 2006 which is designed to identify the key strategic, operational, financial and compliance risks that the business faces.
It includes an analysis of the likelihood and impact for each of the risks identied.
For the key risks, action plans have been developed and are monitored as part of managements procedures.
As part of the risk management process, the Audit Committee and the Board is provided with a report detailing significant risks facing the Group.
In order to further develop a full risk assessment for the Group, an executive workshop identied strategic, operational, compliance and financial issues faced by the business and ranked the key issues based on their impact and likelihood.
The Group has an internal audit function that reports to the company secretary which is, additionally, supported by Ernst and Young LLP.
Detailed control procedures exist throughout the operations of the Group and compliance is monitored by management, internal auditors and, to the extent they consider necessary to support their audit report, the external auditors.
Additionally, a separate compliance function monitors day-to-day adherence to the provisions of the Gambling Act and other licensing obligations.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the year ended 31 December 2007.
This has included consideration of the Group-wide risk assessment and the results of self-certication of internal control exercises undertaken throughout the Group.
The Audit Committee has also considered reports from the external auditors.
During the year, reports were submitted to the Committee from the internal audit team summarising the work planned and undertaken, recommending improvements and describing the actions taken by management.
The risk assessment process and the risk-driven annual internal audit plan were also presented for approval by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee has reported the results of its work to the Board.
The Board has considered these reports when undertaking its review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 37
