Corporate Governance statement Governance Framework The Board The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of Composition of the Board corporate governance and to continuing to develop its approach to As at 10 September 2007, the Board comprised a Non-Executive corporate governance and risk management.
Chairman, five Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors, four of whom are considered to be independent.
Under the requirements of the Listing Rules of the FSA, the A summary of the composition of the Board and its committees Company sets out details below of how it has applied the during the year is set out in Table 1.
From 1 October 2007, the principles of good governance set out in Section 1 of the Board will comprise a Non-Executive Chairman, four Executive Combined Code published in July 2003 the Code.
Directors and four independent Non-Executive Directors and will comply with the Code.
The Directors have considered the contents and requirements of the Code and consider that throughout the year ended 30 June There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the 2007 the Company has been substantially compliant.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board section on corporate governance, the Directors have specifically and this responsibility is clearly established, set out in writing and identified those provisions with which the Company does not agreed by the Board.
The Chief Executive leads the business and is comply with the Code together with the reasons behind this being responsible for managing it within the authorities delegated to him the composition of the Board and the individual performance by the Board.
appraisal of the Non-Executive Directors whilst there was no permanent Chairman in place.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board and its Committees and is a member of the Group Senior Management team: all Directors have access to his advice and services.
Table 1 - List of Directors holding office during 2006 07 Number Environmental Position of years Independent Audit Corporate Nomination Remuneration on board Committee Responsibility Committee Committee Committee David Arnold Group Finance Director 4 No No No No No 1 Bob Bennett Non-Executive Director - Yes Chairman No Yes Yes 2 5 Alan Bowkett Non-Executive Chairman - No No No Chairman No Brian Duckworth Senior Non-Executive 3 Director 5 Yes Yes Chairman Yes Yes Neil Fitzsimmons Chief Executive 9 No No Yes No No Barry Harvey Chairman - Northern Region resigned 29 Jun 07 9 No No No No No Denise Jagger Non-Executive Director - Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Robert Jones Non-Executive Chairman 2 5 resigned 30 Mar 07 10 No No Yes Yes No Malcolm King Non-Executive Director 3 Yes Yes No Yes Chairman Colin Lewis Chairman - Western Region 6 No No No No No Jim Martin Non-Executive Director 2 1 5 4 to resign 11 Sep 07 10 No No No No No Paul Pedley Deputy Executive Chairman to resign 30 Sep 07 22 No No No No No John Tutte Chairman - Southern Region 5 No No No No No 1 Jim Martin was Chairman of the Audit Committee until his resignation from the Committee on 30 March 2007, when he was succeeded on an interim basis as Chairman by Brian Duckworth.
Bob Bennett was appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 July 2007.
2 Robert Jones was Non-Executive Chairman until his resignation due to ill health on 30 March 2007.
He was succeeded by Jim Martin as Interim Non-Executive Chairman until the appointment of Alan Bowkett on 5 July 2007.
Under the Code the Chairman is not regarded as independent once appointed.
3 Brian Duckworth succeeded Jim Martin as Senior Non-Executive Director on 30 March 2007.
4 Jim Martin resigned from the Remuneration Committee on his appointment as Interim Non-Executive Chairman on 30 March 2007.
5 Robert Jones was Chairman of the Nomination Committee until his resignation on 30 March 2007.
He was succeeded by Jim Martin as Chairman of the Nomination Committee and was subsequently succeeded as Chairman of the Committee by Alan Bowkett on 1 August 2007.
Jim will resign from the Nomination Committee on 11 September 2007.
36 Corporate Governance statement Table 2 - Attendance record of Directors at meetings during the year ended 30 June 2007 Audit Remuneration Nomination Environmental Board Committee Committee Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee Total number of meetings in the year ended 30 June 2007 12 4 4 6 2 Executive Directors David Arnold 12 12 - - - - Neil Fitzsimmons 12 12 - - - 2 2 Barry Harvey 12 12 - - - - Colin Lewis 11 12 - - - - Paul Pedley 10 12 - - - - John Tutte 12 12 - - - - Non-Executive Directors Bob Bennett 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 - Brian Duckworth 11 12 4 4 4 4 1 1 2 2 Denise Jagger 5 6 0 1 1 2 2 3 1 1 Robert Jones 8 8 - - 3 4 1 1 Malcolm King 11 12 4 4 4 4 5 6 - Jim Martin 11 12 3 3 3 3 6 6 - The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a 1.
Approval of Redrows long term objectives and strategy: matter for the Board as a whole.
Approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, preliminary Committees and individual Directors may wish to take and interim financial statements, trading updates and the independent professional advice in connection with their recommendation of dividends: responsibilities and duties and, in this regard, the Company will 3.
Approval of any significant changes in accounting policies or meet the reasonable costs and expenses incurred.
practices: During the year the Company appointed Denise Jagger and Bob 4.
Any changes relating to capital structure: Bennett as Non-Executive Directors on 17 January 2007 and 5.
Approval of treasury policies: 1 May 2007 respectively.
Jim Martin became acting Non-Executive Chairman following the resignation of Robert 6.
Ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal Jones and Brian Duckworth replaced Jim Martin as Senior control and risk management: Non-Executive Director.
Approval of corporate acquisitions or disposals, significant land purchases or contracts: On 29 June 2007, Barry Harvey resigned as an Executive Director.
Changes to the size, structure and composition of the Board: On 5 July 2007, Alan Bowkett was appointed Non-Executive 9.
Approval of significant policies, including Redrows Health Chairman.
and Safety policy: and On 11 September 2007, Jim Martin will resign as a Non-Executive 10. Review of overall corporate governance arrangements.
Details of internal control and risk management processes are Paul Pedley will resign with effect from 30 September 2007. included in the Audit Committee report on pages 39 to 41.
Board responsibilities and processes Board balance and independence The Board meets regularly and frequently, no less than ten times The Board considers that it is of a size and has a balance of skills, per annum including a meeting solely to review strategy and knowledge and experience that is appropriate for its business.
maintains a close dialogue as appropriate between meetings.
The combination within the Executive team of the Chief Board meetings are held at Head Office and periodically at Executive and Group Finance Director together with the local subsidiary offices when visits are made to a selection of operational knowledge and experience provided by those Regional developments accompanied by the local management team.
Chairmen on the Main Board provides the Board with an Board papers are distributed in advance of the meetings to allow appropriate view of the detail of the business.
The Non-Executive adequate time for review and preparation and include key directors bring a depth of experience and understanding from strategic, operational and financial information.
Attendance by outside the Group and this experience has been complemented individual directors at Board and Committee meetings held during during the year by the appointment of Denise Jagger and the year ended 30 June 2007 is set out in Table 2.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved specifically Details of the Directors respective experience is set out in their for its decision.
The matters reserved include: profiles on pages 34 to 35.
Corporate Governance statement 37 Corporate Governance statement Under the Code, at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, Groups Senior Management.
The Remuneration report can be should comprise independent Non-Executive Directors.
Since the found on pages 42 to 49. publication of the Code, the Board has continued to keep this Relations with Shareholders matter under review and considered a variety of changes that The Group announces its financial results half yearly and would lead to compliance.
Following the resignations of Paul immediately following their publication undertakes formal Pedley and Jim Martin, the Board will fully comply with this presentations to equity analysts.
These presentations are available provision.
Table 1 on page 36 provides a summary of the on the Companys website.
In addition, the Group published a Companys assessment of the independence of the Directors.
trading update early in January 2007 and July 2007 on the Appointments and re-elections to the Board financial periods just ended.
The Board has a Nomination Committee whose terms of reference include making recommendations to the Board on Following the results announcement, the Chief Executive and the appointment of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Group Finance Director meet current or potential significant The Nomination Committee report can be found on page 39. shareholders.
In the year ended June 2007, this encompassed visits to London, Edinburgh, Frankfurt, the Netherlands and Dublin and Under the Companys Articles of Association, all Directors are feedback from these meetings is independently collated and subject to re-election at their first Annual General Meeting after disseminated to the Board.
In 2007 as part of its investor relations appointment.
Subsequently, all Directors submit themselves for programme, the Board commissioned independent research into re-election at regular intervals of not more than three years.
In the attitudes and opinions of a selection of equity analysts and compliance with best practice, Non-Executive Directors submit investors on Redrow.
The Chairman also attends meetings with a themselves for annual re-election if they have served more than sample of major shareholders to ensure that contact is maintained nine years since first election.
to understand any issues or concerns they may have.
Professional development and performance evaluation The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director was available to The Board recognises that a structured appraisal process and good attend meetings at the request of shareholders should they have training are important requirements across the Group.
The Board had concerns which could not be resolved through normal receives regular presentations and briefings from those responsible channels of communication with the Non-Executive Chairman, for key Group disciplines.
In addition, the Board maintains close the Chief Executive or the Group Finance Director.
No such relationships with local management teams.
concerns were brought to the attention of the Senior Non-Executive Director during the year ended 30 June 2007.
All Directors undertake a comprehensive induction programme following their first appointment.
The programme for The Annual General Meeting AGM takes place at a venue close Non-Executive Directors is specifically designed to encompass to the Groups Head Office.
This represents an opportunity for the full breadth of the business and includes visits to operating shareholders to table questions formally during the meeting and subsidiaries.
informally afterwards to the Companys Directors.
All Executive Directors have an annual appraisal conducted by Formal notification of the AGM, through the Annual Report and the Chief Executive at which performance against personal Accounts, is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days in objectives is reviewed, having received input from the Board advance.
It is Company policy to propose a separate resolution at generally.
The performance evaluation of the Non-Executive the AGM on each substantive issue including the opportunity to Directors is also generally part of the annual appraisal process.
However, in the year to June 2007, this process was affected by the illness and resignation of the then Chairman, Robert Jones and Redrows website, www.
co. uk, gives access to current the appointment of a new Chairman and two new independent financial and corporate information.
It is the intention of the Board to conduct a review of the performance of individual Non-Executive Institutional v. Private shareholders % of shareholders Directors at the earliest appropriate opportunity.
The Board undertakes a formal annual review of its own 12 effectiveness.
For the year ended June 2007, this was undertaken using a formal questionnaire completed by each Director and the 1 Institutional shareholders 25% responses were considered collectively by the Board.
As a result of 2 Private shareholders 75% this review, the Board identified some minor improvements it proposes to make regarding Board agendas, management information and processes.
Institutional v. Private shareholders % of shares held Directors remuneration 1 2 The Board has a Remuneration Committee whose terms of reference include the review of Main Board remuneration policy and agreement of the terms of employment and the granting of 1 Institutional shareholders 96% bonuses, share options or share incentive plans relating to the 2 Private shareholders 4% 38 Corporate Governance statement Corporate Governance structure Main Board Committees Executive Management Team Audit Chief Executive Environmental Corporate Group Finance Director Responsibility Regional Chairmen Nomination Company Secretary Remuneration Operating businesses Nomination Committee report In the second half of the financial year, the Committee appointed The Nomination Committees terms of reference include a leading firm of headhunters to identify a field of candidates for reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board, leading consideration as Non-Executive Chairman to succeed Jim Martin.
the process for Board appointments and making recommendations Jim was acting as Interim Non-Executive Chairman following the to the Board with regard to any changes The terms of reference of illness and resignation of Robert Jones.
The Committee the Committee are kept under regular review and are published on considered the qualities and skills required and the options the Groups website.
available and after a thorough review and interview process recommended to the Board the appointment of Alan Bowkett.
The Committee was chaired by Robert Jones until his resignation Alan was appointed Non-Executive Chairman on 5 July 2007. due to ill health on 30 March 2007, when he was succeeded on an Alan has extensive board experience across a range of industry interim basis by Jim Martin.
Alan Bowkett was appointed sectors at both executive and non-executive level.
Over the course Chairman of the Nomination Committee on 1 August 2007. of his career, his senior executive roles include Chief Executive of Berisford plc, RHP Bearings Ltd and Boulton and Paul plc and The Committee met six times during the year ended 30 June Chairman of Doncaster Group plc, an automotive company in 2007.
Belgium and a chemical company in the Netherlands.
He is currently Chairman of aerospace and safety products group, Seton The principal business of the Committee during the early months House and until 2006, Alan had been a Non-Executive Director of the financial year was to liaise with a leading firm of of UK brewing company Greene King for 13 years.
headhunters that had been appointed to identify potential Non-Executive Directors and to consider their recommended Audit Committee report candidates.
After a thorough review and interview process, the The Audit Committees principal responsibilities lie in reviewing Committee recommended to the Board the appointment of Denise the Groups financial reporting, overseeing the appointment and Jagger and Bob Bennett as Independent Non-Executive Directors.
work of the external Auditors and reviewing Redrows internal They were formally appointed on 17 January 2007 and 1 May control processes.
The terms of reference of the Committee are 2007 respectively.
kept under regular review and are published on the Groups website.
Denise is a qualified solicitor who specialised in corporate finance before joining Asda Group as part of its recovery team in the early Jim Martin resigned as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1990s where, amongst other things, she had responsibility for 30 March 2007 following his appointment as Interim Chairman of corporate social responsibility and risk management.
Brian Duckworth assumed the chairmanship of the Wal-Mart in 2004, Denise has been a partner at Eversheds, the Committee, on an interim basis, from that date until 1 July 2007. international law firm.
On 1 July 2007, Bob Bennett was appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Bob is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales who served 14 years as Group Finance The chairmanship of the Committee during the year and the Director of Northern Rock plc, the specialised lending and savings chairmens relevant qualifications are outlined in Table 3. bank, until his retirement from the Board in January 2007.
Bob has a wealth of experience and understanding of finance and the The Board considers the Committee has the appropriate level of dynamics of the UK housing market.
expertise to fulfil its terms of reference.
Corporate Governance statement 39 Corporate Governance statement The Committee met on four occasions during the financial year appointed in 1987.
The current audit partner was first appointed ended June 2007.
The external Auditors attended each meeting in respect of the financial year ended June 2005. and the Committee regularly takes the opportunity to meet them without any Executive Director being present.
The Audit Committee has an approved policy in respect of the work of the external Auditors.
The purpose of this policy is to The Committee receives regular updates and presentations on ensure that the Auditors objectivity and independence is changes to accounting standards and best practice in financial maintained by ensuring both that the nature of any non-audit reporting and corporate governance.
In addition, individual work undertaken and the level of fees paid does not compromise members are encouraged to attend external seminars and courses the Auditors position.
Appointments in respect of non-audit work on areas relevant to their membership of the Committee.
require the prior approval of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee addressed a wide variety of issues in its The main non-audit work undertaken on an ongoing basis relates meetings, including: to advice provided to the Company by PwC in their capacity as Scheme Actuary of the Redrow Staff Pension Scheme.
Reviews of the interim and full year results including the addition, during the year, some costs were incurred in relation to Annual Report and Accounts: a company acquisition that was not concluded: PwC undertook work in connection with the preparation of draft circulars.
Reviews of the results of the 2006 external audit including the Details of fees paid to PwC are given in note 2 to the financial implementation of IFRS, the 2007 external audit plan and statements on page 61. associated fees: 3.
A review of the independence and objectivity of the external Internal Controls Auditors: The Board of Directors recognises its overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for monitoring its 4.
A review of the effectiveness of Redrows Internal Audit effectiveness.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, function, its structure and strategy together with the approval evaluating and managing significant risks which has been in place of its programme of work.
In addition, Committee members throughout the year and up to the date of this report.
However, in received regular updates on its activities: reviewing the effectiveness of internal control, such systems can 5.
A review of a comprehensive risk assessment exercise only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against undertaken across the Group with the assistance of KPMG: material misstatement or loss.
A review of the land appraisal and acquisition processes: In June 2007 the Board appointed an Assurance Director whose primary remit is to review controls and to identify control 7.
A review of the Groups Whistleblowing policy: and improvements throughout the organisation which reduce risk or maximise opportunities.
The Assurance Director reports to the 8.
A review of Audit Committee effectiveness.
Group Finance Director but maintains regular contact with and has direct access to the Audit Committee Chairman and attends Audit Committee meetings.
The Group has a widely publicised whistleblowing policy which enables employees to raise concerns in confidence.
The Audit Key business activities including land acquisition, product design, Committee has arranged to receive reports on all occasions when procurement and information technology are controlled by the such issues are raised under this policy.
All activity is organised within a defined structure with formal lines of responsibility, designated authority Auditor Independence levels and a structured reporting framework.
A formalised  LLP PwC were appointed Auditors in reporting structure is established within Redrow.
2003 having succeeded  who were Table 3 - Chairmanship of the Audit Committee Chairman Term Relevant qualifications and experience Jim Martin 5 November 2003 to 30 March 2007 FCCA: Chief Executive of N Brown Group plc for 18 years Brian Duckworth 30 March 2007 to 1 July 2007 FCCA: previously Managing Director of Severn Trent Water Limited and before that its Finance Director Bob Bennett 1 July 2007 onwards FCA: 14 years spent as Group Finance Director of Northern Rock plc until his retirement from the Board on 31 January 2007 40 Corporate Governance statement The Executive Directors and the Group Senior Management meet Internal Audit and Risk Management monthly to discuss the Groups key issues, risks and opportunities.
Redrow has an internal audit function headed up by an Assurance The operating companies hold monthly board meetings which are Director, whose main responsibilities relate to the internal audit attended by the Regional Chairmen on a regular basis.
process, insurance and risk management.
In order to build upon the Groups existing approach to risk During the year internal and external professional resources have management, during the year ended June 2007 the Board been used as appropriate to fulfil a varied programme of work.
appointed KPMG to undertake a strategic risk assessment of the The programme of work is approved in advance by the Audit Group, working with and across the various business disciplines Committee and commented on by PwC.
It allows time for both and companies within Redrow.
The Groups operations and scheduled and unscheduled visits to companies within the Group.
processes were reviewed, key business risks and the controls in place to manage these risks were assessed and a prioritised risk All internal audit reports are distributed to the Board as well as to register developed.
In addition, the Executive Board, through its PwC and any control weaknesses are followed up as appropriate.
regular meetings, reviews key areas of risk on an ongoing basis and considers whether the internal controls identified in relation to Environmental Corporate Responsibility Committee report those risks remain appropriate.
The Environmental Corporate Responsibility Committee is chaired by Brian Duckworth.
The terms of reference of the The key features of the Groups internal controls are as follows: Committee include assessing the impact of Group operations on the environment and communities affected by its activities and A policy and procedures manual which covers all the significant developing and monitoring environmental corporate responsibility aspects of the Groups operations and describes the systems and policy.
The terms of reference of the Committee are kept under controls that are to be applied.
The manual is reviewed and regular review and are published on the Groups website.
updated regularly with amendments being approved by an Executive Director.
The Committee met twice during the year ended 30 June 2007 and considered and made recommendations on a number of areas The Board requires each Director in its operating subsidiaries to including the Groups sustainability and renewables policy.
complete an annual statement on Corporate Governance and The Committee initiated a review of Redrows current related party transactions.
The statement is designed to provide environmental policy and environmental management system.
assurance that Group policies and procedures are being The Corporate social responsibility review on pages 30 to 33 implemented and complied with in all material respects.
provides further information on areas of work monitored by the In addition, key functional Directors complete a Principal Committee.
Controls Self Assessment Questionnaire which is reviewed by the Board to assist in improvements in the control framework.
Defined authorisation levels exist over key areas such as land purchase, the placing of orders and contracts and staff recruitment.
A monthly reporting pack is circulated in advance and reviewed at each of the Main, Executive and subsidiary board meetings.
Annual budgets are set and quarterly forecasts prepared, with actual performance compared against the annual budget and updated forecasts.
The Groups management information systems provide weekly updates on key statistics and information in respect of sales and production.
In addition, daily statements of a reconciled cash position identifying significant payments are prepared.
Redrow has an in-house Health and Safety department and places great emphasis on the importance of Health and Safety.
The department works closely with the operating companies to ensure that training is provided to employees and subcontractors, best practice is shared and appropriate actions are taken to comply with Health and Safety best practice and legislation throughout the organisation.
Redrow carries out internal environmental assessments of its sites on a regular basis, the results of which are reported to the Board.
