Report of the Audit Committees 76 Report of the Audit Committees This report has been prepared by the Audit making recommendations as to the steps Committees of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed to be taken.
Elsevier NV, in conjunction with the Audit Committee of Reed Elsevier Group plc, The Reed Elsevier Group plc Audit Committee the Committees and has been approved fulfils this role in respect of the publishing by the respective boards.
The functions of an audit committee in respect The report meets the requirements of the of the financing activities are carried out Combined Code of Corporate Governance, by the Supervisory Board of Elsevier Reed issued by the UK Financial Services Authority.
The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Audit Committees fulfil Audit Committees their roles from the perspective of the parent The main role and responsibilities of the companies and both Committees have access Committees in relation to the respective to the reports to and the work of the Reed companies are set out in written terms of Elsevier Group plc Audit Committee and the reference and include: Elsevier Reed Finance BV Supervisory Board in this respect.
i to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the company, and any The Committees have explicit authority to formal announcements relating to the investigate any matters within their terms of companys financial performance, reference and have access to all resources reviewing significant financial reporting and information that they may require for judgements contained in them: this purpose.
The Committees are entitled to obtain legal and other independent ii to review the companys internal financial professional advice and have the authority controls and the companys internal to approve all fees payable to such advisers.
control and risk management systems: A copy of the terms of reference of each iii to monitor and review the effectiveness Audit Committee is published on the Reed of the companys internal audit function: Elsevier website, www.
iv to make recommendations to the board, Committee membership for it to put to the shareholders for their The Committees each comprise at least approval in general meetings, in relation three independent non-executive directors.
to the appointment, re-appointment and The members of each of the Committees removal of the external auditor and to that served during the year are: Lord approve the remuneration and terms Sharman Chairman of the Committees, of engagement of the external auditor: Lisa Hook, David Reid and Strauss Zelnick until 7 December 2007.
Lord Sharman and v to review and monitor the external David Reid, both chartered accountants, are auditors independence and objectivity considered to have significant, recent and and the effectiveness of the audit relevant financial experience.
Biographies of process, taking into consideration the members of each of the Committees are relevant professional and regulatory set out on page 37. requirements: and Appointments to the Committees are made vi to develop and recommend policy on on the recommendation of the Nominations the engagement of the external auditor Committee and are for periods of up to to supply non audit services, taking into three years, extendable by no more than two account relevant ethical guidance additional three-year periods, so long as regarding the provision of non audit the member continues to be independent.
services by the external audit firm, Details of the remuneration policy in respect and to monitor compliance.
of members of the Committees and the remuneration paid to members for the year The Committees report to the respective ended 31 December 2007 are set out in the boards on their activities identifying any Directors Remuneration Report on pages matters in respect of which they consider 51 to 75. that action or improvement is needed and Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007 77 Committee activities auditors of Elsevier Reed Finance BV attend the July and February meetings of the parent The Committees typically hold meetings five times a year: in January, February, June, company Audit Committees.
At two or more of the meetings each year, the Committees July and December, and report on these meetings to the respective boards at the additionally meet separately with the external auditors without management present, and next board meetings.
The principal business of these meetings includes: also with the director of internal audit.
January: review of critical accounting In discharging their principal responsibilities in respect of the 2007 financial year, the policies and practices, and significant financial reporting issues and Committees have: judgements made in connection with the annual financial statements: review of i received and discussed reports from the Reed Elsevier Group plc group internal control effectiveness: reviewing and approving the internal audit plan: chief accountant that set out areas of significance in the preparation of the review of internal audit findings: financial statements, including: review of the carrying values of goodwill and February: review and approval of annual financial statements, results intangible assets for possible impairment, review of estimated useful lives of announcement and related formal statements: review of external intangible assets, accounting for pensions and related assumptions, audit findings: accounting for share based remuneration and related assumptions, review of the June: monitoring and assessing the qualification, performance, expertise, carrying value of investments, accounting treatment for acquisitions resources, objectivity and independence of the external auditors and the and disposals, application of revenue recognition and cost capitalisation, effectiveness of the external and internal audit process: agreeing the external accounting for derivatives, review of tax reserves and provisions for lease audit plan: reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements arising obligations.
An area of focus in 2007 was the accounting and judgements in respect in connection with the interim financial statements: review of significant external of the disposal of Harcourt Education.
financial reporting and regulatory developments: review of risk ii reviewed the critical accounting policies and compliance with applicable management activities: review of report from external auditors on control accounting standards and other disclosure requirements and have matters: review of internal audit findings: received regular update reports on accounting and regulatory developments.
July: review and approval of the interim financial statements, results iii received and discussed regular reports announcement and related formal statements: review of external audit on the management of material risks and reviewed the effectiveness of the findings: review of internal audit findings: systems of internal control.
As part of this review, detailed internal control December: review of year end financial reporting and accounting issues: review evaluation and certification is obtained from management across the operating of significant external financial reporting and regulatory developments: review of businesses, reviewed by internal audit and discussed with the Committees.
external audit findings to date: review of internal audit findings.
iv received and discussed regular reports The Audit Committee meetings are typically from the director of internal audit summarising the status of the Reed attended by the chief financial officer, group chief accountant, director of internal audit Elsevier risk management activities and the findings from internal audit and senior representatives of the external auditors.
Additionally, the managing director reviews and the actions agreed with management.
An area of focus in 2007 and senior representatives of the external Report of the Audit Committees 78 Report of the Audit Committees continued has been to review the continued At their meeting in June 2007, the compliance with the requirements of Committees conducted a formal review of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act the performance of the external auditors relating to the documentation and testing and the effectiveness of the external audit internal controls over financial reporting.
Based on this review, and on their subsequent observations on the planning v reviewed and approved the internal audit and execution of the external audit for the plan for 2007 and monitored execution.
year ended 31 December 2007, the Committees Reviewed the resources and budget of have recommended to the respective boards the internal audit function.
that resolutions for the re-appointment of the external auditors be proposed at the vi received presentations from the CFOs of forthcoming Annual General Meetings.
Elsevier and Reed Business on the key financial priorities for those divisions.
The effectiveness of the internal audit function and of the operation of the Audit vii received regular updates from the CFO of Committees was reviewed in January 2008.
Reed Elsevier on developments within the finance function.
Lord Sharman of Redlynch Chairman of the Audit Committees Lord Sharman and Lisa Hook attended all 20 February 2008 five meetings of the Committees in 2007, David Reid attended four meetings, Strauss Zelnick attended three of the four meetings during the period for which he served as a member of the Committees.
The external auditors have attended all meetings of the Committees.
They have provided written reports at the June, July, December and February meetings summarising the most significant findings from their audit work.
These reports have been discussed by the Committees and actions agreed where necessary.
The external auditors have confirmed their independence from management and compliance with the Reed Elsevier policy on auditor independence.
This policy sets out inter alia the requirements for rotation of the lead, review and other senior audit partners, as well as guidelines for the provision of permitted non audit services.
The Committees have reviewed and agreed the non audit services provided by the external auditors, together with the associated fees.
The external auditors fees for audit services have been reviewed and approved by the Committees.
