Structure and corporate governance 42 Structure and corporate governance Corporate structure pays dividends in euros and is subject to Dutch tax law with respect to dividend and Reed Elsevier came into existence in January 1993, when Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed capital rights.
Elsevier NV contributed their businesses to two jointly owned companies, Reed Elsevier The boards The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, the Group plc, a UK registered company which owns the publishing and information combined board of Reed Elsevier NV and the board of Reed Elsevier Group plc are businesses, and Elsevier Reed Finance BV, a Dutch registered company which owns harmonised.
All of the directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc are also members of the the financing activities.
Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have retained their board of directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and of either the executive board or the separate legal and national identities and are publicly held companies.
Reed Elsevier PLCs supervisory board of Reed Elsevier NV.
Reed Elsevier NV may appoint two directors securities are listed in London and New York, and Reed Elsevier NVs securities are listed who are not appointed to the boards of either Reed Elsevier PLC or Reed Elsevier Group in Amsterdam and New York.
plc, and has appointed one such director.
The names, nationality and biographical Equalisation arrangements Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV details of each director appear on page 37. each hold a 50% interest in Reed Elsevier Group plc.
Reed Elsevier PLC holds a 39% The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier Group plc and interest in Elsevier Reed Finance BV, with Reed Elsevier NV holding a 61% interest.
Elsevier Reed Finance BV each comprise a balance of executive and non-executive Reed Elsevier PLC additionally holds a 5.8% indirect equity interest in Reed Elsevier NV, directors who bring a wide range of skills and experience to the deliberations of the reflecting the arrangements entered into between the two companies at the time of boards.
All non-executive directors are independent of management and free from the merger, which determined the equalisation ratio whereby one Reed Elsevier any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise NV ordinary share is, in broad terms, intended to confer equivalent economic of their independent judgement.
interests to 1.538 Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares.
The equalisation ratio is subject to Board changes During the year Cees van Lede and Strauss change to reflect share splits and similar events that affect the number of outstanding Zelnick retired as non-executive directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier Group ordinary shares of either Reed Elsevier PLC or Reed Elsevier NV.
plc and as members of the supervisory board of Reed Elsevier NV.
In April 2007 Under the equalisation arrangements, Reed Robert Polet was appointed as a nonexecutive director of Reed Elsevier PLC and Elsevier PLC shareholders have a 52.9% economic interest in Reed Elsevier, and Reed Elsevier Group plc and as a member of the supervisory board of Reed Elsevier NV.
Reed Elsevier NV shareholders other than Reed Elsevier PLC have a 47.1% economic The Nominations Committee recommended Mr Polet as a candidate for election after interest in Reed Elsevier.
Holders of ordinary shares in Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed appointing recruitment consultants to produce a short list of candidates who met Elsevier NV enjoy substantially equivalent dividend and capital rights with respect to the requirements of the board profile available on www.
com which their ordinary shares.
identifies the skills and experience required by the boards of potential non-executive The boards of both Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have agreed, other than directors supervisory board members.
Following the sale of the Harcourt Education in special circumstances, to recommend equivalent gross dividends including, with division, Patrick Tierney retired in January 2008 as an executive director of Reed respect to the dividend on Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares, the associated UK tax Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier Group plc and as a member of the executive board of credit, based on the equalisation ratio.
A Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share pays Reed Elsevier NV.
dividends in sterling and is subject to UK tax law with respect to dividend and capital rights.
A Reed Elsevier NV ordinary share Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007 43 Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Board induction and information shareholders maintain their rights to appoint On appointment and as required, directors individuals to the respective boards, in receive training appropriate to their level of accordance with the provisions of the Articles previous experience.
This includes the of Association of these companies.
Subject provision of a tailored induction programme to this, no individual may be appointed to the so as to provide newly appointed directors boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier with information about the Reed Elsevier NV either members of the Executive Board businesses and other relevant information or the Supervisory Board or Reed Elsevier to assist them in performing their duties.
Group plc unless recommended by the joint Non-executive directors are encouraged to Nominations Committee.
Members of the visit the Reed Elsevier businesses to meet Committee abstain when their own management and senior staff.
All directors have full and timely access to In order to safeguard the agreed board the information required to discharge their harmonisation, the Articles of Association of responsibilities fully and efficiently.
They Reed Elsevier NV provide that appointments have access to the services of the respective of board members other than in accordance company secretaries, other members of with nominations by the Combined Board, Reed Elseviers management and staff, and shall require a two-thirds majority if less its external advisors.
Directors may take than 50% of the share capital is in independent professional advice in the attendance.
Given the still generally low furtherance of their duties, at the relevant attendance rate at shareholders meetings in companys expense.
the Netherlands, the boards believe that this qualified majority requirement is appropriate In addition to scheduled board and board for this purpose.
committee meetings held during the year, directors attend many other meetings and All Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV site visits.
Where a director is unable to directors are subject to retirement at least attend a board or board committee meeting, every three years, and are able then to make he or she is provided with all relevant themselves available for re-election by papers and information relating to that shareholders at the respective Annual meeting and is able to discuss issues General Meetings.
However, as a general arising with the respective chairman and rule, non-executive directors of Reed Elsevier other board members.
PLC and members of the Reed Elsevier NV Supervisory Board serve on the respective board for two three year terms, although the boards may invite individual directors to serve up to one additional three year term.
At the Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Annual General Meetings, to be held on 23 and 24 April 2008, respectively, Sir Crispin Davis, Andrew Prozes, Lisa Hook and Gerard van fide Aast will retire from each respective board by rotation.
The Nominations Committee has recommended to the boards the re-appointment of each director and, being eligible, they will each offer themselves for election.
Structure and corporate governance 44 Structure and corporate governance continued Board attendance Reed Elsevier PLC Reed Elsevier NV Reed Elsevier Group plc Date of Number of Number of Number of appointment meetings Number of meetings Number of meetings Number of cessation during held whilst meetings held whilst meetings held whilst meetings Members the year a director attended a director attended a director attended Gerard van fide Aast 6 6 6 6 9 9 Mark Armour 6 6 6 6 9 9 Dien fide Boer-Kruyt n a n a 6 5 n a n a Sir Crispin Davis 6 6 6 6 9 9 Mark Elliott 6 5 6 5 9 7 Erik Engstrom 6 6 6 6 9 9 Jan Hommen 6 6 6 6 9 9 Lisa Hook 6 6 6 6 9 9 Cees van Lede April 2007 2 2 2 2 2 2 Robert Polet April 2007 4 2 4 2 7 3 Andrew Prozes 6 6 6 6 9 9 David Reid 6 5 6 5 9 7 Lord Sharman 6 5 6 5 9 6 Rolf Stomberg 6 4 6 4 9 6 Patrick Tierney 6 5 6 5 9 8 Strauss Zelnick December 2007 6 4 6 4 9 6 Elsevier Reed Finance BV has a two-tier Audit Committees: Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed board structure comprising a Supervisory Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier Group plc Board and a Management Board.
The have established Audit Committees.
The Supervisory Board consists of Rudolf van den committees comprise only non-executive Brink Chairman, Mark Armour and Dien fide directors, all of whom are independent, and Boer-Kruyt, with the Management Board are chaired by Lord Sharman.
A report of the consisting of Jacques Billy and Gerben fide Audit Committees, setting out the role of the Jong appointed December 2007.
Committees and their main activities during Appointments to the Supervisory and the year, appears on pages 76 to 78.
Management Boards are made by Elsevier Reed Finance BVs shareholders, in The functions of an audit committee in accordance with the companys Articles respect of the financing activities are carried of Association.
out by the supervisory board of Elsevier Reed Finance BV.
Date of appointment Number of cessation meetings Number of Remuneration Committee: Reed Elsevier during the held whilst meetings Group plc has established a Remuneration Members year a director attended Committee, which is responsible for Mark Armour 3 3 recommending to the boards the Dien fide Boer-Kruyt 3 3 remuneration of the executive directors of Jacques Billy 3 3 Reed Elsevier Group plc, Reed Elsevier PLC Willem Boellaard Jul 07 2 2 and Reed Elsevier NV.
The Committee, which Rudolf van den Brink 3 3 comprises only independent non-executive Gerben fide Jong Dec 07 1 1 directors, is chaired by Mark Elliott.
A Directors Remuneration Report, which has Board Committees been approved by the boards of Reed Elsevier In accordance with the principles of good Group plc, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed corporate governance, the following Elsevier NV, appears on pages 51 to 75.
This committees, all of which have written terms report also serves as disclosure of the of reference, have been established by the directors remuneration policy, and the respective boards.
Details concerning remuneration and interests of the directors membership of each committee appear on in the shares of the two parent companies, pages 36 and 37.
The terms of reference of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
these committees are published on the Reed Elsevier website, www.
Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007 45 Nominations Committee: Reed Elsevier PLC the re-appointment of the directors seeking and Reed Elsevier NV have established re-election at the Annual General Meetings a joint Nominations Committee, which of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV provides a formal and transparent procedure in 2008. for the selection and appointment of new directors to the boards.
The Committee, Corporate Governance Committee: Reed which comprises a majority of independent Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have non-executive directors, is chaired by Jan established a joint Corporate Governance Hommen.
Although he is not independent, Committee, which is responsible for the boards believe that it is appropriate for reviewing ongoing developments and best Sir Crispin Davis to be a member practice in corporate governance.
The of the Committee since, as Chief Executive Committee comprises only non-executive Officer, he provides a perspective which directors, all of whom are independent, and assists the Committee in nominating is chaired by Jan Hommen.
candidates to the board who will be able to Date of Number of work as a team with both the executive and appointment meetings non-executive directors.
cessation held whilst a Number of during the Committee meetings Date of Number of Members year member attended appointment meetings cessation held whilst a Number of Dien fide Boer-Kruyt 2 2 during the Committee meetings Mark Elliott 2 2 Members year member attended Jan Hommen 2 2 Sir Crispin Davis 4 4 Lisa Hook 2 1 Mark Elliott Jul 07 2 2 Cees van Lede Apr 07 Jan Hommen 4 4 Robert Polet Jul 07 2 1 Cees van Lede Apr 07 1 1 David Reid 2 2 Lord Sharman 4 4 Lord Sharman 2 2 Rolf Stomberg 4 4 Rolf Stomberg 2 2 David Reid Jul 07 2 2 Strauss Zelnick Dec 07 2 The Committees terms of reference include During the period the Committee concluded that no significant changes were required as assuring board succession and making recommendations to the boards of Reed regards Reed Elseviers current policies and best practices, but that improved disclosures Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier Group plc concerning the would enhance their visibility and transparency.
The Committee assessed the appointment or re-appointment of directors to, and the retirement of directors from, those performance of individual executive directors and, led by the senior independent director, boards.
In conjunction with the Chairman of the Reed Elsevier Group plc Remuneration also assessed the performance of the Chairman.
The Committee retained Committee and external consultants, the Committee is also responsible for developing Consilium Associates to conduct a board effectiveness review.
The review identified a proposals for the remuneration and fees for new directors.
In recommending number of actions which the boards could take to further improve performance, such appointments to the Reed Elsevier NV Supervisory Board, the Committee as communicating more effectively the work and outputs of the committees to all board considers the knowledge, experience and background of individual directors and the members and exposing all non-executive directors to the work of the Audit Supervisory Board as a whole, having regard to the profile adopted for the Committees, but concluded that the boards were performing effectively.
The Committee constitution of the Supervisory Board see www.
reviewed the functioning and constitution of the boards and their committees.
Based on Based on the assessment by the Corporate these assessments and on the board effectiveness review, the Committee believes Governance Committee of the qualifications and performance of each individual director, that the performance of each director continues to be effective and that they the Nominations Committee recommends Structure and corporate governance 46 Structure and corporate governance continued demonstrate commitment to their respective The Combined Board of Reed Elsevier NV roles in Reed Elsevier.
has adopted rules governing the functioning of the boards and the relationship with The Committee is also responsible for shareholders, reflecting the requirements of recommending the structure and operation the Dutch Code, which are published on the of the various committees of the boards and Reed Elsevier website, www.
the qualifications and criteria for membership of each committee, including In order to reconcile the corporate the independence of members of the boards.
governance requirements under the UK Code and the Dutch Code and because not all Compliance with codes of best practice provisions of the Dutch Code are necessarily The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed best practice in Reed Elseviers relevant Elsevier NV have implemented standards constituencies, Reed Elseviers corporate of corporate governance and disclosure governance is not or may not be fully in policies applicable to companies listed on compliance with the verbatim language of all the stock exchanges of the United Kingdom, the principles and best practice provisions of the Netherlands and the United States.
Below is an explanation of The effect of this is that a standard applying the main deviations from the Dutch Code: to one will, where practicable and not in conflict, also be observed by the other.
2.3: Executive directors are required to build up an The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed interest in the shares of Reed Elsevier Elsevier NV executive board, supervisory NV and or Reed Elsevier PLC which for board and combined board support the the chief executive officer shall be three principles and provisions of corporate times salary and for the other executive governance set out in the Combined Code directors two times salary.
This on Corporate Governance issued by the UK requirement replaces the requirement Financial Services Authority in June 2006 the under this Code provision to maintain UK Code, including the Turnbull Guidance shares received for free for a period of issued in October 2005.
The boards also five years or until termination of support the principles and best practice employment.
Shares received on joining provisions set out in the Dutch Corporate the company in compensation for vested Governance Code issued in December 2003 benefits under incentive schemes from the Dutch Code, with due regard for the a previous employer are not to be recommendations of the Monitoring considered as free shares in this context.
Committee in its annual reports.
Reed Elsevier PLC, which has its primary listing on the Best practice provisions II.
7.3: London Stock Exchange, and Reed Elsevier In view also of the foreign residency and NV, which has its primary listing on Euronext nationality of the majority of members of Amsterdam, have complied throughout the the combined board it has been deemed year with the UK Code and the Dutch Code, sufficient that notifications of holdings in except as and to the extent explained below Dutch listed companies other than Reed and as described in the corporate governance Elsevier NV shall be done annually rather assessment documents available on the than quarterly as required by this Code companys website, www.
During the annual general meeting of the Best practice provision II.
2.7: Executive shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV held in directors have an employment agreement April 2005, the companys corporate under English law that provides for a governance was explained, discussed with notice period not exceeding one year.
Since then no None of the employment agreements significant amendments have been made to contain severance pay arrangements the corporate governance principles and beyond the notice period.
Although the practices and should such changes be made, principle that severance pay should not they will be explained and submitted to the exceed one years salary is supported, general meeting for approval.
The corporate there may be exceptional circumstances governance principles and best practices that could justify additional compensation are set out in Reed Elseviers corporate on termination for loss of variable governance manual.
Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007 47 Best practice provisions II.
2.10 and with Reed Elsevier PLC it is not deemed II.
2.11: In view of their detailed specificity appropriate for the general meeting to be and complexity and because of the able to ignore nominations to the boards potentially competition sensitive nature of with a simple majority if less than 50% of the information concerned, individual the share capital would be present.
This performance targets and achievements is because attendance at general relevant for variable executive meetings in the Netherlands tends still to remuneration will only be disclosed in be around 50%, whereas attendance in general terms.
the UK reaches levels over 70%.
Therefore the articles of association of Best practice provision III.
3.4: The Reed Elsevier NV provide that such supervisory board oversees the adequate nominations shall require a two-thirds functioning and independence of the majority if less than 50% of the share individual members of the executive and capital is represented.
the supervisory board and where there should be a material situation of conflict Best practice provision IV.
3.1: It is this will be disclosed.
Directors are considered impractical and unnecessary required to report their external functions to provide access for shareholders to and directorships.
Maintaining all meetings with analysts and all a fixed maximum number of five presentations to institutional investors supervisory board positions with Dutch real time.
Price sensitive and other listed companies whereby a chairmanship information relevant to shareholders is counts double, is deemed too rigid, and disclosed as appropriate and made will be used for guidance only.
5: The Chairman of the Relations with shareholders executive board is a member of the Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV nominations committee, because the participate in regular dialogue with combined board of Reed Elsevier NV and institutional shareholders, and presentations the board of Reed Elsevier PLC are of the on the Reed Elsevier combined businesses opinion that his contributions enable the are made after the announcement of the committee to nominate candidates for interim and full year results.
The boards of membership of the executive and the Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV supervisory board who will be able to commission periodic reports on the attitudes collaborate with both the executive and and views of the companies institutional the supervisory board members.
shareholders and the results are the subject of formal presentations to the respective Best practice provision II.
A trading update is provided at the The disclosure of transactions where respective Annual General Meetings of the directors have a conflict of interest, as two companies, and towards the end of the required by these provisions, shall be financial year.
The Annual General Meetings qualified to the extent required under provide an opportunity for the boards to applicable rules and laws pertaining communicate with individual shareholders.
to the disclosure of price sensitive The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, information, confidentiality and justified the Chief Financial Officer, the Chairmen of aspects of competition.
the board committees, other directors and a representative of the external auditors Principle III.
7: The remuneration of are available to answer questions from supervisory board members is shareholders.
The interim and annual results determined by the combined board in the announcements and presentations, together context of the board harmonisation with with the trading updates and other important Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier announcements and corporate governance Group plc, having regard for the documents concerning Reed Elsevier, are maximum approved by the general published on the Reed Elsevier website, meeting of shareholders.
Reed Elsevier NV is a participant in the Dutch Shareholder Best practice provision IV.
1.1: Having Communication Channel regard also for the importance of www.
nl which securing the agreed board harmonisation facilitates proxy voting.
Structure and corporate governance 48 Structure and corporate governance continued Internal control controls, with which the management of each business is required to comply.
Group Parent companies The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and businesses are required to maintain systems of internal control which are appropriate to Reed Elsevier NV exercise independent supervisory roles over the activities and the nature and scale of their activities and address all significant operational and systems of internal control of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV.
financial risks that they face.
The board of Reed Elsevier Group plc has adopted The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have each adopted a schedule a schedule of matters that are required to be brought to it for decision.
of matters which are required to be brought to them for decision.
In relation to Reed Reed Elsevier Group plc has a Code of Ethics Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV, the boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and and Business Conduct that provides a guide for achieving its business goals and requires Reed Elsevier NV approve the strategy and the annual budgets, and receive regular officers and employees to behave in an open, honest, ethical and principled manner.
The reports on the operations, including the treasury and risk management activities, Code also outlines confidential procedures enabling employees to report any concerns of the two companies.
Major transactions proposed by the boards of Reed Elsevier about compliance, or about Reed Elseviers financial reporting practice.
The Code is Group plc or Elsevier Reed Finance BV require the approval of the boards of both published on the Reed Elsevier website, www.
Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
Each division has identified and evaluated its The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Audit Committees meet on a regular basis major risks, the controls in place to manage those risks and the level of residual risk to review the systems of internal control and risk management of Reed Elsevier Group plc accepted.
Risk management and control procedures are embedded into the and Elsevier Reed Finance BV.
operations of the business and include the monitoring of progress in areas for Operating companies The board of Reed Elsevier Group plc is improvement that come to management and board attention.
The major risks identified responsible for the system of internal control of the Reed Elsevier publishing and include business continuity, protection of IT systems and data, challenges to intellectual information businesses, while the boards of Elsevier Reed Finance BV are responsible for property rights, management of strategic and operational change, evaluation and the system of internal control in respect of the finance group activities.
The boards of integration of acquisitions, and recruitment and retention of personnel.
Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV are also responsible for The major strategic risks facing the Reed reviewing the effectiveness of their system of internal control.
Elsevier Group plc businesses are considered by the board.
Litigation and other legal and The boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc and regulatory matters are managed by legal directors in Europe and the United States.
Elsevier Reed Finance BV have implemented an ongoing process for identifying, The Reed Elsevier Group plc Audit Committee evaluating, monitoring and managing the more significant risks faced by their receives regular reports on the identification and management of material risks and respective businesses.
This process has been in place throughout the year ended reviews these reports.
The Audit Committee also receives regular reports from both 31 December 2007 and up to the date of the approvals of the Annual Reports and internal and external auditors on internal control and risk management matters.
In addition, each division is required, at the end of the financial year, to review the Reed Elsevier Group plc Reed Elsevier Group plc has an established effectiveness of its internal controls and risk management and report its findings on framework of procedures and internal Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2007 49 a detailed basis to the management of of each financial period, which give a true Reed Elsevier Group plc.
These reports are and fair view of the state of affairs, and of the summarised and, as part of the annual profit or loss, of the respective companies review of effectiveness, submitted to the Audit and their subsidiaries, joint ventures and Committee of Reed Elsevier Group plc.
They are responsible for Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to maintaining proper accounting records, the board on any significant internal control for safeguarding assets, and for taking matters arising.
reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are Elsevier Reed Finance BV also responsible for selecting suitable Elsevier Reed Finance BV has established accounting policies and applying them on policy guidelines, which are applied for all a consistent basis, making judgements and Elsevier Reed Finance BV companies.
The estimates that are prudent and reasonable.
boards of Elsevier Reed Finance BV have adopted schedules of matters that are Applicable accounting standards have been required to be brought to them for decision.
followed and the Reed Elsevier combined Procedures are in place for monitoring the financial statements, which are the activities of the finance group, including a responsibility of the directors of Reed comprehensive treasury reporting system.
Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, are The major risks affecting the finance group prepared using accounting policies which have been identified and evaluated and are comply with International Financial subject to regular review.
The controls in Reporting Standards.
place to manage these risks and the level of residual risk accepted are monitored by the Going concern boards.
The internal control system of the The directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Elsevier Reed Finance BV group is reviewed Reed Elsevier NV, having made appropriate each year by its external auditors.
enquiries, consider that adequate resources exist for the combined Annual review businesses to continue in operational As part of the year end procedures, the audit existence for the foreseeable future and committees and boards of Reed Elsevier that, therefore, it is appropriate to adopt the PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier Group going concern basis in preparing the 2007 plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV review the financial statements.
effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk management during the last US certifications financial year.
The objective of these systems As required by Section 302 of the US is to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and by related rules of failure to achieve business objectives.
issued by the US Securities and Exchange Accordingly, they can only provide Commission, the Chief Executive Officer and reasonable, but not absolute, assurance Chief Financial Officer of Reed Elsevier PLC against material misstatement or loss.
and of Reed Elsevier NV certify in the respective Annual Reports 2007 on Form The boards have confirmed, subject to the 20-F to be filed with the Commission that above, that the respective risk management they are responsible for establishing and and control systems provide reasonable maintaining disclosure controls and assurance against material inaccuracies or procedures and that they have: loss and have functioned properly during the year.
designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that material Responsibilities in respect of the financial information relating to Reed Elsevier statements is made known to them: The directors of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed evaluated the effectiveness of Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elseviers disclosure controls and Elsevier Reed Finance BV are required to procedures: prepare financial statements as at the end Structure and corporate governance 50 Structure and corporate governance continued based on their evaluation, disclosed to the Audit Committees and the external auditors all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of disclosure controls and procedures and any frauds, whether or not material, that involve management or other employees who have a significant role in Reed Elseviers internal controls: and presented in the Reed Elsevier Annual Report 2007 on Form 20-F their conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures.
A Disclosure Committee, comprising the company secretaries of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV and other senior Reed Elsevier managers, provides assurance to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer regarding their Section 302 certifications.
Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 requires the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV to certify in the respective Annual Reports 2007 on Form 20-F that they are responsible for maintaining adequate internal control structures and procedures for financial reporting and to conduct an assessment of their effectiveness.
The conclusions of the assessment of internal control structures and financial reporting procedures, which are unqualified, are presented in the Reed Elsevier Annual Report 2007 on Form 20-F.
