Directors Report Corporate Governance Governance framework The Board is committed to the high standards of corporate Changes to the Groups management and control structure governance set out in the Combined Code published in Capital investment in excess of 1 million June 2006 the Code for financial periods beginning after Material contracts annual value in excess of 5 million 1 November 2006.
The Board is accountable to the Companys Minutes are taken of all Board discussions and decisions and all shareholders and this report describes how the Board applied directors are encouraged to request inclusion of any unresolved the principles of good governance.
concerns that they may have in the Board minutes.
The Board Roles of Board members At 31 December 2007, the Board of Directors was made up There is a clear division of responsibilities between the of seven members comprising the Chairman, three executive Chairman and the Chief Executive.
directors and three non-executive directors.
Biographical details of the directors are set out on pages 24 and 25.
The Chairman John Matthews is responsible for leadership of the Board, setting Role of the Board its agenda and monitoring its effectiveness.
He ensures effective The primary role of the Board is to provide entrepreneurial communication with shareholders and that the Board is aware of leadership and to review the overall strategic development the views of major shareholders.
He facilitates both the contribution of the Group.
The Board approves the corporate plan and of the non-executive directors and constructive relations between the annual budget and reviews performance against targets the executive directors and non-executive directors.
Through the Audit Committee, the directors ensure the integrity of financial information and the effectiveness The Chairman, together with the Company Secretary, are of financial controls and the internal control and risk management responsible for ensuring all directors are properly briefed on system.
The Board has delegated authority to the Remuneration issues arising at Board meetings and that they have full and Committee to set the remuneration policy for directors and timely access to relevant information.
The Nomination Committee recommends The Chairman is not deemed to be independent because he the appointment of Board directors and has responsibility has been a non-executive director for more than ten years.
for succession planning at Board level.
The various Board Committees have authority to make decisions in their areas The Chief Executive of expertise.
Mark Dixon is responsible for formulating strategy and for its delivery once agreed by the Board.
He creates a framework Frequency of meetings of strategy, values, organisation and objectives to ensure the There were six scheduled Board meetings during 2007. successful delivery of key targets, and allocates decisionThe number of meetings of the Board and Committees and making and responsibilities accordingly.
individual attendance by the directors are shown below.
Non-executive directors Main Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee The non-executive directors each bring their own senior level of experience and objectivity to the Board.
The independent Total meetings 63 41 counsel brought to the Group by the non-executives enhances Mark Dixon 6 the overall decision making of the Board.
Non-executives are Stephen Gleadle 6 appointed for an initial three-year term, subject to election by Rudy Lobo 6 shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting AGM John Matthews61 after their appointment.
Stephen East 63 41 The Board consider the non-executive directors to be Roger Orf 63 41 independent.
Roger Orf has been a director for over nine years, Martin Robinson 63 41 which would ordinarily render him not to be independent under the Code.
However, having taken into account his senior role Matters reserved for the Board within Citigroup, his sound commercial judgment and his The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for its considerable contribution to the Company and its governance, decision, to ensure that no one individual has unfettered powers the Board considers that he remains independent.
These include: never received an award under any employee share scheme Approval of regulatory announcements including the interim operated by the Company and there are no plans to make and annual financial statements any such award to him.
Terms of reference and membership of the Board and Company Secretary its Committees The Company Secretary, Tim Regan, is responsible for advising Changes to the Groups capital structure the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters 28 www.
com and for ensuring that appropriate minutes are taken of all Board reporting or other matters.
The Committee ensures that meetings and discussions.
The appointment and removal of these arrangements allow proportionate and independent the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
investigation and appropriate follow up action.
Board Committees The Committee also meets independently with the Companys The Board has delegated certain of its governance responsibilities auditors and with the Head of Risk Management to informally to the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all of the Board External auditors Committees and minutes of meetings are circulated to all KPMG Audit Plc were the Companys auditors for the year Board members.
For 2008, the Committee has The terms of reference of these Committees have been recommended to the Board that a resolution to re-appoint documented and approved by the Board and are available on KPMG Audit Plc as the Companys auditors be proposed at the Companys website www.
A brief summary of the AGM.
The Committee will continue to keep under review the members, activities and terms of reference of the Board the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, Committees is provided below.
the effectiveness of the audit process and the rotation of the lead audit partner.
Audit Committee Roger Orf Chairman until 10 March 2008 The scope and extent of non-audit work undertaken by the Stephen East Chairman from 10 March 2008 Companys external auditor is monitored and, above certain Martin Robinson thresholds, requires prior approval from the Committee to The Board has delegated the responsibility for applying an ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not effective system of internal control and compliance, accurate impair their independence or objectivity.
During the year, external financial reporting, fullling its obligations under law KPMG performed due diligence work on certain acquisitions.
and the Combined Code, and managing the relationship with KPMG is prohibited from providing services that would be the Companys external auditors to the Audit Committee.
considered to jeopardise their independence such as The Committee consists entirely of non-executive directors.
bookkeeping services, valuations and system design.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year.
At the Remuneration Committee request of the Chairman, the external auditors, the executive Martin Robinson Chairman directors, the Company Secretary and the Head of Risk Roger Orf Management attend each meeting.
Stephen East Summary terms of reference: Details of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 41.
Financial reporting provide support to the Board by monitoring the integrity of the published financial statements of the Group Nomination Committee and any formal announcements relating to the Companys John Matthews Chairman financial performance, and ensuring that they comply fully Roger Orf with the relevant statutes and accounting standards.
Stephen East Internal control and risk systems review the effectiveness of Martin Robinson the Groups internal controls and risk management systems.
The Committee meets as required during the year to consider Internal audit monitor and review the annual internal audit matters delegated to it.
During 2007, there were no changes programme ensuring that the internal audit function is to the Board and therefore only one formal meeting of the adequately resourced and free from management restrictions, Nominations Committee was required.
Board effectiveness, review and monitor responses to the findings and performance and leadership were discussed informally by recommendations of the internal auditors.
External audit the Committee advises the Board on the Summary terms of reference: appointment, re-appointment, remuneration and removal of the external auditors.
The Committee has the opportunity to Board appointment and composition to regularly review meet with the external auditors without senior management the structure, size and composition of the Board and make being present.
recommendations on the role and nomination of directors for Employee concerns the Committee reviews the Companys appointment and reappointment to the Board for the purpose arrangements under which employees may in confidence of ensuring a balanced Board in respect of skills, knowledge raise any concerns regarding possible wrongdoing in financial and experience.
Regus Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 29 Directors Report Corporate Governance Governance framework continued Board Committees to make recommendations to the Board Additionally, in the event of a downturn, the Group has a in relation to the suitability of candidates for membership of the number of options for mitigating losses, for example by Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The appointment and closing centres at lease break points.
removal of directors are matters reserved for the full Board.
The Groups strategy also focuses its growth into emerging Board effectiveness to assess the role of Chairman and markets that will reduce the proportion of the Groups revenue Chief Executive and make appropriate recommendations generated from the USA and UK over time and provide better to the Board.
protection to the Group from an economic downturn in a Board performance assist the Chairman with the annual single country.
performance evaluation to assess the overall and individual Exposure to movements in property markets performance and effectiveness of the Board.
A number of the Groups lease contracts contain market rent Leadership to remain fully informed about strategic issues review clauses.
This means that the costs of these leases may and commercial matters affecting the Company and to keep vary as a result of external movements in the property market.
under review the leadership needs of the organisation to In particular, in the UK, lease contracts typically contain enable it to compete effectively.
upward only rent reviews which means that should open market rents decrease, then Regus could be exposed to Principal risks and uncertainties paying higher than market rent in these locations.
There are a number of risks and uncertainties which could have an impact on the Groups long-term performance.
The Group If the Group is unable to pass on increased rent costs to has a risk management structure in place designed to identify, customers due to local property market conditions then this manage and mitigate business risks.
Risk assessment and could result in reduced profitability or operating losses in evaluation is an essential part of the annual planning, these markets.
Equally, for Group lease contracts without market rent review The directors have identied the following principal risks and clauses, the Group may benefit from paying below market rent uncertainties affecting the Company.
These do not constitute in a market with increasing open market rents.
This may allow all of the risks facing the Group.
the Group to improve profitability if the movements in open market rents are passed on to clients.
Economic downturn in significant markets The Group has a significant proportion of its centres in the Exposure to movements in exchange rates Americas predominantly the USA and UK.
An economic The Group has significant overseas operations whose downturn in these markets could adversely affect the Groups businesses are generally conducted in the currency of the operating revenues thereby reducing operating performance country in which they operate.
The principal exposures of the or, in an extreme downturn, resulting in operating losses.
Group are to the US dollar and the euro, with approximately The Group has taken a number of actions to mitigate this risk: 37% of the Groups revenues being attributable to the US dollar and 20% to the euro respectively.
The Group has entered into performance-based leases with landlords where rent costs vary with revenues earned by Given that transactions generally take place in the functional the centre.
currency of Group companies, the Groups exposure to transactional foreign exchange risk is limited.
However, the Building lease contracts include break clauses at periodic translation into sterling of overseas profits and net assets will intervals to allow the Group to exit leases should they become be affected by prevailing exchange rates.
In the event that onerous.
In cities with a number of centres this allows the either the US dollar or euro were to signicantly depreciate Group to stagger leases such that an orderly reduction in or appreciate against sterling, this would have an adverse or exposure to the location may be facilitated.
beneficial impact to the Groups reported performance and The prole of clients in a centre is continually reviewed to position respectively.
avoid undue reliance on a particular client or clients in a particular industry group.
com The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Control environment Group, together with an analysis of the exposure to such risks High standards of behaviour are demanded from staff at all as required by the Companies Act 1985, are set out in note 23 levels in the Group.
The following procedures are in place to of the Accounts.
Wherever possible, the Group attempts to support this: create natural hedges against currency exposures through the induction process is used to educate new team members on matching income and expense and assets and liabilities in the the standards required from them in their role, including business same currency.
The Group does not hedge profit translation ethics and compliance, regulations and internal policies exposure since such hedges only have a temporary effect.
all team members are provided with a copy of the Team Internal controls Member Handbook which contains detailed guidance on The Board has ultimate responsibility for maintaining a sound employee policies and the standards of behaviour required system of internal control and for periodically reviewing of staff its effectiveness.
policies and procedures manuals and guidelines are readily In accordance with the guidance set out in the Turnbull Report accessible through the Groups intranet site Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined operational audit and self-certication tools which require Code, an ongoing process has been established for identifying, individual centre managers to confirm their adherence to managing and evaluating the risks faced by the Group.
The Group policies and procedures.
Groups system of internal controls is designed to: To underpin the effectiveness of controls, it is the Groups policy facilitate the effective and efficient response to risks which to recruit and develop appropriately skilled management and might affect the achievement of the Groups objectives staff of high calibre, integrity and with appropriate disciplines.
safeguard assets from inappropriate use or from loss or fraud The Group has also established an externally hosted whistle help ensure the quality of internal and external financial reporting blowing channel to all staff to report issues and concerns help ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations in confidence.
No system of internal control can provide absolute assurance Control processes against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups system The Company has had procedures in place throughout the year of controls helps to manage rather than eliminate the risk of and up to 14 March 2008, the date of approval of this Annual failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide Report, which accord with the Internal Control Guidance for reasonable assurance that potential problems will normally directors on the Combined Code.
These include the following: be prevented or will be detected in a timely manner for The Board normally meets together with regional executives appropriate action.
every six months to carry out a wide-ranging review of Group Strategy and risk management and regional financial performance, business development The Board conducts regular reviews of the Groups strategic opportunities, Group infrastructure and general Group direction.
Country and regional strategic objectives, quarterly management issues.
plans and performance targets for 2008 have been set by the The annual budget process is driven by senior management.
executive directors and are regularly reviewed by the main Budgets are prepared at a detailed level by business centre Board in the context of the Groups overall objectives.
and roll-up at a country and regional level.
The executive directors review regional budgets to ensure consistency with There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and regional strategic objectives, and the final budget is reviewed managing the risks faced by the Group.
Major business risks and approved by the Board.
The approved budget forms the and their financial implications are appraised by the responsible basis of business management throughout the year.
executives as a part of the budget process and these are endorsed by regional management.
Key risks are reported to Operational reports and financial reports are prepared and the Board and the Audit Committee.
The appropriateness of distributed to the Board on a monthly basis.
Actual results controls is considered by the executives, having regard to are reviewed against budget and forecast and explanations cost benefit, materiality and the likelihood of risks crystallising.
are received for all material movements.
Key risks and actions to mitigate those risks are regularly considered by the Board and are formally reviewed and approved by the Board annually.
Regus Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 31 Directors Report Corporate Governance Governance framework continued Key policies and control procedures including finance, Internal audit reviews of key risk areas.
The findings and operations, and health and safety are documented in manuals recommendations of each review are reported to management having Group-wide application.
These are available to all staff and the Audit Committee.
on the Groups intranet system.
Quarterly post-investment reviews are presented to the The Board has formal procedures in place for the review and Audit Committee to allow appraisal of the effectiveness of investment activity.
approval of investment and acquisition projects.
The Group Investment Committee comprising the executive directors A bi-annual internal control self-assessment and management review all investments prior to approval by the Board.
The certication exercise covering the effectiveness of financial form and content of investment proposals is standardised and operational controls.
This is based on a comprehensive to facilitate the review process.
internal control questionnaire collated and reviewed by Internal Audit.
Results and any necessary mitigating action The Group has clearly delegated authority limits with regard plans are presented to senior management and the Board.
to the approval of transactions.
Purchase orders must be obtained in advance for all purchases in excess of 1,000.
Other matters Numerous reports are generated from the Groups sales and Board performance evaluation operating systems on a daily, weekly and monthly basis to During 2007, a formal annual performance evaluation has been provide management at all levels with performance data for conducted in respect of the Board, its Committees and of each their area of responsibility which helps them to focus on individual director by means of an internally produced written operational issues that may require their input.
This required performance to be scored on a scale of 1 to 5 against a number of criteria with 1 representing Information and communications processes a need for urgent improvement in performance, 3 representing The senior management team are integrally involved in the adequate performance and 5 representing excellent performance.
business and to this extent regularly discuss and address The results of these evaluations were consolidated by the Chairman issues and opportunities with regional and functional teams.
and presented to the Board for formal consideration.
All criteria Formal business review meetings, chaired by Mark Dixon, were scored as adequate or better and therefore no formal are held with the regional teams and functional heads on corrective actions have been initiated.
The independent senior a monthly basis.
non-executive director reviewed the Chairmans performance.
Regular staff communications include general information on Training and resources the business from senior management as well as operational Appropriate training is made available for all new directors to guidance on changes in policies and procedures.
assist them in the discharge of their responsibilities.
Training Sales staff and operational management periodically attend is provided on an ongoing basis to meet particular needs with sales or management conferences at which information on the emphasis on governance and accounting developments.
operational issues is shared, the most recent global conference During the year the Company Secretary, Tim Regan, provided was held in February 2007.
Delegates present the key updates to the Board on relevant governance matters, whilst messages to employees who did not attend the event.
the Audit Committee regularly considers new accounting Monitoring effectiveness developments through presentations from management, The following key mechanisms were available to the Board at internal audit and the external auditors.
The Board programme various times during the year in the conduct of its review of includes presentations from management at which, together internal controls: with site visits, increases the non-executive directors understanding of the business and sector.
Review of the Groups monthly management accounts which contain detailed analysis of financial performance for the Group All directors have access to the advice and services of the and each of the Groups geographic reporting segments.
Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board An ongoing process of review, through Board meetings, senior procedures, corporate governance and regulatory compliance management meetings and divisional reviews as well as other are followed and complied with.
Should a director request management meetings, for the formal identication of independent professional advice to carry out his duties, significant operational risks and mitigating control processes.
such advice is available to him at the Companys expense.
com Directors and ofcers insurance Non-executive directors are subject to the re-election requirements and serve the Company under letters of The Groups insurance programme is reviewed annually and appropriate insurance cover is obtained to protect the directors appointment, which have an initial three year term.
and senior management in the event of a claim being brought Compliance statement against any of them in their capacity as directors and ofcers The Company has complied with the provisions set out in of the Company.
section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2007, with the exception of the following: Dialogue with shareholders Regus reports formally to shareholders twice a year, with Provision D. 1.1 The independent senior non-executive the interim results announced in August September and the director, Roger Orf, does not have regular meetings with preliminary final results announced normally in March.
are programmes for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial The Board considers it appropriate for the Chairman to be the officer to give presentations of these results to the Companys main conduit with investors, rather than the independent senior institutional investors, analysts and media in London and other non-executive director.
The Chairman participates in investor locations.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer meetings and makes himself available for questions, in person, maintain a close dialogue with institutional investors on the at the time of major announcements.
The Chairman regularly Companys performance, governance, plans and objectives.
updates the Board and particularly the independent senior These meetings also serve to develop an ongoing understanding non-executive director on the results of his meetings and the of the views and any concerns of the Companys major opinions of investors.
On this basis, Regus considers that the shareholders.
The non-executive directors are given regular independent senior non-executive director is able to gain full updates as to the views of the institutional shareholders and the awareness of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
Chairman is available to meet with these shareholders on Notwithstanding this policy, all directors have a standing request.
The principal communication with private shareholders invitation to participate in meetings with investors.
is through the Annual Report, the Interim Report and the AGM.
The Company has engaged the services of Brunswick Group plc as their Investor Relations adviser.
Annual General Meeting AGM The AGM is held normally in May in London and is attended, other than in exceptional circumstances, by all members of the Board.
In addition to the formal business of the meeting, there is normally a trading update and shareholders are invited to ask questions and are given the opportunity to meet the directors informally afterwards.
Notice of the AGM, together with any related documents are mailed to shareholders at least 20 days before the meeting and separate resolutions are proposed on each issue.
The level of proxy votes cast and the balance for and against each resolution, together with the level of abstentions, if any, are announced to the meeting following voting by a show of hands.
Financial and other information is made available on the Companys website www.
Re-election of the Board All directors submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at least every three years and directors appointed during the period are required to seek re-election at the next AGM.
Regus Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 33 Directors Report Corporate Governance Director statements Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting annual report and financial statements records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report the financial position of the parent company and to enable and the Group and parent company financial statements in them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the accordance with applicable law and regulations.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company responsible for preparing a Directors Report, a Remuneration financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply Accounting Practice and applicable law.
with that law and those regulations.
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and of the corporate and financial information included on the performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the in relation to such financial statements that references in the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
Statutory statement as to disclosure to auditors The parent company financial statements are required by The directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Directors Report confirm that: parent company.
so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial of which the companys auditor is unaware, and statements, the directors are required to: each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys consistently: auditor is aware of that information.
Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: For the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the parent company and Group will continue in business.
