DIRECTORS' CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of The Board does not comply with this requirement as it considers the corporate governance.
balance of the Board to be appropriate for the size of its business.
This report, together with the Directors remuneration report on In the past, the senior independent director role has been rotated page 30 sets out how the Company has applied the principles of between the non-executive directors on an annual basis.
The senior the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code issued independent director for the year ended 30th June 2007 was Joe by the Financial Reporting Council.
McGeehan and the Board has agreed that he should remain as senior independent director for the year beginning 1st July 2007 A.
Directors and for future years until decided otherwise.
The Board The senior independent director is available to discuss concerns The Board comprises five executive and three non-executive with shareholders should the normal channels of the Chairman and directors.
The directors holding office at the date of this report and Chief Executive or the Group Finance Director fail to resolve such their biographical details are given on pages 4 and 5. concerns or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Board focuses on formulation of strategy, management of Appointments to the Board effective business controls and review of business performance.
The Remuneration and nomination committee is the committee There is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for responsible for reviewing the structure and composition of the decision.
These include the approval of annual and interim results, Board and nominating candidates for appointment to the Board.
acquisitions and disposals, major capital expenditure, borrowings, All the members of this committee are independent non-executive material agreements, senior executive appointments and removals directors and a list of membership and the chair of the committee including the company secretary, any patent-related dispute is set out on page 5.
The terms of reference of this committee are and other material litigation, forecasts and major product published on the Companys website.
No new appointments to the Board have been made during The Board meets as often as is necessary to discharge its duties the year.
In the financial year ended 30th June 2007, the Board met 8 times and the directors attendance record at Board and The terms of appointment of the non-executive directors are committee meetings is set out at the end of this report.
In addition, available for inspection at the annual general meeting and at the non-executive directors met a number of times without the registered office upon written request.
None of the executive directors holds a directorship in a FTSE The Board has two formally constituted committees, the Audit 100 company.
committee and the Remuneration and nomination committee.
Information and professional development There is an executive committee known as the Executive Board that is responsible for the executive management of the Groups The Board receives appropriate documentation, management businesses.
It is chaired by the Chairman and includes the executive accounts, forecasts and commentaries thereon in advance of directors of Renishaw plc and the President of Renishaw Inc. each Board meeting to enable its members to review the financial performance of the Group, current trading and key A framework of delegated authorities is in place that maps out the business initiatives.
structure of delegation below Board level and includes the matters reserved to the Executive Board.
Directors are offered the opportunity to attend formal training courses to update their knowledge of their duties as directors.
The Company maintains liability insurance for its directors Guidance notes on changes to law and regulations are provided as and officers.
Non-executive directors are invited to attend internal conferences, which provide information to the Group on new Chairman and Chief Executive product development and marketing initiatives.
The role of Chairman and Chief Executive is a combined role and All directors have access to the company secretary and to thus contrary to the recommendations of the Code.
However, the independent professional advice at the Companys expense Board considers that there is still a clear division of responsibilities where necessary to discharge their responsibilities as director.
at Board level to ensure an appropriate balance of power and authority.
Performance evaluation The Board has established a formal process, led by the senior Board balance and independence independent director, for the annual evaluation of the performance Each of the three non-executive directors is considered by the of the Board and the Chairman.
This includes the completion of a Board to be independent in character and judgement and there are questionnaire designed and approved by the Board to provide a no relationships or circumstances that are likely to affect a nonframework for the evaluation process.
It is the role of the senior independent director to summarise the The Code recommends that at least half the board, excluding the responses and discuss them with individual directors and with chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors.
27 DIRECTORS' CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Board undertakes an annual formal review of the effectiveness Re-election of the Groups system of internal controls and an updated risk In accordance with the articles of association of the Company, and controls analysis for the Group.
The review covers all material the directors who offer themselves up for re-election at the annual controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls general meeting to be held in October 2007 will be David Snowden and risk management systems.
The Board considers that there is an ongoing process for identifying, Both directors have been non-executive directors for four years, evaluating and managing the significant risks facing the Group that having been appointed in July 2003.
Subject to re-election, at has been in place during the year, and which is regularly reviewed the annual general meeting to be held in October 2007, if they and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Board confirms continue in office until they next are required to offer themselves that necessary action has been or is being taken to remedy any up for re-election in 2010, they will have held office for eight years significant failings or weaknesses identified from its review.
The Board has considered each of David Snowdens and Terry Garthwaites performance as a non-executive director of Audit committee and auditors the Company and believes that their performance continues to be The Audit committee comprises the three non-executive directors.
effective and they demonstrate a commitment to their respective A list of the members and the chairman is set out on page 5. roles at Renishaw.
The Board is satisfied that at least two members of the committee have recent and relevant financial experience, being Terry B.
Directors remuneration Garthwaite and David Snowden.
The terms of reference of this The Directors remuneration report set out on page 30 explains how committee were reviewed during the year and are available on the Company applies the Code principles relating to remuneration.
C. Accountability and audit The committee reviews the accounting policies and procedures of the Group, its annual and interim financial statements before Financial reporting submission to the Board and its compliance with statutory The respective responsibilities of the directors and auditors in requirements.
The committee monitors the integrity of the Groups connection with the financial statements are explained in the financial statements and announcements relating to financial Statement of directors responsibilities and the Independent performance and reviews the significant reporting judgements auditors report.
Going concern It also reviews the scope, remit and effectiveness of the internal control systems and internal audit function.
On the basis of current financial projections and available funds and facilities, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group The committee has primary responsibility for making the has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the recommendation on the appointment, reappointment and removal foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going of external auditors, which the Board puts to shareholders for concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
approval at the annual general meeting.
It keeps under review the scope and results of the audit, its cost Internal control effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal The auditors provide a confirmation of independence on an control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Any system of internal control is designed to manage rather than The committee reviews the nature and extent of the non-audit eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and services supplied by the auditors, receiving regular reports on the can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against balance of audit to non-audit fees.
The committee reviews the policy by which employees of the There are defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authorities.
Company may, in confidence, raise matters of concern, including There are also established and centrally documented control possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
procedures, including, for example, capital and other expenditure, The committee meets at least three times a year with the Group information and technology security, and legal and regulatory Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, the Group Audit compliance.
These are applied throughout the Group.
Manager and the external auditors in attendance.
At least one The Group internal audit function provides independent and meeting, or part, is held with the external auditors without executive objective assurance that the procedures are appropriate and directors present.
The Group Audit Manager attends Audit committee meetings to present annual internal audit plans and the results of such internal audits.
Actions are monitored by the Audit committee on an ongoing basis.
There is an ongoing process for the review of business risks throughout the Group.
These are reported on a monthly basis by senior management and by overseas subsidiaries.
These reports are reviewed by the Board at each of their meetings.
28 D. Relations with shareholders Compliance statement The Board considers that it has complied with the requirements of Dialogue with institutional shareholders the Code except in relation to the following matters the reasons for Presentations are given to institutional investors following publication non-compliance are stated in the report above : of the half-year and full-year results, when interim and annual t the combined role of chairman and chief executive: and reports are delivered to all shareholders.
Institutional investors are actively encouraged to visit the Companys headquarters t at least half the board, excluding the chairman, does not and manufacturing sites where they will meet at least one of the comprise independent non-executive directors.
executive directors and have the opportunity of discussing any issues with them.
Meetings with investors, analysts and media are reported at each Board meeting and analysts and brokers reports A C G Roberts FCA circulated so that the Board develops an understanding of the views of investors and others.
Secretary If requested, non-executive directors are available to attend 25th July 2007 meetings with major shareholders.
All directors attend the annual general meeting at which they have the opportunity to meet with shareholders.
Constructive use of the annual general meeting The annual general meeting takes place at the Companys headquarters and formal notification is sent to the shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
A business presentation is given at the meeting and all directors are available for questions during and after the meeting.
Tours of the Companys research and development and manufacturing facilities are offered.
The Company reports on the number of proxy votes lodged on each resolution, the balance for and against each resolution and the number of abstentions after the resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands.
This information is provided to the shareholders attending the annual general meeting and published on the Companys website following the meeting.
Board and committee membership attendance record Shown against each directors name is the number of meetings of the Board and its committees at which the director was present and, in brackets, the number of meetings that the director was eligible to attend during the year.
Director Board AC R&NC D R McMurtry 8 8 - - D J Deer 8 8 - - B R Taylor 7 8 - - A C G Roberts 7 8 - - G McFarland 8 8 - - J P McGeehan 7 8 2 3 2 3 T D Snowden 7 8 3 3 3 3 T B Garthwaite 8 8 3 3 3 3 AC - Audit committee: R&NC - Remuneration and nomination committee 29
