Rentokil Initial plc Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The company complies with the Code of Corporate Governance executive directors.
Of the members of the committee, Duncan issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Combined Code.
Tatton-Brown has recent and relevant financial experience.
The The following specific disclosures are now made in accordance committee reviews, challenges and approves, as the case may be, with the Combined Code 2006. presentations or reports from senior management, consulting as necessary with the external auditors, internal auditors and company executives.
During the year the committee had a satisfactory level of 1.
EFFECTIVE BOARD dialogue with the companys auditors and did not find it necessary The board is responsible to shareholders for the overall direction to seek external advice.
The committee invites the chief executive, and control of the company and specifically reserves certain matters the chief financial officer, the director of corporate accounting and for its consideration such as approval of the companys financial control, the director of internal audit and representatives of the statements, major capital expenditure and major acquisitions and external auditors to attend its meetings.
The company secretary disposals in the standing board governance procedures and attends meetings in his role as secretary of the committee.
The practices, which are reviewed annually.
The chief executive has committee met the external auditors without executives present delegated authority from the board to manage the company, subject on three occasions.
to the strategic direction of the board.
He is also responsible for the achievement of the objectives set by the board and preparing an During the year the committee met on five occasions and considered overall strategy for the company to achieve such objectives and the a range of matters in fulfilment of its terms of reference the principal implementation of the overall strategy decided by the board through matters being summarised below: the management and organisation of the company.
The effectiveness of the groups systems of internal control The board meets routinely eight times a year and additionally when as well as compliance matters and risk management systems.
necessary and follows an agreed formal schedule of matters which The committee gains an appropriate level of assurance that the are considered at individual meetings.
In 2007 the board met on internal control environment was functioning effectively.
Details of directors attendance at board and in an environment of significant change there remained an principal committee meetings are set out on page 56.
The limited on-going need to enhance processes in certain areas.
number of directors absences from meetings were due to Non-financial KPIs that relate to the group contract portfolio.
The implementation of changes in the risk management framework and supporting processes which had been designed to focus to a 2.
COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD greater extent on the more significant risk areas.
Information on directors is set out on page 51.
Financial statements relating to the companys annual report, interim report and quarterly trading updates were reviewed as well 3.
BOARD COMMITTEES as reports from the external auditors on their audit or review of the The board has reviewed and updated its governance procedures financial statements.
and practices including the terms of reference of the principal board Activities of the internal audit department including resource plans, committees.
Following the appointment of additional non executive activity levels and objectives, the overall objective being to provide directors in 2008, the board will be reviewing the membership of assurance as to the adequacy, effectiveness and quality of the principal board committees.
companys system of internal control, risk management and corporate governance.
A new audit charter to better communicate internally the role of the internal audit function was reviewed and AUDIT COMMITTEE approved.
In accordance with good practice a periodic external The principal oversight responsibilities of the committee cover: review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function was financial reporting, internal control and risk management, various conducted by an external party, Independent Audit Limited, matters concerning the external auditors including their appointment, who reported to the committee on their generally favourable scope of their duties, their independence and monitoring and findings and recommendations which have been acted upon receiving reports from the internal audit function.
The terms of by the company.
reference of the committee available at www.
com The fees for the 2007 audit and the audit strategy for 2008 reflect the Smith Guidance which is appended to the Combined Code.
incorporate various changes in audit scope and geographic The committee reviewed its terms of reference towards the end of coverage.
The audit strategy would continue to consider the 2007 and concluded that, subject to a minor amendment, they potential for fraud at different levels within the organisation.
The audit committee has reviewed its A fraud risk management awareness review was undertaken by effectiveness during the year and concluded that it had continued internal audit during the year and reported on to the committee.
The process of formally evaluating external auditor effectiveness which indicated that the external auditors had met company The members of the committee at the end of the year were Duncan expectations for the 2006 audit.
The evaluation had identified Tatton-Brown chairman, chartered management accountant, opportunities for both the company and the auditors to further becoming chairman in July 2007 on the retirement of Ian Harley enhance the effectiveness of the process.
as a director, Peter Bamford and Alan Giles, all of whom are non- 55 55 23073 001 065 SAS.
indd 55 27 3 08 03:00:29 Rentokil Initial plc Corporate Governance ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS The provision of non-audit services by the companys auditors Audit Remuneration Nomination which were at a level well below that which would question the Director Board Committee Committee Committee firms independence as auditors.
PwC assisted the company over Brian McGowan 11 3 two disposal transactions as well as providing assistance in relation Doug Flynn 10 3 to tax and other areas of technical support.
Andrew Macfarlane 11 The review of the effectiveness of the committees activities and Peter Bamford 94 were satisfied that the committee was operating effectively.
Alan Giles 11 5 6 The committee reviewed the group tax policy approved by the Ian Harley 42 committee in 2006 and key issues impacting on the group tax rate Peter Long 7 5 3 and tax payments and the level of tax risks within the group in Duncan Tatton-Brown 10 5 6 the context of overall group tax policy.
Total number of meetings 11 5 6 3 Various reports and written and oral updates on a number of control Ian Harley retired from the board in July 2007. and reporting issues as part of its oversight of the internal control framework which neither individually nor collectively were material The terms of reference of the principal board committees may be to the company.
found on the companys website, www.
com, or if Half yearly reports on whistleblowing which did not contain any a hard copy is required by application to the company secretary material matters of concern and approved and updated at the head office.
whistleblowing policy and related communication materials.
Auditor independence was considered at a number of meetings.
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The board regards Peter Long senior independent director, Peter NOMINATION COMMITTEE Bamford, Richard Burrows, Alan Giles, William Rucker and Duncan This committee is responsible for recommending board appointments.
Tatton-Brown as independent non-executive directors within the Its terms of reference reflect the Higgs Guidance which is appended to tests set out in the Combined Code.
Its members during 2007 were Brian McGowan, Doug Flynn and Peter Long.
The nomination committee met on three 5.
FURTHER SIGNIFICANT COMMITMENTS OF THE CHAIRMAN occasions in 2007 to consider non-executive director appointments The external commitments of Brian McGowan remained the same which ultimately led to the appointments of Richard Burrows and from his appointment as chairman in July 2004 until his resignation William Rucker as non-executive directors and to review succession as a director of the company on 19 March 2008 during which period planning for non-executive directors.
In carrying out its duties the he continued to be chairman of UMECO plc and Catalyst Corporate committee utilised the services of a specialist firm of search consultants.
In 2008, a special nomination committee was established to conduct a recruitment process which ultimately led to the appointment by 6.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION the board of Dr John McAdam, Alan Brown and Andy Ransom.
The board has undertaken a formal evaluation of its own performance and that of its principal committees and individual directors.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The directors completed appraisals on matters relevant to board, The terms of reference of the remuneration committee reflect the committee and director performance.
A report was presented to Higgs Guidance.
The members of the remuneration committee are and reviewed by the board.
The board concluded that the evaluation Peter Long chairman, Duncan Tatton-Brown and Alan Giles, all of exercise had confirmed that the directors had the appropriate range whom are independent non-executive directors.
The remuneration of skills and experience and constituted an effective and unified committee has reviewed its effectiveness during the year and board.
The review was conducted internally with the aid of a concluded that it had continued to operate effectively.
The directors framework developed by external specialists.
remuneration report is set out on pages 59 to 64.
Individual director evaluation showed that each director including those seeking re-election at the annual general meeting in 2008 continued to demonstrate commitment to the role.
The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, carried out a performance evaluation of the chairman after taking account of the views of the executive directors.
The board intends to carry out further performance evaluations but will keep under review the method and frequency.
indd 56 27 3 08 03:00:30 Rentokil Initial plc Corporate Governance 7.
DIALOGUE WITH MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS The audit committee assists the board in the performance of its responsibilities by reviewing the board procedures as they relate The chief executive and chief financial officer hold regular meetings to internal controls and they consider internal and external auditors with analysts and institutional shareholders to discuss the companys reports on internal control issues and reports on internal controls strategy and financial performance.
The board is regularly provided and risk management systems.
The risk identification and with an analysis of the companys shareholder base and with management process has been in place during the whole of 2007 commentary on market views and sentiment.
The chairman, the and up to 27 March 2008, the date of the approval of the audited 2007 senior independent director and other non-executive directors make accounts and during that time the board, with the assistance of the themselves available for discussions with shareholders as required committee, has reviewed the process.
by circumstances or as requested by shareholders.
The process used to review the effectiveness of the system of 8.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT internal control involved: a review of the changes since the last The audit committee assists the board on matters concerning assessment in the nature and extent of significant risks and the accountability and audit, information on which is contained companys ability to respond to changes in its business: a review within the audit committee report above.
of the scope and quality of managements monitoring of risks and the system of internal control and the work of the internal audit 9.
GOING CONCERN function and other providers of assurance: the incidence of control failings or weakness and their impact on financial performance: After reviewing group and company cash balances, borrowing and the effectiveness of the public reporting process.
The audit facilities and projected cash flows, the directors believe that the committee reviews the scope of external audit, the half-yearly and group and company have adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt annual financial statements including compliance with legal and the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
regulatory requirements and trading updates and reports to the board on financial issues raised by both internal and external audit reports.
The audit committee receives reports from the internal 10.
AUDITORS INDEPENDENCE audit department covering financial, operational and information The company has reviewed its relationship with its auditors, technology risks and controls and reviews the performance  LLP, and concluded that there are sufficient of the department against its terms of reference.
controls and processes in place to ensure the required level of independence.
The company has a formal policy on the provision An increased level of delegated authority to the divisions and of non-audit services provided by the companys auditors.
There operating businesses since 2005 introduced changes in the control are no plans to replace  LLP, whose environment which has been monitored and tested to ensure that the reappointment is proposed as set out in the notice of AGM which groups internal controls and risk management procedures continued accompanies the annual report.
During 2006 a review was undertaken of the existing internal control framework which was found to be generally good, AUDITORS AND DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS although capable of improvement in some areas and action plans Insofar as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit were put in place to improve systems and procedures where appropriate information as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 1985 of which were put into effect during 2007.
The process of refining the which the companys auditors are unaware: and each of the directors internal control framework is iterative and improvement measures has taken all of the steps that he should have taken as a director to make are continually under review.
himself aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to During ongoing review of the control environment additional areas establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
for improvement were identified in 2007 which will be addressed in A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors 2008.
In addition, the integration of City Link and Target Express of the company will be proposed at the annual general meeting businesses exposed weaknesses in the risk management processes to be held on 14 May 2008. within the parcels business.
These are described in the Board Review and in the Review of Performance, which are the subject INTERNAL CONTROLS of ongoing review.
The annual report provides information on and an assessment of the By order of the board companys business, operations, financial position and prospects.
The board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, and reviews the effectiveness of the system at least annually.
In doing so the group has taken note of the guidance PAUL GRIFFITHS for directors as set out in the Turnbull Guidance.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and can only SECRETARY provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 27 MARCH 2008 misstatement or loss.
