Corporate governance 25 The following sections of this report deal with Reuters corporate companies, that a quorum shall consist of any two shareholders.
In governance and how the company complies with the requirements of 2004 the company also received a waiver from NASDAQs provisions the UK Companies Act 1985 the UK Companies Act and 2006 requiring shareholder approval of employee share-based incentive Combined Code, the Nasdaq Global Select Market NASDAQ listing schemes.
Reuters seeks and has received shareholder approval of its rules and the SECs rules under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
employee share-based incentive schemes to the extent required by UK regulation, including the Listing Rules.
1.1 Compliance with the UK and US rules on While the companys auditors,  LLP, are not required to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys governance corporate governance procedures, they are required to review The listing rules of the UK Listing Authority of the FSA require UKwhether this corporate governance statement reflects the companys listed companies to report on their governance practices and on the compliance with nine of the Combined Codes provisions as specified extent to which they comply with the provisions set out in the by the Listing Rules.
These provisions are contained within section C Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
As Reuters shares are of the 2006 Combined Code, which relates to Accountability and also traded on NASDAQ we are required to comply with NASDAQs Audit.
Having conducted a review,  LLP are listing rules and the SECs governance rules.
In this section of the obliged to report if they consider that this statement does not reflect report we describe how we comply with these requirements and such compliance.
No such report has been made.
where we do not comply, we explain why not.
Throughout 2007, Reuters has complied with the 2006 Combined 1.2 A.
The Board Code on Corporate Governance, save that no individual member of 1.2.
1 Composition of the Board the Audit Committee has been identified by the Board as having Every company should be headed by an effective board, which is recent and relevant financial experience code principle C3.1.
collectively responsible for the success of the company.
However, in common with all the non-executive directors, the 2006 Combined Code Main Principle A.
1 members of the Audit Committee are experienced and influential individuals, having the skills described in their biographies in The board should include a balance of executive and non-executive Directors and senior managers see pages 13-15 and the Board directors and in particular independent non-executive directors such considers that, collectively, the members have the attributes required that no individual or small group of individuals dominate the boards to discharge properly the Committees responsibilities.
3 Reuters also complies with all SEC and NASDAQ governance requirements, with the exception of two provisions of the NASDAQ The Board comprises a non-executive Chairman, 7 non-executive governance rules.
The company has received waivers from NASDAQ to directors and 3 executive directors.
Further details of the Boards both exceptions on the basis that compliance with the rules would be composition and the companys assessment of the independence of contrary to standard UK business practice.
Since 1988, Reuters has its directors are set out in the table below.
Biographies of the directors operated under a waiver of NASDAQs requirement that all and details of their other commitments are set out on pages 13-14. shareholder meetings require a quorum of at least one-third of Biographies of Reuters senior managers are set out on page 15. outstanding voting shares: instead, the companys Articles of Association Articles provide, as is typical for English public Independent No.
of years as determined Audit Nominations Remuneration Name Position on Board by the Board Committee Committee Committee L Fitt Non-executive Director and Chairman of Audit Committee 3 Yes Yes No No Chairman N FitzGerald Chairman and Chairman of Nominations Committee 5 Yes No Yes No Chairman T Glocer CEO 6 No No No No D Grigson CFO 7 No No No No P Hughes Non-executive Director 3 Yes No No Yes D Maughan Non-executive Director 2 Yes No No Yes N Nilekani Non-executive Director 1 Yes Yes No No K Olisa Non-executive Director 3 Yes Yes No No D Olver Non-executive Director and Senior Independent Director 10 Yes Yes Yes No I Strachan Non-executive Director and Chairman of Remuneration Committee 7 Yes No Yes Yes Chairman D Wenig COO 4 No No No No assessment of Dick Olvers independence since he has now been on The quality of the individual directors, the balance of the Boards composition and the dynamics of the Board as a group, ensure both the Reuters Board for more than nine years.
Dick was asked by the Chairman to remain on the Board because of his experience, wisdom the Boards effectiveness and the inability of an individual or small group to dominate the Boards decision making.
and his effectiveness as a non-executive director.
The Board has determined that each of the non-executive directors is independent in character and judgement by reason of his or her personal qualities, and that each of the non-executive directors is independent as that term is defined in NASDAQ and SEC governance requirements.
Particular consideration was given to the Reuters Group PLC Annual Report 2007 26 Corporate governance considers the effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls and 1.3 Board responsibilities and process procedures.
Its members comprise the CEO, the CFO, the General There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of Counsel and Company Secretary, the Global Head of Business Assurance, the Global Head of Finance, the Head of External the company between the running of the board and the executive responsibility for running the companys business.
No one individual Reporting, the Global Head of Compliance & General Counsel for the Americas, the Global Head of Investor Relations and the Global Head should have unfettered powers of decision.
A sub-committee meets on an ad hoc basis to address disclosure matters arising between reporting periods.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the running of A schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision identifies the Board, which is the Chairmans responsibility, and the running of Reuters business, which is the CEOs responsibility, with the Board those matters that the Board does not delegate to management.
It includes the approval of corporate objectives, strategy and the having oversight.
The division of responsibilities is set out in a document approved by the Board.
The Board is responsible for the budget, significant transactions and matters relating to share capital.
success of the Group within a framework of controls which enables The Board delegates specific responsibilities to the Audit, risk to be assessed and managed.
Its aim is for the Group to achieve Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Each Committee has its profitable growth within an acceptable risk profile.
own terms of reference set by the Board.
These are available on request from the Company Secretary or at All directors are equally accountable for the proper stewardship of the company and share responsibility for maintaining the companys www.
Reports of the Audit and Remuneration Committee are set out on pages 29 and 16 high standards of ethics and integrity.
The non-executive directors contribute particularly by challenging constructively the companys and the activities of the Nominations Committee are described on 27. strategy and performance, managements assessment of risk, the All directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary integrity of internal controls and by ensuring appropriate who is appointed by, and can only be removed by, the Board.
remuneration and succession planning arrangements are in place.
The directors may take independent professional advice at the companys expense.
None of the directors sought such advice during The Senior Independent Director, Dick Olver, is responsible for undertaking the annual review of the Chairmans performance and 2007.
Reuters provides insurance cover and indemnities for its directors and officers.
he chairs the Nominations Committee when considering the role of Chairman.
The Senior Independent Director also makes himself The Board met eleven times in 2007 and held a two-day strategy available to shareholders to discuss any matters.
meeting with senior management in Beijing, China.
The Chairman routinely meets with non-executive directors, without the executive The CEO is assisted by the GLT in managing the business.
It comprises the three executive directors and the senior managers directors present, after each Board meeting.
Attendance by individual directors at Board and Committee meetings during 2007 is set out in listed on page 13.
A Disclosure Committee, chaired by the CEO, reviews the Groups trading statements and financial results and the table below.
Attendance at meetings Attendance at Attendance Attendance Board meetings Attendance at Audit at Remuneration at Nominations 11 meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings Name Awayday in 2007 7 meetings in 2007 6 meetings in 2007 1 meeting in 2007 L Fitt Full attendance Full attendance n a n a N FitzGerald Full attendance n a n a Full attendance T Glocer Full attendance n a n a n a D Grigson Full attendance n a n a n a P Hughes Full attendance n a Full attendance n a D Maughan Full attendance n a Absent 1 n a N Nilekani Absent 3 Absent 3 n a n a K Olisa Full attendance Full attendance n a n a D Olver Absent 2 Full attendance n a Full attendance I Strachan Full attendance n a Full attendance Full attendance D Wenig Full attendance n a n a n a Niall FitzGerald attended three Remuneration Committee meetings at the invitation of the Remuneration Committee chairman.
The CEO attended four Remuneration Committee meetings at the invitation of the Remuneration Committee chairman and one Audit Committee meeting at the invitation of the Audit Committee chairman.
Reuters Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Corporate governance 27 The format of the reviews was interviews with the directors and others 1.4 Appointments to the Board involved in the work of the Board and its committees, the output from There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure which was thematically analysed and discussed with the person or for the appointment of new directors to the board.
group being reviewed, the Board as a whole, as well as with the 2006 Combined Code Main Principle A.
The Nominations Committee leads the process for Board 1.5.
2 Re-election of directors appointments and makes recommendations to the Board.
In 2007 the All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, Committee met once and considered the composition of the Board subject to continued satisfactory performance.
The board should and what attributes would be particularly desirable in future ensure planned and progressive refreshing of the board.
Under the terms of reference of the 2006 Combined Code Main Principle A.
7 Committee, which are available on www.
com, a director may not be involved in any decision concerning him or his successor.
The Articles provide that at each AGM any director appointed since The Committee has appointed an external adviser to assist it in its the last AGM shall stand for election by the shareholders and one work in identifying potential candidates for non-executive third of the directors shall retire from office by rotation and be eligible directorships.
for re-election by the shareholders.
1.5 Information and directors induction and 1.6 B. Remuneration of directors training The 2006 Combined Code has a section covering remuneration The board should be supplied in a timely manner with information in principles.
Reuters compliance with those principles is described in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
the directors Remuneration report on pages 16 to 24.
All directors should receive induction on joining the board and should regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge.
1.7 C. Accountability and audit: 2006 Combined Code Main Principle A.
1 Directors statement of responsibility The board should present a balanced and understandable During 2007 Nandan Nilekani, who joined Reuters Board on 1 January assessment of the companys position and prospects.
2007, received a series of induction briefings to gain insights into the 2006 Combined Code Main Principle C. 1 company.
Nandan, like the other directors, has been supplied with Reuters products.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that the Directors report and the consolidated financial statements of the company and its Ongoing training for directors is available as appropriate.
subsidiaries the Group and parent company financial statements for The companys legal advisers and auditors provide briefings to the Reuters Group PLC are prepared in accordance with applicable laws directors from time to time.
During 2007 the directors received and regulations.
The financial statements for each financial year must briefings on their roles and responsibilities in the context of the offer give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group as at the by The Thomson Corporation.
Guest speakers are occasionally invited end of the financial year and of the profit and cash flows of the Group to join Board dinners to discuss topics of interest with the directors for the period.
and opportunities are provided for non-executive directors to meet with shareholders, customers and others involved in Reuters business.
The company has complied with UK disclosure requirements in this report in order to present a true and fair view to all shareholders.
In The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that directors receive preparing the financial statements, applicable accounting standards accurate, timely and clear information.
Regular and ad hoc reports have been followed, suitable accounting policies have been used and and presentations are prepared and circulated to the directors a week applied consistently, and reasonable and prudent judgements and in advance of Board meetings, together with minutes and papers estimates have been made where appropriate.
relating to the Boards committees.
The directors also receive a monthly performance report which summarises financial and The directors have reviewed the budget and cash flow forecasts for operational performance and provides updates on key programmes the Group for the year to 31 December 2008 and outline projections within the business.
for the subsequent year in the light of the financial position and borrowing facilities at 31 December 2007.
On the basis of this review, 1.5.
1 Board performance evaluation the directors are satisfied that Reuters Group is a going concern and The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the of its own performance and that of its committees and individual financial statements.
6 The Group has a number of contracts that are subject to change of control clauses, including those that relate to the Groups debt The 2007 Board effectiveness review was similar in format to the 2005 facilities.
On the completion of the transaction, the directors and 2006 reviews in that: anticipate that the Groups current facilities will be cancelled as the the Chairman reviewed the performance of the CEO and each financing arrangements of Thomson Reuters are considered sufficient individual director: to meet the working capital of the combined Group for at least twelve months.
the CEO reviewed the performance of the CFO and the COO: and 1.7.
2 Internal control Dr Annie McKee of the Teleos Leadership Institute facilitated a The board should maintain a sound system of internal control to Board effectiveness review in which the performance of the Board as safeguard shareholders investment and the companys assets.
a whole, of the Board committees, and of the Chairman and the 2006 Combined Code Main Principle C. 2 CEO was considered.
Reuters Group PLC Annual Report 2007 28 Corporate governance The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the companys place to manage significant risks and report to the Audit Committee system of internal control and confirm they have reviewed its approximately four times a year.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness.
In doing so, the Board has taken note of the Guidance assurance procedures annually, including compliance controls, and on Internal Control the Turnbull Guidance 2005 contained in the 2006 reports its findings to the Board.
The Groups external auditors, Combined Code.
The Board confirms that it has a process for  LLP, have audited the financial statements identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the and have reviewed the work of internal auditors and the internal company.
This process, which accords with the Turnbull Guidance control systems to the extent they consider necessary to support their 2005, has been in place for the full financial year and is ongoing.
In 2007 management commissioned a report on Reuters The control system includes: internal control environment from Independent Audit Limited, an independent consultancy.
The Audit Committee was satisfied with the objective setting, risk assessment and monitoring of performance at reports findings.
The Audit Committee also met the internal auditors both strategic and business unit levels though a process known and  LLP to discuss the results of their work.
within the company as mission analysis: Reuters management carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the use of balanced scorecards to track performance against the design and operation of the Groups disclosure controls and targets relating to the financial, business, people and customer procedures.
These are designed to ensure that information required to aspects of the companys business: be disclosed in reports filed under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within the time written policies and control procedures: periods specified in the SECs rules and forms.
Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures monthly reporting to the Board and senior management which, designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the amongst other things, tracks performance against the annual company in the reports that it files under the US Securities Exchange budget: Act of 1934 is accumulated and communicated to the companys management, including its principal executive and principal financial systems to communicate rapidly to appropriate managers or officers, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to directors where appropriate incidents requiring immediate allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
Based on this attention: and evaluation, the CEO and the CFO concluded that the design and operation of these disclosure controls and procedures were effective as review meetings by the CEO and CFO or COO with each GLT member which cover the performance, risks and controls for which at 31 December 2007 to a reasonable assurance level within the meaning of the US federal securities laws.
No changes were made in the GLT member is responsible.
the Groups internal control over financial reporting during the period In a group of the size, complexity and geographical diversity of covered by this report that materially affected, or are reasonably likely Reuters it should be expected that breakdowns in established control to materially affect, the Groups internal control over financial reporting.
There are supporting policies and procedures for reporting and management of control breakdowns.
The Board 1.8 Managements report on internal control considers that the control system is appropriately designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business over financial reporting objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute In accordance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The concept of following report is provided by management in respect of the reasonable assurance recognises that the cost of a control procedure companys internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules should not exceed the expected benefits.
13a15 f and 15d15 f of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Using a common risk management framework throughout Reuters, The management of the Group is responsible for establishing and each of the principal business and functional units summarises the maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the risks that could impede the achievement of its objectives.
The companys internal control over financial reporting is a significant risk, line managers document an overview of the risk, how it process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the is managed and any improvement actions required.
A document reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of the companys called a risk radar is created which sets out the main strategic and financial statements for external purposes in accordance with operational risks that have been identified.
This document is reviewed generally accepted accounting principles.
For more information, see page 11.
The Groups internal control over financial reporting includes those At the year end, before producing the above statement on internal policies and procedures that i pertain to the maintenance of records control in the Annual Report, the CEO and CFO meet with members that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect the transactions of the GLT and others to consider formally the operation and and dispositions of the assets of the Group: ii provide reasonable effectiveness of the companys risk management and financial, assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit operational and compliance internal control systems as well as its preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally disclosure controls and procedures.
This review includes consideration accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of of compliance self-assessment reports from line management and the Group are being made only in accordance with authorisations of covers each of the most significant risks the company faces and how management and directors of the Group: and iii provide reasonable well these are controlled and managed.
The CEO and the CFO report assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised on the results of this review to the Audit Committee and to the Board.
acquisition, use or disposition of the Groups assets that could have a The Disclosure Committee described on page 26 supports the material effect on the financial statements.
process by reviewing disclosure controls and procedures.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial In addition to the management review procedures, the Group reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Projections of any monitors its internal financial control system through a programme of evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that internal audits.
Internal auditors independently review the controls in controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, Reuters Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Corporate governance 29 or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may making recommendations to the Board, for it to put to the deteriorate.
shareholders for their approval, regarding the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor and approving Management assessed the effectiveness of the Groups internal the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor: control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2007, based on the framework set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and the Treadway Commission COSO in Internal Control-Integrated the effectiveness of the audit process and developing and Framework.
Based on that assessment, management concluded that, implementing policy on the engagement of the external auditor to as of 31 December 2007, the Groups internal control over financial supply permissible non-audit services: and reporting was effective.
overseeing the receipt, review and treatment of complaints received  LLP has audited the consolidated financial regarding accounting, internal accounting controls, auditing and statements of the Group for the financial year ended 31 December compliance matters, whether through the companys whistleblower 2007 and the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls over confidential helpline or otherwise.
financial reporting: their report is included herein.
1.10.3 Activities The Committee met seven times in 2007 with the CEO, the CFO, 1.9 Audit Committee and auditors other officers and the auditors attending as required.
The auditors The board should establish formal and transparent arrangements for have unrestricted access to the Audit Committee and met after four of considering how they apply the financial reporting and internal control the 2007 Committee meetings privately with the Committee principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the members, as did the Global Head of Business Assurance.
2006 Combined Code Main Principle C. 3 The Chairman of the Audit Committee meets with the Global Head of Business Assurance and with the external auditors before each Reuters adherence to this principle is described in the Audit Audit Committee meeting.
All members of the Audit Committee Committee report below.
attended every Committee meeting during the year, except for Nandan Nilekani, who was absent from three meetings.
The Committee reports its activities and makes recommendations to the 1.10 Audit Committee report Board.
During 2007 the Committee discharged the responsibilities set 1.10.1 Members out in its terms of reference.
Its activities included: Members of the Committee during 2007 were Dick Olver, Lawton Fitt Chairman, Nandan Nilekani and Ken Olisa.
The Board has formally reviewing the draft annual report and interim statement, determined that the Audit Committee does not at present include a respectively, and associated announcements, focusing on the main member who is an audit committee financial expert, as defined in the areas of judgement and critical accounting policies: Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related SEC rules because the Board considers that none of the members clearly meets all the criteria set reviewing the findings of the external auditors and the report of the out in the relevant definitions nor has the Board identified a member Global Head of Business Assurance on internal audit activities: of the Committee as having recent and relevant financial experience.
However, the Board considers that collectively the members have the reviewing the effectiveness of internal control systems and the risk requisite skills and attributes to enable the Committee properly to management process and considering how those were changing as discharge its responsibilities.
The Company Secretary is secretary to a result of the introduction of centralised back-office functions: the committee.
paying particular attention throughout the year to the work being 1.10.2 Responsibilities undertaken in connection with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Each year, the Audit Committee reviews and, as appropriate, actively Act: engages in the processes for financial reporting, internal control, risk assessment, audit and compliance assurance, the independence of receiving the report of the CEO and the CFO on the processes the companys external auditors and the effectiveness of the followed prior to certification being given by them in connection companys system of accounting, its internal financial controls and the with sections 302, 404 and 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act: internal and external audit functions.
reviewing the external audit strategy and the external auditors The Audit Committees remit, which is set out in its terms of reference, report to the Committee in respect of the annual report and interim includes responsibility for: statement: the oversight responsibilities described in the above paragraph and considering the directors duties under Section 234ZA of the UK for reviewing compliance with laws, regulations, the companys code Companies Act 1985, regarding disclosure of information to the of conduct and policies: companys auditors: approving related party transactions to the extent required under keeping under review the proportion of non-audit fees to audit fees NASDAQ rules: paid to the auditors and giving pre-approval to permissible non-audit work undertaken by the auditors: monitoring the integrity of the companys financial statements and any announcements relating to the companys financial performance reviewing the effectiveness of the internal and external auditors: and reviewing significant financial reporting judgments contained in reviewing the compliance programme, including the whistleblower them: programme: and monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the companys internal reviewing a report on the companys corporate responsibility audit function: activities.
Reuters Group PLC Annual Report 2007 54330 pp001-030.
qxd 19 3 08 13:20 Page 30 30 Corporate governance The Board adopted a code of ethics for the companys CEO and 1.12 D. Relations with shareholders senior financial officers in 2003 revised in 2005, in addition to the There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual companys general code of conduct.
No material amendments to, or understanding of objectives.
The board as a whole has responsibility waivers in respect of, either code were made during 2007.
Copies of for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes the codes are available on request from the Company Secretary and place.
2006 Combined Code Main Principle D. 1 The Committee monitors adherence to the companys auditor The executive directors meet regularly with institutional shareholders independence policy, which prohibits Group entities from engaging and analysts.
Non-executive directors are offered the opportunity the auditors in activities prohibited by the SEC or the US Public to attend meetings with major shareholders and from time to time Company Accounting Oversight Board.
The policy permits the some attend the presentations of the annual results to analysts.
No auditors to be engaged for other services provided the engagement shareholders asked to meet with Dick Olver, the Senior Independent is specifically approved in advance by the Committee or is approved Director, during the year.
by the CFO and meets the detailed criteria of specific pre-approved activities and is notified to the Committee.
However, any services An investor relations department is dedicated to facilitating where the expected level of fees is greater than 150,000 or the communications between the company and its shareholders.
In the expected term is longer than one year, must be approved in advance last three years, Reuters has received several awards for investor by the Committee.
relations, including the IR Magazine award in each of those years for best investor relations in the media sector.
It provides a regular report For details regarding fees paid to the Groups auditors, see note 3 to on investor relations as part of the routine Board report materials.
the financial statements on page 62.
The companys AGM is used as an opportunity to communicate with private investors.
The chairmen of each of the Board committees are The Committee may engage, at the companys expense, independent available to answer questions at the AGM, and all directors are counsel and other advisers as it deems necessary to carry out its expected to attend the AGM.
At the AGM the level of proxies lodged duties.
None was engaged during the year.
on each resolution and the balance for and against the resolution and the number of votes withheld are announced after the resolution has been voted on.
At the 2005 AGM, voting using a poll for all resolutions was introduced to replace voting by a show of hands as the Board considers poll voting gives a better representation of Lawton Fitt shareholders views.
Chairman, Audit Committee 19 March 2008 By order of the Board 1.11 Disclosure of information to the auditors So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that Rosemary Martin the auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given General Counsel and Company Secretary pursuant to section 234ZA of the UK Companies Act 1985.
19 March 2008 Reuters Group PLC Annual Report 2007
