Corporate Governance Report Compliance There were ten Board meetings during 2007.
All directors were The Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2006 the Code present at each meeting.
Where a member of the Board cannot be contains main principles, supporting principles and provisions present at a meeting, he or she receives a copy of the agenda and concerning corporate governance.
This report, together with the the accompanying papers in advance of such meeting and is given Directors Report and the Remuneration Report, provides a summary the opportunity to comment on the matters to be discussed.
of the Groups procedures for applying the main and supporting The names of the members of the Board committees are set out on principles of the Code and the extent to which such principles have pages 53 and 54, together with details of their terms of reference been applied.
The Company is committed to the highest standards and of the meetings held during the year.
The Board committees have of corporate governance and the Groups governance policies are authority to make decisions according to their terms of reference monitored by the Board and kept under constant review.
which can be found online at www.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2007 the Company During the year Rolf Brjesson met with the non executive directors complied with the provisions of the Code with the exception that, three times to discuss Board related issues on a less formal basis.
on appointment in 2004, the Chairman, Rolf Brjesson, was not The Chief Executive Officer was present at two of these meetings.
considered to be independent as he had previously been Chief Their discussions covered areas including Group performance, Executive of the Company.
The Companys major institutional strategy and succession planning.
shareholders were, and continue to be, fully supportive of his The Groups global insurance programme is reviewed annually appointment as Chairman.
and appropriate insurance cover has been obtained to protect the Directors directors and senior management in the event of a claim being The Board brought against any of them in their capacity as directors or officers The Boards primary role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Company or its subsidiaries.
and to develop and implement a coherent long term strategy for the Group.
Its other roles are to supervise management, to maintain Chairman and Chief Executive Officer control over the Groups assets and to establish high ethical Rexam has a non executive Chairman and a Chief Executive Officer.
standards of behaviour, together with developing robust corporate There is a clear division of responsibility between the positions, with governance and risk management practices and procedures.
the Chairman responsible for the running of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer responsible for the executive management of the The Board monitors the performance of management and aims to Company and the running of the Groups businesses.
ensure that the strategy, policies and procedures adopted are not The written job specifications for the roles of Chairman, Chief only in the long term interest of shareholders but also meet the needs Executive Officer as well as that of the senior independent director, of Rexams customers, employees, suppliers and the local are reviewed annually by the Nomination Committee.
communities in which Rexam operates.
Matters referred to the Board are considered by the Board as a Rolf Brjesson spends, on average, two days per week in his role as whole and no one individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
He is also Chairman of Ahlsell AB, and a non executive There are well documented procedures and controls, including a director of Avery Dennison Corporation and Svenska Cellulosa AB.
formal schedule of matters that requires the Boards specific approval The Board considers that his external directorships do not make and which is reviewed annually.
This provides the framework for the conflicting demands on his time as Chairman.
decisions to be taken by the Board and those which can be Rolf Brjesson will step down as Chairman of the Company on delegated to committees of the Board or senior management.
1 May 2008 at the conclusion of the AGM 2008 and it is proposed that Peter Ellwood, who was appointed as a non executive director Schedule of matters reserved for the Board and Chairman Designate on 1 February 2008, will succeed Rolf Board appointments and removals.
Peter Ellwood was Chairman of Imperial Chemical The appointment and removal of principal advisors and external Industries PLC ICI until ICI was acquired by Akzo Nobel NV at the auditors.
Prior to that, he was Group Chief Executive of Lloyds TSB Group plc.
Peter Ellwood is Chairman of the Royal Parks Changes to the Groups management and control structure.
Charitable Foundation and it has been announced by Akzo Nobel The Groups strategy, including the acquisition and disposal that, subject to shareholder approval, he will be appointed to the of businesses.
Supervisory Board of Akzo Nobel NV on 22 April 2008.
The Board considers that these other appointments will not make conflicting Matters relating to the Companys share listing.
demands on his time as Chairman.
Peter Ellwood has extensive High level financial decisions.
experience of strategic business issues and is an experienced chairman with international business and leadership experience All capital expenditure projects over 10m or any capital that will complement and further strengthen the Board.
expenditure project which, regardless of the amount, does not meet the Groups financial criteria.
Further details on internal control are set out on pages 50 and 51.
Rexam Annual Report 2007 47 Corporate Governance Report Carl Symon is the senior independent director and is available to talk All new Board appointments are conducted through a formal, to shareholders if they have any issues or concerns.
He is Chairman rigorous and transparent procedure between the Group Director, of HMV Group plc and the BT Group Equality of Access Board, and Human Resources, the Nomination Committee and the Board.
The a non executive director of BT Group plc and Rolls-Royce Group plc.
Committee has responsibility for succession planning and, in doing The Board considers that his external directorships do not make so, identifies through the management review process any internal conflicting demands on his time as senior independent director.
people whose skills, experience and contribution to the Group would potentially benefit the Board.
The Committee reviews membership Leslie Van fide Walle was appointed an executive director on of the Board on a regular basis and will discuss possible internal 17 January 2007 and succeeded Lars Emilson as Chief Executive candidates and Board positions with the Group Director, Human Officer of the Company on 1 February 2007.
Leslie Van fide Walles Resources.
If it is decided that an internal rather than an external career summary can be found on page 43 and the Board believes appointment would be in the best interests of the Board, the that his global experience in beverage and food retail along with his Committee meets with the prospective candidates who are then international business to business background is of great value as considered and, if appropriate, one is recommended to the Board Rexam continues its strategy for growth and leadership in its chosen for approval.
Leslie Van fide Walle is a non executive director of Aegis Group plc and the Board believes that this external directorship does For the appointment of external candidates to the Board, the not make conflicting demands on his time as Chief Executive Officer.
Nomination Committee instructs and works alongside recruitment consultants to evaluate and meet prospective candidates who are Board balance and independence then considered and, if appropriate, are recommended to the Board Throughout the year the Company has had a balance of for approval.
The process leading to the appointments of Leslie Van independent non executive directors on the Board and has therefore fide Walle and Peter Ellwood were conducted in this way.
complied with the relevant provisions of the Code.
Following the appointment of Peter Ellwood, and the process The Chairman, Rolf Brjesson, was not considered to be conducted in 2006 to recruit additional non executive directors, independent at the date of his appointment as he had previously Rexam has a Board which is diverse and cross cultural, representing been Chief Executive of the Company.
Peter Ellwood was the views and experience of a varied group of people.
independent on his appointment as a non executive director.
Information and professional development Board balance 31.12.07 20.02.08 For each scheduled Board meeting the Chairman and the Company Chairman with no executive responsibilities 1 1 Secretary ensure that, during the week before the meeting, the Non executive directors excluding Chairman 5 6 directors receive a copy of the agenda for the meeting, Group and business financial and operating information to ensure that they are Executive directors 4 4 properly apprised of the Groups current performance and The Board works as a team, but independence of thought and information on any other matter which is to be referred to the Board approach is encouraged.
Directors of different nationalities with for consideration.
The directors also have access to the Company international business backgrounds have been appointed as a Secretary for any further information they require.
In the months where majority of Rexams activities are overseas.
Influence is balanced there is no scheduled Board meeting, the directors receive the prior within the Board by virtue of the strong independent elements of month and cumulative Group and business financial and operating a non executive senior independent director and a further five non information.
If there is any urgent business to be considered in these executive directors whose skills and wide international business months and the subject of the business can be communicated by a experience are invaluable in constructively challenging and written paper, the Board may be asked to give their approval using developing the Groups strategy and direction.
The Board is aware the written resolution procedure as permitted by the Companys of the other commitments of the non executive directors and considers Articles of Association Articles.
that these commitments do not conflict with their duties as directors All newly appointed directors participate in an extensive internal of the Company.
induction programme that introduces the director to the Group A biography of each member of the Board and details of their other and includes visiting various Group businesses.
Newly appointed directorships are given on page 43. directors, in particular those who have not previously held a directorship in a UK listed company, are given external training The Board evaluates the membership of its individual Board which focuses on their role on the Board.
During 2007 Noreen committees on an annual basis and aims to ensure that the principal Doyle, Jean-Pierre Rodier, Wolfgang Meusburger and Leslie Van committees have different non executive directors as their chairman.
fide Walle participated in a professional development programme Appointments to the Board facilitated by an external consultant which focused on the role and Recommendations for appointments to the Board are the effectiveness of a director, the role of the Board and the legal responsibility of the Nomination Committee.
The majority of the responsibilities of a director.
The Company Secretary gives guidance members of the Committee are independent non executive directors.
on Board procedures and corporate governance.
All directors The Committee regularly reviews and considers the ongoing receive ongoing training and members of the Committees receive membership of the Board, sets job descriptions and objective criteria specific updates in matters that are relevant to their role.
For for Board and senior executive appointments and succession example, members of the Audit Committee have received information planning.
The terms of reference set out more fully the responsibilities on the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
of this Committee and can be found online at www.
48 Rexam Annual Report 2007 The Chairman arranges for the directors to visit at least one of the Election and re-election of directors Groups business locations and customer sites each year to ensure Article 57 of the Articles states that a director should be proposed for that their technical knowledge, skills and familiarity with the Groups election if he or she has been appointed to the Board since the date operations are updated and maintained.
During 2007, the Board of the last AGM, or proposed for re-election if he or she has held visited the Dispensing and Pharma businesses in Le Trport, France office for more than 30 months at the date of the notice convening and the Beverage Cans business in Russia, including the recently the next AGM.
The Board ensures that each executive and non acquired Rostar plant in St Petersburg.
Additionally, members of executive director be required to submit himself or herself for the senior management team with responsibility for the Groups re-election by shareholders at least every three years.
businesses make periodic presentations at Board meetings about their Non executive directors serve the Company under letters of businesses, performance, suppliers, customers, markets and strategy.
appointment which are generally for an initial three year term.
The Company Secretary, who is appointed by the Board, is On appointment, an undertaking is requested from the non executive responsible for ensuring compliance with Board procedures.
This director to ensure that he or she has sufficient time to fulfil his or her includes taking minutes of the Board meetings and the recording role on the Board.
The continued appointment of any non executive of any concerns relating to the running of the Company or proposed director who has served on the Board for a period in excess of nine actions arising therefrom that are expressed by a director in a Board years will be subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
The Company Secretary is also secretary to the Audit, executive directors letters of appointment are available for inspection Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Under the direction at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
of the Chairman, he is responsible for the communication of relevant The Board will only recommend to shareholders that executive information between the Board and the senior management team.
and non executive directors be proposed for election or re-election The Company Secretary is available to give ongoing advice to all at an AGM, in accordance with the Articles, after evaluating the directors on Board procedures, corporate governance and regulatory performance of the individual director.
At the AGM 2008, the compliance.
Should a director reasonably request independent following directors are being recommended by the Board and professional advice to carry out his or her duties, such advice is will be proposed for election or re-election: made available at the Companys expense.
Name Director AGM 2008 Performance evaluation Peter Ellwood Non executive Election In 2006 the Board experienced various changes following the retirement and appointment of non executive directors and the Bill Barker Executive Re-election appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer.
The Chairman of Peter Ellwood is being recommended for election at the AGM 2008 the Board and the Group Director, Human Resources, undertook a as the Board believes that he is an experienced chairman with performance evaluation of the Board and its members during 2007. international business and leadership experience that will For the first time they were assisted by an external evaluator in order complement the Board.
to help ensure that the evaluation process was sufficiently rigorous and unbiased.
The directors completed evaluation forms on the basis Bill Barker is being recommended for re-election at the AGM 2008 shown below.
following a performance evaluation which confirmed his comprehensive knowledge of the beverage can industry and market.
Senior Non His international leadership skills are important to the Board and key independent executive Executive Chairman director directors directors to the continued development of the Group.
Chairman Remuneration Board Level and make up of directors remuneration Board committees The following sections on directors remuneration should be read in conjunction with the Remuneration Report.
The external evaluator carried out a review of the completed evaluation forms and reported the results of the evaluation process The Board recognises the importance of executive directors to the Board.
The Board discussed the results and confirmed their remuneration not only to motivate and retain the individuals continuing satisfaction with the effectiveness of the directors concerned, but also in the wider context both within the Group and contribution and commitment, and of the Board and Board in comparable geographic and business areas.
In addition to basic Committees as a whole.
It was agreed that the evaluation process salary, benefits in kind and retirement benefits, executive directors had been both constructive and informative.
remuneration is composed of both short term and long term elements that are related to Group and business performance.
There is also Whilst the most recent review did not identify any significant issues a requirement in accordance with their contracts of employment for of concern, some areas for development and improvement were executive directors to build up shareholdings in the Company raised and it was agreed that the Chairman and Carl Symon, in his following the exercise of share options to encourage them to align capacity as senior independent director, would meet individually with their interests with those of shareholders.
other members of the Board to discuss the results and specific areas for development and improvement.
Fees for non executive directors are determined having regard to current market practice and the time spent on Rexams behalf.
A full performance evaluation of the Board will continue to be They are not required to hold shares in the Company and do not conducted annually.
participate in any incentive or share option schemes.
Information as to directors basic salary or fees, benefits in kind, short and long term incentive arrangements and retirement benefits is disclosed in the Remuneration Report.
Rexam Annual Report 2007 49 Corporate Governance Report Policy for directors remuneration ARC meetings also include a detailed review of the results of internal The Remuneration Committee, which is chaired by the senior audit activity covering the financial controls and risks as well as the independent director, consists of independent non executive physical risks health, safety and environment of all operations in directors and determines remuneration levels and specific packages the Group.
The results of this process are reported to the Audit appropriate for each executive director, taking into account the Committee by the Finance Director, Company Secretary and the Groups annual salary negotiations.
No director is permitted to be Head of Internal Audit providing an opportunity for that Committee present when his own remuneration is being discussed, nor to vote to discuss and analyse the risks reported.
The process of internal on his own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee considers risk monitoring is regularly reviewed by the Board to ensure its that the procedures in place provide a level of remuneration for the continuing effectiveness.
directors which is both appropriate for the individuals concerned Details of the main risks encountered by the Group are included and in the best interest of shareholders.
The remuneration of the Chairman is determined by the Remuneration All directors are responsible for establishing and maintaining an Committee the Chairman absenting himself from the discussions and effective system of internal control.
Whilst all elements of risk cannot vote and non executive directors fees are recommended by the be eliminated, the system aims to identify, assess, prioritise and, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and approved by the Board.
where possible, mitigate the Groups risks.
Although no system Accountability and audit of internal control can provide absolute assurance against material Financial reporting misstatement or loss, the Groups systems are designed to provide The intention of the Annual Report and the Interim Report is to provide the Board with reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded, a clear assessment of the performance and prospects of Rexam.
The transactions are properly authorised and recorded and that material Company prepares an Annual Report, in which, following their annual errors and irregularities are either prevented or detected within a audit, the Companys auditor includes an independent report to timely period.
The Interim Report includes a review report to the During 2007 the Group authority levels and related financial limits Company prepared by the Companys auditor.
were updated and collated into one document which included The Annual Report contains a Business Review which summarises the information on those matters that are specifically reserved for the Groups business strategy, objectives, strategic risks and financial and Boards consideration.
The Business Review can be found on The Board, in reliance upon the detailed work performed by pages 14 to 41. the Audit Committee, confirms that it carried out a review of the Internal control and risk management effectiveness of the system of internal control which operated within There is an ongoing process which has continued during 2007 the Group during 2007 in accordance with the requirements of the and up to the date of this report for identifying, evaluating, managing, Code and the revised guidance issued in October 2005 Internal monitoring and reporting the risks faced by the Group.
This formal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull process, managed through Audit and Risk Committee ARC Report.
The Board will continue to carry out such reviews on an meetings, is the responsibility of all of the Groups businesses and annual basis.
This review covers all controls, namely financial, is overseen by the Finance Director and Head of Internal Audit.
ARC operational, compliance and risk management.
In order to discharge meetings are held with management to review the results of their its responsibilities in this regard the Board has established and internal risk assessments and such meetings include the continuing regularly reviews the procedures necessary to implement the internal evaluation and development of the process for reviewing the control requirements of the Code.
effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control which includes The framework which the Board has established with a view to all aspects concerning financial, environmental, social and providing effective internal control to both the Group and its joint governance related matters.
venture partnerships is supported by the following key areas: Risk register forms are used to give more detailed reporting of the Financial reporting methodology used to quantify the risks identified, trend analysis and The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial results the use of key performance indicators KPIs to help measure and to the Board.
An annual budget and strategic review are prepared assess the benefits of mitigation steps taken to minimise and manage for each business and are consolidated for review by the Board the risks.
The process was further refined in 2007 and, following before being formally adopted.
During the year, monthly the individual sector ARC meetings, the risk profile of the Group management accounts, including cash flow and capital expenditure was reviewed in detail by senior management to ensure that risks reporting, are prepared with a comparison against budget and prior were not just the product of a bottom up approach but were also year.
Forecasts are revised in the light of this comparison and also examined from a top down perspective and closely aligned with reviewed by the Board.
The process will continue to be refined in 2008 to ensure that the Group has a robust, enterprise wide risk management process.
50 Rexam Annual Report 2007 Responsibility In 2007 the internal audit function and its performance, effectiveness There are clearly defined lines of responsibility and levels of authority and relationship with the Companys external auditor was assessed in operation throughout the Group, with specific matters reserved to by the Audit Committee and a report made to the Board.
Businesses are decentralised with operating autonomy assessment included a survey of internal audits performance carried and financial responsibility delegated to corporate and local out by both the Audit Committee and the businesses.
The Head of management to the extent that they have approval to operate within Internal Audit produced a report for the Audit Committee outlining the defined levels of authority and risk.
role and focus of internal audit.
The report included suggestions for further improvements to the function and the balance of internal Procedures and controls audits work in providing assurance to the Committee and Group There are formal written Group financial procedures and controls in management and overall support for the Groups businesses.
operation, including specific procedures for treasury matters and the approval of significant contracts.
Corporate and local management During 2007, the Committee met independently with the Companys are required to complete year end and half year representation letters external auditor to discuss informally matters of interest.
The Chairman formally confirming that their businesses comply with the Groups of the Committee also had meetings with the Head of Internal Audit financial reporting policies and other Group policies and procedures.
without any other member of management being present.
Internal audit The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, which are reviewed An internal audit function monitors the accounting and financial annually, set out more fully the responsibilities of the Committee and risks faced throughout the Group and the control systems in operation can be found online at www.
The performance and to manage these.
The internal audit findings are reported to the effectiveness of the Committee is reviewed as part of the main Audit Committee.
performance appraisal of the Board and all its Committees.
Physical risk management The Committee meets at least four times a year with representatives An internal risk management function together with operational of the Companys external auditor.
At the request of the Committees management are responsible for monitoring the processes within Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, Finance Director and Head of the Group which identify, evaluate and manage the significant Internal Audit attend for part of each meeting.
The first meeting within health, safety and environmental risks faced by Group businesses.
the annual audit cycle is to consider the nature and scope of the All businesses have adopted an externally verified system of auditing audit and to consider any additional special reviews that may be and assessing the ability of their operations to identify, measure, necessary.
Further meetings are held prior to the approval of the reduce, control and review these physical risks.
The results of these interim results and the final results to consider the annual audit, any audits are reported upon and reviewed by local management, special reviews undertaken, the business risks facing the Group and corporate management and the Audit Committee in order to ensure findings from the ARC meetings.
that appropriate action plans are developed and implemented.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing in detail the Annual Audit Committee and Auditor Report and Interim Report and all other published financial The Board has delegated responsibility to the Audit Committee information for statutory and regulatory compliance with a view to for reviewing an effective system of internal control and compliance, their recommendation and submission to the Board.
The Committee accurate external financial reporting, fulfilling its obligations under reports its findings on the audit process and on the wider aspects law and the Code, and managing the relationship with the of internal control to the Board.
Additionally, the Group Director, Companys external auditor.
The Committee members comprise Physical Risk and Head of Internal Audit meet with the Committee to independent non executive directors.
Michael Buzzacott succeeded review and discuss the risk management policy and the commercial, David Tucker as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 3 May 2007 physical and financial control risks faced by the Group.
and the Board is satisfied that Michael Buzzacott, a qualified The Committee has primary responsibility and advises the Board accountant who has held a number of senior financial positions at on the appointment, re-appointment and the remuneration of the BP p. l. c. has recent and relevant financial experience to enable the Companys external auditor.
 LLP PwC duties of the Committee to be fully discharged.
Noreen Doyle, who has been the Companys external auditor since 2003.
During 2007, is chairman of the Finance Committee, is also a member of the the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys external Committee and has extensive financial experience gained from her auditor and has recommended to the Board that a resolution to role as First Vice President of the European Bank for Reconstruction & re-appoint PwC be proposed at the AGM 2008.
The Committee will Development before her retirement in 2005.
Should it be requested, continue to keep under review the independence and objectivity of the Committee has access to independent expert advice at the the Companys external auditor and, as the current lead audit partner Companys expense.
has been in the role since 2003, a new lead audit partner is to be The Committee approves the appointment of the Head of Internal appointed for the Groups 2008 audit.
The annual programme of internal audit assignments is reviewed and approved by the Committee which also ensures that the involvement of the internal and external auditors is co-ordinated.
Rexam Annual Report 2007 51 Corporate Governance Report The policy on the provision of non audit services by the Companys Annual General Meeting external auditor determines the procedures for the pre-approval of The principal communication with private shareholders is through such services and the fees paid for those services.
The scope and the Annual Report, the Interim Report and the AGM which is held extent of non audit work undertaken by the Companys external at a central London location.
The notice of the AGM is posted to auditor is monitored by and, above certain thresholds, requires prior shareholders with, if requested, the Annual Report and any related approval from the Committee to ensure that the provision of the non papers at least twenty working days before the date of the AGM to audit services does not impair their independence or objectivity.
ensure that shareholders have sufficient time in which to consider the The Companys external auditor is prohibited from providing services items of business to be approved.
All shareholder documents can be to the Company that would be considered to jeopardise its viewed online at www.
com and, during 2007, shareholders independence such as financial systems design and implementation, were asked to elect whether they would prefer to view shareholder actuarial services, internal audit outsourcing services and investment documents online or receive a paper copy by post.
A presentation is made at the AGM to facilitate awareness of the The Committee also reviews the Companys external auditors Groups activities.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to ask reports on accounting and control matters, the Companys statement questions of the Board and the Chairman of each Board committee on internal control systems and, if requested to do so, the annual during the AGM and meet all the directors informally after the AGM.
financial statements of certain Group pension plans.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each item of business and the for, against and vote withheld proxy votes cast in respect of each Shareholder relations resolution proposed at the AGM are counted and announced after Dialogue with private and institutional shareholders the shareholders present have voted on each resolution.
A summary The Board believes that good communication with shareholders of the number of proxy votes cast in respect of each resolution is is a priority.
There are programmes for the Chief Executive Officer, available to shareholders at the conclusion of the AGM and can Finance Director and the newly appointed Head of Investor Relations be viewed online at www.
Following the AGM 2007, to meet with the Companys investors in the UK, US and Europe and a summary of the questions and answers raised at the Meeting was presentations are made on the operating and financial performance posted on the Companys website.
An announcement confirming of the Group, including corporate governance related matters, and whether each resolution was passed at the AGM is made through the Groups longer term strategy.
Roadshows are held in the UK, the London Stock Exchange.
US and Europe following the announcement of the final and interim results.
If it is not possible to arrange face to face meetings, meetings Financial and other information is available online in the Investors are held by telephone conference.
The presentations made to section at www.
representatives of the investment community following the American Depositary Receipts ADR Program announcement of the final and interim results are available online at On 21 November 2007 the Companys ADRs transferred to www.
com, as is a webcast of the related results presentation.
a Level 1 ADR Over-the-Counter Program Pink Sheets.
The ADR The non executive directors are given regular updates as to the quotation on the Nasdaq Stock Market Nasdaq was withdrawn views of institutional shareholders.
During 2007 a detailed report pending expiration of its grandfathered status which had previously on investor views and comments about the Company was presented exempted the Company from registration requirements under the US to the Board by a third party researcher and provided a helpful Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Exchange Act and the Sarbanesplatform for discussion.
A summary report on investor response is Oxley Act.
Had Rexam remained on Nasdaq, it would have had prepared for the Board, normally by the Companys brokers, after to register before 1 August 2009 under the Exchange Act and the investor meetings held following the announcement of the final thereafter comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as well as the and interim results.
periodic reporting requirements under the Exchange Act, resulting in additional compliance and administrative costs.
The Chairman and senior independent director are available to meet with institutional shareholders should there be unresolved matters Rexams ADR investors have been able to continue to deal in that such shareholders believe should be brought to their attention.
the ADRs through standard broker channels.
Further information The non executive directors meet with shareholders at the AGM on the ADR Program can be found on the depositarys website, and may attend analyst presentations made by the Chief Executive www.
com or on the Pink Sheets electronic trading market, Officer and Finance Director following the final and interim results www.
Institutional shareholders may request an opportunity to meet with a newly appointed non executive director.
The Board fully supports the principle of the Code which seeks to encourage more active interest and contribution from institutional shareholders.
52 Rexam Annual Report 2007 Corporate responsibility All concerns reported are investigated at the earliest opportunity During 2006 the Group reviewed its reporting of environmental, by the Head of Internal Audit, in conjunction with the Company social and governance policies and performance and created a Secretary and, if appropriate, by management of the respective comprehensive Corporate Responsibility CR section on its website, business.
The majority of all such calls received, due to their nature, www.
The website gives access to policy documents, are normally handled by sector HR management to investigate and case studies and facts and figures underlining Rexams involvement resolve and the actions taken are reported to Group management.
and commitment in this area.
The Group has identified six main The Head of Internal Audit provides an update on all calls received, areas the environment, our people, the community, our suppliers, and the action taken to resolve them, to the Audit Committee on a emerging markets and governance as the basis of its CR quarterly basis.
Any significant concerns would be reported directly programme going forward.
to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The helpline provider was reviewed in 2007 by the Head of Internal Historically, and underpinning its approach to CR, Rexam has Audit and some procedural improvements were made to increase the a longstanding set of environmental management programmes efficiency in passing the reports from the helpline provider to Rexam.
and policies in place and is committed to the protection of the environment and the minimisation of the environmental impact The Committee annually evaluates and reviews the whistle blowing of its operations and products.
Additionally, the social impacts policy and process.
of its business on employees, surrounding communities, suppliers, Going concern customers and other stakeholders, and its responsibilities towards The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, are satisfied society in general have the highest priority.
The continuing focus that Rexam PLC and the Group have adequate resources to continue by institutional investors, the Government, charitable institutions and in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the media on CR encompassing social, environmental and ethical they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the issues is acknowledged by the Board.
Further information on the Groups initiatives and commitment to CR can be found in the Corporate Responsibility section of the Business Committees of the Board and main terms of reference Review and online in the CR section of the Rexam website, In addition to regular scheduled Board meetings, the Company www.
operates through various Board committees.
The Chief Executive Officers Committee, whose members are the Chief Executive Officer Code of employee and business conduct and any two other directors, has responsibility to approve certain A worldwide code of conduct, which applies to all the Companys matters above established financial limits other than those specifically employees, has been agreed with the Board and provides a clear reserved for the Board.
The other committees and their main terms statement for the benefit of stakeholders involved with or impacted of reference are set out below.
The code of conduct continues to be Membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees is restricted communicated through the new starter induction process, as part to the independent non executive directors.
Where applicable, the of the team briefings in the Groups businesses, and on the Groups date during 2007 on which a member was appointed to or resigned intranet and website.
The Board is kept informed regarding the from a committee is given.
maintenance of the code of conduct.
Whistle blowing policy Audit Committee Employees are encouraged to raise any concerns that they have Michael Buzzacott Chairman of Committee directly with their local management and Rexam promotes an open Appointed 3 May 2007 culture whereby employees have an opportunity to discuss matters Noreen Doyle that are of concern.
Rexam also recognises that there will be times Carl Symon when an employee might not be comfortable with raising a concern David Tucker Retired 3 May 2007 directly with local management and offers a cascade approach through sector and Group management.
The main terms of reference of this committee are set out in the section Audit Committee and Auditor on pages 51 and 52.
The Rexams whistle blowing policy is supported by an external Committee met four times in 2007 and all members of the Committee confidential telephone helpline, available to all employees for the in office at the date of each meeting were present.
submission of any concerns, including those of a financial nature.
The telephone helpline, known as Raise Your Concern, has been Finance Committee beneficial as an independent point of contact for employees and, Noreen Doyle Chairman of Committee if requested, the anonymity of the employee is maintained.
During Appointed 3 May 2007 2007 there were 28 concerns logged and investigated, raising Rolf Brjesson matters, in the majority of cases, related to local business issues and Michael Buzzacott practices concerning the Groups code of conduct, none of which Jon Drown Director Group Treasury related to fraud.
Lars Emilson Retired 1 February 2007 David Robbie David Tucker Retired 3 May 2007 Leslie Van fide Walle Appointed 17 January 2007 Rexam Annual Report 2007 53 Corporate Governance Report The main terms of reference of this committee are to oversee and Retirement Benefits Committee report to the Board on financial risk management strategy, policy David Tucker Chairman of Committee and treasury transactional matters.
Additionally, the Committee assists Bill Barker the Board in reviewing and approving major financial transactions, Roger Bellis Group Director, Human Resources including currency exposures and interest rate management.
The Appointed 11 December 2007 Committee holds at least two scheduled formal meetings each year Frank Brown Director of US Administration with full attendance to discuss matters of policy.
Additional meetings Peter Moxom Retired 30 April 2007 are held during the year as necessary for which the quorum is three David Robbie members, one of whom must be either the Finance Director or the Director Group Treasury.
In 2007, the Committee held six formal The main terms of reference of this committee are to review meetings and also met several times each month for routine business.
and make recommendations to the Board on the Groups retirement All members of the Committee in office at the date of each formal and post retirement benefit arrangements including the control and meeting were present.
It considers and reviews external advice received in respect of investment strategy, global asset Nomination Committee allocation and funding levels.
The Committee met three times in Rolf Brjesson Chairman of Committee 2007 and all members of the Committee in office at the date of Michael Buzzacott Resigned 3 May 2007 each meeting were present.
David Tucker continued in his role as Noreen Doyle Chairman of this committee following his retirement as a non Lars Emilson Retired 1 February 2007 executive director of Rexam PLC.
Wolfgang Meusburger Appointed 3 May 2007 Jean-Pierre Rodier Share Options Committee David Tucker Retired 3 May 2007 Any director Carl Symon David Gibson Company Secretary Jennifer Smith Deputy Company Secretary The main terms of reference of this committee are to review regularly the structure, size and composition of the Board and make The main terms of reference of this committee are to grant options recommendations to the Board on the role and nomination of to employees over ordinary shares in the Company under the savings directors for appointment to the Board, Board committees and as related share option schemes and to allot shares under the savings holders of any executive office.
The Committee is also responsible related share option schemes and the executive share option for assessing the role of the Chairman and making appropriate schemes.
recommendations to the Board, and assisting the Chairman with the A Chairman is elected at each meeting and the quorum is two annual performance evaluation to assess the overall and individual members, one of whom must be a director.
The Committee met performance and effectiveness of the Board and Board Committees.
The Committee met twice in 2007 and all members of the Committee in office at the date of each meeting were present, with the exception of the May meeting when Noreen Doyle was unable to attend.
She received a copy of the agenda and the papers for the meeting and commented in advance of the meeting.
Rolf Brjesson did not attend the May meeting as the agenda item was succession planning for the role of Chairman of the Board.
Remuneration Committee Carl Symon Chairman of Committee Michael Buzzacott Wolfgang Meusburger Appointed 3 May 2007 Jean-Pierre Rodier David Tucker Retired 3 May 2007 The main terms of reference of this committee are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 55.
The Committee met seven times in 2007 and all members of the Committee in office at the date of each meeting were present.
