qxd 11 7 07 11:56 am Page 36 36 ASHTEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The revised Combined Code on corporate governance was published in July role includes, but is not restricted to, implementing Board decisions, 2003 by the Financial Reporting Council the 2003 FRC Code following a delegating responsibility, and reporting to the Board regarding the conduct, review of the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors by Sir Derek activities and performance of the Group.
The chief executive chairs the Higgs and a review of audit committees by a group led by Sir Robert Smith.
Sunbelt, A-Plant and Ashtead Technology board meetings and sets policies and direction to maximise returns to shareholders.
The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
The Board recognises that it is accountable to the Companys All directors are responsible under the law for the proper conduct of the shareholders for corporate governance and this statement describes how Companys affairs.
The directors are also responsible for ensuring that the the Company has applied the relevant principles of the 2003 FRC Code.
strategies proposed by the executive directors are discussed in detail and assessed critically to ensure they conform with the long-term interests of The Company complied throughout the year with the provisions of the shareholders and are compatible with the interests of employees, 2003 FRC Code on corporate governance except that the composition customers and suppliers.
The Board has reserved to itself those matters, of the Board and sub-committees did not comply with the independence which reinforce its control of the Company.
These include treasury policy, provisions as described below.
Following recent changes to the Board, it acquisitions and disposals, appointment and removal of directors or the and its sub-committees are now in compliance with the FRC Code 2003. company secretary, appointment and removal of the auditors and approval of the annual accounts.
THE BOARD The Companys Board comprises the non-executive chairman, the chief Regular reports and briengs are provided to the Board, by the executive executive, the finance director, the executive heads of Sunbelt and A-Plant, directors and the company secretary, to ensure the directors are suitably the senior independent non-executive director and three other nonbriefed to full their roles.
The Board normally meets six times a year and executive directors.
Short biographies of the directors are given on page 33. there is contact between meetings to advance the Companys activities.
It is the Boards usual practice to meet at least annually at the ofces of The chairman undertakes leadership of the Board by agreeing Board Sunbelt and A-Plant.
The directors also have access to the company agendas and encourages its effectiveness by the provision of timely, secretary and are able to seek independent advice at the Companys accurate and clear information on all aspects of the Groups business expense.
to enable the Board to take sound decisions and promote the success of the business.
The chairman, assisted by other directors, reviews the The Boards terms of reference are available for inspection at the Annual effectiveness of each member of the Board no less than annually and General Meeting.
facilitates constructive relationships between the executive and nonexecutive directors through both formal and informal meetings.
All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment and to re-election thereafter The chairman ensures that all directors are briefed properly to enable them at intervals of no more than three years.
Non-executive directors are to discharge their duties effectively.
All newly appointed directors undertake appointed for specified terms not exceeding three years and are subject to an induction to all parts of the Groups business.
Additionally, detailed re-election and the provision of the Companies Act relating to the removal management accounts are sent monthly to all Board members and, in of a director.
advance of all Board meetings, an agenda and appropriate documentation in respect of each item to be discussed is circulated.
In accordance with the Companys articles of association, Mr Dhaiwal, Mr Etheridge and Mr Iceton will offer themselves for retirement and The chairman facilitates effective communication with shareholders re-election to the Board at the next Annual General Meeting.
As this will through both the Annual General Meeting and by individual meetings be the first Annual General Meeting since their appointment to the Board, with major shareholders to develop an understanding of the views of the Mr Burrow and Mr Edwards will also offer themselves for election.
He also ensures that shareholders have access to other directors, including non-executive directors, as appropriate.
NEW CHIEF EXECUTIVE Mr Drabbles selection as the Groups new chief executive was announced The chief executives role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the in June 2006.
Prior to his appointment the Nomination Committee led an Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls, which enables extensive search, considering both internal and external candidates for the risk to be assessed and managed.
The chief executive undertakes the role in the light of Mr Burnetts decision to retire at the end of December leadership and responsibility for the direction and management of the day- 2006.
This search was supported by an external search rm and resulted in to-day business and conduct of the Group.
In doing so, the chief executives the conclusion that Mr Drabble was the candidate best suited for the position.
qxd 11 7 07 11:56 am Page 37 37 ASHTEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS PERFORMANCE EVALUATION During the last year the composition of the Board did not comply with The performance of the chairman, the chief executive, the Board and the requirement of the FRC Code that at least half the Board, excluding its committees is evaluated, amongst other things, against their respective the chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors.
role proles and terms of reference.
The executive directors are evaluated In addition, for a short period following his appointment as chairman, additionally against the agreed budget for the generation of revenue, profit and whilst he was interim chairman, Mr Cole was a member of the and value to shareholders.
Following the retirement as a director of Mr Lovegrove on 30 April 2007 and the appointment of The evaluation of the chairman, the Board and its committees was Mr Edwards as a director on 8 June 2007, the Board and sub-committee conducted by way of a questionnaire completed by all of the directors, composition is in compliance with the FRC Code 2003. the results of which were collated by the company secretary and presented to the entire board.
Based on this evaluation, the Board In the recruitment of non-executive directors, it is the Groups practice to concluded that performance in the past year had been satisfactory.
utilise the services of an external search consultancy and this was the case with the selection of Mr Burrow and Mr Edwards who were engaged BOARD COMMITTEES following an extensive search for individuals with relevant financial and Audit Committee operational experience.
The Audit Committee comprises Mr Etheridge chairman, Mr Iceton and Mr Burrow who was appointed on 1 March 2007.
In accordance with the An external search consultancy was not, however, used in the recruitment recommendation of the Smith Committee, the Companys non-executive of the chairman.
Following the untimely death of the Groups previous chairman, Mr Cole, is not a member of the Audit Committee and stepped chairman the Board accepted the recommendation of the Nomination down from the committee following his appointment as chairman.
By Committee that Chris Cole, the Groups senior independent non-executive invitation, the Groups finance director, Mr Robson, and its director of director since September 2003 be appointed as interim chairman with financial reporting, Mr Pratt, normally attend the committees meetings, effect from October 2006.
After giving the matter due consideration and as do representatives of our internal and external auditors.
Other directors having worked with Mr Cole in his capacity as non-executive director since are usually also invited to be present if available.
January 2002 and latterly as interim chairman, the Board took the view that considering Mr Coles long-term knowledge of the Groups business As is required by its terms of reference, the Audit Committee meets on and his experience as chief executive of an international plc he had both at least four occasions each year to review the draft quarterly and annual the knowledge and breadth of experience required to full the role as financial statements prior to their publication, to consider the key Group chairman.
Having satisfied itself that Mr Cole could devote the accounting estimates and judgements contained therein and to consider requisite time to the role of chairman the Board, supported by the reports from both the internal and external auditors which include audit Nomination Committee, concluded that no advantage would be gained plans and the key findings of their work.
The Audit Committee also keeps by utilising the services of an external search agency in searching for other the Groups accounting policies under review, evaluates the effectiveness candidates with this experience and instead determined to appoint Mr Cole of the Groups internal controls and financial reporting policies and is as chairman.
responsible for dealing with any matter brought to its attention by the auditors.
The Audit Committee also keeps under review the effectiveness of Before appointment, non-executive directors are required to assure the both internal and external audit as well as the independence of the external Board that they can give the time commitment necessary to full properly auditors including the type of, and associated fees for, non-audit services.
their duties, both in terms of availability to attend meetings and discuss matters on the telephone and meeting preparation time.
The nonThe principal non-audit fees paid to the Companys auditors, Deloitte & executives letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Touche LLP, for the year relate to their work in connection with the Annual General Meeting.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the nature of work undertaken and the level of non-audit fees did not The non-executive directors including the chairman meet as and when impair their independence.
required in the absence of the executive directors to discuss and appraise the performance of the Board as a whole and the performance of the The Audit Committees terms of reference, which were reviewed during executive directors.
In accordance with the FRC Code, the non-executive the year, are available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
directors, led by the senior independent non-executive director, also meet annually in the absence of the chairman to discuss and appraise his performance.
qxd 11 7 07 11:56 am Page 38 38 ASHTEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration Committee Finance and Administration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises Mr Iceton chairman from The Finance and Administration Committee comprises Mr Cole, Mr Drabble 1 March 2007, Mr Etheridge and Mr Burrow.
and Mr Robson and is chaired by Mr Drabble.
Mr Cole replaced Mr Stenham on this committee on the latters death.
The Board of directors has The Remuneration Committee meets as and when required during the year delegated authority to this committee to deal with routine financial and to set the compensation packages for the executive directors, to establish administrative matters between Board meetings.
The committee meets as the terms and conditions of the executive directors employment and to set necessary to perform its role and has a quorum requirement of two remuneration policy generally.
Mr Cole and Mr Drabble normally attend the members with certain matters requiring the presence of Mr Cole, nonmeetings of the Committee to assist it in its work.
The Committee also executive chairman, including, for example, the approval of material engages remuneration consultants to advise it in its work as and when required.
announcements to the London Stock Exchange.
None of the members of the Remuneration Committee is currently or INTERNAL CONTROL has been at any time one of the Companys executive directors or an The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Groups system of employee.
None of the executive directors currently serves, or has served, internal control and confirm they have reviewed its effectiveness.
In doing as a member of the Board of directors of any other company, which has so, the Group has taken note of the guidance for directors on internal one or more of its executive directors serving on the Companys Board or control, Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committees terms of reference are available for The Board confirms that there is a process for identifying, evaluating and inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
managing significant risks faced by the Group.
This process has been in place for the full financial year and is ongoing.
It is kept under regular Nomination Committee review by the executive directors and is considered periodically by the The current members of the Nomination Committee are Mr Cole Board and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
chairman, Mr Drabble, Mr Etheridge, Mr Iceton and Mr Burrow appointed on 1 March 2007.
The Nomination Committee meets as and when The Board considers that the Groups internal control system is designed required to recommend proposed changes to the structure and appropriately to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve composition of the Board of directors.
Mr Stenham was also a member business objectives.
Any such control system, however, can only provide until his death in October and Mr Burnett and Mr Lovegrove were members reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Group reviews the risks it faces in its business and how these risks The Nomination Committees terms of reference are available for are managed.
These reviews are conducted in conjunction with the inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
management teams of each of the Groups businesses and are documented in an annual report.
The reviews consider whether any matters have arisen Attendance at Board and committee meetings held between 1 May 2006 since the last report was prepared which might indicate omissions or and 30 April 2007 inadequacies in that assessment.
They also consider whether, as a result of Board Audit Remuneration Nomination changes in either the internal or external environment, any new significant Number of meetings held6424 risks have arisen.
The executive directors reviewed the draft report for 2007, 1 which was then presented to, discussed and approved by the Audit Mr Cole 6324 2 Committee on 8 May 2007 and then by the Group Board on 17 May 2007.
Mr Stenham 3 2 3 Mr Burnett 5 3 Before producing the statement on internal control for the annual report Mr Dhaiwal 6 4 and accounts for the year ended 30 April 2007, the Board reconsidered the Mr Drabble 6 1 3 operational effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
In Mr Miller 5 particular, through the Audit Committee it received reports from the Mr Robson 6 5 operational audit teams and considered the status of implementation of Mr Burrow 11 1 internal control improvement recommendations made by the Groups Mr Etheridge 6424 internal auditors and its external auditors.
The control system includes Mr Iceton 6423 written policies and control procedures, clearly drawn lines of accountability Mr Lovegrove 6 3 and delegation of authority and comprehensive reporting and analysis 1 Mr Cole stepped down from the Audit Committee on 1 March 2007.
2 Mr Stenham died on 22 October 2006. against budgets and latest forecasts.
3 Mr Burnett retired from the Company on 31 December 2006.
4 Mr Drabble stepped down from the Remuneration Committee on 2 October 2006.
5 Mr Burrow was appointed as non-executive director from 1 March 2007.
qxd 11 7 07 11:56 am Page 39 39 ASHTEAD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT In a group of the size, complexity and geographical diversity of Ashtead, Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be minor breakdowns in established control procedures can occur.
There are achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting supporting policies and procedures for investigation and management of Standards.
Directors are also required to: control breakdowns at any of the Groups profit centres or elsewhere.
The properly select and apply accounting policies: Audit Committee also meets regularly with the external auditors to discuss present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that their work.
provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and In relation to internal financial control, the Groups control and monitoring provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic procedures include: requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the the maintenance and production of accurate and timely financial impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the management information, including a monthly profit and loss account entitys financial position and financial performance.
and selected balance sheet data for each profit centre: the control of key financial risks through clearly laid down authority The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which levels and proper segregation of accounting duties at the Groups disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of accounting support centres: the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the preparation of a monthly financial report to the Board including the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the income statements for the Group and each subsidiary, balance sheet preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report which and cash ow statement: comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985. the preparation of an annual budget and periodic update forecasts which are reviewed by the executive directors and then by the Board: Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of a programme of rental equipment inventories and full inventory counts financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
conducted at each profit centre by equipment type independently checked on a sample basis by our operational auditors and external GOING CONCERN auditors: After making appropriate enquiries the directors have a reasonable detailed internal audits at the Groups major accounting centres expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources undertaken by internal audit specialists from a major international to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and that accounting rm: it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing comprehensive audits at the profit centres generally carried out annually the financial statements.
In forming this view the directors have reviewed by internal operational audit.
A summary of this work is provided the Groups budgets and cash ow forecasts for a period of more than annually to the Audit Committee: and 12 months from the date of the approval of these financial statements a review of arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise and considered the sufciency of the Groups banking facilities described concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting on pages 30 and 31 of the Business and Financial Review.
By order of the Board STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements.
The directors are required to prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and have also elected to prepare financial statements for the Company in accordance ERIC WATKINS with IFRS.
Company law requires the directors to prepare such financial COMPANY SECRETARY statements in accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 25 June 2007 of the IAS Regulations.
IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash ows.
This requires the representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the denitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial
