RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of compliance themselves for re-election every three years.
In addition all The Combined Code of Corporate Governance Combined directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Code sets out the principles and provisions relating to good opportunity after their appointment.
governance of UK listed companies.
In this section we set In accordance with this policy, Scott Forbes Chairman, out how we have applied the principles and complied with Jonathan Agnew, non-executive director and Judy Vezmar the provisions of the Combined Code during 2007 and non-executive director will submit themselves for re-election explain the reason for one area of non-compliance.
at this years Annual General Meeting.
Colin Kemp, who having been appointed since the last Annual General The Board Meeting, will retire from the position as non-executive The Board comprises nine directors including the Chairman director and offer himself for election.
Scott Forbes, three executive directors Ed Williams, Group The membership of the Committees of the Board and Managing Director, Nick McKittrick and Graham Zacharias, attendance at meetings for the period under review are set three independent non-executive directors Jonathan Agnew, out in the table below: who is the Senior Independent Director, Nigel Cooper and Remuneration AuditNomination Judy Vezmar and two non-executive directors whom the Board Committee Committee Committee Board do not consider to be independent Stephen Total meetings 8 4 4 2 Shipperley and Colin Kemp.
The composition of the Board on Admission to the Stock Exchange on 15 March 2006 and 1 Scott Forbes 8 4 N A 2 for the period under review was therefore not in compliance Jonathan Agnew 8 4 4 2 with supporting principle A3.2 of the Combined Code in that Nigel Cooper 8 4 4 N A at least half of the directors excluding the chairman were 2 4 not independent non-executive directors.
Colin Kemp 4 N A N A N A The directors believe that the Board currently operates Nick McKittrick 8 N A N A N A effectively and that Jonathan Agnew, Nigel Cooper and Judy 3 4 Jane Pridgeon 2 N A N A N A Vezmar are fully independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially Stephen Shipperley 8 N A N A N A interfere with the exercise of their independent judgment and Judy Vezmar 8 4 4 2 advice to the Board.
Ed Williams 8 N A N A N A Graham Zacharias, Group Finance Director, is also a nonGraham Zacharias 8 N A N A N A executive director of Umeco plc.
His remuneration for that position is retained by him and is set out in the Remuneration Report on page 36.
The Remuneration Committee Chairman has requested that the Chairman of the Board attends the Remuneration Committee meetings.
any of the executive directors hold any other non-executive 2.
Appointed 3 July 2007. directorships or commitments disclosable under the 3.
Jane Pridgeon and Colin Kemp held ofce for part of the year only.
Jane Pridgeon attended two of the three meetings which she was Biographical details of the directors appear on pages 16 eligible to attend.
Colin Kemp attended four of the five meetings and 17. which he was eligible to attend.
Directors remuneration In addition to the above meetings, the chairman conducted The principles and details of directors remuneration and two formal meetings with the independent non-executive contractual arrangements are contained in the Remuneration directors without the executive directors being present.
Jonathan Agnew, the senior independent director chaired a meeting of the Board at which the performance of the Board and committee membership and attendance chairman was reviewed without the presence of the The Articles of Association include the requirement that one chairman.
Jonathan Agnew also chaired a meeting of third of the directors retire by rotation each year and in the non-executive directors without the executive accordance with the Combined Code all directors submit directors present.
26 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Operation of the Board With the assistance of the company secretary, the chairman The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall monitors the information provided to the Board to ensure direction and control of the Group.
Its key task is to approve that it is sufficient, pertinent, timely and clear.
strategy, ensuring the successful implementation of projects The group managing director has day-to-day executive and proposals and monitor the operating performance of the responsibility for the running of the Group, leading the Group in pursuit of its objectives in the interest of maximising executive and operational teams in developing strategies and long-term shareholder value.
The Board has adopted a delivering results against dened objectives to enable the formal schedule of matters requiring specic approval.
These Group to meet its objectives.
include, amongst other things, the approval of the annual business plan, capital structure, dividend policy, acquisitions Board training and disposals, appointment and removal of ofcers of the A comprehensive induction programme on the Company, approval of the interim and annual results, responsibilities for directors and the rules governing listed shareholder communication and responsibility for corporate companies was given in 2006 to all non-executive directors governance and review of the Companys risk and system of prior to the Initial Public Offering IPO in March 2006 by internal controls.
external advisers and internal management.
This was The Board receives board papers and agendas one week supplemented in December 2007 by a presentation from prior to the meeting to allow sufficient time for detailed the Companys corporate lawyers on the changes to the review and consideration of the documents beforehand.
If Companies Act 2006 and the effect on their responsibilities any director has a concern about any aspect of the business as directors.
Colin Kemp also attended a residential course conducted at any Board meeting, the company secretary for non-executive directors at the time of his appointment.
shall discuss this with the director concerned and record The breadth of management, financial and listed company their concern or comments in the Board minutes.
The Board experience of the independent non-executive directors is also receives monthly management and financial reports on described in the biographical details on pages 16 and 17, the operational and financial performance of the business which demonstrates their prior knowledge and skills relevant setting out actual and forecast financial performance against to a listed company and appropriate to the Companys approved budgets in addition to other key performance requirements.
The training for the non-executive directors indicators.
The Board also receives copies of broker reports has therefore focused on the online property advertising and press releases relating to the Company.
At least once a industry, company operating environment, financial year the group managing director presents a strategic plan performance of the Company, strategic aims, and one on to the Board for review and approval.
one meetings with the existing directors and senior The Board meets formally around eight times each year managers.
The Company operates an open plan ofce although meetings can be scheduled at short notice at the environment which facilitates exposure to the day to day request of any director or if required.
Meetings for the Board Company operations at all locations and offers the ongoing and its Committees are held at both the London and Milton opportunity to interact directly with all staff, contributing Keynes ofces.
In addition to formal Board meetings, there is signicantly to the knowledge of the independent nonregular, informal dialogue between all directors.
The senior management team is invited to Board meetings throughout the year presenting Chairman and group managing director information relating to the operational aspects of the Group.
There are clear written guidelines to support the division of All directors have access to the advice and services of responsibilities at the head of the Company with the roles of the company secretary and independent professional the chairman and group managing director separately held.
advisers, at the Companys expense, where specic The chairman is responsible for the effective conduct of expertise is required in the course of their duties.
the Board, for communication with shareholders and for ensuring that each director uses their skills and experience to the benefit of the Boards effective decision making.
27 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Group has also arranged directors and ofcers supplement communication or if contact through the normal insurance cover in respect of legal action against the channels is inappropriate.
Shareholders are also kept up to date with the The Group has set out written policies in compliance with Companys activities through the annual and interim reports a code of securities dealings in relation to the shares and and the investor relations section of its website which equivalent to the Model Code published in the Listing Rules.
provides details of all the directors, latest news, including The code applies to all directors, other persons discharging financial results, investor presentations and Stock Exchange managerial responsibility and other relevant employees.
The website was re-designed during the year as part of the Companys strategy to support effective Board evaluation e-communications with shareholders.
The Board agreed a process for a performance evaluation The Board is kept informed of the views and opinions of programme during 2006 and commenced its first formal those with an interest in the Company through reports from board evaluation in early 2007.
The Board evaluation the group managing director and group finance director as exercise was led by the chairman, assisted by the company well as reports from the Companys joint brokers UBS and secretary.
All directors completed a comprehensive Numis.
All directors receive notication of any changes in the questionnaire covering the collective performance of the status of substantial shareholders and at each Board Board and its Committees, knowledge of strategy and meeting an update is given by the executive directors on the priorities in its first year of operation together.
At a meeting movements in major shareholdings and on the views and chaired by Jonathan Agnew, senior independent director, the opinions of those with an interest in the Company.
Board also reviewed the performance of the chairman.
In Stephen Shipperley, non-executive director is also addition, in December 2007, Jonathan Agnew chaired a employed by Connells Limited and is appointed to the Board meeting of the non-executive directors at which the as their shareholder representative.
For so long as Connells performance of the executive directors and the chairman Limited maintains an interest of 15% or more in the was discussed and feedback was provided in advance of Companys ordinary share capital, they shall be entitled to the annual performance appraisal of each executive director.
appoint a representative to the Board.
In order to mitigate against potential conicts of interest, the terms of Relations with shareholders appointment of a representative director are set out in a The Board is accountable to shareholders for the Relationship Agreement and provides that a representative performance and activities of the Company and the director cannot be a member of any committee of the Board, chairman ensures that effective communication with they may not receive information relating to any matter where shareholders takes place.
a conict of interest may arise and they may not participate Within the terms of the regulatory framework, the in any Board meeting or discussions of the Board where the Company has conducted regular dialogue with shareholders matter being considered presents a conict of interest through ongoing meetings with institutional investors and between the interests of the Company and the principal research rms to discuss strategy, operating performance shareholder they represent whether as shareholder, and financial performance.
Contact has been principally with customer or supplier.
the group managing director and group finance director and The chairman of the Board is responsible for determining, the chairman has participated in several meetings in the in cases of doubt, whether a conict exists.
Nick McKittrick, managing director of the.
co. uk provided to a representative director may not be passed on business also attended investor meetings following the by that director to the relevant principal shareholder without announcement of the interim results.
The chairman has the approval of the Board.
Each of the directors including the made shareholders aware of the availability of Jonathan representatives of principal shareholders owes duciary Agnew, the senior independent director, if they wish to duties to the Company.
28 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Annual General Meeting The purpose of the Remuneration Committee is to ensure All shareholders are invited to participate in the Companys that the Companys executive directors and senior Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2008 where all directors executives are properly incentivised and fairly rewarded for including the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and their individual contributions to the Companys overall Nomination Committees will be available to answer performance having due regard to the interests of the questions and will also be available for discussions with shareholders and to the financial and commercial health shareholders prior to and after the meeting.
In line with the Combined Code, the Company will The Remuneration Committees terms of reference arrange for the Annual Report and Accounts and related are available on the Companys website, papers to be posted to shareholders so as to allow at least www.
rsp or by request to 20 working days for consideration before the Annual General the company secretary.
All proxy votes are counted and the level of proxy The company secretary acts as secretary to the votes including abstentions lodged for each resolution are Committee and the Chairman, Scott Forbes, is normally reported after each resolution at the Annual General Meeting invited to attend the meetings.
The chairman of the and published on the Companys website.
Remuneration Committee reports to the Board on the The Company also complies with the Combined Code Remuneration Committees behalf after each meeting and with the separation of all resolutions put to the vote of copies of the minutes of the meetings are circulated to shareholders.
The Company proactively encourages the Board as a whole unless a conict of interest exists.
shareholders to vote at general meetings by providing During the year the Committee agreed the granting of electronic voting for shareholders who hold their shares share options to certain senior managers, approved the through the Crest system and provides personalised proxy bonus payments for the financial year 2007 and set the cards to ensure that all votes are clearly identied.
The remuneration for the executive directors and senior Company presently takes votes at general meetings on a managers for 2008. show of hands on the grounds of practicality due to the very A detailed report on the Companys remuneration policy small number of shareholders in attendance.
Votes are taken and the work of the Remuneration Committee is available by a poll at any shareholder meeting where legally required.
in the Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 41.
Board committees Nomination committee The Board has established three principal Committees, the The Nomination Committee consists of Scott Forbes Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the who is chairman, Jonathan Agnew and Judy Vezmar as Nomination Committee, each of which operates within independent non-executive directors.
The quorum for written terms of reference approved by the Board.
No meetings of the Nomination Committee is two members.
person other than a Committee member is entitled to attend The chairman of the Company will not chair the Nomination the meetings of these Committees, except by invitation of Committee in connection with any discussion about the the chairman of that Committee.
appointment of his successor to the chairmanship of the Company, when the senior independent director would take Remuneration committee the chair.
Appointments are for a period of up to three years, The Remuneration Committee consists of the three extendable by no more than two additional three-year independent non-executive directors, Jonathan Agnew who periods, so long as members continue to be independent.
is chairman, Judy Vezmar and Nigel Cooper.
The quorum for The Nomination Committee meets at such times as may meetings of the Remuneration Committee is two members.
be necessary but will normally meet at least twice a year.
The Remuneration Committee will meet at such times as The purpose of the Nomination Committee is to consider, may be necessary but will normally meet at least twice and make recommendations to the Board about, the a year.
composition of the Board, including proposed appointees, 29 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED and whether to ll any vacancies that arise or to change compliance with those policies with applicable legal and the number of Board members.
The Nomination Committees terms of reference are The Audit Committee has authority to investigate any available on the Companys website, areas of concern as to financial impropriety that arise and to www.
rsp or by request to the obtain outside legal or other independent professional advice company secretary.
The Audit Committees principal During the year the Nomination Committee reviewed duties and terms of reference are available on the the organisation structure to ensure that the management Companys website, www.
rsp or team had the right skills and experience to compete in the by request to the company secretary.
marketplace and approved the plans for the succession of During the year the Committee has, amongst other the executive directors and the senior management team.
matters, approved the appointment of the external auditors, xed their remuneration and reviewed the effectiveness of Audit committee the external audit process.
The Audit Committee consists of the three independent nonThe Committee has also considered the need for an executive directors, Nigel Cooper who is chairman, Judy internal audit function.
Given the simplicity of the Vezmar and Jonathan Agnew.
Nigel Cooper is a retired organisation structure, the open and accountable culture senior partner from KPMG Audit Plc KPMG with a 33 year with clear authority limits, the straightforward financial model career including 21 years as a partner in Milan and London and systems and the fact that the management team and and therefore has relevant financial skills and experience for Board conduct regular financial reviews, the Committee the role.
As Nigel had not had any prior involvement with recommended to the Board that an internal audit function the KPMG Milton Keynes ofce or Rightmove plc, his was not currently appropriate for the business.
This decision appointment was cleared by the KPMG Ethical Panel to be is kept under regular review.
The Committee also discussed its responsibilities to The quorum for meetings of the Audit Committee is two safeguard the audit objectivity and independence as well as members.
Appointments to the Committee are for a period the needs of the business and agreed that it was practical in of up to three years, extendable by no more than two many cases for the auditors to be assigned to other nonadditional three-year periods, so long as members continue audit project work due to their knowledge and expertise of to be independent.
This would usually relate to corporate The Audit Committee meets at least four times a year transaction advice and tax compliance.
Non-audit fees in and more often if necessary.
Two of its meetings are prior excess of 20,000 require the prior approval of the chairman to the announcement of the interim and annual results of of the Audit Committee, the nature of the services provided the Company when the external auditor is in attendance.
is set out in Note 7 of the financial statements.
The company secretary acts as secretary to the Committee In addition to receiving reports from the external auditors, and the group finance director is normally invited to attend members met with the external auditors without the the meetings.
presence of the executive directors.
The Committee The chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the reviewed the interim and preliminary results announcements Board on the Audit Committees behalf after each meeting and the interim and annual reports.
The external auditors and copies of the minutes of the meetings are circulated also presented the results of their review of the interim to the Board as a whole.
The Audit Committee assists results as well as their audit plan to the Audit Committee.
the Board in the discharge of its duties concerning the The Committee has drawn up a policy and procedure for announcement of results, the Annual Report and Accounts staff to report any concerns that they may have independent and the maintenance of internal controls.
It reviews the of management about suspected misconduct without fear scope and planning of the audit and the auditors findings of retaliation.
and considers Group accounting policies and the 30 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Internal controls Through the procedures outlined above, the Board has The Board of directors has overall responsibility for the considered all significant aspects of internal control for the Groups system of internal controls and has established a year and up to the date of this annual report and accounts.
framework of financial and other controls which is periodically reviewed in accordance with the Turnbull Post balance sheet event guidance for its effectiveness.
On 28 January 2008, the Company announced the The Board has taken, and will continue to take, completion of a Scheme of Arrangement and a new parent appropriate measures to ensure that the chances of financial Company was established.
Shares in the new parent irregularities occurring are reduced as far as reasonably Company were admitted to the Ofcial List of the UK Listing possible by improving the quality of information at all levels in Authority and to trading on the main market for listed the Group, fostering an open environment and ensuring that securities of the London Stock Exchange plc on 28 January the financial analysis is rigorously applied.
The Board of directors, the members of each internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate committee of the Board and the terms of reference for each the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only committee for the new holding company remain substantially provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against the same.
The Groups management has established the procedures Going concern necessary to ensure that there is an ongoing process for After making prior enquiries, the directors have a reasonable identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks to expectation that the Group has adequate resources to the Group.
These procedures have been in place for the continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
whole of the financial year ended 31 December 2007 and up For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern to the date of the approval of these financial statements and basis in preparing the financial statements.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect The key elements of the system of internal control are: of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements Major commercial, strategic and financial risks are The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual formally identied, quantied, assessed and discussed Report and the Group and parent Company financial with the executive directors, after which they are statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
considered by the Board: Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and There is a comprehensive system of planning, budgeting parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
This includes monthly Under that law they are required to prepare the Group management reporting and monitoring of performance financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by against both budgets and forecasts with explanations for the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the all significant variances: parent Company financial statements on the same basis.
There is an organisational structure with clearly dened The Group and parent Company financial statements are lines of responsibility and delegation of authority: required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present Clearly dened policies for capital expenditure and fairly the financial position of the Group and the parent investment exist, including appropriate authorisation Company and the performance for that period: the levels, with larger capital projects, acquisitions and Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial disposals requiring Board approval: and statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to There are whistleblower procedures of which all financial statements giving a true and fair view are references employees are made aware, to enable concerns to be to their achieving a fair presentation.
raised either with line management or, if appropriate, condentially outside line management.
31 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors' Report, Directors' Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company's website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
