Corporate governance 118 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report U54670 pp118-123 5 3 08 23:52 Page 118 Corporate governance The directors of Rio Tinto believe that high standards of corporate and accountability framework.
The directors have agreed a formal governance are essential to its objective to maximise the overall long schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision or term return to shareholders through a strategy of investing in large, consideration by the board, including strategy, major investments cost competitive mines and businesses.
The following describes how and acquisitions.
This is available in the Governance section of the this belief is applied in practice.
Rio Tintos website at www.
As Rio Tintos three main listings are in London, Melbourne and Responsibility for day-to-day management of the business lies New York, the directors have referred to The Combined Code on with the executive team, with the board agreeing annual Corporate Governance, published by the UK Financial Reporting performance targets for management against the Groups financial Council the Code, the Australian Securities Exchange ASX plan.
The board is ultimately accountable to shareholders for the Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations the ASX performance of the business.
Principles, and the New York Stock Exchange NYSE Corporate To ensure an efficient process, the board meets regularly and, in Governance Standards the NYSE Standards, as well as the 2007, had eight scheduled and 11 meetings at short notice.
See compliance statements on of directors attendance at board and committee meetings is set out page 122. on page 120.
The board has regular scheduled discussions on aspects of the Communication Groups strategy, as well as two separate strategy review meetings, Rio Tinto recognises the importance of effective communication one half day and one two day meeting, which are dedicated to inwith shareholders and the wider investment community.
depth discussions on Group strategy.
To ensure that trading in its securities takes place in an Directors receive timely, regular and necessary management and informed market the Group has adopted Continuous disclosure other information to enable them to fulfil their duties and to have standards which are appended to the Corporate governance standards access to the advice and services of both company secretaries.
The and posted on its website.
All information released to the markets is board has agreed a procedure for directors to obtain independent posted on the website immediately.
professional advice at the Groups expense.
In addition to statutory documents, the website features inIn addition to these formal processes, directors are in regular depth information on health, safety and the environment, as well as communication with senior executives from the product and global general investor information, publications and Group policies.
Full support groups, at both formal and informal meetings, to ensure and half year results as well as any major presentations are also regular exchange of knowledge and experience between webcast.
Presentation material from investor seminars is also made management and non executive directors.
To continue building on available on the website.
the formal induction programmes, which all new non executive Full advantage is taken of the annual general meetings to inform directors undertake, they are encouraged to take every opportunity shareholders of current developments and to give shareholders the to make site visits to the Groups operations and to meet local staff.
As recommended by the ASX The full board also takes the opportunity to combine attendance at Principles, Rio Tinto Limiteds external auditor attends the annual the annual general meeting in Australia and at the two day strategy general meeting and is available to answer shareholder questions review meeting with site visits.
about the conduct of the audit and the preparation and content of The chairman holds regular meetings with non executive the auditors report.
Rio Tinto Limited shareholders are also able to directors without the executive directors being present.
submit written questions regarding the statutory audit report to the auditors via the Company.
Any questions received and answers Board performance provided are made available to the members at the Rio Tinto Limited The board completes a formal annual process, facilitated by external annual general meeting.
Rio Tinto plcs auditors attend the annual consultants, to evaluate its effectiveness and that of the board general meeting in London and are available to respond to audit committees and individual directors.
Each directors performance is appraised by the chairman and, The main channels of communication with the investment in a meeting chaired by the senior independent non executive community are through the chairman, chief executive and finance director, the non executive directors assess the chairmans director, who have regular meetings with the Companies major performance, taking into consideration the views of executive shareholders.
The senior independent director and other non colleagues.
executive directors are also available as appropriate.
The evaluation process aims to cover board dynamics, board The Group organises regular investor seminars which provide a capability, board process, board structure, corporate governance, two way communication with investors and analysts: the valuable strategic clarity and alignment and the performance of individual feedback is communicated to the board.
An annual survey of major directors.
The directors believe that, through this evaluation process, shareholders opinion and perception of the Group is presented to they comply with the requirements of Clause A.
6 of the Code, the board by the Groups investor relations advisors.
Principle 2 of the ASX Principles, and the NYSE Standards.
The Board Independence The Companies have common boards of directors which are The tests of director independence in the jurisdictions where collectively responsible for the success of the Group and accountable Rio Tinto has listings are not wholly consistent.
The board has, to shareholders for the performance of the business.
Throughout this therefore, adopted a formal policy for the determination of the report, they are described as the board.
This policy, which contains the The board currently consists of 15 directors: the chairman, three materiality thresholds approved by the board, has been posted on executive directors and eleven non executive directors.
Among the key criteria are independence of Nominations committee continually assesses the balance of management and the absence of any business relationship which executive and non executive directors and the composition of the could materially interfere with the directors independence of board in terms of the skills and diversity required to ensure it judgement and ability to provide a strong, valuable contribution to remains relevant in the current environment.
The skills, experience the boards deliberations or which could interfere with the directors and expertise of each director together with their terms in office are ability to act in the best interest of the Group.
Where contracts in shown in the biographical details on pages 95 to 97. the ordinary course of business exist between Rio Tinto and a company in which a director has declared an interest, these are The role and responsibilities of the board reviewed for materiality to both the Group and the other party to the The role of the board is to provide the Group with good governance contract.
Applying these criteria, the board is satisfied that the and strategic direction.
The board also reviews the Groups control majority of the non executive directors: Sir David Clementi, 119 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report Corporate governance U54670 pp118-123 5 3 08 23:52 Page 119 Vivienne Cox, Sir Rod Eddington, Michael Fitzpatrick, Yves Fortier, Chairman and chief executive Richard Goodmanson, Andrew Gould, Lord Kerr, Sir Richard Sykes The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate and the and Paul Tellier are independent.
division of responsibilities has been formally approved by the board.
The board is also satisfied that the strength and objectivity of Sir Richard Sykes contribution to the board, as a non executive director Executive directors other directorships since 1997, is fully consistent with that of an independent director Executive directors are likely to be invited to become non executive and so continues to regard him as independent.
He was re-elected at directors of other companies.
For full details of the Group policy and the 2007 annual general meetings, to support the board during a fees, see page 110. period of executive transition, and will retire at the conclusion of the 2008 annual general meetings.
Sir Richard will be replaced by Board committees Andrew Gould as the senior independent director and chair of the There are four board committees, the Audit committee, Remuneration committee.
Remuneration committee, Nominations committee and the David Mayhew, who is chairman of one of Rio Tinto plcs Committee on social and environmental accountability.
Each stockbrokers, is not considered independent in accordance with the committee plays a vital role in ensuring that high standards of Code.
corporate governance are maintained throughout the Group.
Paul Skinner was, until his appointment as chairman in 2003, Committee terms of reference are reviewed annually by the board an independent non executive director in compliance with the and the committees to ensure they continue to be at the forefront of Code.
He also satisfies the tests for independence under the ASX best practice and are posted on the Groups website.
Minutes of all Principles and the NYSE Standards.
committee meetings are circulated to the board, with oral reports at The directors biographies are set out on pages 95 to 97. the next board meeting.
None of the executive directors are members of any of these committees.
Election and re-election The reports of the Audit and Nominations committees are on Directors are elected by shareholders at the first annual general page 123 and the report of the Remuneration committee is on meetings after their appointment and, after that, offer themselves page 103. for re-election at least once every three years.
Non executive directors are normally expected to serve at least two terms of three years and, except in special circumstances, would not normally serve more than three such terms.
Committee membership Audit Remuneration Nominations Committee on social and committee committee committee environmental Accountability Chairman Andrew Gould Sir Richard Sykes Paul Skinner Richard Goodmanson Members Sir David Clementi Sir David Clementi Sir Rod Eddington Sir Rod Eddington Vivienne Cox Michael Fitzpatrick Yves Fortier Yves Fortier Michael Fitzpatrick Richard Goodmanson David Mayhew Lord Kerr Lord Kerr Andrew Gould Sir Richard Sykes Paul Tellier Paul Tellier Notes 1.
Ashton Calvert resigned from the Nominations committee and Committee on 3.
David Mayhew attends the Audit committee in an advisory capacity.
social and environmental accountability on 7 November 2007.
Paul Tellier was appointed to the Audit committee and Remuneration committee 2.
Yves Fortier was appointed to the Nominations committee and Committee on on 25 October 2007. social and environmental accountability on 25 October 2007.
Corporate governance 120 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report U54670 pp118-123 5 3 08 23:52 Page 120 Directors attendance at board and committee meetings during 2007 Board Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Committee on social scheduled short notice committee committee committee and environmental acountability AB AB AB AB AB AB Tom Albanese 8 8 11 10 Ashton Calvert 7 6 10 7 3 3 4 3 Sir David Clementi 8 8 11 8 7 7 5 5 Leigh Clifford 3 3 3 3 Vivienne Cox 8 8 11 8 7 7 Sir Rod Eddington 8 8 11 11 4 4 4 3 Guy Elliott 8 8 11 11 Dick Evans 1 1 2 2 Michael Fitzpatrick 8 8 11 9 7 4 5 5 Yves Fortier 1 1 2 2 1 1 Richard Goodmanson 8 8 11 9 5 5 4 4 Andrew Gould 8 7 11 9 7 7 5 4 Lord Kerr 8 8 11 10 7 7 4 4 David Mayhew 8 8 11 11 4 4 Paul Skinner 8 8 11 10 4 4 Sir Richard Sykes 8 7 11 8 5 5 4 4 Paul Tellier 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 Notes A Maximum number of meetings the director could have attended B Number of meetings attended Audit committee The Group is required by the Code, the NYSE, and the ASX to not less than four times per year and has a number of training establish an Audit committee.
Each of the Code, the NYSE and the sessions which may cover new legislation and other relevant ASX lay down rules and guidelines for the composition of the information.
The Groups finance director, other senior financial committee and the work to be undertaken by it.
The Audit committee management, external auditors and internal auditor are available to is governed by a Charter which the committee reviews and assesses attend all meetings.
each year for adequacy and is approved by the board.
The Charter is The Audit committee is chaired by Andrew Gould who will be available on the website and is summarised below.
replaced by Sir David Clementi after the 2008 annual general The primary function of the Audit committee is to assist the board meetings.
The members of the committee are independent and free in fulfilling its responsibilities by reviewing: of any relationship that would interfere with impartiality in carrying The financial information that will be provided to shareholders out their responsibilities.
They meet the requirements of the Code, and the public: the ASX Principles and the NYSE Code, as well as the composition, The systems of internal control that the board and management operation and responsibility requirements of the ASX.
have established: The Groups auditing, accounting and financial reporting Responsibilities of the directors processes.
The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs In carrying out its responsibilities the committee has full authority of the Group as at the end of the financial period and of the profit or to investigate all matters that fall within its Charter.
Accordingly, the loss and cash flows for that period.
This includes preparing financial committee may: statements in accordance with UK company law which give a true Obtain independent professional advice in the satisfaction of its and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs, and preparing a duties at the cost of the Group: Remuneration report which includes the information required by Have such direct access to the resources of the Group as it may Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the UK Companies Act 1985, the Australian reasonably require including the external and internal auditors.
Corporations Act 2001 and Accounting Standard AASB 124 Related Party Disclosures.
The Audit committees main responsibilities include the review of To ensure that these requirements are satisfied, the directors are accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal preparation of public financial information, review with controls, including disclosure controls and procedures for financial management of procedures relating to financial and capital reporting throughout the Group.
expenditure controls, including internal audit plans and reports, The directors consider that the 2007 Annual report and Full review with external auditors of the scope and results of their audit, financial statements present a true and fair view and have been the nomination of auditors for appointment by shareholders, and prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, using the review of and recommendation to the board for approval of the most appropriate accounting policies for Rio Tintos business Rio Tintos risk management policy.
Its responsibilities also include and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and the review of corporate governance practices of Group sponsored estimates.
The accounting policies have been consistently applied.
The directors have received a written statement from the chief To ensure the committee discharges its responsibilities, it meets executive and the finance director to this effect.
In accordance with 121 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report Corporate governance U54670 pp118-123 5 3 08 23:52 Page 121 ASX Principles Recommendation 7.3, this written statement relies Nominations committee on a sound system of risk management and internal compliance and The Nominations committee is chaired by the chairman of Rio Tinto, controls which implements the policies adopted by the board and Paul Skinner.
The committee is responsible, on behalf of the board, confirms that the Groups risk management and internal compliance for ensuring that a suitable process is in place to meet the and control systems are operating efficiently and effectively in all recruitment requirements of the board.
It reviews the mix, structure material respects.
and experience of the board and the desired profiles of potential The directors, senior executives, senior financial managers and candidates for membership.
In consultation with external search other members of staff who are required to exercise judgement in consultants it oversees the review and recruitment process to fill the course of the preparation of the financial statements are vacancies as they arise.
The recruitment process itself includes required to conduct themselves with integrity and honesty and in identification of suitable candidates, followed by a formal accordance with the ethical standards of their profession and or assessment of each candidate, leading to a final selection process.
Proposals for new members are submitted to the full board for The directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting approval.
On behalf of the board it also reviews proposals for senior records, in accordance with the UK Companies Act 1985 and the executive appointments and succession planning.
They have a general The committee further reviews the time required to be responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them committed to Group business by non executive directors and to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud assesses whether non executive directors are devoting sufficient and other irregularities.
The directors are also responsible for time to carry out their duties.
ensuring that appropriate systems are in place to maintain and Under the Code, two members of the committee are not preserve the integrity of the Groups website.
Legislation in the UK considered independent: Paul Skinner, following his appointment as governing the preparation and dissemination of financial chairman, and David Mayhew.
The Code specifically allows the statements may differ from current and future legislation in other chairman to chair the Nominations committee.
As stated above, the jurisdictions.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve board takes the view that Sir Richard continues to be an consideration of such developments and, accordingly, the auditors independent director and the composition of the committee is accept no responsibility for any changes, should any be made, to the therefore compliant with the Code.
financial statements after they are made available on the website.
Committee on social and environmental accountability Principal auditors The Committee on social and environmental accountability, which is Rio Tinto has adopted policies designed to uphold the independence chaired by Richard Goodmanson, reviews the effectiveness of of the Groups principal auditors by prohibiting their engagement to management policies and procedures in place to deliver those provide a range of accounting and other professional services that standards in our statement of business practice, The way we work, might compromise their appointment as independent auditors.
which are not covered by the other board committees and, in Details of these polices have been set out in the Directors report.
particular, those relating to health, safety, the environment and The remuneration of the Groups principal auditors for audit social issues.
The overall objective of the committee is to promote services and other services, as well as remuneration payable to other the development of high quality business practices throughout accounting firms, has been set out in note 44 to the 2007 Full the Group and to develop the necessary clear accountability on financial statements.
Corporate Assurance Business practice The Corporate Assurance function provides independent and Statement of business practice objective assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of the The way we work provides the directors and all Group employees with Groups systems for risk management, internal control, and a summary of the global policies and controls in place to help ensure governance together with ideas and recommendations to improve that high governance and business standards are communicated and those systems.
The function has adopted international auditing maintained throughout the Group.
Group businesses then put them standards set by the Institute of Internal Auditors Inc. into practice through local codes of conduct and report on their The function operates independently of management, under a implementation.
mandate approved in March 2007 by the Audit committee and the Global policies are adopted by the board after wide consultation, Committee on social and environmental accountability CSEA and has full externally and within the Group.
Once adopted, they are access to all functions, records, property and personnel of the Group.
communicated to business units worldwide, together with This mandate expands the functions role from traditional mandatory standards and guidance notes to support financial based internal audit to cover all risk types.
Business units are required to devote the necessary assurance activities across the Group will be consolidated within effort by management to implement and report on these policies Corporate Assurance.
The head of Corporate Assurance reports functionally to both The following global policies are currently in place: access to the Audit Committee and CSEA, providing each committee with land: communities: corporate governance: employment: information relevant to their specific Charters.
environment: human rights: information management: occupational A risk based approach is used to focus assurance activities on health: political involvement: risk: safety and sustainable high risk areas and audit plans are presented annually to the Audit development.
To complete the suite of policies, the following are Committee and CSEA for approval.
being revised: business integrity: information systems security management and information technology: internal controls and Remuneration committee reporting: and transparency.
Each of these policies is supported by The Remuneration committee is responsible for determining the policy standards expanding on the minimum expectations on topics such for executive remuneration and for the remuneration and benefits as antitrust, continuous disclosure, compliance, cultural heritage of individual executive directors and senior executives.
Full and health, safety and the environment.
Many of these standards are disclosure of all elements of directors and relevant senior supplemented by guidance notes.
These policies and standards executives remuneration can be found in the Remuneration report apply to all Rio Tinto managed businesses.
on pages 103 to 117, together with details of the Groups Where the Group does not have operating responsibility for a remuneration policies.
The committee is chaired by Sir Richard business, Rio Tintos policies are communicated to its business Sykes who will be replaced by Andrew Gould at the conclusion of the partners and they are encouraged to adopt similar policies of 2008 annual general meetings.
Corporate governance 122 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report U54670 pp118-123 5 3 08 23:52 Page 122 Whistle blowing programme Going concern There is also a Groupwide whistle blowing programme called SpeakThe directors report that the financial statements have been OUT.
Employees are encouraged to report any concerns, including prepared on a going concern basis as they have satisfied themselves any suspicion of a violation of the Groups financial reporting or that the Companies and the Group are a going concern with environmental procedures, through an independent third party and adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for without fear of recrimination.
A process has been established for the the foreseeable future.
investigation of any matters reported with clear lines of reporting and responsibility in each Group business.
Boards statement on internal control Rio Tintos overriding objective is to maximise the overall long term Sustainable development return to shareholders through a strategy of investing in large, cost Rio Tintos report on Sustainable development follows the guidelines competitive mines and businesses.
The directors recognise of the Global Reporting Initiative and the Association of British that creating shareholder return is the reward for taking and Insurers.
This report can be found on page 83.
Details of the Groups accepting risk.
A description of some of the risks is found on page overall and individual businesses social and environmental ten in Risk factors.
performance continue to be published on the website.
The directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness in providing shareholders Dealing in Rio Tinto securities with a return on their investments that is consistent with a The Group has a policy in place to govern the dealing in Rio Tinto responsible assessment and mitigation of risks.
This includes securities by directors, executives and employees.
The policy, which reviewing financial, operational and compliance controls and risk prohibits dealings when in possession of price sensitive information management procedures.
The directors confirm that they have and shortly before a results announcement, can be viewed on the completed their annual review for 2007.
Due to the limitations website.
inherent in any such system, this is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance Compliance statements against material misstatement or loss.
Certain risks, for example The Code natural disasters, cannot be mitigated to an acceptable degree using By virtue of its UK listing, Rio Tinto is required to disclose whether it internal controls.
Such major risks are transferred to third parties in has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code the international insurance markets, to the extent considered and to provide an explanation where it does not.
Rio Tinto confirms that it has continued to comply fully with the The directors have established a process for identifying, detailed provisions of Section 1 of the Code.
evaluating and managing the material business risks faced by the Group.
This process was in place during 2007 and up to and ASX Principles including the date of approval of the 2007 Annual report and Full Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the ASX, Rio Tinto is required to financial statements.
The process is reviewed annually by the directors report the extent to which it complies with the ASX Principles and and accords with the guidance set out in Internal Control: Guidance the reasons for any non compliance.
for Directors on the Combined Code.
Rio Tinto confirms that it has continued to comply fully with the Two of the Groups management committees, the Executive ASX Principles.
committee and the Disclosures and procedures committee regularly review reports related to the Groups control framework.
This NYSE Standards information is presented to the Audit committee to enable its Rio Tinto plc, as a foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares members to assess the effectiveness of the internal controls and the listed on the NYSE, is obliged by the NYSE Standards to disclose any management of material business risk.
In addition, the board and its significant ways in which its practices of corporate governance differ committees monitor the Groups material business risks on an from the NYSE standards.
These reports and risk management processes satisfy The Company has reviewed the NYSE Standards and believes Recommendation 7.2 of the ASX Principles.
that its practices are broadly consistent with them, with one Assurance functions, including internal auditors and health, exception.
The NYSE Standards state that companies must have a safety and environmental auditors, perform reviews of control nominating corporate governance committee composed entirely of activities and provide regular written and oral reports to directors independent directors and with written terms of reference which, in and management committees.
The directors receive and review addition to identifying individuals qualified to become board minutes of the meetings of each board committee, in addition to oral members, develops and recommends to the board a set of corporate reports from the respective chairmen at the first board meeting governance principles applicable to the Company.
Rio Tinto has a following the relevant committee meeting.
Nominations committee, information about which is set out on Each year, the leaders of the Groups businesses and page 121.
This committee does not develop corporate governance administrative offices complete an internal control questionnaire principles for the boards approval.
The board itself performs this that seeks to confirm that adequate internal controls are in place, are task and approves the Groups overall system of governance and operating effectively and are designed to capture and evaluate internal controls.
failings and weaknesses, if any exist, and take prompt action as appropriate.
The results of this process are reviewed by the Executive New Zealand Stock Exchange committee, then presented to the Audit committee and the board as a Rio Tinto Limited is also listed on the New Zealand Stock Exchange further part of their review of the Groups internal controls.
This NZX which has introduced a Corporate Governance Best Practice process is continually reviewed and strengthened as appropriate.
As an overseas listed issuer on the NZX, Rio The Group has material investments in a number of jointly Tinto Limited is deemed to comply generally with the NZX Listing controlled entities and associates.
Where Rio Tinto does not have Rules, including the NZX Code, while it remains listed on the ASX.
managerial control, it cannot guarantee that local management of Whilst the ASX Principles and the NZX Code are substantially the mining and related assets will comply with Rio Tinto standards or same, there may be some ASX Principles or other ASX corporate objectives.
Accordingly, the review of their internal controls is less governance rules which differ materially from the NZXs corporate comprehensive than that of the Groups managed operations.
governance rules or the NZX Code.
The ASX Principles and other corporate governance rules can be found on the ASX website: Disclosure controls and procedures www.
The common management of each of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, with the participation of their common chief executive and 123 Rio Tinto 2007 Annual report Corporate governance U54670 pp118-123 5 3 08 23:52 Page 123 finance director, have evaluated the effectiveness of the design and The committee discussed with the external auditors the matters operation of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as of the described in the American Institute of Certified Public Accountant end of the period covered by this report and have concluded that Auditing Standard No.
90, Audit Committee communications, and in these disclosure controls and procedures were effective at a the International Standard on Auditing UK and Ireland 260, reasonable assurance level.
Communication of Audit Matters with those charged with governance ISA 260, including their judgements regarding the quality of the Internal control over financial reporting Groups accounting principles and underlying estimates.
The common management of each of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto The committee has discussed with the external auditors their Limited is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate independence, and received and reviewed their written disclosures, internal control over financial reporting.
The Companies internal as required by the US Independence Standards Boards Standard No.
control over financial reporting is a process designed under the 1, Independence Discussions with Audit Committees and ISA 260. supervision of their common chief executive and finance director to Based on the reviews and discussions referred to above, the provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial committee has recommended to the board of directors that the reporting and the preparation and fair presentation of the Groups financial statements referred to above be approved.
published financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with EU IFRS.
Andrew Gould Chairman Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over Sir David Clementi financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance, and may not Vivienne Cox prevent or detect all misstatements whether caused by error or Michael Fitzpatrick fraud, if any, within each of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
Lord Kerr The Groups internal control over financial reporting includes Paul Tellier policies and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and REPORT OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE dispositions of assets: provide reasonable assurances that transactions The Nominations committees activities during 2007 covered executive are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial and non executive succession and appointments.
Tom Albanese statements in accordance with EU IFRS, and that receipts and succeeded Leigh Clifford as chief executive in May 2007.
Following expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorisation of the acquisition of Alcan Inc. Yves Fortier, Paul Tellier and Dick management and the directors of the Companies: and provide Evans were appointed directors with effect from 25 October 2007. reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of Dick Evans also became the Chief executive of the combined unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of the Companys assets aluminium group, Rio Tinto Alcan.
that could have a material effect on our financial statements.
Each of the new directors bring extensive North American and There were no significant changes in the internal controls or in international business experience to the board.
A short biography of other factors that could significantly affect internal controls of each each is set out on pages 95 to 97. of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited subsequent to the date of their As part of his annual performance assessment of individual most recent evaluation.
directors, Paul Skinner, who is chairman of the committee, has also reviewed the time committed by directors to Group business and REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE confirmed this to be appropriate in each case.
The Audit committee met seven times in 2007.
It monitors developments in corporate governance in the UK, Australia and the Paul Skinner Chairman US, to ensure the Group continues to apply high and appropriate Sir Rod Eddington standards.
Yves Fortier The Audit committee charter is subject to regular discussion and David Mayhew review.
Sir Richard Sykes The committee reviews the independence of the external auditors on an annual basis and their effectiveness to ensure that the Group continues to receive an efficient and unbiased service.
The committee advised the directors that it is satisfied that the provision of non audit services by the external auditors during 2007 is compatible with the general standard of independence for auditors imposed by the Australian Corporations Act 2001.
Furthermore, as part of its responsibility to foster open communication, the committee meets separately with management, the external auditors and the internal auditor.
Financial expert The committee reviewed the SEC requirements for audit committees financial experts and the Code and ASX Principles requirement that at least one committee member should have recent and relevant financial experience.
The committee recommended to the board that Michael Fitzpatrick, Andrew Gould and Sir David Clementi be identified as the committees financial experts in the 2007 Annual report.
The commitee has also concluded that Michael Fitzpatrick, Andrew Gould and Sir David Clementi possess the requisite skills, experience and background to qualify for the purpose of clause C. 3.1 of the Code.
2007 Full financial statements The committee has reviewed and discussed with management the Groups audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007.
