Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 51 Governance Financial statements Corporate governance Statement on corporate governance compliance Role of the Board Rolls-Royce attaches the highest priority to corporate governance, the system by The Board is responsible to all the Companys stakeholders for its conduct and which the Company is directed, managed and controlled in the interests of all its performance of the Company.
The strength of the Companys corporate values, its reputation and its The day-to-day running of the Company is delegated by the Board to the ability to achieve its objectives are influenced by the effectiveness of the Companys executive team under the leadership of Sir John Rose, the Chief Executive.
The Board retains responsibility for the approval of certain matters which affect The Board confirms that throughout 2007, the Company complied with the the shape and risk profile of the Company, as well as such items as the annual Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
This corporate budget and performance targets, the published accounts, payments to shareholders, governance report and, where appropriate, the  report, major capital investments and any substantial change to balance sheet management explain how the Company discharges its corporate governance responsibilities.
This division of responsibilities between the Board and the executive team is set out in detail in a schedule approved annually by the Board, which defines those The Boards composition and  decisions which can only be taken by the Board itself.
Simon Robertson chairs the Board of directors and Sir John Rose is the Chief The Board has approved the following statement summarising its core Executive.
The division of responsibilities between them is set down in writing and responsibilities: agreed by the Board.
Iain Conn is the Companys Senior Independent Director.
There are currently 13 directors on the Board comprising the non-executive Primary goal Chairman, the Chief Executive, four other executive directors and seven The primary goal of the Board is to ensure that the Companys strategy creates value non-executive directors.
for the long-term investor within an acceptable risk profile.
The quality and broad experience of the directors, the balance of the Boards composition and the dynamics of the Board as a group, ensure the Boards The Boards tasks effectiveness and also prevents any individual or small group dominating the In line with its primary goal, the Board's principal tasks are to: Boards decision making.
ensure the development of the Companys strategy and keep it under Each executive director receives a service contract on appointment see the rigorous review:  report for further information and each non-executive monitor the implementation of the strategy, ensuring that the necessary director receives a letter setting out the conditions of his or her appointment.
financial and human resources are in place to deliver it and that effective Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, which may controls exist to manage risk: be extended subsequently with the agreement of the Board, although safeguard the values of the Company, including its brand and corporate reappointment is not automatic.
Executive directors are employees who have reputation and the safety of its products: executive responsibilities in addition to their duties as directors.
Non-executive oversee the quality and performance of management and ensure through directors are not employees and do not participate in the daily business effective succession planning and remuneration policies that it is maintained management of the Group.
at world-class standards: and The Board applies a rigorous process in order to satisfy itself that its maintain an effective corporate governance framework that aspires to deliver non-executive directors remain independent.
The Combined Code does not regard long-term value to shareholders.
the Chairman as being independent in view of his unique role in corporate governance.
Although, on his appointment as Chairman on January 1, 2005, Directorsinduction, training and information Simon Robertson met the criteria for independence contained in the Combined Newly appointed directors participate in a structured induction programme and Code.
His other significant commitments are described on page 46.
The Board receive a comprehensive data pack providing detailed information on the Group.
reviews the independence of the non-executive directors every year, based on the An existing executive director acts as a mentor to each newly appointed criteria in the Combined Code.
This review was undertaken in 2007, and the Board non-executive director, giving guidance and advice as required.
As part of their concluded that all the non-executive directors other than the Chairman were briefing, non-executive directors visit key sites and meet a cross-section of managers independent in character and judgement.
The Board determined that Peter Byrom and employees to gain a better understanding of the Group and its operations.
remains independent in character and judgement notwithstanding that he has Ongoing training is available for all the directors, including presentations by the served on the Board for more than nine years, that there are no relationships or executive team on particular aspects of the business.
circumstances which are likely to affect his independent judgement and that he is in There is an agreed procedure for directors to take independent professional no way dependent on the remuneration he receives from the Company.
The Board advice at the Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access every director has believes strongly that in a long-term, complex and technologically advanced to the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
business it is essential that non-executive directors have the opportunity to acquire, over a number of years, the experience and knowledge of the business and the Board effectiveness sectors within which the Group operates.
The Board concluded that Helen Alexander The Chairman meets at least once a year with the non-executive directors without remains independent in character and judgement and, notwithstanding that the the executive directors present, in order to review the operation of the Board.
Chairman and Helen Alexander sit on the board of The Economist Newspaper The Chairman has an annual meeting with each non-executive director to Limited where she is the Chief Executive, there are no relationships or circumstances review their contribution to the Board.
The Senior Independent Director chairs an which are likely to affect her independent judgement.
annual meeting with the non-executive directors to review the performance of the Chairman, the outcome of which is reported back to him.
Each year, the Chairman reviews the performance of the Chief Executive as part of the annual salary review process overseen by the remuneration committee.
The Chief Executive reviews the performance of the other executive directors in the same way.
In 2007, the annual process to enable the Board to evaluate the effectiveness of its performance involved the completion of a written questionnaire by the directors and a series of meetings between the Chairman and each individual director.
The Board reviewed the results of this exercise in December 2007.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 52 Governance Financial statements Corporate governance continued The review covered all aspects of corporate governance, including board and Remuneration committee committee structure, board dynamics, the conduct and frequency of board The committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the meetings, the consideration of strategic issues by the Board and the information Groups policy regarding executive remuneration.
The committee determines, on the provided to directors.
The Board considered that it was operating effectively.
Boards behalf, the specific remuneration packages of the executive directors and a However, this review identified the need for improvements in some areas, including number of senior executives.
It also makes recommendations to the Board on the board induction and training and continuing development.
These improvements will remuneration of the Chairman.
The committee met four times during the year.
The audit, remuneration and nominations committees The committees membership and principal terms of reference are set out in the have separately undertaken reviews of their terms of reference and effectiveness  report on page 55. during 2007.
Audit committee Board committees The audit committee consists exclusively of independent, non-executive directors.
The Board is assisted by its committees.
Details of their membership and principal The committee was chaired by Peter Byrom until September 13, 2007 when he was terms of reference are set out below.
Their full terms of reference are available in the succeeded by John Rishton.
John Rishton, who became a member of the committee Investors section on the Groups website at www.
com on his appointment to the Board on March 1, 2007, has recent and relevant financial The following table shows the level of attendance by the directors at Board and experience.
In 2007, its other members were Iain Conn and Ian Strachan.
The principal committee meetings in 2007: committee met four times during the year.
The Director of Risk, Head of Business Assurance and a representative of the external auditors normally attend the Attendance at meetings of the Board and its principal committees in 2007 meetings.
Additionally, the Head of Business Assurance has direct access to the committee.
The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and Board Audit Nominations Remuneration any other Board member or senior executive may attend the meetings as necessary, Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended at the invitation of the audit committee chairman.
Helen Alexander 43 22 2 2 The committee has responsibility for recommending to the Board the Peter Byrom 76 33 44 4 4 published accounts and for reviewing the Groups financial reporting and accounting John Cheffins 55 policies, including major announcements made to a regulatory information service.
Iain Conn 75 44 43 It is also responsible for the relationship with the external auditors and for assessing Prof Peter Gregson 64 31 3 1 the role and effectiveness of the internal audit function, which in Rolls-Royce is James Guyette 77 termed Business Assurance.
In addition, the committee reviews the Groups John Rishton 64 33 32 procedures for detecting, monitoring and managing the risk of fraud.
Simon Robertson 77 44 The committee has responsibility for recommending to the Board the Sir John Rose 77 44 appointment of the external auditors and for reviewing the nature, scope and results Andrew Shilston 77 of the annual external audit.
It also approves the audit fee and, on an annual basis, Colin Smith 77 assesses the effectiveness and independence of the external auditors.
It keeps under Ian Strachan 76 44 44 review the Groups internal controls and systems for assessing and mitigating Carl Symon 77 44 4 4 financial and non-financial risk.
It also reviews and approves the Business Assurance Sir John Taylor 22 11 2 2 work programmes and ensures that this function is adequately resourced and Mike Terrett 44 co-ordinated with the work of the external auditors.
Twice a year the committee receives a written report on the reviews conducted throughout the Group by The number of meetings held during the period a director was in office or a member of a committee.
Professor Gregson was absent for part of the year due to illness.
Business Assurance, and a report from senior executives on the key business risks and risk systems in selected sectors.
Nominations committee In order to safeguard auditor independence and objectivity, the following policy In 2007, the nominations committee was chaired by Simon Robertson.
Its other is applied in relation to services provided by the auditors: members were Helen Alexander from September 1, 2007, Peter Byrom, Iain Conn, Audit related services these are undertaken by the auditors as it is work that Professor Peter Gregson from March 1, 2007, John Rishton from March 1, 2007, they must, or are best suited to, perform.
It includes formalities relating to borrowings, Sir John Rose, Ian Strachan, Carl Symon and Sir John Taylor until May 1, 2007.
The shareholder and other circulars, risk management services, various regulatory reports committee met four times during the year.
and work in respect of acquisitions and disposals: The committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Tax, accounting and mergers and acquisitions the auditors are used for this work executive and non-executive directors and on the membership of Board committees.
where they are best suited to undertake it.
All other significant consulting work in It is assisted in the former task by external recruitment consultants.
It reviews these areas is put out to tender: and succession planning for appointments to the Board and to other senior positions All other advisory services consulting the auditors are generally prohibited from within the Group.
The committee also oversees the annual review of Board providing these services.
Throughout the year the committee monitors the cost of non-audit work In carrying out these tasks, the committee gives careful consideration to the undertaken by the auditors and is, therefore, in a position to take action if at any time balance of skills required on the Board, including the need to reflect diversity, it believes that there is a risk of the auditors' independence being undermined international experience and strong managerial and business skills.
Before through the award of this work.
recommending the appointment of a non-executive director to the Board, the committee satisfies itself that the candidate will have sufficient time available to Risk committee discharge his or her responsibilities effectively.
The Board has a risk committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, with specific accountability for the system of risk management and for reporting key risks and their associated mitigating actions to the Board.
In 2007, its other members were John Cheffins until September 30, 2007, James Guyette, Andrew Shilston, Colin Smith and Mike Terrett from September 1, 2007.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 53 Governance Financial statements Internal controls and risk management Systems of internal control The general managers of individual businesses are aware of their responsibility to  operate systems of internal control which provide reasonable assurance of effective The directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for and efficient operations, reliable financial information and compliance with laws and maintaining and reviewing its effectiveness from both a financial and operational regulations.
Financial managers are required to acknowledge in writing that their perspective.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than routine financial reporting is based on reliable data and that their results are properly eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable stated in accordance with Group requirements.
but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups The Group has a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget approach to internal control is based on the underlying principle of line approved by the Board.
Revised forecasts for the year are reported at least quarterly.
managements accountability for control and risk management.
Actual results are reported monthly against budget and variances reviewed.
In reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control, the Board has The activities of the Group are subject to review by the Department of Risk, taken account of the results of the work carried out to audit and review the activities including Business Assurance and Product Introduction and Life Cycle Management, of the Group.
and the assurance functions of Health, Safety and Environment, Quality and There is an ongoing process to identify, assess and manage risk, including Engineering.
These functions operate to work programmes agreed by the those risks affecting the Groups reputation.
This process is subject to continuous appropriate Board member.
improvement and has been in place throughout the financial year to which these The Business Assurance function, which works closely with the external auditors, statements apply and up to the date of their approval.
In 2007, the risk review undertakes a programme of financial and operational audits and reviews agreed by framework has been enhanced at both programme and sector level and assurance the audit committee and covering all Group activities.
The programme includes activities are more closely co-ordinated with the risk management process.
independent reviews of the systems of internal control and risk management.
The The Board has reviewed the risk management process and confirms that findings and the status of corrective actions taken to address these are reported in ongoing processes and systems ensure that Rolls-Royce continues to be compliant writing to both the audit and risk committees twice a year.
with the Turnbull guidance as contained inInternal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Export controls The Group attaches the highest priority to complying fully with export controls in all Organisation the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Detailed processes have been put in place to The Group has a clearly defined organisation structure within which operational ensure that the Group follows all applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
The management has detailed responsibilities and levels of authorisation, supported by Board has established an exports committee, chaired by the Chief Operating Officer, written job descriptions and operating manuals.
which has responsibility for the application of appropriate controls to the Group's export activity.
The risk management system In the UK, the Group fully complies with the provisions of the UK Export Control The risk management system is an integral part of managements approach to Act on both tangible and intangible exports and with the regulations relating to delivering business objectives and is a systematic process designed to identify, assess, trade, between third parties outside the UK.
Additionally, the Group complies with treat, manage and communicate risks.
It also provides a method of escalation and the relevant EU regulations regarding the export of dual use goods and technology.
delegation to the appropriate level within the organisation and ensures that actions In relation to other jurisdictions, most notably that of the US, the Group vigorously are owned, defined, resourced and effective.
enforces a policy of compliance with both the relevant national legislation and its Management is responsible for the ongoing identification and evaluation of underlying regulatory intent.
significant risks within its areas of responsibility and, using a common process, for the operation of suitable controls or mitigation actions.
Risks are recorded in regularly Ethics updated risk registers operating at all levels of the organisation and are continuously The Board believes strongly that the Groups business should be conducted in a way reviewed and monitored.
During the review process, significant emphasis is placed that reflects the highest ethical standards.
on learning from and sharing prior experience.
Risks may arise from a variety of Rolls-Royce has a Global Code of Business Ethics which lays down the principles internal and external sources.
They may be associated with regulations, customer to be followed by employees when conducting business.
The code also gives requirements and competitor actions, or could result from the capability of the guidance to support achievement of the required standards.
Additionally, processes used to execute the business, or from external and largely unpredictable confidential reporting lines enable UK and US employees to report, outside the events, such as terrorist activity or war.
The principal risks and uncertainties for the normal management chain, any concerns they may have with regard to business Group are shown on pages 22 and 23. conduct.
Risks, irrespective of source, are managed through processes operated by project and functional teams.
Management reports regularly to the risk committee on its view of risks and how they are managed so that the Board can then consider and review these risks in terms of their potential impact.
Management has continued to perform comprehensive risk reviews for all key projects, programmes and business change plans.
In addition, all the processes operated by the Group are subject to continuous improvement, including the risk management process itself.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 54 Governance Financial statements Corporate governance continued Communication with shareholders In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the The Company attaches importance to the effectiveness of its communications with directors are required to: shareholders.
It publishes an Annual review and summary financial statement as well select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: as a full Annual report.
There are also separate reports covering the environment and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: community relations.
for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in The Company maintains a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: the financial community.
This includes presentations of the preliminary and interim for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK results, regular meetings with major shareholders, participation in stockbrokers Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures seminars and site visits.
disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and Each year the Group holds an investorsseminar, in order to improve the prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is financial communitys understanding of the Group and to introduce investors to a inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will broader range of management.
All shareholders can gain access to these and other continue in business.
presentations, as well as to the Annual report and other information about the Group, The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose on the Groups website at www.
com with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company Holders of ordinary shares may attend the Companys AGM at which the and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Act.
They Company highlights key business developments during the year and at which have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to shareholders have an opportunity to ask questions.
The chairmen of the audit, safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other remuneration and nominations committees are available to answer any questions irregularities.
from shareholders on the work of their committees.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for The Company confirms that it sends the AGM notice and relevant preparing a Report of the directors,  report and Corporate documentation to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the date of the governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
For those shareholders who have elected to receive communications are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial electronically, notice is given by email of the availability of documents on the Groups information included on the Groups website.
Legislation in the UK governing the website.
Amendments proposed to be made to the Companys Articles of preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in Association at the AGM would permit the Company to take advantage of new other jurisdictions.
provisions contained in the Companies Act 2006 relating to website and electronic communications.
Further details are set out in the explanatory notes to the Disclosure of information to auditors resolutions contained in the Notice of AGM.
Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms Responsibility for maintaining regular communications with shareholders rests that: with the executive management team led by the Chief Executive.
However, the i so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant information of which the Board is informed on a regular basis of key shareholder issues, including share price Companys auditors are unaware.
performance, the composition of the shareholder register and City expectations.
ii the director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as a director in Independent research is commissioned annually into institutional shareholder order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to perceptions of the Group.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
non-executive directors make themselves available to meet with shareholders This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the as required.
provisions of Section 234ZA of the Act.
Statement of  in respect of the Annual report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the Group and parent company financial statements, in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 theAct provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of the Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
