ANNUAL REPORT 28 & ACCOUNTS 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Set out within this section is a the matter of the number of based on formal management Discussed with management commentary on how the Company independent non-executives information and reports and their the range of actions taken on applies the main and supporting referred to in this paragraph the interaction and daily dealings with problem areas for the business principles of the Combined Code Company considers that it those reporting directly to them, identied by Board members or on Corporate Governance complies with the provisions of their colleagues and external in the internal and external the Code.
The principal risks and audit reports.
required within the provisions of uncertainties facing the Group are INTERNAL CONTROL Additionally: the Code are also made within commented on in the Business During the year the Group has The Board received copies of this section.
Review section of this Annual operated procedures necessary to the minutes of all Audit Report & Accounts.
CODE COMPLIANCE STATEMENT comply with the guidance issued in Committee meetings: All current serving executive the Turnbull Report, and reported Internal financial audits are The Board reviewed the role of directors now have a one year in accordance with that guidance.
undertaken on a regular basis insurances in managing risk notice period or less in their service by a selected group of accountants across the Group: The Board has ultimate contracts.
By November 2007 drawn from head ofce and across The Board regularly receives responsibility for the Groups JW Matthews, a non-executive the divisional businesses and written and oral reports from system of internal control and is director, had served 9 years on the geographic centres.
All these management on all aspects required to set appropriate policies Board.
By the end of February accountants have received relevant of production, operations, and to review its effectiveness.
The 2008 he will resign as a member and specic training in internal financial and risk management role of management is to of Audit, Remuneration and audit, best practice and control matters.
Nomination Committees and as procedures, including health & Prior to the year end the full Board, Chairman of Audit and The system of internal control is safety.
Work will continue to following discussion at the Audit Remuneration Committees.
designed to reduce but cannot further embed internal control and Committee, formally reviews the Following the appointment of JE eliminate the risks of failure to meet risk management in the operations effectiveness of the Groups system Nicholas as a director in February business objectives.
Internal control of the business and to further of internal control.
2008, currently there are three therefore can only provide enhance and add to the relevant independent non-executives as reasonable but not absolute processes including consideration THE BOARD accepted by the Code on the assurance in meeting such business of social and environmental risks.
The Board currently has ten Board and the Board Committees.
objectives or against material members comprising: the The processes that are used by the As Rotork p. l. c. is considered a misstatement or loss.
Chairman, the three independent Board to review the effectiveness large company by the Code it is non-executive directors as accepted A continuous process for of this system of internal control recognised that for full by the Code, JW Matthews a nonidentifying, evaluating and include the following: compliance, Code provision A.
3.2 executive director, and five managing the significant risks currently would require further During the year the Audit executive directors.
The Companys faced by the Group continued to independent non-executives to be Committee: Articles of Association provide that be applied and developed during appointed so that half the Board Monitored and reviewed one third of the directors shall retire the year under review and excluding the Chairman comprise the effectiveness of internal from ofce by rotation at each operated up to the date of independent non-executive audit activities: Annual General Meeting AGM.
approval of the Annual Report & directors.
The recent appointment Reviewed and monitored Additionally new directors are Accounts.
Senior managers with of JE Nicholas is considered by the external auditor independence subject to election by shareholders responsibility across all functions Board to be a further significant and objectivity and the at the first opportunity after their participate in the risk management step towards full compliance in effectiveness of the audit appointment.
In line with the Code process that identies and respect of the relevant Code process: guidance non-executive directors evaluates the key risks including provisions, concerning Board Considered reports from are normally appointed for an consideration of social and composition in addition to management, internal and initial term of three years, which is environmental risks facing the facilitating full compliance for external audit on the system of then reviewed and extended for up Groups businesses.
Their Committee membership and internal financial control and to a further two three year periods.
deliberations are reported to the composition particularly given that any material control On appointment directors receive Audit Committee and Board.
following the retirement of WH weaknesses: a suitable and tailored induction.
This process is based on senior Whiteley in May 2008 there will Received reports on health There is a clear division of managers detailed knowledge then be four executive directors & safety and environmental responsibility approved by the and understanding of key risks remaining on the Board.
Subject to issues: Board in writing between the within and external to the business ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 29 ATTENDANCE AT BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS announcements of final and NOMINATION COMMITTEE BOARD AUDIT  interim results, ensuring sound The Nomination Committees five MEETING COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE internal control and risk members during the year under RH Arnold 9 management, executive director review were RC Lockwood who PI France 9 remuneration, corporate chairs the Committee, JW GM Ogden 9 governance matters including Matthews, A Walker, IG King and RE Slater 9 3 Board and Committee WH Whiteley.
WH Whiteley 9 3 4 5 performance appraisals and Board IG King 9 3 4 5 Following the appointment of the and Committee membership.
RC Lockwood 9 3 4 5 third independent non-executive The directors also have powers to JW Matthews 9 3 4 5 director, JE Nicholas, the issue and buy back the Companys A Walker 9 3 4 5 Nomination Committee now shares conferred annually by the comprises the three independent by invitation shareholders at the AGM.
The directors, the Chief Executive and Board regularly considers and Chairman, RC Lockwood, and the The Chairman ensures through the the Chairman.
A majority of the discusses future strategy, following current Chief Executive, WH Company Secretary that the Board members of the Nomination submissions by management, Whiteley, that ensures that there is Agenda and all relevant Committee are therefore at Board meetings and, on a balance of power and authority information is provided to the independent non-executive occasion, separate strategy between the running of the Board Board sufciently in advance of directors as accepted by the Code.
The non-executive and the executive responsibility for meetings.
The Chairman and The Terms of Reference of the directors constructively challenge the running of the Companys Company Secretary discuss the Nomination Committee can be and help develop proposals on business.
JW Matthews will Agenda ahead of every meeting.
accessed on the Companys strategy at those meetings.
The continue to act in the role of the At meetings the Chairman ensures website in the Investors section.
decisions which are left to Senior Independent non-executive that all directors are able to make management are all those related A major part of the work of Director until his retirement from an effective contribution to the successful operation and the Committee during the year the Board on 2 May 2008 when throughout meetings and every management of the Companys was to identify and recommend a replacement independent director is encouraged to business and in implementing the to the Board a successor to non-executive director will be participate and provide opinions commercial strategy within the WH Whiteley as Chief Executive.
The limits set by the Board annually for This task was duly completed Chairman always seeks to achieve overall operational budgets and following a comprehensive Attendance at Board and unanimous decisions of the Board capital expenditure.
internal selection process committee meetings is shown following due discussion of conducted by and on behalf of the above.
The Schedule of The Chairman ensures that Nomination Committee and PI Reserved Matters details those meetings of non-executives During the year Board meetings France was duly recommended by matters specically reserved for without the executives present are are scheduled at manufacturing the Committee to the Board as Board decision.
The Company maintains sites other than the Companys the next Chief Executive.
decision which are reserved for appropriate directors and ofcers headquarters in Bath.
This allows, Board decision relate to matters insurance cover.
AUDIT COMMITTEE in particular, non-executive which cannot, or the Board The Audit Committee was, during directors to meet management at PERFORMANCE EVALUATION considers should not, be delegated the year under review, comprised these sites and receive A formal process for performance to the Chief Executive and of the three independent nonpresentations from them.
During evaluation of the Board, its executive management.
They executive directors, JW Matthews the year under review the Board Committees and individual include approval of Group Chairman, A Walker and IG King.
visited and held a Board meeting directors takes place annually.
For commercial strategy and JW Matthews will step down at its manufacturing site in 2007 the evaluation took the form succession planning, approval of as Chairman and as a member Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA.
of a questionnaire prepared in Group annual operating and of the Committee on 29 February conjunction with external capital expenditure budgets and 2008.
JE Nicholas has now joined consultants covering recommendations for payment of the Committee as the third a wide range of Board related the final proposed dividend and independent non-executive matters.
JW Matthews, the Senior decisions for interim dividends and director and will be its Chairman Independent non-executive dividend policy, approval of the from 1 March 2008.
The Director led the performance Annual Report & Accounts and Committee usually meets three evaluation of the Chairman.
ANNUAL REPORT 30 & ACCOUNTS 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED times a year to review published Committee are available to view RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS financial information, the on the Companys website Communication with shareholders effectiveness of both external and www.
com in the is given high priority.
All members internal audit and internal financial Investors section.
of the Board receive copies of all and other controls.
The Finance analysts reports of which the The internal audit function is Director, Chief Executive, Company is made aware.
The undertaken by members of the Chairman and the external Board receives non-attributable Groups finance departments who auditors normally attend meetings analyst comments from analyst all have other distinct posts.
The and there is a meeting at least meetings and shareholder Finance Director is also Head of once a year between the meetings after both interim Internal Audit.
The work Committee and the external and final results.
The Chief undertaken by the Committee in auditors at which management Executive reports at each Board discharging its internal control is not present.
meeting upon his meetings with responsibilities is described under analysts, fund managers and The matter of auditor the Internal Control section above.
The Company independence is considered by the During the year the Committee Secretary has written on behalf of Committee.
The Auditor does actively reviews the actions and the Board to the Companys major provide non-audit services.
The judgements of management in shareholders offering meetings Audit Committee has approved relation to the Groups financial with the non-executive directors a written policy for non-audit statements, Business Review, and requesting shareholders to work conducted by the Auditor.
interim reports and preliminary confirm they are content with Whenever a non-audit work announcements before their current Board level contact with instruction excluding tax advice submission to the Board with the the Company and communication exceeds 10,000 in fee value the Committees recommendations to non-executives.
The Chairman Finance Director must clear the for approval or otherwise.
The attends the preliminary and interim instruction in advance with the Committee considers the announcements in London with Audit Committee Chairman.
If appointment of the Auditor the Chief Executive and Finance non-audit instructions in aggregate and recommends the audit fees Director and is available to meet exceed 40,000 in any year then to the Board.
fund managers and analysts on the excess must be approved on an those days.
The Committee discusses with the item by item basis by the Audit external auditor before the audit Committee Chairman.
For Individual shareholders have an commences the nature and scope significant general consulting opportunity to put questions to of the audit and reviews steps projects more than one service the Chairman at the AGM and taken by the Auditor to respond to delivery provider is normally individual shareholder enquiries are regulatory requirements.
Categories of nondealt with throughout the year by audit work provided by the Auditor REMUNERATION COMMITTEE the Company Secretarys are set out in note 8.
Tax advice The work of the Remuneration department.
For the AGM all proxy provided by the Auditor Committee is described in the votes are counted and except in substantially relates to compliance Remuneration Report on pages 34 the event of a poll being called at matters.
The Chairman and Chief the AGM the balance for and Committees Terms of Reference is Executive were invited to and did against the resolution and the a requirement for the Committee attend all meetings but the Chief number of abstentions is displayed to assess the independence of the Executive was not in attendance for shareholders after it has been external auditor ensuring key when his own remuneration and dealt with on a show of hands.
partners are rotated at appropriate benets were considered.
Prior to the AGM the Company intervals and to ensure that the Secretary reports to the Board on provision of non-audit services does the results of the proxy returns and not impair the external auditors on the comments and analysis independence or objectivity.
This undertaken by voting agencies.
assessment was undertaken by the Committee during the year.
The Terms of Reference of the Audit
