Corporate Governance Committee Combined Code In order to manage effectively the Groups keeping the Board appraised about the In the opinion of the Board the Chairman structure and organisation during a time implications in respect of changes to the and all the other Non-Executive Directors when expectations about the nature and Combined Code.
The work of the are independent from the Group.
The standards of Corporate Governance have Corporate Governance Committee is, Board is accountable to the Companys been changing significantly and rapidly, RPS therefore, reflected into the Audit, shareholders for good governance and the 48 has established a Corporate Governance Nomination and Remuneration statement set out below describes how Committee.
This comprises the Chairman, Committees as well as the structure, the principles identified in the Combined Chief Executive and Company Secretary: composition and operation of the Group Code already referred to above are other Directors are consulted as Board, including the production of the applied by the Company.
The Committee reviews issues policies described in the Corporate Governance Committee has reviewed as they arise and is also responsible for Responsibility Report pages 24 to 27.
RPS performance against the recommendations in the Code.
In summary the position is as follows: Combined Code paragraph Comment Page The Board should meet regularly to discharge its duties.
1.1 Compliant 36 37 schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision.
The annual report should include a statement of how the Board operates, including a high level statement of which types of decisions are to be taken by the Board and which are delegated to management.
The Annual Report should identify the Chairman, Chief Executive, Senior A.
1.2 Compliant 47 Director and Chairman and Independent Non-Executive members of Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
It should also set out the number of meetings held and individual attendance.
The Chairman should hold meetings with Non-Executive Directors without A.
Led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, the Non-Executive Directors should meet without the Chairman present at least annually to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Where Directors have concerns which cannot be resolved about the running of A.
1.4 Compliant 37 the Company or a proposed action these concerns should be recorded in the Board minutes.
On resignation these concerns should be provided in a written statement to the Chairman for circulation to the Board.
The Company should arrange appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal A.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive should be split.
2.1 Compliant 37 responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive should be clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman on appointment should be independent.
2.2 Compliant 36 The Board should identify in the annual report each Non-Executive Director it A.
3.1 Compliant 38-47 considers to be independent.
At least half the board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive A.
3.2 NonDirectors determined by the board to be independent.
Compliant Until RPS joined the FTSE250 on 28 July 2006 it was required to have only 2 Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Upon joining the FTSE250 the requirement went up to 5 Non-Executives as there are 5 Executives on the Board.
Currently RPS has 3 Independent Non-Executives.
The Board has undertaken a recruitment process during the course of 2007 to find a suitable additional Non-Executive and is hoping to announce an appointment shortly.
RPS Group Plc | Report & Accounts 2007 Combined Code paragraph Comment Page The Board should appoint one of the Independent Non-Executive Directors to be A.
3.3 Compliant 44 the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Senior Independent Director should be available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve and for which such contact is inappropriate.
There should be a Nomination Committee.
The Chairman or independent non-executive A.
4.1 Compliant 58-59 director should chair the committee unless it is dealing with the appointment of a successor to the Chairmanship.
The Nomination Committee should make available its terms of reference.
The Nomination Committee should evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and A.
4.2 Compliant 58-59 49 experience on the Board and evaluate the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
On appointment of a Chairman, the Nomination Committee should prepare a job A.
A Chairmans other significant commitments should be disclosed to the Board before appointment and included in the Annual Report.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors should be made A.
4.4 Compliant 58 available for inspection by any person at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
The annual report should describe the work of the Nomination Committee, including A.
4.6 Compliant 58-59 processes it has used in relation to Board appointments.
New Directors should receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the Board.
5.1 Compliant 37 Shareholders should be offered the opportunity to meet the new Non-Executive.
All Directors should have access to independent professional advice.
5.2 Compliant 37 Committees should be provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
All Directors should have access to the advice and services of the Company A.
5.3 Compliant 37 Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
The Board should state in the annual report how it evaluates performance of the Board, A.
6.1 Compliant 37 its committees and its individual Directors has been conducted.
The Non-Executive Directors led by the Senior Independent Director should be responsible for performance evaluation of the Chairman.
All Directors should be subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General A.
7.1 Compliant Notice Meeting after their appointment, and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more of than three years.
The names of Directors submitted for election or re-election should Meeting be accompanied by sufficient biographical details and any other relevant information.
The Non-Executive Directors should be appointed for specified terms subject to A.
Any term beyond six years for a Non-Executive should be subject to particularly rigorous review, and take into account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
Performance-related elements of remuneration should form a significant B.
1.1 Compliant 51 proportion of the total remuneration package of the Executive Directors.
Share options should not be offered at a discount.
1.2 Compliant 53-54 Remuneration for Non-Executive Directors should reflect the time commitment and B.
1.3 Compliant 55 responsibilities of the role.
The Remuneration Committee should consider what compensation commitments B.
1.5 Compliant 55 the Directors terms of appointment would entail in the event of early termination.
Notice or contract periods of Executive Directors should be one year or less.
1.6 Compliant 55 A Remuneration Committee should be established with at least three Independent B.
Compliant The Remuneration Committee should have available its terms of reference.
51-52 The Group currently has 3 Non-Executive Directors apart from the Chairman.
No Executive Director sits on all of the 3 major committees audit, remuneration and nomination.
In addition the Chairman does not sit on either the audit or remuneration committees.
As a result of this it is only practical for 2 Non-Executive Directors to sit on these committees.
Management & Governance Corporate Governance continued Combined Code paragraph Comment Page The Remuneration Committee should set remuneration for all executives.
2.2 Compliant 51-56 The Remuneration Committee should recommend and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
The Board should determine the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
2.3 Compliant 55 Shareholders should be invited specifically to approve all new long-term incentive B.
2.4 Compliant 53 schemes and significant changes to existing schemes.
The Directors should explain in the annual report their responsibility for preparing C. 1.1 Compliant 65 & 67 accounts and a statement, by the auditor about their reporting responsibilities.
The Directors should report that the business is a going concern.
C. 1.2 Compliant 65 50 The Board should conduct at least annually, a review of the effectiveness of the Groups C. 2.1 Compliant 51 & 58 system of internal controls and should report to shareholders that they have done so.
The Board should establish an Audit Committee with at least three members C. 3.1 Non-Compliant who should all be Independent Non-Executive Directors.
At least one member of the Audit Committee should have recent and relevant financial experience.
The role and responsibility of the Audit Committee should be set out in written terms C. 3.2 3.3 Compliant 57-58 of reference.
This should be disclosed in the annual report.
The Audit Committee should review arrangements by which staff of the Company C. 3.4 Compliant 57 may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The Audit Committee should consider annually whether there is a need for an C. 3.5 Compliant 58 internal audit function and make a recommendation to the Board.
The Audit Committee should have primary responsibility for making a recommendation C. 3.6 Compliant 57 on the appointment, reappointment or removal of the external auditors.
If the Board does not accept the Audit Committees recommendation it should C3.6 Compliant n a include in its annual report a statement explaining why the Board take a different position.
The annual report should explain to shareholders how independence is C. 3.7 Compliant 57 safeguarded if the auditor provides non audit services.
The Chairman should ensure that the views of the shareholders are disclosed to the D. 1.1 Compliant 27 Board as a whole.
The Chairman is available to discuss governance and strategy with the shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director should attend sufficient meetings with a range of major shareholders in order to develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of the shareholders.
The Board should state in their annual report the steps they have taken to ensure Board D. 1.2 Compliant 27 members develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders about their Company.
The Company should propose a separate resolution at the AGM on each substantially D. 2.1 Compliant Notice separate issue and should in particular propose a resolution at the AGM relating of to the report and accounts.
Meeting The Company should count all proxy votes and indicate the level of proxies D. 2.2 Compliant lodged on each resolution, and the balance for and against the resolution and the number of abstentions.
The Company should ensure that votes cast are properly received and recorded.
Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees should attend the D. 2.3 Compliant 27 AGM in order to be available to answer questions.
The Company should arrange for the Notice of AGM and related papers to be sent to D. 2.4 Compliant shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Group currently has 3 Non-Executive Directors apart from the Chairman.
RPS Group Plc | Report & Accounts 2007 Communication Financial reporting: A detailed formal 1 budgeting process for all Group businesses The Company places a great deal of culminates in an annual Group budget importance on communication with its Alan Hearne which is approved by the Board.
The full report and accounts 1 Fixed 35.6% results for the Group are reported 2 Variable 64.4% are made available to all shareholders and monthly against this budget to the Board.
2 to other parties who have an interest in the Groups performance on the Groups Financial and accounting principles and website.
The Company responds to internal financial controls assurance: 1 numerous letters from shareholders and Compliance with these is reviewed as customers when these are received.
A detailed financial and Peter Dowen Companys website also provides up-toaccounting controls manual sets out the 1 Fixed 44.4% date information about its organisation, the principles of and minimum standards 2 Variable 55.6% 51 services it offers and newsworthy subjects.
required by the Board for effective 2 financial control.
There is regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders as well Capital investment:The Company has 1 as general presentations after the interim clearly defined guidelines for capital and preliminary results and at other expenditure.
These include annual budgets, Andrew Troup events.
All shareholders have the detailed appraisal and review procedures, 1 Fixed 52.4% opportunity to put questions at the levels of authority and due diligence 2 Variable 47.6% Companys Annual General Meeting.
requirements where businesses are 2 being acquired.
Audit and internal controls The respective responsibilities of the Remuneration Report 1 Directors and the independent auditors in The Directors who were members of connection with the accounts are the Remuneration Committee throughout Gary Y oung explained on pages 65 and 67 and the 1 Fixed 41.7% the year were: Karen McPherson and 2 Variable 58.3% statement of the Directors in respect of John Bennett.
going concern appears on page 65.
2 The Chairman and Chief Executive The Board has procedures in place have assisted the Remuneration as recommended in the guidance in Committee in their deliberations on other 1 The Combined Code on Corporate Directors remuneration.
The Company Governance and Turnbull: Guidance on Secretary is in attendance at the meeting Phil Williams Internal Controls and these have been in 1 Fixed 41.4% to provide the committee with any 2 Variable 58.6% place for the whole year and up to the additional advice that is required.
date of approval of the financial statements.
2 Remuneration Committee - The risk management policies are Terms of Reference described on pages 17-25.
Analysis of fixed versus performance the Committee has been delegated related pay for Executive Directors 2007 The Board is responsible for the responsibility by the Board to Groups system of internal control which is Notes: determine and agree with the Board designed to provide reasonable but not Fixed compensation comprises: the framework or broad policy for absolute assurance against material Basic salary the remuneration of the Executive misstatement or loss.
The Board reviews Benefits Directors and Senior Employees of from time to time the effectiveness of the the Company: the remuneration of Variable compensation comprises: system of internal control from Non-Executive Directors is a matter Maximum Bonus Potential information provided by management for the executive members of the Face Value of LTIP Awards page 58 and the Groups external Board who take advice from the auditors.
The key procedures that the within the terms of the agreed independent consultants.
No Director Directors have established to provide policy, determine the total individual or manager is involved in any decisions effective internal financial controls are remuneration package of each as to their own remuneration: as follows: Executive Director including, where appropriate, bonuses, benefits, longterm incentive allocations and share options: Management & Governance Corporate Governance continued the quorum necessary for the Remuneration policy Base salary transaction of business shall be two.
A The Remuneration Committees policy When determining the salary of the duly convened meeting of the is to set the main elements of the Executive Directors the Remuneration Committee at which a quorum is remuneration package in order to reflect: Committee has taken into consideration: present shall be competent to the performance of the individual the performance of the Group as exercise all or any of the authorities, concerned: a whole: powers and discretions vested in or the performance of the business the performance of the individual exercisable by the Committee: unit s for which he she is responsible: Executive Director both for the determine the policy for and scope of Group and the businesses under in the case of Group directors, the pension arrangements for each his control: performance of the Group as a whole: Executive Director: and pay and conditions throughout the 52 determine targets for any Company: and the relevant market s for executives performance-related pay and share and the terms and conditions the market conditions in the sector schemes operated by the Company: prevailing in those markets.
in determining such packages and The Committee recognises that the The results of this exercise were then arrangements, give due regard to the main competitors of the Group and, benchmarked against an independently comments and recommendations of therefore, comparators for remuneration established group of listed companies.
the Combined Code as well as the are found outside the group of companies Listing Rules of the Financial Services This group was identified that are listed.
In consequence, the Authority and associated guidance: independently by Halliwell Consulting.
Committee needs to reflect that in its ensure that contractual terms on The basis of selection of the group was: deliberations including RPS market leading termination, and any payments made, position in a number of those markets.
companies within the same sector as are fair to the individual and the the Company: and The Committee is, in addition, mindful Company, that failure is not rewarded of trends and best practice amongst listed companies with a range of market and that the duty to mitigate loss is companies of a similar size in the Support capitalisations such that the Company fully recognised, in line with the Services sector.
sits within the middle of the statement of best practice in the comparator group.
This group is ABI Guidelines: The policy is designed to attract, retain reviewed on an annual basis.
and motivate individuals by providing the ensure that provisions regarding opportunity to earn competitive levels of disclosure of remuneration, including The companies comprising the comparator compensation provided performance pensions, as set out in the Directors group used in the 2007 Review were is delivered, whilst remaining within the Remuneration Report Regulations as follows: range of compensation offered by 2002 and the Code, are fulfilled: Alfred McAlpine Interserve similar companies.
Ashstead Group John Laing be aware of and advise on any Atkins WS Mitie Group Directors remuneration is the subject major changes in employee benefit Babcock International Group Mouchel Parkman of annual review in accordance with this structures throughout the Company BSS Group PayPoint policy.
Additionally, it focuses on the or Group: Carter & Carter Group Premier Farnell contribution to the continued long term Davis Service Group Shanks Group be exclusively responsible for Enterprise Sthree growth and success of the Company and establishing the selection criteria, Erinaceous Group Speedy Hire seeks to align their interests with those of selecting, appointing and setting Filtronic WSP Group the Company, employees and shareholders.
the terms of reference for any The charts on page 53 demonstrate remuneration consultants who the proportion of the maximum potential advise the Committee: compensation which is performance meet as required during the year: and related for each Executive Director.
report the frequency of, and The Remuneration Committee attendance by members at, appointed and received wholly Remuneration Committee meetings in independent advice on executive the annual report see page 47. compensation and associated share administration from Halliwell Consulting.
RPS Group Plc | Report & Accounts 2007 % Maximum Bonus Potential % of Maximum Bonus subject to each Target 2008 Performance bonus Executive 2007 2008 EPS Target Divisional & Individual Targets The table sets out: 2008 2007 2008 2007 Chief Executive 100 100 100 Maximum Bonus Potential for Finance Director 80 80 50 75 50 25 Executive Directors for 2007.
Executive Directors 80 80 50 75 50 25 Maximum Bonus Potential for Executive Directors for 2008.
Long-term incentives The Bonus Targets applying for both The following table and paragraphs summarise the operation of the Companys LTIP: 2007 and 2008.
2004 Grant 2005 Grant 2006 Grant 2007 Grant % of Salary % of Salary % of Salary % of Salary The earnings per share growth target Executive Condition Condition Condition Condition is set out below.
EPS figures are based Maximum Annual Grant 100 100 100 100 53 upon the Companys adjusted figures Chief Executive 100 80 80 100 under IFRS.
In respect of 2007 the EPS Finance Director 75 60 60 80 growth shown in the audited accounts Executive Directors 75 60 60 80 was 26.3% giving rise to Executives being Performance Condition Comparative EPS Growth EPS Growth EPS Growth Total see table below see table below see table below entitled to 85.4% of the maximum Shareholder potential bonus subject to this target.
Return Status Released on Release Date Release Date Release Date % Earnings per Share % Bonus Payable 1 September 16 May 2008 30 March 2009 14 March 2010 Growth Inclusive of RPI for EPS Element 2007 as upper 5 14.00 quartile TSR 6 23.10 performance achieved over 7 28.70 the performance 8 34.30 period 9 39.90 see table below 10 45.50 11 47.95 12 50.40 100% of the shares subject to the first The performance conditions attached 13 52.85 14 55.30 grant were released on 1 September to the release of LTIP shares related to 15 57.75 2007.
27 87.15 10 100 28 89.60 The Remuneration Committee 29 92.05 reviews on an annual basis the current 30 94.50 There will be straight line release share incentives in respect of: 31 96.95 between these points.
32 99.40 their operation: The Remuneration Committee will 32.2 100.00 determine the satisfaction of the the grant levels: and performance conditions in respect of both the performance criteria the LTIP and historic options.
The EPS in order to ensure that what has been figure used by the Company will be the approved by shareholders remain audited basic EPS figure disclosed in the appropriate to the Companys current Companys Financial Statements.
Management & Governance Corporate Governance continued The performance condition comparing out the level of the option grant to the During the year the Directors exercised increases in earnings per share against Executive Directors of the Company at share options as follows: inflation was chosen in order to ensure the median level.
Name Options exercised that LTIP awards and options would only The maximum annual grant under the Alan Hearne 426,206 be received against a background of a Executive Share Option Scheme was 75% Peter Dowen 241,129 sustained real increase in the financial of salary.
Options were not issued at a Andrew Troup 88,008 performance of the Company.
The Performance Conditions Gary Young 136,790 The Remuneration Committee, on attached to the Share Options granted to At a market price of 326.78p.
The total conducting the annual review of the the Directors under the Executive Share gain on share options exercised was operation of the LTIP for 2007, Option Schemes are that: 1,742,000. determined to make the following changes Ordinary Options may only be 54 to the proposed 2007 grant of awards: The Directors individual share options exercised if, over any three year are detailed in the Directors report on an increase in the award made to the measurement period of the Company, page 63 and 64.
CEO from 80% of salary to 100%: and beginning no earlier than the financial year during which the option is No further options will be granted to an increase in the award made to the granted, the percentage growth in the Executive Directors following the other Executives from 60% of salary earnings per share exceeds the adoption of the LTIP.
growth in the Retail Prices Index over The Companys rolling dilution for the The primary reason for the the same period by at least 3% per purposes of the ABI guidelines is less than Remuneration Committees decision to annum, being 9% for the three year 1% pa for all share plans and less than increase the level of award was to bring period: and 0.5% pa for discretionary plans.
the Company into line with its policy of Super Options may only be exercised providing median comparative levels of It is the current intention that the if, over any five year measurement award under its share incentives.
The proposed awards for 2008 will be satisfied period of the Company, beginning no Remuneration Committee strongly by the new issue shares within the same earlier than the financial year during believes that increasing the balance of the rules of dilution as applied in respect which the option is granted, the compensation package provided to the of 2007. percentage growth in earnings per Executives in favour of the performance share exceeds the growth in the Retail Benefits elements is in the interests of both the Price Index over the same period by The Executive Directors participate in Company and shareholders.
In the case of at least 6% per annum, being 30% for a Company money purchase defined both the increase in annual bonus potential the five year period.
It is also contribution scheme for which the and the increase in award level under the necessary for the share price to rise Employer Contribution is 15%.
LTIP, Executives will only receive the full over both the three and five year benefit if they generate consistently high Executive Directors can also periods to make the exercise levels of EPS growth over both the short participate in the all-employee Sharesave worthwhile.
Under the rules of this Plan, all The options granted to Executive employees can contribute up to 250 per This grant of awards for 2007 is set Directors during 2003 were Ordinary and month with the option to buy shares at out in the following table: Super Options.
the end of the savings contract at the Shares Market value Name Grantedof shares price at the start of the contract.
Options are not able to be exercised if Alan Hearne 124,893 2.9225 Currently the Company does not provide performance is below target, and there is Gary Young 49,272 2.9225 a discount to the price at which shares no reward for below target performance.
Andrew Troup 53,378 2.9225 can be acquired.
No new contracts have The performance conditions are measured Peter Dowen 60,222 2.9225 been offered under the plan since 2003. at the end of the three year holding Phil Williams 60,222 2.9225 periods applying to the relevant grants of Executive Directors can also Options.
There is no re-testing of the participate in the all-employee Inland performance conditions.
The Directors are Full details of the Directors LTIP Revenue Share Incentive Plan SIP.
The required to refund to the Company all awards are set out on page 64.
SIP gives employees the opportunity to National Insurance contributions payable at purchase up to 1,500 of shares a year For 2003 and earlier years long-term exercise.
This makes the effective tax rate with the Company providing one incentives comprised of annual grants of for Executives 47%.
additional matching share for every options.
The Remuneration Committee set RPS Group Plc | Report & Accounts 2007 employee purchased share.
If the shareholding requirement is not participation in the SIP scheme is 33% of has, therefore, introduced two years ago proportionately satisfied the Remuneration eligible employees.
shareholding guidelines to encourage longCommittee may take this into account term share ownership by the Executives.
when determining the levels of future The Executive Directors also receive The guidelines encourage Executive awards under the LTIP.
the following additional benefits: Directors to build up and retain a holding healthcare: of shares.
The Remuneration Committee life assurance and dependants believes this forms a stable incentive pay Recommended Shareholding pensions: Name Requirement as Percentage of Salary platform on which to build a responsible disability schemes: and relationship between shareholders, the Alan Hearne 150% company car or car allowance.
Gary Young 100% Andrew Troup 100% It is intended that the Executives 55 Shareholding guideline Peter Dowen 100% will be able to build up the necessary Shareholdings across the Executive Phil Williams 100% shareholding by their participation in the Directors and Senior Executives are not Service contracts The table below shows that the Executive Directors and Committee only event on the occurrence of which Chairmen receive an additional payment.
The Companys policy on the duration of the Company is liable to make a payment The basic fee for the Non-Executive service contracts is that: to Executive Directors is on cessation Directors for 2007 was 27,500 with a Executive Directors should have of employment.
Committee Chairman fee or Senior Nonrolling service contracts terminable on Potential Executive fee of 5,000.
The Chairman no more than one years notice payment in served by the Company or the received 87,500. event Company Potential takeover Director: and Name termination payment or liquidation Details of the terms of appointment Non-Executive Directors are of the serving Non-Executive Directors Alan Hearne 12 months notice Nil appointed for fixed terms of three Peter Dowen 12 months notice Nil are set out in the table below: years, renewable on agreement of Andrew Troup 12 months notice Nil Unexpired term both the Company and the Director.
of contract as Gary Young 12 months notice Nil at 31 Dec Phil Williams 12 months notice Nil The policy on termination payments Name Initial Contract date 2007 months is that the Company does not make Brook Land September 1997 Annual The Companys articles state that a payments beyond its contractual Review Director shall retire at the first Annual obligations, including any payment in Roger Devlin April 2002 4 General Meeting after the date of his respect of notice to which a Director is Karen McPherson June 2005 6 seventieth birthday, and then must face entitled after mitigation is considered.
John Bennett June 2006 18 annual election thereafter.
All Directors face None of the Directors contracts provide election at least every three years.
for automatic payments in excess of one Non-Executive Directors are not year.
None of the Directors contracts entitled to participate in the pension plan Non-Executive Directors provide for liquidated damages.
In the or the performance based pay schemes The fees paid to the Non-Executive year ended 31 December 2007, no including annual bonus and share schemes.
Directors are determined by the Board compensation was paid to any Director Terms and conditions of appointment of and aim to be competitive with other fully resigning from the Board.
Non-Executive Directors are available for listed companies of equivalent size and inspection by any person at the Companys Details of the Directors service complexity.
The Chairman of the Company registered office and at the AGM.
contracts are included in the table below.
receives a higher fee than the other NonManagement & Governance Corporate Governance continued Performance Graph The graph shows a comparison of the Total shareholder return from 1st January 2003 total shareholder return from the 3 30 00 0% % Companys shares for each of the last five financial years against the total shareholder 2 25 50 0% % return for the companies comprising the 2 20 00 0% % FTSE All Share, the FTSE All Share 1 15 50 0% % Support Services sector and the 1 10 00 0% % comparator group.
R RP PS S G Gr ro ou uppP PL LC C F FT TS SE E A Allll S Sh ha ar re e F FT TS SE E A Allll S Sh ha ar re e S Su up pp po or rt t S Se er rv viic ce es s S Se ec ct to or r Directors emoluments and compensation The following disclosures on Directors remuneration and share incentives have been audited as required by part 3 of Emoluments excluding Pension pensions paid and provided Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985.
Basic salary Bonus Fees Benefits 2007 2006 2007 2006 The following table sets out details of the 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s emoluments and compensation received Executive: during the year by each Director.
Alan Hearne 365 312 19 696 587 308 Gary Young 180 111 10 301 265 27 26 Share awards Andrew Troup 195 27 10 232 287 29 28 The tables on pages 63 and 64 set out Peter Dowen 220 113 10 343 325 33 32 details of the audited share options and Phil Williams 220 150 12 382 285 33 29 LTIPs held by each Director during the Non-Executive: year.
A description of the terms and Brook Land 87 87 72 Roger Devlin 32 32 27 conditions of the scheme are held on Karen McPherson 32 32 27 pages 53-54.
John Bennett appointed 01 06 06 32 32 16 All share options comply with ABI Total 2007 1,180 713 183 61 2,137 122 headroom guidelines.
Pensions The Executive Directors of the Company earned pensions benefits in a company money purchase defined contribution This report was approved by scheme apart from Phil Williams whose the Board on 5 March 2008. pension benefits are in a Group Personal Pension plan defined contribution during Signed on behalf of the Board the year.
Karen McPherson At the Annual General Meeting of the Chairman of the Remuneration Company to be held on 22 May 2008, a Committee resolution approving this report is to be 5 March 2008 proposed as an advisory Ordinary Resolution.
RPS Group Plc | Report & Accounts 2007 T TS SR R % % Audit Committee - the person raising the concern need reviews annually the Committees Terms of Reference not disclose their identity.
However, it policies, practices and performance: would be of greater benefit in and The Audit Committee has written terms investigating the situation if the person of reference set out below.
These are also ensures that funds are available to the raising the concern identifies himself available on the Group website.
It reviews Committee for external advice when or herself.
If their identity is disclosed the draft financial statements prior to needed, which shall be obtained via an their identity will not be passed on by submission to the Board and monitors Executive Director.
the person receiving the complaint and makes recommendations to the without the individuals consent.
Committee authority Board regarding the Groups accounting policies and considers significant matters The Audit Committees terms of The Committee shall have the authority to relating to internal control procedures.
reference are: consider any matters relating to the financial affairs of the Group.
The Audit Committee keeps the Committee composition, capabilities 57 scope and cost effectiveness of the The Committee shall have the and meetings external audit under review.
In order to authority to request relevant information The Committee shall comprise two ensure the independence of its auditors is from any employee and employees shall Independent Non-Executive Directors not prejudiced in any way, the Board be expected to respond accordingly.
with a quorum of two, appointed by the decided on 22 February 2002 that in The Committee may take external Board, all of whom possess an adequate future the auditors, BDO Stoy Hayward professional advice with respect to its understanding of the financial management LLP, will not, other than in exceptional responsibilities and duties.
and reporting requirements of publicly circumstances, be used to undertake any quoted companies.
The Committee shall have no assignment for the Group or any part of executive responsibilities with respect to the Group not related to the audit, tax The Board will appoint a suitably implementation of its recommendations.
issues and the review of Interim Results.
qualified Director other than the Chairman If the Executives believe exceptional to chair the Committee.
The Company Committee responsibilities and duties circumstances do exist, the appointment Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
Financial matters of the auditors for some other assignment The Committee shall meet at least needs to be specifically approved in The Committee shall review accounting twice per annum and may invite to attend: advance by the Audit Committee.
The policies and practices used by the Group, the Chief Executive and the Finance Audit Committee keeps non-audit as well as information to be published to Director, representatives of the external services under review.
This policy applies the London Stock Exchange prior to its auditors and anyone else who may assist to all the territories in which the Group submission to the Board.
the Committee from time to time.
The split between audit and The Committee shall ensure that the Current membership: John Bennett non-audit fees for the year under review information presented by the Group Chairman and Roger Devlin.
The appears on page 79. supports a balanced, clear and Company Secretary attends all meetings.
The Company has in place formal understandable view of its financial whistleblowing procedures which allow Relationship between the Committee and position and prospects.
staff of the Company to, in confidence, the Board External audit raise concerns about possible The RPS Group Plc Board: The Committee shall make improprieties in matters of financial reviews and agrees terms of reference recommendations to the Board reporting and other issues.
These put forward by the Audit Committee: with respect to the appointment procedures are reviewed by the Audit of external auditors and will take Committee and are as follows: considers changes to the terms of steps necessary to satisfy itself about the reference when recommended by any employee wishing to raise a continuing independence of relevant firms.
the Committee: concern regarding internal controls, The Committee shall review the level accounting or audit matters may do receives prompt summary reports of external audit fees.
so with the Senior Non-Executive after each meeting of the Committee: Director, Roger Devlin, or the The Committee shall review the scope is advised of matters for its attention Company Secretary, April Rigby: of, approach to and findings from external at other times as deemed necessary audit work.
any concerns raised will be treated in by the Committee: confidence, and will be investigated will refer matters to the Committee and any action proposed reported to for its attention as necessary: the Audit Committee: and Management & Governance Corporate Governance continued The Committee shall discuss with the Membership Notice of meetings external auditors any proposed changes in The Committee shall be appointed by the Meetings of the Committee shall be accounting policies.
Board and shall comprise of a Chairman summoned by the Secretary of the The Committee Chairman will liaise and at least two other members.
Committee at the request of the directly with the external auditors in order Chairman of the Committee.
A majority of members of the to ensure a full understanding of any Unless otherwise agreed, notice of Committee shall be Independent Nonissues that arise from their work and will each meeting confirming the venue, time Executive Directors.
report to the Committee accordingly.
and date together with an agenda of items The Board shall appoint the to be discussed, shall be forwarded to Risk management Committee Chairman.
In the absence of each member of the Committee no fewer Internal controls the Committee Chairman and or an than five working days prior to the date of appointed deputy, the remaining members 58 The Committee shall review the means by the meeting.
As far as practical meetings present shall elect one of their number to which sound systems of internal control shall be held before or after meetings of chair the meeting.
are maintained across the Group and shall the Main Board.
review reports on the effectiveness of If a regular member is unable to act those systems.
due to absence, illness or any other cause, Minutes of meetings the Chairman of the Committee may Internal audit The Secretary shall minute the appoint another Director of the Company proceedings and resolutions of all The Committee shall review at least to serve as an alternate member having Committee meetings, including the names annually the internal audit function due regard to maintaining the required of those present and in attendance.
and will make appropriate balance of Executive and Independent recommendations to the Board.
Minutes of Committee meetings shall Non-Executive members.
be circulated to all members of the Other risk management systems Care should be taken to minimise the Committee and to the Chairman of the risk of any conflict of interest that might The Committee shall consider the Board and made available on request to be seen to give rise to an unacceptable adequacy of other systems which help to other members of the Board.
Current membership: Brook manage the Groups exposures to damage Land Chairman, Roger Devlin and Annual General Meeting or loss.
The Chairman of the Committee shall Nomination Committee - attend the Annual General Meeting Secretary Terms of Reference prepared to respond to any shareholder The Committee meets as required, but The Company Secretary shall act as the questions on the Committees activities.
not less than once a year, and comprises Secretary of the Committee and attend The terms and conditions of three Independent Non-Executive all meetings.
appointment of Non-Executive Directors Directors.
The Company Secretary attends Quorum should be made available for inspection by all meetings.
Its responsibilities include any person at the Companys registered reviewing the Board structure, size and The quorum necessary for the transaction office and at the AGM.
composition, nominating candidates to the of business is two.
A duly convened Board when vacancies arise and meeting of the Committee at which a Duties recommending Directors who are retiring quorum is present shall be competent to The Committee shall: by rotation to be put forward for reexercise all or any of the authorities, election.
The Committee is currently powers and discretions vested in or regularly review the structure, size and recruiting an additional Independent Nonexercisable by the Committee.
composition of the Board and make Executive Director: an external search recommendations to the Board with Frequency of meetings consultancy is being used in respect of regard to any adjustments that are this appointment.
The Committee shall meet not less than deemed necessary: once a year and at such other times as The Nomination Committees written prepare a description of the role and the Board or any member of the terms of reference are set out below: capabilities required for a particular Committee shall require.
appointment: RPS Group Plc | Report & Accounts 2007 be responsible for identifying and concerning any matters relating to the nominating for the approval of the continuation in office as a Director of Board candidates to fill Board any Director at any time: and vacancies as and when they arise: concerning the appointment of any satisfy itself with regard to succession Director to Executive or other office planning, that the processes and plans other than to the positions of are in place with regard to the Board Chairman and Chief Executive, the and senior appointments: recommendation for which would be considered at a meeting of: assess and articulate the time needed to fulfil the role of Chairman, Senior all the Non-Executive Directors Independent Director and Nonregarding the position of Chief 59 Executive Director, and undertake Executive: an annual performance evaluation all the Directors regarding the to ensure that all members of the position of Chairman: and Board have devoted sufficient time detailing items that should be to their duties: published in the Companys ensure on appointment that a Annual Report relating to the candidate has sufficient time to activities of the Committee.
undertake the role and review his commitments: and Authority ensure that the Secretary on behalf of The Committee is authorised to seek any the Board has formally written to any information it requires from any employee appointees, detailing the role and time of the Company in order to perform commitments and proposing an its duties.
induction plan produced in conjunction The Committee is authorised to with the Chairman.
obtain, at the Companys expense, outside It shall also make recommendations to legal or other professional advice on any the Board: matters within its terms of reference.
with regard to the Chairman having assessed every three years whether the present incumbent shall continue in post, taking into account the needs of continuity versus freshness of approach: as regards the reappointment of any Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of his or her specified term of office: especially when they have concluded their second term: for the continuation or not in service of any Director who has reached the age of 70: concerning the re-election by shareholders of any Director under the retirement by rotation provisions in the Companys articles of association: Management & Governance
