CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The directors report on c the chairman of the nomination executive directors, up to three are to be 1. corporate governance committee, although considered by the non-executive directors nominated by Altria, board to be independent in character up to two are to be non-executive directors The directors continue to be committed to and judgement, was not independent for nominated by BevCo, and up to eight are to maintaining high standards of corporate the purposes of the Combined Code be non-executive directors appointed by the governance, which they see as fundamental board.
The agreement with BevCo allows to discharging their stewardship d two directors were not able to attend BevCo to nominate up to two non-executive responsibilities.
The board strives to provide the 2006 Annual General Meeting due directors for appointment to the board.
the right leadership, strategic oversight and to prior commitments control environment to produce and sustain Altria and BevCo each have the right under The board has taken steps to redress the the delivery of value to all of the companys their respective agreements to nominate one balance of the independent non-executive shareholders, the majority of whom are director for appointment to the nomination directors of the board through the recruitment resident in the USA, South Africa and the committee although neither has exercised of Ms Doherty, as an independent nonUK.
The board applies integrity, principles their right.
BevCo has the right to nominate executive director, with effect from 1 April of good governance and accountability one director for appointment to the 2006, and expects the independence of the throughout its activities and each director corporate accountability and risk assurance board to be strengthened further through brings independence of character and committee CARAC although it has not the recruitment of an additional independent judgement to the role.
All of the members exercised this right, and Altria has the right non-executive director in the coming year.
of the board are individually and collectively to nominate one director for appointment to aware of their responsibilities to the the audit committee which it has exercised.
Board of directors: composition Ms fide Lisi, who was nominated for The principal governance rules applying to 3. and independence appointment to the board and the audit UK companies listed on the London Stock committee by Altria, stepped down from The board consists of the Chairman Exchange are currently contained in the the board on 30 April 2007, following her Mr Kahn : six independent non-executive Combined Code on Corporate Governance retirement from Altria.
Altria nominated directors including Lord Fellowes, the Senior adopted by the Financial Reporting Council Mr Dinyar Devitre to replace Ms fide Lisi.
Independent Director : five non-executive in July 2003 the Combined Code.
Mr Devitre is Senior Vice President and directors who are not considered to be Chief Financial Officer of Altria and joined This report describes the boards approach independent: and two executive directors the board as a non-executive director and to corporate governance and explains how Mr Mackay, the Chief Executive, and a member of the audit committee with it applies the Combined Code.
Mr Wyman, the Chief Financial Officer.
Biographical information concerning each of the directors is set out on pages 42 and 43.
The board considers six directors Application of the Ms Doherty, Lord Fellowes, Mr Morland, The size and certain aspects of the 2.
Combined Code Mr Manser, Mr Manzoni and Mr Ramaphosa composition of the board and of the audit, to be independent for the purposes of the The board applied the principles and nomination and corporate accountability and Combined Code.
Ms Doherty was appointed provisions of the Combined Code risk assurance committees are determined to the board with effect from 1 April 2006. throughout the year ended 31 March 2007, primarily by the terms of our relationship except in the following respects with items agreement with Altria Group, Inc. which The board considers six non-executive a to c being dealt with more fully in was originally approved by shareholders in directors including the Chairman not to Section 3 below : 2002 as part of the Miller transaction, and be independent for the purposes of the was amended, with shareholders approval, Combined Code: Mr Bible and Ms fide Lisi, a at least half the board, excluding the in 2005 as part of the Bavaria Group and her replacement, Mr Devitre, as they are Chairman, were not independent for transaction, and by the terms of our nominees of Altria, the companys largest the purposes of the Combined Code relationship agreement with BevCo LLC shareholder: Mr Santo Domingo Dvila and b the audit committee did not consist a holding company of the Santo Domingo Mr Prez Dvila, as they are nominees of solely of independent directors, as the Group, which was approved by the Santo Domingo Group, the companys committee included Ms fide Lisi, an Altria shareholders in 2005 as part of the second largest shareholder: Lord Renwick nominee, who was not independent for Bavaria transaction.
of Clifton, because of his position with the purposes of the Combined Code JPMorgan Cazenove, an investment bank The agreement with Altria limits the size which has in the past three years had a of the board to a maximum of 15 directors, material relationship with the company: and of whom no more than two are to be the Chairman, Mr Kahn, who is a former SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Corporate governance 34 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information chief executive of the company and has replacement as Altrias nominee to the audit meetings and at the AGM is set out in the served continuously on the board, or on table below.
The directors nominated by committee, Mr Devitre, the independence the board of the companys predecessor, Altria waived their fees during the period and effectiveness of the audit committee in since 1981 although he has been a director under review.
discharging its functions in terms of the of the company only since 1999, and, as Combined Code continue to be considerably In the few instances where a director has not Chairman, is deemed under the Combined enhanced and not compromised.
Lastly, been able to attend a board or committee Code not to be independent.
the board considers that Lord Renwicks meeting, any comments which he or she experience and independence of character For ease of reference, directors has had arising out of the papers to be and judgment continue to qualify him independence status for Combined Code considered at that meeting, have been extremely well to chair the deliberations purposes is indicated in the table below.
relayed in advance to the relevant chairman.
of the nomination committee in assessing The board continues to believe that its 4.2 Operation of the board potential candidates for nomination to the overall composition remains appropriate, The board sets the strategic objectives of board.
Lord Renwick will be retiring from the having regard in particular to the the group, determines investment policies, board at the annual general meeting in July independence of character and integrity of agrees on performance criteria and 2008, having by then served nine years on all of its directors, and the experience and delegates to management the detailed the board.
skills which they bring to their duties.
The planning and implementation of those board considers that the composition of the objectives and policies in accordance with audit committee remains appropriate, given appropriate risk parameters.
The board Altrias interest as the companys largest monitors compliance with policies and 4.
How the board operates single shareholder, and is satisfied that, achievement against objectives by holding having regard to the terms of the relationship 4.1 Board meetings and attendance management accountable for its activities agreement between the company and Altria, The board met six times during the year, in through monthly and quarterly performance and to the experience and background in addition to the AGM.
Individual directors reporting and budget updates.
In addition, financial matters of both Ms fide Lisi and her the board receives regular presentations, attendance at board and committee Directors attendance 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007 and committee memberships Board Audit Remuneration Nomination CARAC Independent Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible AGM J M Kahn 66 1122 E A G Mackay 66 22 M I Wyman 66 22 G C Bible 66 N J fide Lisi 4624 M E Doherty 5644 Lord Fellowes 6644441122 P J Manser 6644441122 J A Manzoni 66 44 22 M Q Morland 66444411 C A Prez Dvila 56 M C Ramaphosa 66 22 Lord Renwick 66 11 A Santo Domingo Dvila 66 considered to be independent for Combined Code purposes Corporate governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 35 on a rotational basis, from the divisional None of the directors has sought independent 4.7 Chairman, Chief Executive and managing directors as well as from directors external advice through the company.
Senior Independent Director of key group functions marketing, corporate The Company Secretary is responsible for The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive affairs, human resources and legal, enabling advising the board, through the Chairman, are separate, with responsibilities divided it to explore specific issues and on matters of corporate governance.
This separation of developments in greater detail.
responsibilities is formalised in their Following the appointment of new directors respective letters of appointment, approved Board and committee meetings are held in to the board, tailored induction programmes by the board.
There were no significant an atmosphere of intellectual honesty of are arranged which involve industry-specific changes to the Chairmans external purpose and integrity, requiring reporting training, and include visits to the groups commitments during the year.
of the highest standard by management businesses and meetings with senior and direct, robust and constructive debate management, as appropriate.
New directors The Chairman is available to consult with among board and committee members.
are briefed on internal controls at business shareholders throughout the year, and, in unit level and are advised of the legal and the month prior to the AGM, he also invites 4.3 Matters reserved for the board other duties they have as directors of a listed major shareholders to meet with him to deal There is a schedule of matters which are company as well as on relevant company with any issues.
The board is kept informed dealt with exclusively by the board.
These policies and governance-related matters.
of the views of shareholders through regular include approval of financial statements: the The company arranges for major updates from the Chairman, the Company groups business strategy: the annual capital shareholders to have the opportunity to Secretary and the executive directors, as expenditure plan: major capital projects: meet new appointees.
The company is also well as through the inclusion in the board major changes to the groups management committed to the continuing development of papers of relevant reports and commentaries and control structure: material investments directors in order that they may build on their of, and exchanges with, shareholders and or disposals: risk management strategy: expertise and develop an ever more detailed investor bodies.
social and environmental policy: and understanding of the business and the treasury policies.
The Senior Independent Director is Lord markets in which group companies operate.
Lord Fellowes is chairman of the The board governs through clearly Members of board committees are corporate accountability and risk assurance mandated board committees, accompanied encouraged to attend internal and external committee CARAC, and also serves on by monitoring and reporting systems.
Each briefings and courses on aspects of their the audit, remuneration and nomination standing board committee has specific respective committee specialities, and committees, and is therefore well placed to written terms of reference issued by the regular updates on relevant legal, regulatory, influence the governance of the company board and adopted in committee.
The terms corporate governance and technical and to meet his responsibilities as Senior of reference of the audit, remuneration and developments are presented to committee Independent Director.
Lord Fellowes serves nomination committee are available on the members and, as appropriate, to the board.
as an additional contact point for companys website or, on request, from 4.6 Outside appointments shareholders should they feel that their the Company Secretary.
All committee Non-executive directors may serve on a concerns are not being addressed through chairmen report orally on the proceedings number of outside boards, provided they the normal channels.
Lord Fellowes is also of their committees at the next meeting of continue to demonstrate the requisite available to fellow non-executive directors, the board, and the minutes of the meetings commitment to discharge effectively their either individually or collectively, to discuss of all board committees are included in the duties to SABMiller plc.
The nomination any matters of concern in a forum that does papers distributed to board members in committee keeps the extent of directors not include executive directors or the advance of the next board meeting.
other interests under review to ensure that management of the company.
In the year 4.4 The roles of executive and the effectiveness of the board is not under review, the Chairman hosted a non-executive directors compromised.
The board is satisfied that meeting of the non-executive directors, The executive directors are responsible the Chairman and each of the non-executive without the executive directors present.
Lord for proposing strategy and for making and directors commits sufficient time to the Fellowes has, in addition, held a meeting of implementing operational decisions.
Nonfulfilment of their duties as Chairman and non-executive directors without the presence executive directors complement the skills directors of the company, respectively.
of the Chairman at which, among other and experience of the executive directors, things, the performance of the Chairman The board believes, in principle, in the bring an independent judgement, and was discussed.
benefit of executive directors and members contribute to the formulation of strategy, of the executive committee accepting non- 4.8 Board, committee and director policy and decision-making through their executive directorship of other companies performance evaluation knowledge and experience of other in order to widen their experience and A formal evaluation of the performance and businesses and sectors.
knowledge for the benefit of the company.
effectiveness of the board and of the audit, 4.5 Information and training Accordingly, executive directors are permitted remuneration, nomination and corporate The board and its committees are supplied to accept one external non-executive board accountability and risk assurance with full and timely information, including appointment, subject to the agreement of the committees is carried out each year, led by detailed financial information, to enable board, and are allowed to retain any fees the Chairman, with input from the Senior directors to discharge their responsibilities.
Independent Director and in consultation All directors have access to the advice of with other directors and the Company Mr Mackay has been a non-executive the Company Secretary.
The performance of the Chief director of Reckitt Benckiser plc since professional advice is also available to Executive is reviewed by the remuneration 25 February 2005.
Fees earned by directors in appropriate circumstances, committee and this review is shared with Mr Mackay from this appointment are set at the companys expense, and the the board.
The performance of the Chief out in the Directors Remuneration Report committees have been provided with Financial Officer is reviewed by the Chief on page 54. sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
Executive and confirmed by the remuneration SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Corporate governance 36 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information committee and the board.
Each nonThe Chairman confirms that each of After 25 years of meritorious service with executive directors performance is evaluated Mr Manser, Mr Morland and Mr Wyman the group, Mr Andrew Tonkinson retired by the Chairman, in consultation with the standing for re-election at this years AGM, as Company Secretary on 31 July 2006.
Senior Independent Director, who in turn continues to perform effectively and to His contribution to the group had been consults with the executive directors and demonstrate commitment to his role.
Lord substantial and he left with the boards the Company Secretary.
The Chairmans Fellowes, as Senior Independent Director, appreciation and best wishes for his performance is evaluated against the same confirms that Mr Kahn, also standing for retirement.
He was replaced by Mr John criteria by the Senior Independent Director, re-election at this years AGM, continues Davidson, who joined on 1 August 2006 the non executive directors and the Company to perform effectively and to demonstrate as General Counsel and Group Company Secretary, taking into account the views of commitment to his role.
The nomination Secretary, having already had a long the executive directors.
committee considered the nomination for the association with the company as external re-election of the Chairman and each of the legal counsel since 1998.
In considering the contribution of individual non-executive directors with particular rigour, directors for the year under review, as they have served as directors for seven performance was assessed against the years with each of Mr Kahn, Mr Manser The boards committees and companys selected criteria of strategy, and Mr Morland excusing himself from the 5. the executive committee expertise in their field, governance factors, consideration of his own nomination for commitment, profile, knowledge of the 5.1 The executive committee re-election, and had been satisfied that industry, and team contribution, culminating The board delegates responsibility for their re-appointment as directors for a further in an overall contribution rating.
The determining and implementing the groups term was warranted having regard to their importance of the different roles played by business strategy and for managing the continuing contribution and valuable individual directors in bringing a balanced group to the Chief Executive, Mr Graham experience on the board, which in the overall view to the board was recognised.
Mackay, who is supported by the executive boards view enhanced their effectiveness For the year under review, the Chairman has committee excom, which he chairs.
Excom and commitment to their roles.
assessed that all directors continue to make members are appointed by Mr Mackay.
an effective contribution to the board.
Lord Renwick will be retiring from the board The other members of excom are the Chief at the annual general meeting in July 2008, Financial Officer, Mr Wyman: the President In reviewing the performance of the board and it is the boards intention to recruit and Chief Executive Officer for the Americas: and its committees, the Chairman and the actively for a new independent non-executive the divisional managing directors responsible Senior Independent Director were aligned in director to be appointed within the coming for managing the groups regional hubs their conclusion that measured against the year to further the progressive renewal of the North America, Latin America, Europe, Africa principal duties expected of it, the board non-executive membership of the board.
and Asia, and South Africa : the directors of including by extension its standing and key group functions marketing, corporate ad hoc sub-committees continued to 4.9 Retirement of directors affairs, and human resources : and the operate effectively and to meet in full its New directors are subject to election at the General Counsel and Group Company obligations to support management, to first annual general meeting following their Secretary.
Excoms purpose is to support monitor performance across a wide area, appointment, and directors are subject to the Chief Executive in carrying out the duties and to maintain its strategic oversight.
retirement and re-election by shareholders delegated to him by the board, and, in that every three years.
The re-appointment of In a meeting of the Chairman, the Senior context, excom co-ordinates brand and non-executive directors is not automatic.
Independent Director, the committee operational execution, delivers strategic plans The board has determined that nonchairmen and the Company Secretary, the and budgets for the boards consideration, executive directors who have served for nine results of the performance and effectiveness and, through the Chief Executive, reports years will be asked to stand for re-election evaluations conducted in respect of the on these matters to the board.
annually provided that the board remains board, each of the directors, the Chairman, satisfied both with the directors performance Excom also ensures that regular financial the Senior Independent Director and each of and that nine years continuous service does reports are presented to the board, that the boards four standing committees were not compromise the directors continuing effective internal controls are in place and reviewed.
Regarding the board committees, independence.
functioning, and that there is an effective each of the committee chairmen expressed risk management process in operation his views regarding the operation of his The board had previously determined that throughout the group.
committee against its terms of reference, it would generally ask a director reaching and the performance and effectiveness of the age of 70 years to stand for re-election 5.2 The disclosure committee that committee and these views were annually or to retire, but as a result of The disclosure committee consists of the discussed in an open and constructive changes in UK company law to reflect the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief manner, with recommendations arising from principles of recent legislation which Financial Officer, a designated non-executive the discussions being brought forward to prohibits discrimination on the grounds of director Lord Fellowes, and the Company the board and the respective committees.
age, the board will not now take the age Secretary or the Deputy Company Secretary.
of a director into explicit account, provided The function of the disclosure committee, The results of the performance and that the director is otherwise continuing to in accordance with the groups inside effectiveness evaluation process were also perform effectively and to demonstrate information policy, is to assure compliance reviewed by the Chairman, the Senior commitment to his or her role.
with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Independent Director, the Chief Executive and the Listing Rules, and to ensure that and the Company Secretary, all of whom 4.10 The Company Secretary the routes of communication between concluded that the board and its The Company Secretary acts as secretary to excom members, the disclosure committee, committees were operating effectively.
the board and its committees and he attended the in-house legal team, the company all meetings during the year under review.
secretarial office and investor relations are Corporate governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 37 clear and provide for rapid escalation to re-appointment and removal of the 5.4 The nomination committee the disclosure committee and key advisers external auditors and to approve During the year the nomination committee of any decision regarding potential inside and recommend to the board the was chaired by Lord Renwick.
The other information, so that the company is able to remuneration and terms of engagement members of the committee were Mr Kahn, comply fully with its continuing obligations of the external auditors Lord Fellowes, Mr Morland, and Mr Manser.
under the Disclosure and Transparency During the year under review, neither Altria to review annually the effectiveness of Rules and the Listing Rules.
nor BevCo exercised its right to request that the internal audit function throughout one of its nominated directors be appointed 5.3 The audit committee the group, with particular focus on the as a member of the nomination committee.
During the year under review, the audit charter, annual work plans, activities, committee was chaired by Mr Manser, staffing, organisational and reporting The committee is empowered to consider who has been chairman of the committee structure and status of the function the composition of the board and its since May 2002.
Mr Manser qualified as a committees.
It is asked to consider the to review the effectiveness of the system chartered accountant in 1964 and was retirement, appointment and replacement for monitoring compliance with laws made a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered of directors, and is required to make and regulations including the groups Accountants in 1976.
Further biographical appropriate recommendations to the board.
bi-annual letters of representation information concerning Mr Manser is set and the results of managements The nomination committee has continued out on page 42. investigation and follow-up including to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge Lord Fellowes, Mr Morland, Ms fide Lisi disciplinary action of any instances of and experience of the board.
The committee and Ms Doherty served on the committee non-compliance has retained consultants to assist in the throughout the year.
Mr Morland has been recruitment of a new independent nonThe audit committee reports its activities a member of the committee from its first executive director to be appointed within and makes recommendations to the board.
Lord Fellowes the coming year as part of the continuing During the year, the audit committee was appointed to the committee on process of progressive renewal of board discharged its responsibilities as they are 1 June 2001, Ms fide Lisi was appointed on membership in order to combine the benefits defined in the committees terms of 4 September 2002 and Ms Doherty was of stability with continued reinvigoration and reference, and has been engaged in ensuring appointed on 1 April 2006.
The chairman challenge from new members.
Appropriate that appropriate standards of governance, has recent and relevant financial experience, succession plans for the executive directors reporting and compliance are being met.
It as did Ms fide Lisi, who holds US accounting and senior management were also kept has also advised the board on issues relating qualifications and has experience in treasury, under review.
to the application of accounting standards as finance and merger and acquisition they relate to published financial information Where non-executive vacancies arise, the transactions, and as does Ms Doherty, in and monitored the further progress which committee uses the services of external light of her experience as Group International has been made during the year in reviewing consultants in order to identify suitable Finance Director of Tesco PLC.
Mr Devitre, and upgrading internal controls in the major candidates for the board to consider.
Ms fide Lisis replacement as Altrias nominee business entities across the group, Candidates are short-listed for consideration to the audit committee following her positioning the group to achieve substantive by the nomination committee on the basis of retirement on 30 April 2007, similarly has compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley standards their relevant corporate or professional skills recent and relevant financial experience as in due course although the company is not and experience.
In accordance with the chief financial officer of Altria, a position an SEC registrant, and is not required to terms of the relationship agreement with which he currently holds.
Altria, the only executive directors appointed The committee met four times during the to the board are the Chief Executive and The Chief Internal Auditor has direct access year.
The external auditors, the Chief the Chief Financial Officer.
to the audit committee, primarily through its Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and the chairman.
The audit committee has access 5.5 The remuneration committee Chief Internal Auditor attended each meeting to subsidiary internal audit leadership.
The The committee consists entirely of by invitation.
Other members of the reports of the divisional audit committees independent directors: Mr Morland management team attended as required.
are also available to the audit committee.
Chairman, Lord Fellowes, Mr Manzoni Under its terms of reference, the and Mr Manser.
During the year, the committee met with the committees key duties include: external auditors and with the Chief Internal The committee is empowered by the board to review, and challenge where necessary, Auditor without management being present.
to set short, medium and long-term the annual financial statements and remuneration for the executive directors.
In addition to the review of its performance, interim and preliminary announcements More generally, the committee is responsible terms of reference and effectiveness led by before their submission to the board for the assessment and approval of a broad the Chairman of the board, the committee for approval remuneration strategy for the group and for critically reviewed its own performance the operation of the companys share-based to examine and review the internal control during the year by means of a questionnaire incentive plans.
This includes determination environment and risk management which each member of the committee of short and long-term incentives for systems within the group and review completed independently.
The committee executives across the group.
the groups statement on internal chairman then reviewed the responses and control systems prior to endorsement conducted one-to-one discussions with During the year the remuneration committee by the board, to review the independence, members of the committee where he felt has implemented its strategy of ensuring that objectivity and effectiveness of the it was necessary.
The results of the selfemployees and executives are rewarded for external audit process assessment and any action plans arising their contribution to the groups operating were then reported to the board after and financial performance at levels which to make recommendations to the discussion with the Chairman of the board.
take account of industry, market and country board regarding the appointment, SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Corporate governance 38 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information benchmarks.
To ensure that the executives the audit of the company.
Note 3 to the site visits are also arranged.
Dialogue on goals are aligned to those of the company, consolidated financial statements has a socially responsible investment is handled share incentives are considered to be critical breakdown of non-audit services provided by the Head of Sustainable Development elements of executive incentive pay.
During to the group by the auditors for the year in the corporate affairs department, who the year, the committee engaged the under review.
undertakes focused briefings with interested services of consultants, Kepler Associates investors and stakeholders.
The audit committee is satisfied that, for and Mercer Human Resource Consulting the period under review, the independence In addition to scheduled management-led Mercer.
At levels below the companys of the auditors has not been affected by programmes in which operating executives executive committee, the companys the provision of non-audit services.
interact with investors and analysts, the management consults, among others, Chairman has, independently, initiated Hay Consulting, Ernst & Young and Towers The committee has also implemented formal contact with all shareholders or their Perrin, on a project basis.
More details of the a formal system for the review of the representatives holding more than 1% of companys remuneration policy can be found effectiveness of the external auditors.
the issued share capital of the company.
in the directors remuneration report.
This process involves the external auditors The purpose of this contact is to enable presenting to the committee their proposed 5.6 The corporate accountability and the Chairman to address any queries audit strategy followed by the output of their risk assurance committee CARAC shareholders may have regarding the initial discussions with management.
At the Lord Fellowes chaired the committee governance of the company or nonaudit committee meeting in May, the external throughout the year.
Mr Kahn, Mr Mackay, operational aspects of company strategy.
auditors present the output of their detailed Mr Manser, Mr Manzoni, Mr Ramaphosa and It is also, more broadly, designed to give the year-end work.
In making its assessment of Mr Wyman served as members.
Additionally, board a greater awareness of shareholder external auditor effectiveness, the committee the Director of Corporate Affairs, Ms Clark, concerns.
Alongside the Chairman, the reviews the audit engagement letters before met regularly with the chairman of CARAC to Senior Independent Director is also available signature by management, reviews the discuss implementation and planning issues, to discuss issues with shareholders and external auditors summary of group and and attended all meetings of the committee.
views expressed will be communicated by subsidiary issues and managements the Chairman to the board.
As part of this The objective of CARAC is to assist the response to the summary, and conducts initiative, the Chairman offers to meet with board in the discharge of its responsibilities an overall review of the effectiveness of the significant shareholders in the month before in relation to corporate accountability, external audit process and the external the AGM specifically to deal with issues including sustainable development, auditors.
This review is facilitated by the use arising from the annual report and notice corporate social responsibility, corporate of templates that rate effectiveness across of AGM.
All non-executive directors of the social investment and ethical commercial 18 critical criteria.
company are invited to participate in this behaviour.
More details of the committees process.
Comment on the annual report is activities can be found in the Sustainable conveyed through the audit and remuneration Development Review section of this report committees and the Company Secretary and in the companys separate Sustainable 7.
Relations with shareholders to the board.
Development Report which is available on During the year the company has continued the companys website and, upon request, to promote dialogue with its major in hard copy.
All shareholders During the year, CARAC focused on were again encouraged to attend the AGM, 8.
Risk management company-specific and industry issues which which provides shareholders with the System enhancements are critical to protecting the companys opportunity to ask questions of the board The groups risk management system is licence to operate.
and chairmen of all the board committees.
subject to regular review to ensure full All resolutions were put to a poll at the AGM compliance with the requirements of the in 2006.
The voting at each meeting was Combined Code and the Turnbull Guidance conducted electronically, with the results 2005 on internal control and is designed 6.
Relationship with auditors being published on the Regulatory News to deliver improved value to the operating Service and on the companys website,  were appointed businesses.
and communicated directly to the 20 largest as auditors of the company on 8 February shareholders after the meeting.
Risk and the board of directors 1999, subsequently becoming The directors are ultimately responsible for  LLP PwC Alongside the facilities offered by the the groups risk management system and in 2003.
Company Secretarys department, the for reviewing its effectiveness.
The risk company maintains a dedicated investor The company has in place a formal policy management system is designed to manage, relations function which reports to the on auditor independence and non-audit rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to Director of Corporate Affairs.
The investor services, with which the external auditors achieve business objectives, and there is relations team builds and maintains long-term are required to comply, to ensure that the an ongoing process in place for identifying, relationships with institutional investors independence of the auditors is not impaired assessing, managing, monitoring and and analysts, and, in partnership with by the nature of non-audit work.
As a reporting on the significant risks faced by our corporate and divisional management reassurance, PwC confirms in a formal report individual group companies and by the teams and within the scope of regulatory to the audit committee that processes to group as a whole.
This process has been in constraints, gives presentations on regional ensure compliance with this policy are in place for the year under review up to and business outlooks and strives to ensure that place, and that these processes are monitored including the date of approval of the annual these are understood across the global regularly.
This report includes a statement that, report and accounts.
Principal risks and equity markets in subsequent one-to-one in its opinion, PwC believes that the nature uncertainties facing the group are set out meetings with investors.
Occasional business of its non-audit services has not impaired on page 9.
Corporate governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 39 Executive committee audit committee on the status of the risk involve segregation of duties, transaction The executive committee excom has management process.
authorisation, monitoring, financial and specific responsibility as the risk management managerial reporting Key annual reports include those that committee for the system of risk management.
identify, rank, monitor and measure strategic, business resumption planning, including Excom reviews the groups significant risks operational and financial risks in each preventative and contingency measures, twice yearly, reporting to the board on division and on a group basis.
back-up capabilities and the purchase material changes to these risks and the of insurance to fund the increased costs associated mitigating actions.
of ongoing product and service delivery In accordance with Turnbull Guidance under adverse conditions.
2005, reviews on the effectiveness of the 9.
Internal control Assurance on compliance with systems of risk management system were carried out The Turnbull Guidance sets out best practice internal control and on their effectiveness is by the risk management committee in April on internal control for UK listed companies obtained through regular management and September 2006 and in April 2007. to assist them in assessing the application reviews, reporting to the audit committee, Enterprise-wide risk management of the Combined Codes principles and control self-assessment, internal audit The excom views the careful and appropriate compliance with the Combined Codes reviews and quality assurance described in management of risk as a key management provisions with regard to internal control.
section 10 below, testing of certain aspects role.
Managing business risk to deliver This Guidance was updated by the Financial of the internal financial control systems by opportunities is a key element of all our Reporting Council in October 2005, and the external auditors during the course of business activities.
This is undertaken using the updated Guidance applies to listed their statutory examinations and regular a practical and flexible framework which companies for financial years beginning reports to the audit committee by the provides a consistent and sustained method on or after 1 January 2006. external auditors.
The groups various of implementing the companys values.
divisional audit committees consider the The groups systems of internal control are The business risks, which may be strategic, results of these reviews regularly, to confirm designed and operated to support the operational, reputation, financial or the appropriateness and satisfactory nature identification, evaluation and management environmental, are understood and visible.
of these systems, while ensuring that of risks affecting the group and the business The business context determines in each breakdowns involving material loss, if any, environment in which it operates.
As such, situation the level of acceptable risk and together with remedial actions, have been they are subject to continuous review as controls.
We continue to seek improvement reported to the appropriate boards of circumstances change and new risks emerge.
in the management of risk by sharing best directors.
The above activities do not apply practice throughout the organisation.
Key features of the systems of internal in respect of the groups associated control are: undertakings or joint ventures.
Key features of the groups system of risk management are: the risk management system described At the half year and at the year end the in the preceding section divisional managing directors and finance group statements on strategic direction, directors of all the groups operations, ethics and values written policies and procedures within and each of the groups functional directors, our businesses, which are detailed in clear business objectives and are required to submit formal letters of policy manuals, clearly defined lines of business principles representation on controls, compliance accountability and delegation of authority, and notification of continuing or potential an established risk policy identification of key controls and operational, financial and legal risks or claims.
comprehensive reporting and analysis a continuing process for identification against approved standards and budgets These letters form the subject of reports to and evaluation of significant risks to the the audit committee.
These letters, including achievement of business objectives group treasury operations which control the review described above, cover all and reduce exposure to interest rate, management processes in place to subsidiary companies but do not cover counterparty, liquidity and currency mitigate the significant risks to an associates except for Tsogo Sun, which transaction risks and co-ordinate the acceptable level does submit letters of representation or joint activities of group companies in this ventures.
Where material, group executives ongoing monitoring of significant risks area.
Treasury policies, risk limits and sit on the boards of associated companies.
and internal and external environmental monitoring procedures are reviewed Directors and members of the executive factors that may change the groups regularly by the audit committee on committee also make annual written risk profile behalf of the board declarations of interests and are obliged to a regular review by the group of both the a group tax risk and tax operating report without delay any potential or actual type and amount of external insurance framework which forms the basis of tax conflicts of interest which may arise.
that it buys, bearing in mind the availability governance across the group and is The directors are responsible for the groups of such cover, its cost and the likelihood implemented and managed by a group tax systems of internal control and for reviewing and magnitude of the risks involved function, which co-ordinates and monitors their effectiveness annually.
The board has tax risk and implements strategies and Group internal audit provides objective conducted a review of the effectiveness of the procedures to control this risk assurance as to group-wide compliance groups internal controls covering all material with the risk management policy.
minimisation of operating risk by striving to controls, including financial, operational and ensure that the appropriate infrastructure, compliance controls and risk management In addition to excoms twice-yearly reports to controls, systems and people are in place systems in place throughout the year under the board on key risks, there is a process of throughout the businesses.
Necessary actions have been, or are regular reporting to the board through the employed in managing operating risk being, taken to remedy any significant failings SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 Corporate governance 40 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information or weaknesses identified from the boards regional internal audit teams, to ensure review of the effectiveness of the internal compliance with quality and performance control system.
As part of the integration measures defined under the internal global of the Bavaria Group, which became part functional effectiveness matrix tool.
This of the group early in the second half of the process provides a basis for an annual previous year, significant progress has been review of the effectiveness of the global made in embedding systems, controls and internal audit function, and results in a procedures within the Bavaria Group to bring formal report prepared by the Chief Internal them into full alignment with those in place Auditor to the audit committee to support throughout the rest of the group.
The the committees formal annual assessment systems of internal control are designed to of the effectiveness of internal audit.
In manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of addition, periodic reviews by independent failure to achieve business objectives and external consultants are utilised when can provide reasonable, but not absolute, deemed necessary by the audit committee.
assurance against material misstatement The audit committee has satisfied itself that or loss.
In reviewing these, the board has adequate, objective internal audit assurance taken into account the results of all the standards and procedures exist within the work carried out by internal and external group, and that continuous improvement in auditors to audit and review the activities the quality and objectivity of the global of the group.
internal audit function is a primary ongoing The board, with advice from the audit objective of the department.
committee, has completed its annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the period since 1 April 2006 in accordance with the updated Turnbull 11.
Whistleblowing measures Guidance, and is satisfied that this system is All employees in most subsidiaries within in accordance with that Guidance and that it the group have the opportunity to make has been in place throughout the year under confidential disclosures about suspected review and up to the date of this report.
The Company Secretary, in consultation with the Chief Internal Auditor, decides on the appropriate method and level of investigation.
Internal audit committee is notified of all disclosures made Internal audit functions operated in all of the and receives reports on the results of all groups principal business units in the period investigations and actions taken.
The audit under review, reporting to local senior committee has the power to request further finance management with direct access to information, conduct its own inquiries, or local audit committees and the Chief Internal order additional action as it sees fit.
Under the global internal audit structure, implemented in 2004, the local and regional audit functions have direct interface with the group internal audit function which reports directly to the Chief Financial Officer and has direct access to the audit committee through the Chief Internal Auditor.
The internal audit activities are performed either by teams of appropriate, qualified and experienced employees, or through the engagement of external practitioners upon specified and agreed terms with equivalent access.
The Chief Internal Auditor prepares formal reports for each audit committee meeting as to the consolidated activities and findings of the global internal audit function.
Following the implementation of a centrally co-ordinated functional structure and a standardised group-wide internal audit methodology in 2004, a formal quality assurance programme has been introduced within the global function.
Accordingly, detailed quality review assessments are performed with regard to the local and Corporate governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2007 41
