51 Governance | Corporate governance statement Corporate governance statement The Company and the Group are committed to high standards of The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of corporate governance and the Board is accountable to the Companys the Group.
Where it is considered appropriate, training is made available to shareholders for good corporate governance.
This statement describes how directors and training needs are assessed as part of the evaluation procedure the relevant principles of corporate governance are applied by the Company.
of the Board referred to below.
A statement of the directors responsibilities Throughout the year the Company has been in compliance with the provisions in respect of the accounts is set out on page 55.
The Board has formally set out in the Revised Combined Code 2003 on Corporate Governance adopted a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision which is issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Combined Code, other available to shareholders on request to the Secretary at the registered office than A.
3.2 relating to the composition of the Board and C. 3.1 relating to and which is also available on the Companys website at www.
the composition of the Audit Committee of the Board.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and Rule A.
3.2 requires at least half the Board, not counting the Chairman, that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Secretary ensures to comprise non-executive directors determined by the Board to be that the directors take independent professional advice as required at the independent.
For the period from the resignation of Sir Julian Horn-Smith expense of the Company when it is judged necessary to discharge their and the appointment of Mr A J Hobson to the role of acting Chairman of the responsibilities as directors.
The appointment and removal of the Secretary Board on 27 April 2007, to the appointment to the Board of Mr M E Rolfe on is a matter for the Board as a whole.
1 December 2007 this ratio was not maintained.
There were a number of changes to the Board during the year which made compliance difficult to The Board meets formally not less than six times a year, reviewing trading achieve for a short period.
However, the Board took steps to mitigate this performance, ensuring adequate funding, setting and monitoring strategy, non-compliance by immediately appointing executive search consultants to examining major acquisition opportunities and reviewing regular reports to identify new non-executive candidates.
With the appointment of Mr Rolfe shareholders.
In the year under review the Board met on nine occasions, on 1 December 2007 the Company is again fully compliant with the rule.
six such meetings being formal Board meetings with a further three meetings of the Board called at short notice and held by telephone to consider Rule C. 3.1 requires the Audit Committee of the Board to comprise all acquisition opportunities and other Board issues.
All directors in office at the independent non-executive directors.
From his appointment on 27 April time attended all of these Board meetings other than Ms T Ingram who was 2007 to the role of acting Chairman of the Board, Mr A J Hobson, who was unable to attend meetings held on short notice on two occasions and each Chairman of the Audit Committee at that time, ceased to be independent of Messrs Horn-Smith, Stobart, Hobson, Walker, Verni and Clayton and for the purposes of that rule and the Company therefore ceased to comply.
Ms Markland who were unable to attend meetings called on short notice During this period the Company considered it appropriate for Mr Hobson on one occasion.
to continue to chair the Committee whilst the search for a successor was undertaken.
Mr M E Rolfe was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2007 The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that and has joined its Audit Committee.
It is the intention of the Board that the strategies proposed by the executive directors are fully considered.
Mr Rolfe, whose biography appears on page 45, will take over the role of To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all directors receive appropriate chair of the Audit Committee on 1 April 2008 and that Mr Hobson will retire and timely information.
Briefing papers are distributed by the Secretary from the Committee at that time.
The Company will at that time comply again to all directors in advance of Board meetings.
The members of the with Rule C. 3.1.
Board have evaluated the performance of the Board, its committees and individual members at meetings and also through the completion of detailed The workings of the Board and its committees questionnaires.
These are reviewed and considered by the Chairman and by the Board as a whole.
In the year under review, the questionnaires The Board indicated no areas of concern.
The Board currently comprises the non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, four other executive directors and five other independent nonThe current Board complies with the main principle in paragraph A.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are Combined Code in that it includes a balance of executive and non-executive quite distinct from one another and are clearly defined in written terms of directors so that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the reference for each role adopted by the Board and available to shareholders Boards decision taking.
on request to the Secretary at the registered office and on the Companys website at www.
New members of the Board undergo a full, formal and tailored induction to the Board.
Mr I Mason and Mr M E Rolfe, who were appointed to the Board The directors biographies appear on pages 44 and 45.
These demonstrate on 1 November 2007 and 1 December 2007 respectively, are currently that the directors have a range of experience and are of sufficient calibre to undertaking such an induction process.
bring independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct, which is vital to the success of the Group.
All directors are subject to re-election at least every three years.
52 Governance | Corporate governance statement The Chairman Details of the Companys policies on directors remuneration are given in the The terms of reference for the Chairman of the Board ensure that this role Remuneration report on pages 56 to 67, together with further details of the is quite distinct from that of the Chief Executive and are set out on the Remuneration Committee.
Audit Committee The Chairman of the Board has held meetings with the non-executive directors The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr A J Hobson although it is the intention without the executive directors.
In addition, the non-executive directors have that he will retire from the Committee in April 2008 when Mr M E Rolfe will met without the Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Its other members are independent non-executive directors, The Chairman also ensures that shareholder communication and responses Mr T C W Ingram, Ms R Markland, Mr I Mason who joined the Committee are discussed at each meeting of the Board and that all shareholders have on 1 November 2007 and Mr M E Rolfe who joined the Committee on access to the non-executive directors, through a request to the Chairman 1 December 2007.
Mr Hobson and Mr Rolfe are both Fellows of the Institute or the Secretary.
of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and are considered by the Board to have the recent and relevant financial experience required for the The Senior Independent Director provisions of the Combined Code.
The other members of the Committee have The Board has appointed Mr T C W Ingram to the role of Senior Independent a wide range of business experience, which is evidenced in their biographies Director.
This role provides a point of contact for those shareholders who on pages 44 and 45.
The Board makes appointments to the Committee and wish to raise issues with the Board, other than through the Chairman.
the Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Full induction He is available to consult with shareholders and also chairs meetings training is provided for new members and additional training is provided as of the non-executive directors without the Chairman present.
Committees of the Board The main duties of the Committee, set out in its Terms of Reference are to: Committees of the Board deal with certain specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
These Committees are the Remuneration Committee, the Audit Make recommendations on the appointment and remuneration of external Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Details of all these Committees auditors and to monitor their performance and independence: are set out below.
Whilst the Board notes that a number of independent nonApprove and monitor the policy for non-audit services provided by the executive directors are members of more than one Board Committee, it is external auditors to ensure that the independence of the auditors is considered that membership is appropriate in the light of the Boards policy not compromised: that all independent non-executive directors are given the opportunity to take Review and advise the Board on the Companys interim and annual financial part in the discussions of those Committees.
The terms of reference of the statements, its accounting policies and on the control and mitigation of its Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees are reviewed annually and financial and business risks: are available on request from the Secretary at the registered office of the Review the nature and scope of the work to be performed by the external Company or on the Companys website at www.
and internal auditors, the results of their audit work and of the response of management: and Remuneration Committee Review and advise the Board on the effectiveness of the Companys internal The Groups Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr T C W Ingram and control environment, including its whistleblowing procedures.
its other members are the Chairman of the Board, Mr A J Hobson, and the other independent non-executive directors, Ms T Ingram, Ms R Markland, Meetings Mr I Mason who joined the Committee on 1 November 2007 and Mr M E The Committee invites executive directors, management, external and Rolfe who joined the Committee on 1 December 2007.
Mr D H Clayton internal auditors to attend meetings as it considers appropriate for the ceased to be a member of the Committee on his ceasing to be a matters being discussed.
Under its terms of reference, the Committee meets at least twice a year.
In the year under review, six meetings Work of the Committee of the Committee were held on full notice with a further three held at short In the financial year, the Audit Committee met on four occasions with notice.
All members in office at the time attended all the meetings other than all members present on each occasion and reported its conclusions Ms Ingram who was unable to attend one meeting, held on full notice, and to the Board.
It met privately with the internal and external auditors each of Ms Ingram, Mr Hobson and Mr Clayton who were unable to attend without executives present.
It also met with executive management meetings held on short notice on one occasion.
The Chief Executive may, and executive directors.
by invitation of the Committee, attend meetings except when his own performance and remuneration are under review but he is not a member of The Committee discharged its obligations in respect of the financial year the Committee.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations as follows: to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on the Companys framework of executive remuneration and its cost.
The Committee determines the Financial reporting During the year the Committee reviewed the interim contract terms, remuneration and other benefits for each of the executive and annual financial statements.
The Committee received a report from directors including share options, performance share awards, performancethe external auditors setting out the accounting or judgemental issues related bonus schemes, pension rights and compensation payments.
The auditors reports were based on a full Remuneration consultants advise the Committee.
The Committee also audit Annual Report and a high level review Interim Report respectively.
monitors remuneration for those senior executives below Board level.
The Board itself determines the remuneration of the non-executive directors.
The Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
53 Internal controls and risk management The Committee considers reports Committee may require that such projects are put out to tender to a number from internal audit on the operation of, and issues arising from, the Groups of firms.
It is the policy of the Committee to require acquisition due diligence internal control procedures, together with observations from the external be undertaken by firms other than the auditors unless conflicts of interest for auditors.
The Committee monitors the effectiveness of the Groups risk comparable firms make this impractical.
Further details of fees paid to the management process, which considers the key risks, both financial and auditors are set out on page 82. non-financial, facing the Group and the effectiveness of the Groups controls to manage and reduce the impact of those risks.
In the year to 30 September 2007 the audit fee was 1,524,000.
The Companys auditors,  LLP, also perform Internal audit Internal audit activities and responsibilities are provided non-audit services for the Group principally tax advice over and above by KPMG, under an outsourcing agreement.
The Groups Risk Officer the external audit.
The fees in relation to these services were 1,519,000 provides oversight and coordination of Internal Audit but Internal Audit which was attributable to taxation services and compliance work.
The Audit has a direct reporting line to the Audit Committee and its Chairman.
Committee keeps the ratio of audit to non-audit fees under review and This ensures its independence.
has determined that the ratio of non-audit fees other than those relating to taxation paid to the auditors and the audit fee should not exceed 1:1.
It is the role of Internal Audit to advise management and the Board on the The Committee believes that the Company receives particular benefit from extent to which systems of internal control are effective.
The Internal Audit tax advice provided by its auditors given their wide and detailed knowledge plan which covers the scope, authority and resources of the function is of the Group and the very international nature of the Group.
determined through a structured process of risk assessment and is approved by the Audit Committee.
As a consequence of its satisfaction with the results of the activities outlined above, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that the external The nature and scope of the work of the internal audit team was reviewed auditors are re-appointed.
and approved, the reports of results received and the responses of management considered.
The plan set out at the beginning of the year Nomination Committee was achieved and the outcome of the work was in line with expectations.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board, Mr A J Hobson and consists of the Chairman and five independent External audit The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, non-executive directors, Mr T C W Ingram, Ms T Ingram, Ms R Markland, implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on external audit.
Mr I Mason who joined the Committee on 1 November 2007 and Mr M E The policy assigns oversight responsibility for monitoring the independence, Rolfe who joined the Committee on 1 December 2007.
In the absence objectivity and compliance with ethical and regulatory requirements of the Chairman of the Board, the Committee is chaired by the Senior to the Audit Committee and day to day responsibility to the Group Independent Director.
The Nomination Committee meets not less than once Finance Director.
Seven meetings of the Committee took place in the year under review at which all the members of the Committee in office at the time were present To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Audit other than on one occasion where Ms Ingram, Mr Hobson and Mr Clayton Committee reviewed: who was then a member were unable to attend.
The external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and The Nomination Committee is responsible for a number of matters relating any variations: to the composition of the Board and its committees including proposing The robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their handling candidates for appointment to the Board, having regard to its balance and of key accounting and audit judgements: and structure and considering issues of succession.
Recruitment consultants are The content of the external auditors Internal Control Report.
used to assist in the process.
The Nomination Committee is also responsible for an annual review of the membership of the Board, evaluating the balance The Committee is confident that the objectivity and independence of the of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and advising the Board on auditors is not impaired in any way by reason of their non-audit work.
any areas where further recruitment may be appropriate.
It also considers the The Committee has adopted controls to ensure that the independence succession planning of the Group for key executive personnel at Board level of the external audit process is not compromised and that, in the provision and below.
of non-audit services, the objectivity and independence of the external auditors is safeguarded.
These controls include the continued monitoring of Relations with shareholders the independence and effectiveness of the audit process.
The scope, fee, Communication with shareholders is given high priority.
The Chairmans performance and independence of the external auditor is considered annually welcome and Business review on pages 2 to 41 include a detailed review of by the Audit Committee, together with an evaluation of whether the external the business and future developments in relation to it.
A full Annual Report and audit should be tendered.
In addition, audit partners are rotated every five Accounts is sent to all shareholders who so wish, although shareholders have years and a formal statement of independence from the external auditors is been given the opportunity to receive Summary Financial Statements in place received each year.
In relation to the provision of non-audit services, executive of the full Annual Report and Accounts.
The Company also has a website management has the discretion, subject to certain financial limitations, to www.
com which contains up to date information on Group activities obtain taxation services from the auditors without prior reference to the and published financial results.
There is regular dialogue with individual Audit Committee subject to regularly appraising the Audit Committee of the institutional shareholders and there are presentations to analysts after the amount and nature of fees for such services.
Other non-audit services may be Companys announcement of the year-end and half-year results.
At each undertaken by the external auditors, subject to all projects expected to cost in Board meeting, the Board receives an update on presentations to investors excess of an amount set by the Audit Committee being approved in advance and any communication from shareholders to ensure that directors, both either by the Chairman of the Audit Committee or by the full Audit Committee executive and non-executive, have an understanding of their views.
depending on the expected cost of the project.
The Chairman of the Audit 54 Governance | Corporate governance statement The Board uses the annual general meeting to communicate with private and Quality and integrity of personnel institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
The resolutions to be The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 28 February 2008 can be found recruitment standards and subsequent training courses.
High quality personnel in the Notice of meeting on pages 122 and 123. are seen as an essential part of the control environment.
Internal control and risk management Management structure The Board is responsible for the operation and effectiveness of the Groups The Board has overall responsibility for the Group.
Each executive director has system of internal controls and risk management.
There is an ongoing process been given responsibility for specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
A clearly for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the defined organisation structure exists within which individual responsibilities are Group.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to identified and can be monitored.
The management of the Group as a whole is the date of approval of this report.
It is regularly reviewed by the Board and delegated to the Chief Executive and the executive directors.
The conduct of complies fully with the Turnbull guidance.
The internal control systems are Sages individual businesses is delegated to the local executive management designed to meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to which it is teams.
These teams are accountable for the conduct and performance of their exposed and by their nature can only provide reasonable but not absolute businesses within the agreed business strategy.
They have full authority to act assurance against misstatement or loss.
The effectiveness of this process has subject to the reserved powers and sanctioning limits laid down by the Board been reviewed by the Audit Committee, which reports its findings to the Board.
and to Group policies and guidelines.
The processes used by the Audit Committee to review the effectiveness of the Internal audit system of internal control include discussions with management on significant The Group utilises internal audit resource supplied by KPMG to review risk areas identified and the review of plans for, and results from, internal and compliance with procedures and assess the integrity of the control external audits.
Internal audit acts as a service to the businesses by assisting with the continuous improvement of controls and procedures.
Actions are The Audit Committee reports the results of its review of the risk assessment agreed in response to its recommendations and these are followed up by process to the Board.
The Board then draws its collective conclusion as to the the Audit Committee to ensure that satisfactory control is maintained.
effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The key procedures, which the directors have established with a view to providing effective internal control, are Budgetary process as follows: A comprehensive budgeting system is in place, with annual budgets for all operating subsidiaries being approved by respective subsidiary boards.
Indication of business risks Subsequently the combined budget is subject to consideration and approval The processes to identify and manage the key risks to the success of the by the Board.
Management information systems provide the directors with Group are an integral part of the internal control environment.
Such processes, relevant and timely information required to monitor financial performance.
which are reviewed and improved as necessary, include strategic planning, the appointment of senior managers, the regular monitoring of performance Investment appraisal including acquisitions and control over capital expenditure and acquisitions.
The Company has Budgetary approval and defined authorisation levels regulate capital formed a Risk Committee consisting of the Chief Executive, Group Finance expenditure.
As part of the budgetary process the Board considers proposals Director, the Group Risk Officer, the Secretary and other members of the for research and development programmes.
Acquisition activity is subject to Executive Committee.
internal guidelines governing investment appraisal criteria, financial targets, negotiation, execution and post-acquisition management.
The Committee reviews all business activities and strategic plans to identify the nature and extent of the significant risks facing the Group including those Statement by the directors on compliance with the provisions of the risks arising from social, environmental and ethical issues and undertakes risk Combined Code review audits.
In identifying significant risks to which the Group is exposed, it Other than as referred to at page 51 above, the Company has been in full reviews the results of any relevant internal audit reviews and agrees mitigating compliance with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code actions, when possible.
The Risk Committee reports to the Audit Committee.
Through the work of the Audit and Risk Committees, the Board is provided with a balanced assessment of the significant risks associated with the Going concern Groups operations and the effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
The following statement has been included in accordance with the Listing Rules: Based on normal business planning and control procedures, the A whistleblowing telephone hotline service has been introduced in many directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group operating companies in the Group including all those in the UK and US have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the allowing employees to raise issues of concern in relation to dishonesty or foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the malpractice on an entirely confidential basis.
The Audit Committee receives going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
regular reports on any matters raised through this service and monitors its use throughout the Group.
Similar arrangements are being considered for Group companies in other jurisdictions subject to compliance with local legal requirements.
55 Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report, the Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
In preparing the Group financial statements, the directors have also elected to comply with IFRSs, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The parent Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements the directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: State that the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs issued by IASB: Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Each of the persons who is a director at the time of this report confirms that: So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and The director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
By Order of the Board M J Robinson Secretary 18 January 2008
