44 Serco Group plc Corporate governance report Corporate governance report The role of the Board: Introduction The Board has responsibility for the overall In managing the affairs of the Group, the management and performance of the Board of Serco Group plc is committed to Group, the approval of its long-term achieving high standards of corporate objectives and commercial strategy and governance, integrity and business ethics for ensuring that any necessary corrective for all its activities around the world.
A fundamental part of the Groups corporate governance processes is the Reporting to the Board, the Corporate Ethics and Business Conduct Policy Assurance Group CAG is tasked by the Standard that the Company and Group Group to develop and oversee corporate have adopted to support the highest processes for the identification and standards of corporate governance.
management of business risks and the appropriate application of the Serco In 2007 Serco Group plc fully complied Management System SMS and with the provisions of the Code of Best Corporate Responsibility activities Practice as issued by the Financial throughout the Group.
The Business Reporting Council in 2003 and as Review on pages 10 to 42 details the superseded by the Combined Code on internal control and risk policies, Corporate Governance issued by the procedures and management framework Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 adopted by the Group.
The Company is required to explain how it has applied the The Corporate Responsibility Report, principles set out in the Code.
which covers the whole spectrum of corporate assurance processes and The paragraphs below together with the outcomes for 2007, is available online at Business Review on pages 10 to 42 and www.
com and illustrates how the Remuneration Report on pages 57 to Sercos approach to corporate assurance 70 provide details of how the Company and responsibility translates from the has applied the principles and complies Board into everyday working practices.
with the provisions of the Code.
Reserved and delegated authorities: There is a formal schedule of matters The Board of Directors reserved to the Board.
This schedule, Board composition: which is reviewed annually, includes Currently the Board has eight members: approval of: the Non-Executive Chairman, three Group strategy Executive Directors and four NonExecutive Directors.
No individual or Annual financial and operating plans group of individuals dominates the Major capital expenditure, acquisitions Boards decision-making.
With the or divestments exception of the Chairman who is presumed under the Code not to be Annual and interim financial results independent, the Board considers all of Satisfying itself as to the integrity of the Non-Executive Directors to be financial information independent.
In coming to this conclusion the Board has determined that each Dividend policy Director is independent in character and Ensuring adequate succession judgement and there are no relationships planning for the Board and senior or circumstances which are likely to management and appointing and affect, or could appear to affect, the removing Directors, the Company Directors judgements.
Secretary and Committee members Each Director brings a valuable range of Treasury policy experience and expertise to the Board.
Review of the effectiveness of the The profiles of all Directors can be found Groups system of internal control and on pages 54 and 55. risk management process.
Corporate governance report Serco Group plc 45 Other specific responsibilities are Chairman and Chief Executive: delegated to Board Committees which On 1 September 2007, after 22 years with operate within clearly defined terms of Serco and as communicated to reference.
Details of the responsibilities shareholders in 2006, Kevin Beeston delegated to the Committees are given on moved from Executive Chairman to pages 48 to 50.
As Chairman, Kevin Beeston is responsible for: Information flow: Ensuring the effective running of the Senior executives below Board level attend Board, its agenda and processes certain Board meetings at which they make Promoting the highest standards of presentations on the results and strategies corporate governance and ensuring of their divisional units and functional areas appropriate communication with of the Group.
Board members are given shareholders on these standards and appropriate documents in advance of each the Groups overall performance Board meeting and each Committee meeting, as appropriate.
Ensuring appropriate Director development and succession planning Board meetings are routinely held four for the Board.
times a year over two days at a time and are structured to allow open discussion of The Chief Executive, Christopher Hyman, the strategy, trading and financial is responsible for: performance and risk management of The formation and implementation of the the Group.
Groups global strategy Board and Committee meetings are held Delivery of the Groups business plan at varying locations and the opportunity is used to combine the formal business of Providing motivation and leadership to the Board with site visits and divisional the operating divisions, chairing the presentations and discussions.
Additional Global Management Board and setting Board meetings are scheduled if required, its style and tone usually to discuss major transactions, Setting the overall policy and direction if any.
of Sercos business operations, The attendance of individual Directors at investments and other activities within a Board meetings held during the year in framework of prudent and effective risk which they were eligible to attend is management and ensuring that shown in the table on page 47. divisions and functions control those risks satisfactorily Company Secretary and Providing leadership and representation independent advice: of the Group with major customers and The Company Secretary is responsible for industry organisations.
advising the Board on all corporate governance matters, ensuring that all Senior Independent Director: Board procedures are followed, ensuring Baroness Ford of Cunninghame, Margaret good information flow and facilitating Ford, was appointed Senior Independent induction programmes for Directors.
Director on 29 October 2007 in place of All Directors have access to the advice DeAnne Julius who retired as a Director and services of the Company Secretary.
As part of her role, The Board has approved a procedure for Margaret is available to shareholders if Directors to take independent they have any issues or wish to discuss professional advice if necessary at the any aspects of the Companys business Companys expense.
without the Executive Directors or Chairman present.
46 Serco Group plc Corporate governance report The names of the Directors retiring and External directorships for standing for re-election at the 2008 Annual Executive Directors: General Meeting are set out in the Notice The Board considers that Executive of Annual General Meeting.
Directors can gain valuable experience and knowledge through appropriate and limited non-executive appointments in other listed companies or independent The Non-Executive Directors sector organisations.
The Board is careful Independence: to ensure that any such appointments do All the Non-Executive Directors are not compromise the effective independent of management and have no management of the Group and that these cross-directorships or significant links are approved in advance of any which could materially interfere with the appointments being taken up.
Details of exercise of independent judgement.
the fees received by Executive Directors for external appointments can be found in Term of appointment: the Remuneration Report on page 61.
All Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three Significant other commitments of years.
Thereafter, subject to satisfactory the Chairman: performance, they may serve one or two Kevin Beeston is Non-Executive additional three-year terms, with a Chairman of Partnerships in Care, Infinitas thorough review of their continued Learning and Domestic and General Ltd, independence and suitability to continue and holds Non-Executive Director as Non-Executive Directors being positions on the boards of IMI plc and undertaken if they are to remain on the Ipswich Town Football Club plc.
Kevin is Board for more than nine years.
The also a member of the CBI Presidents terms and conditions of the appointment Committee and Chairman of the CBIs of the Directors are summarised in the Public Services Strategy Board, and is Directors Remuneration Report on page Commissioner for the TUCs Commission 61 and are available on request from the on Vulnerable Employment.
continues to believe that Kevin holds a well-balanced portfolio of positions which Meetings of Non-Executive allow him to appropriately perform his Directors: duties as Chairman.
Non-Executive Directors meet separately without the Chairman or Executive Re-election of Directors: Directors being present at least once a In accordance with the Companys Articles year principally to appraise the Chairmans of Association, a Director must retire at the performance.
This meeting is chaired by Annual General Meeting but is eligible for the Senior Independent Director.
re-appointment if he or she has held office for more than 30 months as at the date of the Notice convening the Annual General Meeting since he or she was appointed or last re-appointed.
Any Directors appointed by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting must stand for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting.
Any Non-Executive Directors who have served for more than nine years will be subject to annual re-election.
Corporate governance report Serco Group plc 47 Board meetings and attendance The Board holds its meetings on a quarterly basis with ad hoc meetings in between if required.
Board meetings are scheduled over two days and are held at varying Group operating locations usually including one overseas meeting per annum.
This allows a thorough exposure to the Groups activities, customers and management.
The frequency and content of Board meetings are reviewed by the Board annually.
The attendance of the individual Directors at Board and Committee meetings during 2007 was as follows: Training & Board Audit Remuneration Development Nomination 2 4 meetings 3 meetings 4 meetings 1 meeting 2 meetings Kevin Beeston 4 n a n a 1 2 3 Thomas A Corcoran 00 000 Christopher Hyman 4 n a n a n a n a Andrew Jenner 4 n a n a n a n a Leonard V. Broese van Groenou 3 3 4 1 2 Margaret Ford 4 3 41 2 4 DeAnne Julius 3 2 31 1 David Richardson 4 3 4 1 2 5 Grant Rumbles 2 n a n a n a n a Notes: 1. n a means that the specified Director is not a member of that Committee, although he or she may attend meetings at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee.
In addition to the four full Board Meetings which are run over two days, there was one Board meeting, attended by the Executive Directors only, for the approval of the year-end results which had been considered previously by the full Board.
Thomas A Corcoran was appointed to the Board as Non-Executive Director on 3 December 2007.
DeAnne Julius retired as a Director on 29 October 2007.
Grant Rumbles was appointed to the Board on 3 July 2007.
Board effectiveness induction On joining the Board, Directors are given background information describing the Company and its activities.
Thomas A Corcoran, who was appointed on 3 December 2007, received an induction pack which included information on all the governance processes of the Group, the roles and responsibilities of the Board, Committees and other management teams and a range of other appropriate information about the Group, its activities and its advisors.
He also met with a range of key people from across the Group on a structured basis to assist his induction.
Visits were also arranged to a number of contracts around the country.
Grant Rumbles was appointed to the Board on 3 July 2007, and received an induction pack which included appropriate information about the roles and responsibilities of the Board and its Committees, and information on all governance processes of the Board.
He also attended relevant training on the duties of a plc Director.
Continued professional development: During 2007 the Board members were all engaged in a range of training and professional development activities.
These activities are reported to the Training and Development Committee which also considers the training needs of all Directors and the Company Secretary.
All Board members are encouraged to attend relevant training courses at the Companys expense.
48 Serco Group plc Corporate governance report Performance evaluation: The Audit Committee and Audit In October 2007 a rigorous evaluation of Committee Report the Board and its Committees was Membership: The Audit Committee is undertaken which included a formal chaired by David Richardson and evaluation questionnaire and one to one comprises Margaret Ford, Leonard V. meetings for all Directors held with the Broese van Groenou and DeAnne Julius Chairman plus an evaluation of the until her retirement in October 2007.
Chairmans performance led by the Thomas A Corcoran joined the Senior Independent Director taking into Committee on his appointment as account the views of both the Non-Executive Director to the Board on Non-Executive and Executive Directors.
The Group recognises the importance of The Committee consists solely of a comprehensive evaluation process for independent Non-Executive Directors.
the Board and ensures that comments The Chairman of the Committee has and recommendations are considered recent and relevant experience for this carefully and implemented where role.
The Audit Committee met three times appropriate to ensure its continued during the year.
The outcomes from the At the invitation of the Committee, the Boards appraisal were discussed fully Finance Director, the Director of Corporate at the November 2007 Board meeting.
Assurance, Grant Thornton the Groups The principal finding from the evaluation internal audit providers and Deloitte & was confirmation that the Board remains Touche LLP the external auditors, attend effective and in some cases best in class.
The Committee meets with All Directors feel that the Board and each of the internal auditors, external Company is open, professional and auditors and Corporate Assurance teams enjoyable to be a part of and that separately at least once a year.
All appropriate information is provided to the Directors have access to the minutes of Board in the furtherance of its the Audit Committee meetings.
Aspects for further development were largely procedural and Responsibilities: The main responsibilities covered such areas as developments in of the Audit Committee are: reporting formats and the balance of To monitor the integrity of the financial business presentations and formal papers statements of the Company, including to the Board.
All recommendations from interim management statements, and the evaluation have been implemented.
any formal announcements relating to In carrying out the performance the Companys financial performance, evaluation process, the Board considered reviewing significant financial reporting appointing an independent evaluator but judgements contained in them concluded that its own process was To review the internal audit programme sufficiently rigorous.
and ensure that the internal audit function is adequately resourced and has appropriate standing with the Company Board Committees The Board has delegated authority to a To review managements and the number of permanent Committees to deal internal auditors reports on the with matters in accordance with written effectiveness of systems for internal terms of reference.
The terms of reference financial control, financial reporting and for all Committees are reviewed on a risk management regular basis by the Board to ensure they To consider the appointment, are still appropriate and reflect any re-appointment and removal of the changes in good practice and external auditors and assess governance.
Committees are authorised independence of the external auditors, to obtain outside legal or other ensuring that key partners are rotated independent professional advice if they at appropriate intervals consider it necessary.
Corporate governance report Serco Group plc 49 To recommend the audit fee to the Non-audit services: During the year the Board and pre-approve any fees in Group has complied with the policy set respect of non-audit services provided by the Audit Committee in respect of the by the external auditors and to ensure provision of audit and non-audit services that the provision of non-audit services by Deloitte & Touche LLP, the Groups does not impair the external auditors external auditors.
Where appropriate, independence or objectivity non-audit services have been provided by companies other than Deloitte & To discuss with the external auditors, Touche LLP to safeguard auditor before the audit commences, the objectivity and independence.
nature and scope of the audit and to review the auditors quality control Auditors independence: The procedures and steps taken by the independence, objectivity and auditors to respond to changes in effectiveness of the external auditors have regulatory and other requirements been examined by the Committee and discussions were held regarding their To oversee the process for selecting terms of engagement, remuneration and the external auditors and make proposal for partner rotation.
appropriate recommendations through the Board to the shareholders to The Committee recommended to the consider at the AGM.
Board that Deloitte & Touche LLP be proposed for re-appointment at the Additionally, in accordance with the forthcoming 2008 Annual General Meeting.
Combined Code, the Committee is This recommendation has been accepted responsible for a formal whistleblowing and will be proposed to shareholders.
policy and procedure which applies throughout the Group.
Responsibility for the operation of this policy has been The Nomination Committee delegated to the Company Secretary.
Membership: The Nomination Committee Members of the Audit Committee have is chaired by Kevin Beeston and received updates on accounting comprises Margaret Ford, David standards and generally accepted Richardson, Leonard V. Broese van accounting principles on a quarterly basis Groenou and until her retirement, DeAnne as part of the Finance Directors report to Julius.
Thomas A Corcoran joined the the Board, and also on a half-yearly basis Committee on his appointment as from the external auditors.
Non-Executive Director to the Board on During 2007 the Audit Committee 3 December 2007.
The Committee met considered the following: twice during 2007.
Corporate Governance Report and Responsibilities: Matters considered Directors Statement of Responsibilities during the year included the appointment for inclusion in the 2006 Annual Review of Grant Rumbles as Executive Director and Accounts and Thomas A Corcoran as Non-Executive Director, Margaret Ford as 2007 Interim Statement and Auditors Senior Independent Director and report thereon Leonard V. Broese van Groenou as Chair 2007 external audit fees of the Remuneration Committee.
Review of the whistleblowing policy The Committee engaged external head hunters in the recruitment of Assessment of the Audit Committee and Thomas A Corcoran, who applied rigorous the external and internal auditors selection procedures in proposing a 2007 internal audit programme and the number of candidates for the Committees proposed 2008 programme consideration.
The Committee each individually met with Thomas before his Work undertaken and fees incurred by recommended appointment to the Board.
the external auditors to ensure that the external auditors remain independent of the Group.
50 Serco Group plc Corporate governance report In addition the Committee considered the Representatives from across the Serco Board structure and composition going business are invited to the meetings to forward, including succession and discuss aspects of their business or give contingency plans for each of the Executive presentations on specific topics.
The Directors, and the appointment of Margaret GMB is able to take a broad view of the Ford as Senior Independent Director and of business due to its membership from Leonard V. Broese van Groenou as Chair of across the Group.
A senior group of the GMB, the Executive Team, which is chaired by the Chief Executive and comprises five members The Remuneration including the three Executive Directors, is responsible for the oversight of all aspects Committee of the day-to-day operations and trading Details of the Remuneration Committee of the Group.
The Executive Team met 12 and its policies together with the times during the year.
Directors remuneration, emoluments and interests in the Companys share capital are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 57 to 70.
Relationship with shareholders The Companys relationship with The Training and shareholders is given a high priority.
The Annual Review and Accounts is available Development Committee to all shareholders and a shorter Annual Membership: The Training and Review and Summary Financial Statement Development Committee is chaired by is also available by election or on request.
Kevin Beeston and comprises Margaret In addition an Interim Report is produced.
Ford, David Richardson, Leonard V. Broese van Groenou and until her Regular trading updates are published retirement DeAnne Julius.
Thomas A ahead of closed periods and before the Corcoran joined the Committee on his Annual General Meeting by press release.
appointment to the Board on 3 In addition, press releases and stock December 2007. exchange announcements are made Responsibilities: The Committee met regarding significant contracts or once during 2007 to consider the transactions.
All trading announcements training needs of all Directors and the are also posted on the Groups website Company Secretary.
Executive Committees Annual General Meeting The Board has delegated responsibility for Individual shareholders have the the day-to-day management of the opportunity at the Annual General Meeting business to the Global Management to question the Chairman and through him Board GMB.
the chairs of the various Board committees and other Directors.
The GMB is chaired by the Chief Executive, Christopher Hyman, and its Details of the meeting are set out in the membership currently comprises Notice of Meeting which is sent to 16 senior managers representing each of shareholders and which contains the text the Groups operating divisions and a of the resolutions to be proposed and number of functional heads.
includes all three of the Executive Directors.
The GMB meets formally three times a year, over two days at a time to review the Groups activities and discuss management and operational issues.
Corporate governance report Serco Group plc 51 Shareholders attending will be advised of Approved by the Board of Directors and Business conduct the number of proxy votes lodged for each signed on its behalf by: Serco Group has published an Ethics resolution, in the categories for and and Business Conduct Policy Standard against together with the number of votes that applies to all business divisions, withheld.
This information is also posted to operating companies and business units the Groups website www.
The Policy outlines the Groups position Joanne Roberts on a wide range of ethical and legal issues Secretary Institutional investors including conflicts of interest, financial The Chief Executive and Finance Director 27 February 2008 inducements, human rights and legal and have regular dialogue with institutional regulatory compliance.
The Chairman also meets with to Directors and to all employees institutional investors from time to time regardless of their position or location.
The Companys investor Serco has established a dedicated relations programme and day to day whistleblowing hotline so that employees activities are managed by the Head of can seek guidance or express any Investor Relations.
As part of the role of concerns on Group-related issues.
Senior Independent Director, Margaret The Company Secretary investigates any Ford is also available to meet issues raised independently and reports shareholders should it be required.
Reports can be made The Board receives an investor relations anonymously and without fear of retaliation.
This reviews The Group maintains a position of share price movements and valuation, impartiality with respect to party politics.
changes in the share register, the Accordingly, it does not contribute funds Companys recent and planned investor to any political party.
It does, however, relations activities, communication with contribute to the public debate of policy shareholders, analyst recommendations issues that may affect it in the countries in and significant news from the market and which it operates.
The report ensures that the Board has a clear understanding of the Companys investor relations performance.
Internal control and risk management Further to the comments above regarding Group website Corporate Assurance, details of the The Group website www.
com is a Groups internal control and risk primary source of information on the management processes are contained in Group.
The site includes an area tailored pages 38 to 42 of the Business Review.
for investors, including information such as The Board confirms that the actions it an archive of all reports, announcements, considers necessary have been taken to presentations and webcasts, share price remedy any failings and weaknesses tools, the terms of reference for all Board which it has determined to be significant committees and information on voting at from its review of the Groups internal the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
It also controls and risk management processes.
has a link directly to the Companys registrars, allowing shareholders to view their shareholding online and to vote on the Going concern resolutions set out in the Notice for the The Directors confirm that they have a 2008 Annual General Meeting.
reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Review and Accounts.
