30 Serco Group plc Business review Contractual relationships Contractual relationships Our track record for successful Suppliers partnerships speaks volumes.
Alongside the hundreds of services Serco In transport, for example, our partnership manages through contracts on behalf of with NedRailways began work at customers, the Group also has its own Merseyrail in 2003 and Northern Rail in extensive supplier relationships.
Together we have become one of the UKs major train operating companies.
We take the same approach to suppliers Our partnership with Lockheed Martin and as we do to customers.
We look for longBNG at the Atomic Weapons term relationships in which there is Establishment has been highly successful opportunity for continuous improvement and together we have consistently and value creation based on innovation.
In order to continually improve quality and We continue to create new partnerships.
manage costs, the Group has steadily SSB Nuclear, our consortium with Bechtel standardised the centralisation of buying and Babcock & Wilcox, was formed to of goods and services.
The number of support the UK Nuclear Decommissioning preferred suppliers for such goods and Authoritys clean-up programme.
services, ranging from commodity computer peripherals to agency We also expect that strategic partnerships employees, has reduced and the terms and joint ventures with customers will be and conditions enhanced.
important to our business in future.
Procurement policies and processes are Relationships with joint venture partners clearly communicated internally and are the responsibility of the relevant facilitated through online purchasing divisional management teams, supported systems which reduce administration by members of the Group Executive Team costs, reduce wastage, improve cash and Board as appropriate.
Regular flow and give contract managers more strategy and review meetings ensure the time to focus on client needs.
joint venture partners remain firmly committed to working together to deliver Joint ventures and strategic partnerships services to clients.
Serco has a number of joint ventures and strategic partnerships around the world that manage service contracts, particularly in the transport, defence and science sectors.
Strong relationships, mutual trust and respect and clarity of role are all essential ingredients if a service is to be successfully delivered through a joint venture.
