SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 40 Corporate Governance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate Board Effectiveness governance.
It is accountable to the Companys shareholders for The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for it.
It is good corporate governance.
responsible for overall Group strategy, acquisition and divestment policy, approval of major capital expenditure projects and This statement together with the Directors Remuneration Report consideration of significant financing matters.
on pages 44 to 49 describe how the principles of good governance, as set out in Section 1 of the FRC Combined Code It monitors the exposure to key business risks including updated in June 2006 by the London Stock Exchange, are applied environmental and health and safety issues.
It reviews the to the Company and the Companys compliance with the code strategic direction of individual trading subsidiaries, codes of provisions.
The principles of good governance are split into the conduct, annual budgets, progress towards achievement of those following areas: directors, directors remuneration, accountability budgets and capital expenditure programmes.
The Board also and audit, and relations with shareholders.
considers employee issues and key appointments.
It also ensures that all directors receive appropriate training on appointment and A.
Directors then subsequently as appropriate.
Other specific responsibilities are The Board delegated to the Board Committees described below.
All directors, in accordance with the Code, will submit themselves for re-election The Company is controlled through the Board of Directors which at least once every three years.
The performance of individual comprises seven executive and five non-executive directors, three directors is evaluated annually in conjunction with the of which, J K Elliott, D P Ridley and G H Wright, are considered as remuneration review.
The Board generally meets monthly and during the year met ten The Board has a separate chairman and chief executive in line with times.
A formal agenda for each meeting is agreed with the the Code provision A2.
The Chairman is mainly responsible for the chairman and is circulated in advance of the meeting to allow running of the Board, evaluating its performance and ensuring that time for proper consideration, together with relevant papers all directors receive sufficient relevant information on financial, including key strategic, operational and financial information.
business and corporate issues prior to meetings.
The chief executives responsibilities focus on co-ordinating the Companys Attendance of individual directors during 2007 at scheduled Board business and assessing and implementing Group strategy.
Meetings and at meetings of the Remuneration and Audit Committees is set out below.
J K Elliott is the senior independent non-executive director and leads the performance review of the Chairman, taking into account Remuneration Audit the views of the executive directors.
Board Committee Committee Total number of meetings held 10 82 All directors are able to take independent professional advice in P M Levine 9 furtherance of their duties if necessary.
1 J L Severs 5 The Board considers that the balance of relevant experience T G Haughey 10 amongst the various Board members enables the Board to exercise P A Emerson 10 effective leadership and control of the Group.
It also ensures that P J Davison 10 the decision making process cannot be dominated by any individual P F Ellison 9 or small group of individuals.
The Board acknowledges that P M B W Hick 10 Levine and J R Featherstone would be classed as non-independent N Pickard 10 but recognises that their commitment and continuing effectiveness 2 I R S Cochrane 1 in the decision making process are invaluable.
J K Elliott 10 82 J R Featherstone 10 82 Nevertheless on 30 May 2008 at the Companys Annual General D P Ridley 10 82 Meeting P M Levine and J R Featherstone will resign as directors of G H Wright 10 82 the Company with immediate effect.
Peter Levine will be replaced as 1 non-executive Chairman by Toby Hayward.
Full attendance at meetings prior to resignation.
2 Two meetings held following appointment.
Highlights Group Overview Chairmans Statement Operational Review SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 41 Board Committees It also includes a review of the nature of non-audit services supplied and non-audit fee levels relative to the audit fee.
The The Board has established four standing committees, all of which Committee recognises that, given their knowledge of the business, operate within defined terms of reference.
there are often advantages in using the auditors to provide certain The committees established are the Audit Committee, the non-audit services.
The Committee is satisfied that the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee and the independence of the auditors has not been impaired by providing Health and Safety Committee.
Trading companies are managed by these services.
Details of the auditors fees are shown in note 4 separate boards of directors.
Any matters of a material nature on page 62. concerning the trading companies are reported to the Group On invitation, the Finance Director, other executive directors and Board of Directors on a monthly basis.
the auditors attend meetings to assist the Committee to fulfil its With the change in the executive management in 2007, the duties.
The Committees can access independent professional advice change in chairmanship in 2008 and the attendant Board if it considers it necessary.
restructuring, the new Board considered it important to retain a level of continuity in the boardroom and have asked Keith Elliott Remuneration Committee to continue in his role as Senior non-executive director for the The Remuneration Committee operates under written terms of immediate future notwithstanding that 2008 will be his 10th year reference.
The Committee comprises the non-executive directors, as a serving director.
He will continue his Chairmanship of the with the exception of P M Levine, and is chaired by J K Elliott.
The three committees to the Board: the Audit Committee, the Committees report is set out on pages 44 to 49.
Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Through an appraisal of its own performance, the Board of Nomination Committee directors is satisfied with the independence of Keith Elliott as Senior The Nomination Committee comprises the non-executive directors, non-executive director.
with the exception of P M Levine, and is chaired by J K Elliott.
The principal task of the Committee is to deal with key appointments to Audit Committee the Board, and related employment matters.
The Audit Committee comprises the non-executive directors, with the exception of P M Levine, and is chaired by J K Elliott.
The Board The Committee is responsible for proposing candidates for is satisfied that at least one member of the Audit Committee has appointment to the Board, having regard to the balance and relevant financial experience.
The Committee has written terms of structure of the Board, and will meet as and when required.
No reference which will be available for inspection at the AGM.
meetings were held during the year.
Meetings are held not less than twice a year and additional Ian Cochrane was appointed to the Board as part of the acquisition meetings may be requested by the auditors.
The review and proposed The responsibility of the Audit Committee principally falls into four appointment of Toby Hayward occurred in 2008. areas: The terms of reference for the Nomination Committee will be To monitor the integrity of the financial statements, formal available for inspection at the AGM.
announcements and to review significant financial reporting All directors are required to seek re-election by the members at the judgements.
Non-executive directors are not To review the Companys internal financial controls.
To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive appointment and removal of the external auditors and to directors will be available for inspection at the AGM.
approve their remuneration and their terms of engagement.
It also reviews and monitors the external auditors independence, B.
Directors Remuneration objectivity and effectiveness during the audit process, taking into The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 44 to 49 account relevant UK professional regulatory requirements.
This of the financial statements.
review includes consideration of the auditors period in office, their compensation and scope, quality and cost-effectiveness of their work.
To consider the need for an internal audit function.
The Committee agrees with the directors opinion that the Group is not of sufficient size and complexity to require the need for an internal audit function.
Financial Review Corporate Governance Group Accounts Company Accounts SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 42 Corporate Governance continued C. Accountability and Audit each subsidiary company and the Group on a monthly basis.
Material variances from budget are thoroughly investigated.
In Financial Reporting addition, a more detailed profitability forecast based on actual The performance and financial position of the Company are contracts secured is regularly prepared to monitor the provided in the Operational Review on pages 12 to 18 and the performance of the main operating company of the Group as Financial Review on pages 20 to 28, together with the Chairmans the year progresses.
Statement on pages 6 to 10 and the Directors Report on pages 34 Cash flow forecasts are regularly prepared to ensure that the to 38.
These enable the Board to present a balanced and Group has adequate funds and resources for the foreseeable understandable assessment of the Companys position and future.
The directors responsibilities for the financial statements are described in the Directors Report on pages 37 and 38.
Standard financial control procedures operate throughout the Group to ensure the integrity of the Groups financial statements.
Internal Control Formal arrangements are in place by which staff of the Company The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the Combined Code and an may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in ongoing process has been established for identifying, evaluating matters of financial reporting or other matters.
and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which Risks are identified and appraised through the annual process of involves working closely with independent risk management preparing these budgets.
This process has been in place for the full financial year and up to the date of the approval of these financial statements The Board approves the Groups annual budget.
and is regularly reviewed by the Board.
This process is in Subsidiary company meetings consider and report on risk on a accordance with the guidance provided by the Turnbull Report.
monthly basis as part of the monthly business review process.
The Board has formally acknowledged its overall responsibility for This process is followed to ensure that, as far as possible, the reviewing the effectiveness of internal control.
It believes that senior controls and safeguards are being operated in line with management within the Groups operating businesses should also established procedures and standards.
contribute in a substantial way and this has been built into the Safety, Health and Environmental risks are continually process.
monitored at all sites and are reviewed on a monthly basis by There are inherent limitations in any system of internal control and, senior management and on a quarterly basis by the Health and accordingly, even the most effective system can provide only Safety Committee.
reasonable, and not absolute, assurance with respect to the Steps have been taken to embed internal control and risk preparation of financial information and the safeguarding of assets.
management into the operations of the business and to deal with The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of areas of improvement which come to managements and the failure to achieve business objectives.
This process is continuing to increase risk In carrying out its review of the effectiveness of internal control in awareness throughout the Group.
the Group the Board has taken into consideration the following key features of the risk management process and system of internal D. Relations with Shareholders control: The Company encourages two-way communication with both its Senior management from all key disciplines and subsidiary institutional and private investors and attempts to respond quickly companies within the Group are involved in the process of risk to all queries received verbally or in writing.
assessment in order to identify and assess Group objectives, key P M Levine, T G Haughey, P A Emerson and P J Davison attended issues and controls.
A further review has been performed to several meetings with analysts, institutional shareholders and retail identify those risks relevant to the Group as a whole.
This investors in the year ended 31 December 2007, either at the time assessment encompassed all aspects of risk including of the announcements of the Companys interim or final results or operational, compliance, financial and strategic.
A risk register is during visits to the Companys offices in North Yorkshire.
in place and is updated on an ongoing basis and a control strategy has been determined for each of the significant risks.
Feedback from these meetings is reported to the Board.
The risk management committee, chaired by T G Haughey, has The Board has sought to use the Annual General Meeting to the primary responsibility to identify, monitor and control the communicate with private investors and encourages their significant risks to an acceptable level throughout the Group.
The committee receives information on relevant risk matters from line management and other sources on a regular basis.
Compliance Statement The Group operates a comprehensive budgeting and financial Throughout the year ended 31 December 2007 the Company has reporting system which, as a matter of routine, compares actual been in compliance with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 results with budgets.
Management accounts are prepared for of the FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Highlights Group Overview Chairmans Statement Operational Review SeverfieldRowen Plc Annual Report 2007 43 THE OVAL, LONDON Located in South London, The Oval is home to Surrey County Cricket Club and seats a capacity crowd of 23,000.
In its 150 year history, it has witnessed some famous victories, including Englands Ashes win of 2005.
The project consists of 2,000 tonnes of structural steelwork.
Severfield-Reeve Financial Review Corporate Governance Group Accounts Company Accounts
