Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance The training needs of all directors are kept under review and During the year, and as part of our strategy of focusing on water, all the appropriate training identified as part of a continuing process.
current executive and non-executive directors of Severn Trent Plc were Details of the directors service agreements, emoluments, the interests appointed to similar positions on Severn Trent Water Limited.
Since of directors and their immediate families in the shares of the company March 2007 the boards of directors of Severn Trent Plc and Severn and in awards or options over such shares granted under the Trent Water Limited have been identical.
companys Long Term Incentive Plans and Sharesave Scheme are Severn Trent attaches great significance to the maintenance of good shown in the directors remuneration report on pages 34 to 43. corporate governance procedures and adherence to best practice Operation of the board recognising that they play their part in creating a framework which can The board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the company is provide increased benefits for shareholders.
properly managed and achieves the strategic objectives it sets.
It has an Compliance statement agreed schedule of matters reserved to it, which includes setting long This report describes how Severn Trent has applied the principles of term strategic and business objectives, overseeing the companys good corporate governance as set out in Section 1 of the Combined internal control systems and ensuring that appropriate resources are Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting in place to enable the company to meet its objectives.
Council in July 2003 the Combined Code.
Apart from the matter The board meets at least ten times in each calendar year and convenes detailed below the company has complied throughout the financial year additional meetings as and when required.
Details of the number of ended 31 March 2007 with all of the Combined Code provisions.
During board and committee meetings and the attendance of the directors at the year, the company decided to take advantage of the relaxations that those meetings are shown on page 31. will be permitted by the updated version of the Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 for reporting years The Chairman has prime responsibility for the effective workings of starting on or after 1 November 2006.
Accordingly, Sir John Egan was the board and agrees the agenda in consultation with the Group Chief appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 3 November 2006.
Papers, including minutes of board committees held since the previous board meeting and reports from The board each of the executive directors responsible for the groups operating Board structure businesses or key central functions, are circulated in advance of each The board consists of a non-executive Chairman, three executive meeting.
In addition to the board meetings, the Chairman meets with directors and four non-executive directors.
In accordance with the the non-executive directors without the executive directors present.
Combined Code, separate individuals, Sir John Egan and Colin The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent nonMatthews, are appointed to the positions of Chairman and Group Chief executive director, also have an annual meeting where there is an Executive respectively.
Richard Davey is the senior independent nonopportunity for them to meet without the Chairman to appraise the executive director.
The board has reviewed the status of the non-executive directors and The Group Chief Executive is responsible for the executive management considers them all to be independent in character and judgement and of all of the groups businesses and for implementing board strategy within the definition of this term in the Combined Code.
The test of and policy within approved budgets and timescales.
The Group Chief independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman.
Executive is supported by the Executive Committee.
Membership of the The Chairman and the non-executive directors contribute external Executive Committee is shown on page 25 and comprises the executive expertise and experience in areas of importance to the group such as directors and senior managers responsible for key central and corporate finance, general finance, corporate strategy, environmental operational functions.
matters, general management and corporate governance.
They also Procedures are in place which allow directors to take independent provide independent challenge and rigour to the boards deliberations.
professional advice in the course of their duties and all directors have Collectively, the board is satisfied it has all of the necessary skills, access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Where a experience and qualities to lead the company.
director has a concern over any unresolved business he is entitled to require the Company Secretary to minute that concern.
Should he later Directors and their interests resign over this issue, the Chairman will bring it to the attention of The names and biographies of the directors currently serving on the the board.
The following also served as directors during the year: Severn Trent purchases directors and officers liability and indemnity insurance to cover its directors and officers against the costs of Martin Flower retired from the board as a non-executive director defending themselves in civil proceedings taken against them in that on 10 June 2006: capacity and in respect of damages resulting from the unsuccessful Marisa Cassoni retired from the board as a non-executive director defence of any proceedings.
on 6 October 2006: Martin Bettington retired from the board as an executive director on 6 October 2006: and Rachel Brydon Jannetta retired from the board as an executive director on 29 December 2006 Severn Trent 29 Corporate governance report continued Board committees It is the groups policy to seek rotation of the Auditors principal The board has established an effective committee structure to assist in engagement partner as a matter of course every five years and of other the discharge of its responsibilities.
The terms of reference of the Audit, key members of the audit team, where deemed appropriate by the Remuneration and Nominations Committees the Principal Audit Committee.
Committees comply with the provisions of the Combined Code and The Audit Committee has, throughout the year, monitored the integrity are available for inspection on the companys website of the financial statements together with the companys formal www.
com or may be obtained on written request from the announcements relating to its financial performance, paying particular Company Secretary at the address given on the back cover.
attention to significant reporting judgements contained therein.
Each of the Principal Committees has reviewed its effectiveness and The Audit Committee has reviewed risk management and the terms of reference during the year and any necessary actions have effectiveness of the system of internal control during the year ended been identified and reported to the board.
31 March 2007 and has reported to the board on the outcome of The membership of all board committees is set out on page 25. this review.
Audit Committee The effectiveness of the groups internal audit function has been The Audit Committee is chaired by John Smith.
Its membership reviewed by the Audit Committee.
comprises Bernard Bulkin and Richard Davey.
Only independent nonThe Audit Committee reviews annually the groups formal whistle executive directors may serve on the committee.
John Smith has been blowing policy that deals with allegations from employees relating to identified by the board as having recent and relevant financial breaches of the groups Code of Business Principles and Conduct.
Remuneration Committee The committee meets with the groups external auditors the Auditors The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Richard Davey.
The other at least four times a year.
By invitation of the committee other members of the Committee are Bernard Bulkin, Sir John Egan and individuals such as the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Martin Houston.
Only independent, non-executive directors, and the Director and Group Director of Internal Audit will normally be in Chairman, who was considered independent on appointment, may serve attendance for all or part of those meetings.
The committee and the on the committee.
Sir John Egan was appointed to the committee on Auditors also hold separate meetings without the attendance of 3 November 2006.
The Group Chief Executive also attends executive management.
Remuneration Committee meetings at the invitation of the In their assessment of the independence of the Auditors, the committee Remuneration Committee Chairman.
The committee will normally meet receives annually in writing details of relationships between the Auditors at least four times a year.
and the group, which may bear on the Auditors independence and The Remuneration Committee determines, on behalf of the board, the receives confirmation that they are independent of the group as Severn Trent policy on the remuneration of executive directors and the required by International Auditing Standard 260.
Chairman of the board, and is consulted by the Group Chief Executive The committee annually approves the level of the Auditors fees in regarding remuneration for a number of the groups senior executives.
respect of the audit of the financial statements of the group and its Further information on the activities of the Remuneration Committee subsidiaries at the same time as considering the adequacy of the is given in the directors remuneration report on pages 34 to 43.
The directors remuneration report also describes how the principles of A formal policy, which includes fee limits, has been adopted for non the Combined Code are applied in respect of remuneration matters and audit services.
Any material project work where fees payable to the includes a statement on the companys policy on directors and senior Auditors are likely to exceed 100,000 must be approved by the Audit executives remuneration, benefits, share scheme entitlements and Committee.
Where fees are expected to exceed 500,000 the project pension arrangements.
work would normally be the subject of a competitive selection process.
The level of non audit services provided by the Auditors and A resolution to approve the directors remuneration report will be the associated fees are considered annually by the committee, in the proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
context of the Auditors independence, as part of the committees review of the adequacy and objectivity of the audit process.
An analysis of fees payable to the Auditors in respect of audit and non audit services is provided on page 59.
30 Severn Trent Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Governance Nominations Committee Directors interests in contracts The Nominations Committee is chaired by Sir John Egan and its No director had a material interest at any time during the year in any members are the Group Chief Executive and all non-executive directors.
contract of significance, other than a service contract as shown in the The committees core members are Bernard Bulkin, Richard Davey and directors remuneration report on page 40, with the company or any John Smith.
All other non-executive directors will attend meetings of its subsidiary undertakings.
Other executive directors, senior Remuneration management and external advisors may be invited to attend meetings as The directors remuneration report, which includes a statement on the considered appropriate.
The Nominations Committee has responsibility companys policy on directors and senior executives remuneration, is for considering the size, structure and composition of the board of the set out on pages 34 to 43. company, retirements and appointments of additional and replacement directors, succession planning and making recommendations so as to Reappointment maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience on the board.
The companys Articles of Association require all directors to submit The committee meets at least three times a year.
themselves for reappointment at least every three years.
This provision also ensures that, as a minimum, one third of the board of directors, No board appointments were made during the year.
together with any director appointed since the last Annual General Corporate Responsibility Committee Meeting, retires each year and, if eligible and so desires, stands for The Corporate Responsibility Committee is chaired by Bernard Bulkin reappointment at the Annual General Meeting.
directors retire on the and its members are Sir John Egan and Colin Matthews.
Other basis of their length of service since their last election.
executive directors and senior management involved with managing Sir John Egan and Tony Wray are the directors retiring by rotation and businesses or formulating policies within the group are regularly invited offer themselves for reappointment.
The committees main responsibility is to develop, review and promote policies to further the groups The Nomination Committee has formally reviewed the performance, environmental values in its business, workplace and community contribution and commitment of each of the retiring directors and has engagement activities.
The committees terms of reference may be recommended their reappointment to the board.
viewed on the companys website www.
Details of Performance and effectiveness reviews the groups corporate responsibility activities may be found on pages During the year the board, with the help of an outside facilitator, carried 18 to 19. out a formal evaluation of its performance and that of its committees as Meetings well as the individual performance of directors.
Each director and the Details of the board and Principal Committees meetings attended by Company Secretary answered a questionnaire on his her perception of each director during the year are as follows: the composition, operation and effectiveness of the board and its committees and on the performance of the Chairmen of the board and principal committees as well as individual directors.
In addition they Plc board Audit Remuneration Nominations were interviewed by the facilitator to explore certain issues in greater Number of Meetings 13 6 7 5 depth and to identify areas requiring improvement.
Finally the process 5 Sir John Egan 13 25 reviewed progress against actions identified in last years review.
The 1 M J Bettington 8 conclusion of the evaluation was discussed in detail by the board.
2 R S Brydon Jannetta 9 6 B Bulkin 11 535 3 M L Cassoni 6 331 R H Davey 11 6 6 5 4 M C Flower 2 22 M J Houston 12 7 5 C S Matthews 13 M J E McKeon 13 J B Smith 13 6 5 A P Wray 13 1 Resigned 6 10 06 2 Resigned 29 12 06 3 Resigned 6 10 06 4 Resigned 10 6 06 5 Appointed Remuneration Committee 3 11 06 6 Appointed Remuneration Committee 3 11 06 Severn Trent 31 Corporate governance report continued Shareholders committee.
The Internal Audit department provides objective assurance Relations with shareholders and advice on risk management and control.
The board recognises the importance of representing and promoting The board confirms that procedures providing an ongoing process for the interests of its shareholders and that it is accountable to identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the shareholders for the performance and activities of the company.
group, have been in place for the year to 31 March 2007 and up to the The annual report and accounts is the principal means of date of the approval of the Annual Report.
The companys website Key elements of the groups processes and procedures are: an www.
com contains complete versions of such reports organisation structure with clear lines of accountability: regular, along with other information relevant to shareholders.
structured reviews of business risk by senior management: a scheme of In respect of the companys Annual General Meeting the board delegated authority: pre-approval of plans, budgets and significant encourages shareholders to attend and exercise their right to vote.
The investments: monthly reporting and monitoring of financial results, notice of meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least regulatory compliance and other key business measures: and 20 working days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed independent assurance provided by both internal and external auditors.
on each substantially separate issue.
Details of the proxy votes for and Work continues to review and improve the system of internal controls against each resolution and the number of abstentions are indicated across the group.
Any controls weaknesses identified have action plans after the result of the vote on a show of hands.
to remedy them and those plans are monitored by the Audit Committee Shareholders are given the opportunity to meet with the board before and management team.
and after the Annual General Meeting.
Presentations are made on the groups activities and performance prior to the formal business of the meeting.
Shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions of the board and present their views.
The chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees, together with all other directors will normally attend the Annual General Meeting.
The company announces its results on a half yearly basis.
Presentations are made to analysts and shareholders following the release of the interim and year end results.
The Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director meet shareholders during the year.
The Chairman and, if appropriate, the senior independent non-executive director are available to meet shareholders if required.
The board receives written feedback following meetings with institutional shareholders.
Internal control Internal control and risk management The board has overall responsibility for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The board reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control, including financial, operational, compliance and risk management, at least annually in accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code and the guidance set out within it.
The system of internal control is reviewed for effectiveness and adequacy.
Such systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, as they are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The board reviews risk management and the effectiveness of the system of internal control through the Audit Committee.
The board also keep under review ways in which to enhance the control and audit arrangements in the group.
The Audit Committee receives reports every six months from the Group Chief Executive on the significant risks faced by the group, an assessment of the effectiveness of controls over each of those risks and an action plan to improve controls where this has been assessed as necessary.
Any significant control weaknesses that have been identified as requiring remedy are also reported to the Audit Committee.
The Auditors also report on significant control issues to this 32 Severn Trent Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Governance Principal risks The failure of our assets or our inability to carry out critical Through its business operations the group is exposed to a number of operations could have a significant impact on our financial position commercial risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact and our reputation.
on our businesses, financial condition, operations and reputation, as We may suffer a major failure in our assets which could arise from a well as the value and liquidity of our securities.
Not all of these factors failure to deliver the capital investment programme for our businesses are within our control and, in addition, other factors besides those listed or to maintain the health of our systems.
Any failure could cause us to below may have an adverse effect on the group.
be in breach of a licence or approval and even incidents that do not amount to a breach could result in adverse regulatory action and financial consequences, as well as harming our reputation.
Severn Trent Changes in law or regulation in the countries and types of business Waters regulated business controls and operates water and sewerage in which we operate could have an adverse effect on our business networks and undertakes maintenance of the associated assets with the and operations.
objective of providing a continuous service.
The failure of a key asset Regulatory decisions in relation to our businesses, e. g. on whether could cause a significant interruption to the supply of services, which licences or approvals to operate are renewed, whether market may have an adverse effect on the groups operating results or financial developments have been satisfactorily implemented, on the level of position.
In addition water supplies may, inter alia, be subject to permitted revenues for our businesses, whether there has been any contamination from the development of naturally occurring compounds breach of the terms of a licence or an approval, could have an adverse and pollution from man made sources and these may have an adverse impact on the results of our operations, cash flows, financial condition effect on our operating results or financial position.
The group could of our businesses and the ability to develop those businesses in also be held liable for human exposure to hazardous substances or the future.
The results of our operations depend on a number of factors relating In addition, we are subject to other risks which are largely outside our to business performance, including the ability to outperform control, such as the energy costs, impact of climate change, weather or regulatory targets and deliver anticipated cost and efficiency savings.
unlawful acts or third parties, including terrorist attacks, sabotage or other Earnings from our regulated water business will be affected by our international acts which may also physically damage our business or ability to meet or better our regulatory targets set by Ofwat, the otherwise significantly affect corporate activities and, as a consequence, Environment Agency, Drinking Water Inspectorate and other regulators.
affect the results of our operations and our financial position.
To meet these targets, we must continue to improve management processes and operational performance.
In addition, earnings from a External factors could affect the groups pension schemes and regulated business also depend on meeting service quality standards adversely impact on our financial position.
To meet these standards we must improve service Pension assets and liabilities pre tax of 1,364.6 million and 1,499.7 reliability and customer service.
If we do not meet these targets and million are held in the groups balance sheet as at 31 March 2007. standards, both our results and our reputation may be adversely Movements in equity markets, interest rates and life expectancy could affected and fines could be imposed.
materially affect the level of surpluses and deficits in the schemes and could prompt the need for the group to make additional pension Various government environmental protection and health and safety contributions in the future.
The key assumptions used to value our laws and regulations govern our businesses.
pension liabilities are set out in note 28 on page 77.
These laws and regulations establish, amongst other things, standards for drinking water and discharges into the environment which affect our The groups financial position and business results could be adversely operations.
In addition, our businesses are required to obtain various affected if its existing funding arrangements are materially altered.
environmental permissions from regulatory agencies for their operation.
The main risks faced by the group in its treasury operations relate to Environmental laws and regulations are complex and change frequently.
material external changes to current arrangements.
In the debt markets, These laws and their enforcement have tended to become more factors such as borrowing restrictions or changes to credit ratings could stringent over time, both in relation to their requirements and in the mean we were unable to finance ourselves or be forced to pay too high levels of proof required to demonstrate compliance.
While we believe we a price for that finance.
In terms of our borrowings a proportion is have taken account of the future capital and operating expenditure subject to variable interest rates and any increase in those rates could necessary to achieve and maintain compliance with current and increase our borrowing costs.
In addition we undertake financial foreseeable changes in laws and regulations, it is possible that new or transactions with a number of institutions and we could suffer a stricter standards could be imposed or current interpretation of existing financial loss it any of those counterparts were to fail.
legislation amended, which will increase the groups operating costs or capital expenditure by requiring changes and modifications to its operations in order to comply with any new environmental laws and regulations.
