Combined Code The Group is committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance and to integrity and exemplary ethical standards in all its business dealings.
This statement, together with the Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 34, explains how the Group has applied the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in 2003.
The Board considers that it has complied with Section 1 of the Combined Code in all material respects throughout the year.
The Board of Directors The Board currently comprises the Non-executive Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, five further Non-executive Directors and one Executive Director.
Their brief biographies are set out on page 19.
During the year to 31 March 2007, Mr A Auer, Mr M Averill, Mr B Pointon, Mr P Delaunois, Mr P Johnson and Mr F Welham all served on the Board.
Mr E van Amerongen was appointed on 9 February 2007 and Dr S Riley was appointed on 29 March 2007, both as Non-executive Directors.
The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are held by separate individuals and the role of the Chairman is Non-executive.
The Chairman has primary responsibility for running the Board and the Group Chief Executive is responsible for the operations of the Group and for the development of strategic plans and initiatives for consideration by the Board.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive has been clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Non-executive Directors bring a wide range of experience to the Group and are considered to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Mr P Delaunois is not deemed to be independent in accordance with the criteria set out in the Combined Code owing to Mr Delaunois receiving fees for providing consultancy advice to the Groups Belgian subsidiaries in addition to the fees received for acting as Director.
Mr Delaunois will be stepping down from the Board at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in July.
The Nonexecutive Directors make a significant contribution to the functioning of the Board, thereby ensuring that no one individual or group dominates the decision making process.
Non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Companys share option schemes.
Mr B Pointon is currently the Senior Independent Director, however, on Mr Pointons retirement from the Board at the Annual General Meeting in July, Mr E van Amerongen will take over this role.
The Board meets regularly, normally at least ten times a year, and in addition, separate strategic discussions take place.
Several meetings are held at subsidiaries in the United Kingdom and overseas where local operations are reviewed.
The Board operates under agreed terms of reference, and may delegate certain powers to Committees of the Board.
Amongst the matters reserved for decision by the full Board are published financial statements, strategic policy, acquisitions and disposals, capital projects over a defined limit, annual plans and new borrowing facilities.
Matters not reserved for the Board may be delegated to senior management.
The Board is provided with appropriate information in a timely manner to enable it to effectively discharge its duties.
The performance of the Board, its Committees and the Directors were evaluated during the year via the Company Secretary where questionnaires were completed and reviewed by the Chairman.
All Directors submit themselves for re-election by shareholders every three years if eligible, and all Non-executive Directors are appointed initially for a three year term.
Any new Director appointed to the Board will be subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment.
Accordingly Mr E van Amerongen and Dr S Riley will be standing for election at the Annual General Meeting in July.
It has been agreed that those Non-executive Directors who have served for a period greater than nine years from initial appointment will submit themselves for annual re-election.
The Board confirms that it is satisfied that Mr F Welham and Mr P Johnson, who are proposed for re-election at the Annual General Meeting, continue to demonstrate the necessary commitment to be fully effective members of the Board.
On appointment, Directors are given a comprehensive introduction to the Groups operations, including visits to principal sites and meetings with operating management.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
In addition, Directors are entitled, if necessary, to seek independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense.
During the year an insurance policy has been maintained by the Company which indemnifies the Directors against certain liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
annual report 2007 The terms of reference for the Board and its Committees are available for inspection on request from the Company Secretary.
The table below details the number of formal Board and Committee Meetings attended by each Director.
During the year ended 31 March 2007 there were ten Board meetings, three Audit Committee meetings, five Remuneration Committee meetings and two Nomination Committee meetings.
In addition, the Board held a two day strategy meeting with senior operations management attending for part of the time.
There were two meetings of the Non-executive Directors without the presence of the Executive Directors during the year.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Possible Possible Possible Possible Director to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended A Auer 10 10 335522 M Averill 10 10 3 3 22 n a n a I Clubb 3 3 112211 P Delaunois 10 9335522 P Johnson 10 10 335422 B Pointon 10 8325422 S Riley 111111 E van Amerongen 221111 F Welham 10 10 3 3 n a n a n a n a Invited by the Audit Committee to be in attendance for part of the meeting.
Invited by the Remuneration Committee to be in attendance for part of the meeting.
Data up until date of retirement.
Data as from date of appointment.
n a Not a member of the Committee Audit Committee The Audit Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference and has been chaired by Mr P Johnson since taking on this role in July 2006.
The Committee comprises the Non-executive Directors see page 19.
Normally, it meets three times a year.
The external auditors and the Executive Directors are regularly invited to attend meetings and the Committee has access to the external auditors advice without the presence of the Executive Directors.
The Audit Committee has the authority to examine any matters relating to the financial affairs of the Group.
This includes the appointment, terms of engagement, objectivity and independence of the external auditors, the nature and scope of the audit, reviews of the interim and annual financial statements, internal control procedures, accounting policies, adherence with accounting standards and such other related functions as the Board may require.
The Board considers that Mr P Johnson has recent and relevant financial experience under the requirements of the Combined Code.
There is a whistleblowing and security reporting procedure which encourages a free and open culture within the Group in all its business dealings.
The policy on engagement of the external auditors for non-audit services is that where the work is closely related to the audit, or if the work requires a detailed understanding of the Group, or when a significant benefit can be obtained from work previously conducted, the work may be awarded to the auditors without compromising their independence and objectivity.
During the year the performance of the external auditors was formally reviewed.
continued Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr B Pointon and comprises the Non-executive Directors see page 19.
The Committee determines the Companys policy on remuneration and on a specific package for each of the Executive Directors.
It also determines the terms on which the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and the Save As You Earn SAYE share options are awarded to employees.
The Committee also determines the remuneration of the Groups senior management and that of the Chairman.
It recommends the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors for determination by the Board.
In exercising its responsibilities the Committee has access to professional advice, both internally and externally, and may consult the Group Chief Executive about its proposals.
The Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 34 contains particulars of Directors remuneration and interests in the Companys shares.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr A Auer and comprises the Non-executive Directors see page 19.
It meets as required and is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors and succession planning.
During the year, the structure, composition and balance of skills of the Board were reviewed including ensuring that all members of the Board had devoted sufficient time and contributed adequately to the work of the Board.
Following this review two new Non-executive Directors, Mr E van Amerongen and Dr S Riley, have been appointed to the Board both with recent and relevant experience and are standing for election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
In addition the Committee has had to consider and implement the succession planning required in respect of Mr M Averills planned retirement in May 2008.
As detailed in the Chairmans Statement, Mr T Drury has been appointed to succeed Mr M Averill with effect from 1 October 2007.
All appointments were made using the services of an external executive search consultant.
Pensions The assets of both the final salary and money purchase schemes in the United Kingdom are held separately from those of the Group.
These are invested by independent professional investment managers and cannot be invested directly in the Company.
Three trustees have been appointed by the Company and, in addition, two member nominated trustees were appointed in 2004 for a period of three years.
It is anticipated that a formal member nomination process will be carried out during 2007 in order to elect two new trustees as required under the Pensions Act 2004.
Senior employees in Belgium are provided with defined contribution pension benefits.
In the Netherlands, employees participate in compulsory collective transport industry wide pension schemes, or equivalent schemes operated by the Group, which provide benefits up to a certain level of pay.
Senior employees in the Netherlands earning in excess of the maximum level of pay allowed for within the compulsory pension schemes also participate in a defined contribution arrangement for the excess amount.
Relationship with Investors The Company has an active investor relations programme, with designated members of the Board regularly meeting institutional investors, analysts, press and other parties.
The Board obtains feedback from its broker, Hoare Govett on the views of institutional shareholders and the Chairman attends meetings with major shareholders whose views are communicated to the Board as a whole.
The Company is pleased to welcome both private and institutional shareholders to its Annual General Meeting and to discuss any topic shareholders may wish to raise.
co. uk provides additional information for shareholders and the general public.
All interim, preliminary and final results together with other press releases are published on the website.
Risk Management The Board confirms that processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the material risks faced by the Group have been in place for the financial year 2007 and to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
These include a formal review by each business unit to identify and evaluate material strategic, operational, commercial and financial risks affecting the achievement of their objectives.
This review also identifies key procedures and controls used to mitigate the risks to an acceptable level and, where appropriate, actions required to further manage and reduce them.
In addition the Executive Directors consider those risks to the Groups strategic objectives that may not be identified and managed at the business unit level.
The risk summaries developed out of this process are discussed with both the Board and the Audit Committee in accordance with Turnbull Guidance.
Risk management also forms part of major decision-making processes such as acquisitions or major contract tenders.
It is also embedded in the day to day management of operations including health, safety and environmental compliance aspects.
annual report 2007 Internal Control The Directors are responsible for and have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control during the period covered by the annual report and accounts.
The system is designed to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material avoidable loss or misstatement of financial information.
The key features of the control system are as follows: i monthly visits by Executive Directors to key operating locations to attend local board or management meetings: ii regular Executive Committee meetings of the Groups most senior managers and Executive Directors: iii formal written financial policies and procedures applicable to all business units: iv comprehensive annual budgets, requiring Board and business unit approval, reviewed on a regular basis, with performance measured against budgets and explanations sought for significant variances: v a formal clearly defined framework for control and approval of capital expenditure and investment programmes, with cash authorisation limits and post investment appraisals along with contract authorisation levels: vi identification and evaluation of key risks applicable to each area of business assessed on a continuing basis at both operating board and Group Board level: vii appointment of experienced and professional staff of the necessary calibre to meet their responsibilities: viii annual peer reviews where the adequacy of the procedures and controls in each business units operations are reviewed by senior staff from elsewhere in the Group with the aid of extensive checklists.
Summaries of findings from these reviews and the status on follow-up actions are discussed by the Group Board: ix a programme of internal site audits performed by senior finance staff.
A selection of these audits is performed by individuals from other business units or, where language is an issue, by a local firm of external auditors.
Findings from these audits are discussed at the monthly business unit board meetings.
Summaries of audit findings and the status of follow-up actions are discussed at the Group Board and Audit Committee meetings on a regular basis: x a range of quality assurance and environmental management systems are used at the Groups sites.
Where appropriate these are independently certified to internationally recognised standards including ISO 9001 and ISO 14001, and as such are subject to regular external audits: xi the Group maintains an Environmental Advisory Board which provides an independent assessment of the Groups health, safety and environmental performance.
Further details of this boards activities are given in the Environment and Community section of the business review on pages 16 to 18: and xii an Audit Committee comprising Non-executive Directors, the responsibilities of which are set out on page 25.
In light of the assurance provided by the above the Board does not currently consider it is necessary to maintain a separate Internal Audit Department.
continued Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The directors are responsible for preparing financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of affairs of the company and the group and of the profit or loss of the company and group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group will continue in business.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The auditors report on the financial statements set out on pages 73 and 74 confirms that the scope of their report covers the provisions of the Combined Code that are specified for their review by the Financial Services Authority.
