Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee report Membership The members of the Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee ACR Committee as at December 31, 2007 were David Kappler Chairman, Patrick Langlois, Kate Nealon and David Mott.
Mr Kappler and Mr Langlois served as members of the ACR Committee throughout 2007.
Dr Barry Price was a member of the ACR Committee until July, 2007.
Kate Nealon was elected to the Committee in February, 2007 and David Mott in December, 2007.
The members of the ACR Committee are chosen from amongst the Non-Executive Directors of the Group and are selected on the basis of their knowledge and experience of financial reporting and risk, control and other financial matters.
Each of the members of the ACR Committee has been determined by Shires Board to be an Independent Non-Executive Director for the purposes of The UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
Each member also satisfies the NASDAQ rules regarding the independence of members of the ACR Committee.
ACR Committee members hold office for an initial period of two years, subject to continuing as a Director of the Group.
Thereafter they may hold office for such duration as determined by the Board.
Details of the fees paid to members of the ACR Committee are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 84.
Mr David Kappler chairs the ACR Committee.
The Board is satisfied that Mr Kappler, in his capacity as Chairman of the ACR Committee, has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board has determined that Mr Kappler is the ACR Committees financial expert for the purposes of the SarbanesOxley Act 2002.
Mr Kappler was Chief Financial Officer of Cadbury Schweppes group from 1995 until his retirement in April 2004.
He is currently Non-Executive Chairman of Premier Foods plc and a NonExecutive Director of Intercontinental Hotels Group where he is also chairman of the Audit Committee.
Mr Kappler is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Role of the ACR Committee The Terms of Reference of the ACR Committee have been approved by the Board in 2007 and are available for review on Shires website.
The key functions of the ACR Committee under its Terms of Reference are to: monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, including its annual and quarterly reports, preliminary results announcements and any other corporate announcement relating to the Groups financial performance: ensure clarity of disclosure in financial reporting and the presentation of a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups financial position: have the primary responsibility for making a recommendation to be put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting in relation to the appointment, re-appointment, removal and remuneration of the external auditor and to assess, at least annually, the objectivity and independence of the external auditor: review and discuss issues and recommendations arising from the external audit and any matters the external auditor may wish to discuss: 62 Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee report continued set and apply a formal policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor with a view to preserving the external auditors independence and objectivity : monitor, review and approve the annual internal audit program, consider the findings of internal audit reviews and managements response to them: review at least annually the design and effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems: review the Groups strategy for the management of the key corporate and financial risks of the business including treasury, taxation and insurance: review procedures for the receipt and treatment of complaints received by the Group regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters: review, with the Chief Compliance and Risk Officer, arrangements for the confidential, anonymous submission by employees of concerns regarding questionable matters which could have an impact on the Groups financial reporting, and to ensure these arrangements allow proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and appropriate follow up action: review the major findings of internal investigations and managements response to material inquiries received from regulators or governmental agencies: and oversee the Groups anti-fraud programs and controls and to oversee the investigation and remediation of any alleged or suspected fraud.
The ACR Committee reports to the Board on any matter on which it considers that action is required and makes recommendations for steps to be taken.
The Terms of Reference of the ACR Committee give it authority to investigate any activity within its Terms of Reference and to be responsible for the resolution of disagreements between management and the auditor regarding the Groups financial reporting.
The ACR Committee is also authorized to seek any information it requires from any employee of the Group in order to perform its duties and to call any employee to be questioned at a meeting of the ACR Committee.
The ACR Committee met on 6 occasions in 2007.
David Kappler attended all meetings and Patrick Langlois attended five meetings.
Dr Barry Price attended all four meetings prior to his stepping down from the Committee and Kate Nealon attended all four of the meetings since her appointment.
David Mott was appointed subsequent to the last meeting held in 2007.
At the invitation of the Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer attended all of the ACR Committee meetings in 2007 while the Group Financial Controller attended all but one of the meetings.
In addition, and also at the invitation of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Risk Officer, the Vice President Internal Auditor and the lead partner from the Groups external auditors attended each of the meetings.
63 Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee report continued In accordance with its Terms of Reference, the ACR Committee held a number of private meetings with each of the lead partner from the Groups external auditors, the Groups Vice President Internal Auditor and the Companys Chief Risk Officer during the course of the year without any executive member of the Board in attendance.
The purpose of these meetings was to facilitate free and open discussions between the ACR Committee members and the Vice President Internal Auditor, the Chief Risk Officer and the external lead audit partner separately from the main sessions of the ACR Committee.
Approval of audit and non-audit services provided by auditor The ACR Committee has adopted formal policies and procedures in relation to the provision of audit and non-audit services by the external auditor.
The principal purpose of these policies and procedures is to ensure that the independence of the external auditor is not impaired.
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and accordingly the ACR Committees policy prohibits the provision of certain non-audit services to the Group by the external auditor, including: bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records or financial statements of the Group: design and implementation of financial information systems: appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions or contribution-in-kind reports: and actuarial or internal audit outsourcing services.
Other types of audit and non-audit services may be performed by the external auditor if the work is either specifically pre-approved by the ACR Committee or the work falls within the ACR Committees schedule of pre-approved services.
The ACR Committees pre-approval policy covers three categories of work audit services, audit-related services and tax services.
If the proposed services to be provided by the external auditor fall within a category of pre-approved services, they may be provided by the auditor without being specifically approved by the ACR Committee, provided that management does not need to exercise any discretion in determining whether a proposed service falls within one of the pre-approved categories.
In all cases, the ACR Committee is notified of any pre-approved service that is provided by the auditor.
Any non-prohibited service proposed to be provided by the auditor which is not a pre-approved service must be approved in advance by the ACR Chairman, who will consider whether the independence, skills and experience of the auditor make it a suitable supplier of the proposed service.
ACR Committee activities During 2007, the business discussed by the ACR Committee included the following: 1 Financial statements The financial disclosures contained in the Groups full year and quarterly results announcements.
64 Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee report continued Various accounting matters, including the application of the Groups critical accounting policies and accounting standards in the context of the financial disclosures, the restatement of the 2005 valuation of in-process R&D acquired as part of the acquisition of TKT, the accounting treatment of the $1.1 billion convertible issued in May 2007, the presentation of business segmental information, the accounting treatment of stock option compensation and the impact of new accounting standards on the reporting of taxation.
Review of questions raised by the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC concerning the companys 2006 10K filing and approval of the Companys responses.
The SEC were satisfied with the Companys responses.
Quarterly reports from the external auditors were received by the ACR Committee and discussed.
The reports addressed the following key areas: o auditor responsibility and independence: o significant accounting estimates and judgements made by management: o audit adjustments proposed: and o significant accounting policies and unusual transactions.
2 Internal financial control and risk management systems The Groups risk management strategy, its internal audit strategy, its plan and progress in complying with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control over financial reporting during the year.
Revisions to the policy for the management of treasury were reviewed and recommended for approval to the Board.
Quarterly reports on treasury investments, foreign exchange hedging and compliance with treasury policy were discussed.
Annual review of the Groups tax strategy and assessment of fiscal risk.
Quarterly reports on the results of the Groups internal audit program.
Semi-annual review of the Groups corporate risk schedules.
Approval of the insurance renewal program for 2007 8.
Approval of the program to buy shares into an employee benefit trust for the purpose of satisfying future share awards and option exercises.
Monitoring of the Groups whistle-blowing and fraud policies.
3 External auditor The ACR Committee reviewed the performance of the external auditor following the completion of the 2006 audit process, which resulted in the ACR Committee resolving to recommend that the Group submit a resolution to the 2007 Annual General Meeting to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Groups external auditor.
At forthcoming meetings in 2008, the ACR 65
