Corporate Governance statements The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and supports the provisions and principles set out in The Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the UK Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 and revised in June 2006 the Combined Code.
Statement of compliance with the Combined Code Throughout the year ended December 31, 2007 the Company has, in the Directors opinion, complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The Board The Board comprises the Chairman, two Executive and seven Non-Executive Directors and meets at least six times a year.
The Non-Executive Directors bring judgement which is independent of management to Board deliberations.
The Executive Directors have responsibility for day-to-day business operations.
The Board has overall responsibility for managing Shire and its strategic direction and seeks to provide effective leadership and the control required for a listed company.
The Board discharges those responsibilities through regularly scheduled meetings.
The Board has formally reserved specific matters to itself for determination and approval which include strategic issues, budgeting, changes in share capital, approval of the Groups financial statements and approval of material contracts.
The Board reviews the Groups internal controls and risk management policies and approves its Code of Ethics.
It also monitors and evaluates the performance of the Shire group as a whole, through engaging with the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and members of the Management Committee, as appropriate.
Matters not formally reserved to the Board are delegated to the Management Committee and to various other Board committees whose functions are described below.
Board members receive detailed information from Executive Directors, the Company Secretary, members of the Management Committee and other senior managers to enable them to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
All Directors have access to the advice and guidance of the Company Secretary and are encouraged to seek independent advice at the Groups expense, where they feel it is appropriate.
The Board is of the opinion that each of its members has the knowledge, aptitude and experience to perform the functions required of a director of a listed company.
Biographical details of the members of the Board are shown on pages 38 and 40.
Independence of Directors The Board considers Dr Barry Price, Mr Robin Buchanan, Mr David Kappler, Mr Patrick Langlois, Dr Jeffrey Leiden, Ms Kate Nealon and Mr David Mott to be Independent Non-Executive Directors and that The Hon.
James Grant was an Independent Non-Executive Director for his period of office.
The Board views each of these Non-Executive Directors to be independent of management, independent in judgement and character and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board has taken into consideration that The Hon.
James Grant is a retired partner and Chair Emeritus of Stikeman Elliot, a Canadian law firm which, from time to time, provides legal advice to the Group.
The Board considered Mr Grant to be independent notwithstanding his position as he is not involved in the provision of legal advice to the Group and is not engaged in marketing the services of Stikeman Elliott to the Group.
Stikeman Elliott is one of a range of legal and other professional advisors engaged by the Group from time to time.
Accordingly, the Board does not consider the relationship between the Group and Stikeman Elliott to be material and the fact that Mr Grant was a partner at that firm has not, in the Boards assessment, affected his independence.
50 Corporate Governance statements continued The Board, when making its determination on the independence of Dr Price, gave particular consideration to the fact that Dr Price has been a serving member of the Board for twelve years, that the Combined Code suggests that length of service of nine years or more is relevant to a determination of independence and that re-appointment should be subject to rigorous review.
The Board noted that there have been substantial changes to the Board membership in recent years, including the appointments of Mr Kappler in 2004, Mr Langlois in 2005, Ms Nealon in 2006, Dr Leiden and Mr Mott in 2007 and the retirement of Mr Nordmann and the Hon James Grant in December 2006 and May 2007 respectively.
The Board concluded that in its opinion Dr Price remains independent in judgement and character, his commitment to the Group is undiminished and his performance continues to be effective.
In accordance with the Combined Code, Dr Prices re-appointment to the Board is for a one year term.
Throughout 2007 and up to the date of publication of this report, at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, comprised Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
Board and Committee changes On January 1, 2007 Dr Jeffrey Leiden joined the Board and in July 2007 he joined the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
In July 2007, Mr David Kappler was appointed Senior Independent Director and Dr Barry Price stepped down from the Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee, as Chairman and member of the Remuneration Committee and as Senior Independent Director.
Dr Price remains a member of the Nomination Committee.
James Grant stepped down from the Board in May 2007.
Mr David Mott joined the Board in October 2007 and was appointed to the Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee in December 2007.
Following the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2008 Dr James Cavanaugh will retire as Chairman of the Company and from the Board and he will be succeeded by Mr Matthew Emmens.
Mr Angus Russell, the current Chief Financial Officer, will succeed Mr Emmens as Chief Executive Officer.
Mr Kappler will become Deputy Chairman of the Company and Chairman of the Nomination Committee at that time.
More details of these changes are set out in the section below headed New Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
New Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Shire announced in December 2007 that Mr Matthew Emmens would succeed Dr James Cavanaugh as the Companys Non-Executive Chairman, when Dr Cavanaugh retires after the AGM in June 2008.
The Company also announced that Mr Angus Russell, the Companys Chief Financial Officer, would succeed Mr Emmens as Chief Executive Officer and that Mr David Kappler, the Companys Senior Independent Director, would become Deputy Chairman, with effect from the conclusion of the Companys AGM in June 2008.
These appointments have the unanimous support of the Board of Directors.
The appointments were made after a thorough and considered selection process conducted primarily by the Nomination Committee, assisted by external advisers.
The Company consulted with its major shareholders and representatives of a major investor body before the announcement was made.
Mr Kappler wrote to shareholders regarding these appointments immediately after the announcements were made in December 2007.
The announcements have been made well in advance of their effective date so that the Company can ensure a smooth transition and to give the Company time to recruit a new Chief Financial Officer.
Detailed succession planning for the Chairmans position commenced in Q1 2007 when Dr Cavanaugh informed the Board that he was considering retiring as Chairman and from the Board in the next 18 months, when he would have served on the Board for 11 years.
At around the same time, Mr Emmens informed the Board that he was contemplating stepping down from the role of Chief Executive Officer in the next few years.
Detailed discussions followed over the next 8 months at both the Nomination Committee and also at the Board, in executive session without management, as to the skill sets and capabilities required for the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
51 Corporate Governance statements continued The Non-Executive Directors concluded that continuity in the management of Shire was paramount to the Companys ongoing success, given Shires differentiated and successful business model.
They agreed that the Company would benefit from a Chairman who has international experience of the specialty biopharmaceutical industry and who has experience of responding to a dynamic and rapidly changing pharmaceutical environment.
Shires strategy is to grow primarily by in-licensing and acquisitions, and the Non-Executive Directors agreed that a Chairman who has experience of M&A in the international specialty biopharmaceutical area would be desirable.
Given the Companys significant presence in the US and its focus also on Europe and emerging markets, the Board considered international industry experience to be important.
The Non-Executive Directors also took account of the need for the Chairman to have a wide range of other skills, including the capacity for strategic thinking, high standards of corporate governance, the ability to sustain and enhance Shires corporate character and to have the personal standing to command the respect of shareholders, Board members, employees and other key stakeholders.
The Nomination Committee considered, on an informal basis, several possible external candidates.
However, the Nomination Committee and all other Non-Executive Directors were of the unanimous view that given the very strong internal Board candidates for the Chairman, there was no need to conduct a formal external search.
After consideration of the credentials of the internal Board candidates, the Board agreed unanimously that Mr Emmens would be the best appointment as Chairman.
In reaching this conclusion the Board were mindful of the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance which requires an explanation to be made in cases where an individual who previously was a Chief Executive Officer of the Company is appointed Chairman of the Board.
Mr Emmens has deep industry experience and knowledge of the international specialty biopharmaceutical industry, and has an excellent track record, both at Shire and previously at Merck KGaA, Astra Merck and Merck & Co Inc.
He also has experience of being a Non-Executive Director with his directorships at Incyte Corporation and Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. and is well respected by shareholders, by the Board and Management Committee at Shire and by the industry.
Mr Emmens has demonstrated consistently the leadership and change management skills that are relevant as Chairman in the rapidly changing pharmaceutical industry.
The Board took into consideration that Mr Emmens will only have been with Shire for five years at the time of the AGM in June 2008, a relatively short part of his career, and it was keen to ensure that shareholders continue to benefit from his continued presence and contribution, given the success that Shire has enjoyed under his leadership.
The Board considered it would be positive to have Mr Emmens continue to have input into Shires strategy, which has been shown to be value creating for shareholders.
Since Mr Emmens joined the Company in March 2003 Shires share price has very significantly outperformed the FTSE 100 and other benchmark indices and Shires market capitalization grew from 1.7bn in April 2003 to 6.1bn at the end of 2007.
The Board concluded that this particular combination of considerations meant that Mr Emmens appointment was in the best interests of shareholders.
In considering the succession for the Chief Executive Officer, the Non-Executive Board Directors discussed and agreed the key criteria for the position.
The Board, without management, agreed that as there were very strong internal candidates there was no need to conduct a formal external search.
All members of the Board met with the internal candidates.
The Board agreed unanimously that Mr Russell would be the best appointment as Chief Executive Officer.
Mr Russell has been the Chief Financial Officer of the Company and a member of its Board since 1999.
Mr Russell has worked closely with Mr Emmens in developing the strategy of the Company over the last five years and has played a key role throughout his career at Shire in reviewing and executing the Companys acquisitions and in-licenses.
Prior to joining Shire, Mr Russell worked for AstraZeneca, Zeneca and ICI, where he held a variety of positions in finance, strategy and marketing.
Mr Russell will divide his time between the UK and the US.
The Board has approved in writing the division of responsibilities for the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Deputy Chairman and details of these can be found on the Companys website.
The Board is confident that Mr Emmens will continue to have a productive relationship with Mr Russell and other members of the Companys Management Committee.
Members of the Companys Management Committee will continue to regularly attend Board meetings and meet with the Board informally several times a year.
Mr David Kappler as Deputy Chairman will deputize for and support the Chairman.
As the Senior Independent Director, Mr Kappler will be available to shareholders if they have concerns relating to matters which contact through the normal channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
In addition, Mr Kappler 52 Corporate Governance statements continued will meet with the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present at least annually and lead the Board in the ongoing monitoring and annual evaluation of the Chairman.
Roles and Responsibilities of Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The offices of Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are held separately.
The Chairman is responsible for the conduct of the Board and ensures that Board discussions are conducted in such a way that all views are taken into account and so that no individual Director or small group of Directors dominates proceedings.
The Deputy Chairs role is to provide support and guidance to the Chairman and to deputize for the Chairman as required.
The Chief Executive Officer has the overall responsibility for running the business on a day-to-day basis and chairs the Management Committee.
The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman, Deputy Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are clearly defined, separate and have been approved by the Board.
More details of these can be found on the Shire website www.
com Senior Independent Director Mr David Kappler is the Senior Independent Director having succeeded Dr Barry Price who stepped down from this role in July 2007.
Mr Kappler has chaired meetings of the Non-Executive Directors during the year without the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
Mr Kappler is available, as required, for consultation with major shareholders on any matter of concern.
Board meetings During 2007, there were ten Board meetings all of which were well attended.
The record of attendance by Directors at Board meetings is set out below: Number of meetings Out of Attendance Directors attended possible % Dr James Cavanaugh Chairman 1010 100 Matthew Emmens Chief Executive Officer 10 10 100 Angus Russell Chief Financial Officer 10 10 100 Dr Barry Price Non-Executive Director 10 10 100 The Hon.
James Grant Non-Executive Director 5 5 100 Robin Buchanan Non-Executive Director 8 10 80 David Kappler Senior Non-Executive Director 10 10 100 Patrick Langlois Non-Executive Director 8 10 80 Dr Jeffrey Leiden NonExecutive Director 1010 100 Kate Nealon Non-Executive Director 9 10 90 David Mott Non-Executive Director 2 2 100 53 Corporate Governance statements continued The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met four times during the year without the Executive Directors being present.
Supply of information The Executive Directors and the Company Secretary are responsible for ensuring that detailed information is provided to Board members in advance of any scheduled Board meeting.
Before decisions are made, consideration is given to the adequacy of information available to the Board and, if necessary, decisions are deferred if further information is required.
The Company Secretary, Ms Tatjana May, is also Secretary of the other Board Committees.
Appointment and re-election of Directors The Board has authority to appoint any person to be a Director.
Any Director so appointed must retire and submit himself for election at the next Annual General Meeting.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed ordinarily for a term of two years, subject to shareholder approval.
Non-Executive Directors who have served on the Board for nine years or more are appointed for one year terms and, in accordance with the Combined Code, are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Re-appointment of Non-Executive Directors following the expiry of their term of appointment is subject to Board approval.
At every Annual General Meeting a minimum of one-third of the Directors must retire from office and may offer themselves for re-election by shareholders.
Accordingly, no Director should serve for more than three years without being subject to re-election.
The terms of appointment of each of the Non-Executive Directors and the service contracts of the Executive Directors are made available for inspection at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Board performance evaluation The Company conducted evaluations of the performance of the Board, its Committees and its Directors in 2007.
The 2007 evaluations were undertaken by way of a formal review chaired, respectively, by the Chairman of the Board and the Chairperson of the Board Committees.
Board members completed performance evaluation questionnaires before each review meeting and the aggregated responses formed the basis of each review.
The reviews covered a wide range of matters including adequacy of the composition of the Board and its Committees, performance of Directors and the adequacy of information provided.
The Board and its Committees noted that the minor improvement to operating procedures identified in the previous year had been implemented.
Following discussions in 2007, further minor improvements were identified for implementation in 2008, including optimizing the sequencing of meetings.
Committees of the Board The Board has established the Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Management Committee.
Each Committee has its own written terms of reference which have been approved by the Board.
The Terms of Reference of the Committees are available on the Groups website.
Details of each Committee are set out below: 1 Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee The Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee has been established for the purpose of overseeing the accounting and financial reporting processes of the Group, the audit of its financial statements and the Groups systems of internal controls.
It meets at least four times a year.
The members of the Committee are all Independent Non-Executive Directors.
For further information about the Audit, 54 Corporate Governance statements continued Compliance and Risk Committee, its membership and activities for the year ended December 31, 2007, please refer to the Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee report on pages 62 to 66.
2 Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee determines on behalf of the Board the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and other senior executives and the fixing of the terms of employment of the Executive Directors.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
The remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Chairman is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The remuneration of the members of the Management Committee, other than the Executive Directors, is determined by the Chief Executive Officer following discussion with the Remuneration Committee.
The members of the Remuneration Committee are all Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee engages external consultants to advise on aspects of remuneration, as it considers necessary.
The Remuneration Committee met on seven occasions in 2007.
Dr Barry Price chaired the Remuneration Committee until July, 2007 attending all four meetings up to that date and Ms Kate Nealon chaired the Committee thereafter attending all seven meetings held during the year.
Patrick Langlois and Robin Buchanan were members of this Committee throughout 2007 and attended six and four meetings respectively.
Dr Jeffrey Leiden joined the Remuneration Committee in July 2007 and attended all three meetings since his appointment.
For further information about the Remuneration Committee, its membership and activities for the year ended December 31, 2007, please refer to the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 84.
3 Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates for the Board.
The Nomination Committee also ensures adequate succession planning for the Board and senior management.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Dr James Cavanaugh.
Dr Barry Price and Mr David Kappler also served on the Nomination Committee in 2007, the Hon.
James Grant served on the Committee until he stepped down from the Board in May 2007 and Dr Jeffrey Leiden joined the Nomination Committee in July, 2007.
The Nomination Committee met eight times during 2007, with four of these meetings being with the other Non-Executive Directors.
Each Committee member attended all Committee meetings which he was eligible to attend in the year.
The Nomination Committee retains the services of executive search consultants to assist it in the discharge of its responsibilities, as it considers necessary.
For further information about the Nomination Committee, its membership and activities for the year ended December 31, 2007 please refer to the Nomination Committee report on page 49.
4 Management Committee The Board has delegated the day-to-day management of the Company to the Management Committee, which operates within clear and formal parameters.
The Management Committee reports to and seeks guidance from the Board on a regular basis and normally meets once a month to deliberate on major business issues.
It also considers those matters that are of a size and significance as to require referral to the Board before such matters are referred to the Board for final consideration and decision.
During 2007 the Management Committee met 14 times.
Mr Matthew Emmens Chief Executive Officer chaired the Management Committee whose other members as at December 31, 2007 were Mr Angus Russell Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Global Finance, Mr Mike Cola President of Speciality Pharmaceuticals, Ms Sylvie Gregoire President of Human Genetic Therapies, 55 Corporate Governance statements continued Ms Barbara Deptula Executive Vice President, Business Development, Mrs Anita Graham Executive Vice President, Corporate Business Services and Chief Administrative Officer, Ms Tatjana May General Counsel, Company Secretary and Executive Vice President of Global Legal Affairs, Dr Eliseo Salinas Chief Scientific Officer and Executive Vice President, Global R&D and Mr Joseph Rus Executive Vice President Market Alliance & New Product Development.
Dr David Pendergast was President of Human Genetic Therapies until September 2007 when he retired and was succeeded by Ms Gregoire.
Directors remuneration The Groups remuneration policy is described in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 67 to 84.
The report details the level of remuneration for Directors and the basis upon which executive remuneration is determined.
Relations with shareholders The Group is committed to maintaining constructive relationships with shareholders.
The Group announces its financial results quarterly.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer give presentations on the results each quarter by teleconference for institutional investors, analysts and the media.
The full year results under US GAAP are included in the Companys Annual Review.
Full IFRS results are included in the Companys Annual Report.
As the Company has securities listed on NASDAQ in the US, the Company also files quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and an Annual Report on Form 10-K with the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, supported by other senior executives, also arrange individual and group meetings with major shareholders throughout the year to discuss the Groups strategy and performance and to understand the views of major shareholders, which are then communicated to the Board as a whole.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are available also to meet with major shareholders.
The Groups website at www.
com provides information about the Group and its business and is regularly updated.
The Groups Investor Relations department acts as a contact point for investors throughout the year.
The Company holds its Annual General Meeting in London at which shareholders are given the opportunity to ask questions of the Directors.
The Directors also make themselves available informally after the meeting to answer questions from shareholders.
Balanced and timely assessment of positions and prospects The Group strives to give timely assessments of matters that impact on its business and financial position and to present scientific and other information in a balanced way.
Corporate Responsibility CR The Group recognizes the impact that its business may have on people and the environment as well as the wider implications of its operations on the general community.
The Group therefore attaches great importance to social and environmental issues and to ethical business practices.
Accordingly, ultimate responsibility for them is taken at the highest levels.
The Board reviews the Groups general approach to corporate responsibility.
The Board also reviews the specific business risks related to CR matters, as part of the overall risk management review process.
The CR Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, meets at least three times a year and is responsible for setting the policies and procedures that manage CR issues, risks and 56 Corporate Governance statements continued opportunities.
CR risks are managed within the overall framework of risk management, explained below under the heading internal control.
Further information including 2007 highlights can be obtained from the Shire Corporate Responsibility website at www.
com Code of Ethics The Group is committed to the maintenance of high ethical standards in its dealings with all persons with whom it is involved.
The Groups Code of Ethics applies to all Directors and employees and is available for review on the Groups website.
Dividends The Company commenced the payment of a semi-annual dividend in 2004 with the aim to grow the total dividend paid for each year progressively.
As a result of the adoption of this dividend policy, the Company intends to declare interim dividends twice per year with the first payment made around September October, following determination of first-half results, and the second payment around April May of each year, following finalization of the full year results.
The Company does not intend to put a resolution to shareholders to approve a second interim dividend at the Annual General Meeting which is held in June each year because if the Company was to delay payment of the second interim dividend, by seeking shareholder approval for the payment at the Annual General Meeting, the Group would not be able to maintain an even payment cycle at approximately six month intervals unless first-half dividend payments were also delayed.
This is beneficial for the Company, both from a cash flow planning and from an accounting perspective and is beneficial for shareholders as dividends are paid promptly and a smooth payment cycle is maintained.
Donations to Political Organizations and EU Political Expenditure At the Annual General Meeting in June 2007, shareholders authorized the Group to make donations to EU Political Organizations and to incur EU Political Expenditure, under the provisions of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000, of up to 25,000, equivalent to $50,025 at average 2007 exchange rates respectively, each year.
Although the Group does not make and does not intend to make payments or donations to EU political parties, within the normal meaning of that expression, the definition in the legislation of EU Political Organization is wide.
It can extend to bodies which the Group might wish to support including those concerned with policy review and law reform.
The Group made no donations to EU Political Organizations during 2007.
"In 2006 Shire set up a Political Action Committee ""PAC"" in the United States."
The PAC is registered with the Federal Election Committee and attracts voluntary donations from US citizen employees and certain US suppliers and vendors.
The PAC is run by a committee of employees which determines the political campaigns or political candidates the PAC will support.
Contributions are held by the PAC in a separate and segregated fund and Shire does not contribute financially to this fund.
Financial reporting and disclosure, internal control and the role of the auditors The Board has, through the Audit, Compliance and Risk Committee ACR Committee, established formal and transparent arrangements for financial reporting, internal control review of compliance issues and external auditing.
The Committees terms of reference extend to the Groups compliance and risk management activities as a whole and not just the financial aspects of internal control.
The ACR Committee has independent access to the Groups internal and external auditors throughout the year in addition to presentations from both on a quarterly basis.
Any significant findings or identified risks are closely examined and are reported to the Board with recommendations for action.
All employees can, via an independently managed Global Compliance Helpline, raise any concerns in any of these areas and any other area, anonymously if they wish, to the Global Compliance Officer 57 Corporate Governance statements continued GCO in the strictest confidence without fear of discrimination or reprisal.
The GCO reports regularly to the ACR Committee on any issues that may arise through the Helpline and other sources.
1 Financial reporting and disclosure The Board, with the assistance of the ACR Committee, has ultimate responsibility for the preparation of accounts and for the monitoring of systems of internal financial control.
The Board strives to present a balanced assessment of the Groups financial position and prospects and it endeavors to present all financial, scientific and other information so as to be comprehensible to investors.
The Group publishes quarterly financial reports so that its shareholders can monitor the Groups financial position regularly.
In addition the Group has established a Disclosure Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
Its membership includes executives and senior managers from the Speciality Pharmaceuticals and HGT businesses and from the legal, finance and risk functions.
Its responsibilities include ensuring that all material information is disclosed to investors in the Groups periodic financial reports and that such information is recorded, summarised and reported accurately.
Following the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 in the United States, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer are required to complete formal certifications, which confirm, inter alia, that: the annual report on Form 10-K in the United States does not contain any material misstatements or omissions: financial information reported in Form 10-K fairly presents the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Group: the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer are responsible for determining and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures for the purposes of financial reporting in the United States: the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have evaluated the effectiveness of those disclosure controls and procedures: the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have indicated in Form 10-K whether there were any significant changes in the Groups internal control over financial reporting: and based on the evaluation of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to affect adversely the Groups ability to record, process and report financial information included in Form 10-K have been disclosed to the Groups auditors.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have completed these certifications and they have been filed with the SEC in the United States as part of the Groups Annual Report as at December 31, 2007 on Form 10-K. 2 Risk management, compliance and internal control The Board, in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal control, recognizes its overall responsibility to maintain a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investments and the Groups assets and to regularly review its effectiveness.
Whilst the Board acknowledges its responsibility for the system of internal control, such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate all risk.
Accordingly even the most effective system of internal control can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In 2007, the Board reviewed both the key risks faced by the Group and the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
Outside of its review, the Board delegates responsibility to the ACR Committee for more regular review of both key risks and internal controls and for monitoring the activities of the internal audit function.
The ACR Committee has kept these areas under regular review during 2007.
The Group has risk management, compliance and internal audit functions.
The Chief Compliance and Risk Officer and the Vice President of Internal Audit report to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief 58 Corporate Governance statements continued Financial Officer, respectively, but each have direct access to the Chairman of the Group, the Chairman of the ACR Committee and the other members of that Committee.
They also both attend and present regularly at ACR Committee meetings.
The Groups risk management, compliance and internal audit strategy is based on a risk and control framework containing the following key elements: an effective control environment: an effective process to identify, assess and manage risks: effective internal control procedures: and effective internal audit.
Effective control environment The key elements of the Groups control environment are as follows: i the Board has overall responsibility to maintain the internal control system and has delegated certain responsibilities to the Management Committee and or the ACR Committee: ii a framework of Corporate Values and a Code of Ethics which sets appropriate standards of ethical behaviour are operational throughout the Group: iii the internal structure of the organization is well documented with clear reporting lines and clear limits of authority for different matters: iv a range of corporate policies, procedures and training have been implemented: v the internal audit department, overseen by the Vice President Internal Audit, carries out regular reviews of control activities and report findings to management and the ACR Committee: and vi the ACR Committee considers the major findings of any internal investigations and managements response to them.
The ACR Committee reports annually to the Board on the effectiveness of the Groups control environment.
Effective identification, assessment and management of risks Management of business risk is essential for ensuring that the Group creates and preserves shareholder value.
Accordingly, the Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks that it faces.
This process has been in operation throughout the period under review and up to the date of the signing of the accounts.
Material risks are recorded twice a year on a corporate risk schedule which allocates specific mitigation or management responsibility to members of the senior staff of the Group.
This schedule was reviewed by the Management Committee, and higher risk items with the ACR Committee and the full Board, during 2007.
Effective internal control procedures The Group has a system of control procedures.
Compliance with these procedures is monitored through a system of internal review and regular reports on financial performance.
Any significant issues arising are reported to the ACR Committee.
During 2007, the Group made a significant investment in its internal financial control procedures as part of its compliance with Section 404 Sarbanes-Oxley Act requirements including review, documentation and testing of key internal financial controls.
The conclusion of this exercise is that the Group had an effective system of internal controls over its US GAAP Form 10-K financial reporting at December 31, 2007.
In non-financial areas, the Group has established a range of 59 Corporate Governance statements continued corporate policies and procedures addressing the areas of risk which were the subject of substantial review and enhancement in 2007.
Effective internal audit The internal review of the Groups control procedures and compliance thereof is mostly undertaken through internal audit.
The ACR Committee monitors and reviews the internal audit program, considers the findings of internal audit reviews and managements response to them, and ensures efficient coordination between the Groups internal and external auditors.
The Groups internal audit function, comprising a mixture of internal and out-sourced resource, was operational throughout 2007.
The ACR Committee, which is responsible for monitoring the activity of the internal audit function, has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit function during 2007.
3 External auditing The ACR Committee has the primary responsibility for determining the remuneration of and overseeing the work of any accounting firm engaged to conduct the external audit.
The Committee assesses at least annually the objectivity and independence of the external auditor taking into account relevant regulatory requirements.
The Committee reviews and approves the annual external audit plan each year and ensures it is consistent with the scope of the auditors engagement.
In order to ensure that the independence and objectivity of the external auditor is maintained, the Committee applies a formal policy for the provision of non-audit services.
Such services are categorised as follows: i services for which the external auditors are explicitly excluded: ii services for which the external auditors can be engaged without prior referral to the Committee: and iii services for which pre-approval of the Committee is required.
The Committee also considers the fees paid to the external auditors and whether the fee levels for nonaudit services, individually and in aggregate, relative to the audit fee are appropriate so as not to undermine their independence.
Going concern basis After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Managements report on internal control over financial reporting The Groups management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13 a to 15 f or 15 d -15 f promulgated under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Because of inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, material misstatements due to error may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.
Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness for future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
The Groups management assessed the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over financial reporting for the purposes of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K as at December 31, 2007, which was filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission on February 25, 2008.
In making this assessment, the Groups management used the criteria set forth in the Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations COSO of the Treadway Commission.
60 Corporate Governance statements continued Based on its assessment, management believes that, as of December 31, 2007 the Groups internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.
Deloitte & Touche LLP, the Groups external auditor, an independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an audit report on the design and effectiveness of the Groups internal control over its Form 10-K US GAAP financial reporting.
The Auditors Report appears on page F-2 of the Groups Annual Report in the United States on Form 10-K. Changes in internal control over financial reporting The Group has an integrated information system covering financial processes, production, logistics and quality management.
Various upgrades and new implementations were made to the information system during 2007 and more are planned for 2008.
The Group reviewed each system change as it was implemented together with any internal controls affected.
Alterations were made to affected controls at the time the system changes were implemented.
Management believes that the controls as modified are appropriate and functioning effectively.
