Corporate GovernanCe SIG is committed to business integrity, high ethical values and professionalism in all its activities.
As an essential part of this commitment the Group supports the highest standards in corporate governance.
the Board is accountable to the Companys Shareholders for good governance and this statement and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 60 describe how the principles of good governance set out in the Combined Code on corporate governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Code are applied within SIG.
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE wITH THE CODE the Company has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Code for the period under review and has, throughout the year, complied with the provisions set out therein with the exception of Code provision A3.2 in relation to the required number of nonexecutive Directors, where the Company has not been in compliance from 12 February 2007 following the appointment of an additional executive Director.
the Companys Auditors Deloitte & touche LLp, are required to review whether the above statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code specified for its review by the Listing Rules and to report if it does not reflect such compliance.
no such report has been made.
THE BOARD As at 31 December 2007 and at date of this Report, the Board was made up of eight members comprising the Chairman, four executive Directors and three nonexecutive Directors.
the nonexecutive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of management and free of any relationship, which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
the Board considers that each of the nonexecutive Directors brings his own senior level of experience and expertise.
Biographical details of each of the Directors, which illustrate their range of experience, are set out on page 42. the Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment and remuneration of both the executive and nonexecutive Directors is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 60. the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief executive is clearly established and is understood by the Board.
the Chairman at the time of his appointment met and continues to meet the independence criteria set out in the Code.
the Senior Independent Director is Mr. p. H. Blackburn.
on 12 February 2007 Mr. C. J. Davies was appointed an executive Director.
the Board notes the requirement of Code provision A3.2 and confirms that it is intended that in the future at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman should comprise nonexecutive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
there is no present intention to appoint an additional executive Director to the Board following the retirement of Mr. D. Williams and the promotion of Mr. C. J. Davies to Chief executive at the end of June 2008.
All Directors are subject to election at the Annual General Meeting immediately following their appointment and to reelection every three years.
BOARD PROCEDURES the Board met formally on twelve occasions during the year and individual attendance at those and the Board Committee meetings is set out in the table on page 49.
All Board members are supplied with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable them to discharge their duties.
Board and Committee papers are sent out seven days before meetings take place.
there is an agreed schedule of matters reserved to the Board for collective decision and these include: determining the strategy and control of the Group: amendments to the structure and capital of the Company and Group: approval of financial reporting and controls: approval of capital and revenue expenditure of a significant size: acquisitions and disposals above a prescribed level: and corporate governance matters and approval of Group policies and risk management strategies.
the Board has formally delegated specific responsibilities to Board Committees, including the nominations, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
the Board will also appoint Committees to approve specific processes as deemed necessary.
For example, during the year, Board Committees were established to approve bank documentation, dividend payments and the preliminary and interim announcements.
to enable the Board to perform its duties effectively all Directors have full access to all relevant information and to the services of the Company Secretary whose responsibility it is for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
there is an agreed procedure whereby Directors wishing to take independent legal advice in the furtherance of their duties may do so at the Companys expense.
Directors have the right to ensure that any concerns they raise about the running of the Company or a proposed action will be recorded in the Board minutes.
Further, on resignation, if a nonexecutive Director had any such concerns, the Chairman would invite him to provide a written statement for circulation to the Board.
All Board Committees are provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
Appropriate training is available to all directors on appointment and on an ongoing basis as required.
the terms of Reference for each of the Board Committees are available on request from the Company Secretary or on the SIG website www.
48 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe ATTENDANCE AT BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS the following table shows the attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board, Audit, Remuneration and nominations Committees during the year to 31 December 2007: Audit Remuneration nominations Board Committee Committee Committee 12 meetings 4 meetings 4 meetings 6 meetings p. H. Blackburn 12 4 4 6 M. J. C. Borlenghi 12 4 4 6 M. J. Chivers 12 n A n A n A C. J. Davies appointed 12 February 2007 9 n A n A n A G. W. Davies 12 n A n A n A D. A. Haxby 11 4 4 6 L. o. tench 12 n A n A 6 D. Williams 11 n A n A 3 Chairman.
Where n A appears in the table the Director listed is not a member of the Committee.
the Chairman also holds meetings with the nonexecutive Directors without the executive Directors present.
the Board arranges to hold at least two Board meetings each year at Group business locations to help all Board members gain a deeper understanding of the business.
this also provides Senior Managers from across the Group the opportunity to present to the Board as well as to meet the Directors on more informal occasions.
Board members also attend divisional management conferences whenever possible.
BOARD EFFECTIVENESS During the year, the Board continued its ongoing evaluation process to assess its performance and that of its Committees and to identify areas in which its effectiveness, policies and processes might be enhanced.
In 2005 an appraisal of the Board, each Board Committee, and the performance of each individual Director was carried out using a tailored questionnaire prepared by an independent third party in conjunction with the Chairman and the Company Secretary.
the purpose of the process was to help to identify any areas which needed attention, develop and identify what should be included in the Directors future training programme and to suggest any procedures and improvements which might make the Board operate better.
In 2006 as part of the process of building on the work done in 2005, the Chairman held structured meetings with each Director which focused on identifying the skills, structures and composition of the Board that would be required to evaluate, formulate and implement both the Groups short and long term strategies.
the process then sought to identify whether these attributes were in place.
the Chairman then collated the results and circulated them to each Board member.
the Board then met on two separate occasions devoting significant time to discuss the results of the evaluation process and to agree what actions should be taken.
the discussions then focused on how the actions identified through the process should be implemented.
In December 2007 as part of the ongoing structured process, the Board commissioned an independent third party to prepare a tailored Board evaluation questionnaire with the emphasis being targeted at identifying the future needs of the Board including Board composition and succession planning.
each Director completed their questionnaire during February 2008 and those questionnaires are currently being evaluated by the independent third party who will then prepare a report for the Chairman.
the Chairman and the independent third party will then present the results of the evaluation to the Board which will then discuss the results of the evaluation process and agree what actions should be taken.
the results of that process will be reported in the Groups Annual Report for the financial year ending 31 December 2008.
During the year a number of the Directors attended training courses and seminars for subjects and topics in conjunction with those that the Chairman had identified as being areas where training would increase the knowledge and effectiveness of the Director.
Further training has been programmed for 2008. the nonexecutive Directors, chaired by the Senior Independent Director, meet once a year without the Chairman present to assess his performance, taking into account the views of the executive Directors.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 49 Corporate GovernanCe ContInued RELATIONS wITH SHAREHOLDERS the Company recognises the importance of communicating with its Shareholders, including its employee Shareholders, to ensure that its strategy and performance is understood.
this is achieved principally through the Annual Report and the Annual General Meeting.
the Groups annual and interim results, as well as all announcements issued to the London Stock exchange, are published on the Companys website.
the Company issues regular trading updates to the market and these, together with interviews with the Chief executive and more recently the Finance Director and copies of the presentations made to analysts can also be found on the Companys website.
In addition, a range of other corporate information is available to investors on the Companys website www.
the Chief executive and Finance Director are primarily responsible for direct investor relations.
Feedback from major Shareholders is reported to the Board by the Finance Director and the Chairman and discussed at its meetings.
Formal presentations are made to institutional Shareholders following the announcement of the Companys annual and interim results.
Contact is also maintained, where appropriate, with Shareholders to discuss overall remuneration plans and policies.
the Senior Independent Director is available to meet with institutional Shareholders if requested.
Although the nonexecutive Directors are not at present asked to meet the Companys Shareholders, they regularly attend presentations of the annual and interim results.
the Board recognises that the Annual General Meeting is the principal forum for dialogue with private Shareholders and all Shareholders are invited to attend.
All Directors attend the Annual General Meeting and are available to answer any questions that Shareholders may wish to raise.
the notice of Meeting is sent to Shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
the Company provides a facility for Shareholders to vote electronically and the Form of proxy provides Shareholders with the option of withholding their vote on a resolution if they so wish.
Shareholders vote on a show of hands, unless a poll is validly called and after each such vote the number of proxy votes received for, against the resolution together with the number of abstentions is announced.
the Company Secretary ensures that votes are properly received and recorded.
Details of the proxies lodged on all resolutions are published on the Companys website immediately after the Annual General Meeting www.
THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE the Remuneration Committee operates under written terms of Reference which are consistent with current best practice.
the Committee comprises only independent nonexecutive Directors.
the Chairman of the Committee attends the Annual General Meeting to respond to any Shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committees activities.
the Committees Report is set out on pages 52 to 60.
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE the nominations Committee operates under written terms of Reference, which are consistent with current best practice.
Its principal duty is the nomination of suitable candidates for the approval of the Board to fill executive and nonexecutive vacancies on the Board.
the nominations Committee comprises the Chairman, Chief executive and the three nonexecutive Directors.
the meetings of the Committee are chaired by the nonexecutive Chairman.
the Committee reviews the structure, size, diversity and composition of the Board and makes recommendations concerning the reappointment of any nonexecutive Director at the conclusion of their specified term of office and in the identification and nomination of new Directors.
the Committee retains external search and selection consultants as appropriate.
the Committee also advises the Board on succession planning for executive Board appointments although the Board itself is responsible for succession generally.
In general terms, when considering candidates for appointment as Directors of the Company, the nominations Committee would, in conjunction with the Board, draft a detailed job specification and candidate profile.
In drafting this, consideration would be given to the existing experience, knowledge and background of Board members as well as the strategic and business objectives of the Group.
once a detailed specification has been agreed with the Board, the Committee would then work with an appropriate external search and selection agency to identify candidates of the appropriate calibre and with whom an initial candidate shortlist could be agreed.
the drawing up of this list is entirely consistent between external and internal candidates.
Shortlisted candidates would then be invited to interview with members of the Committee and, if recommended by the Committee, would be invited to meet the entire Board before any decision is taken relating to the appointment.
this process was followed in identifying the candidate to succeed Mr. D. Williams as Chief executive.
Following the appointment of a new Director, the Chairman in conjunction with the Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that a full, formal and tailored induction to the Company is given.
In January 2007 the Committee met to consider the Chief executives proposal that Mr. C. J. Davies, Managing Director europe, should be appointed an executive Director.
the appointment of Mr. C. J. Davies followed on from the Board effectiveness process which had concluded that the growing importance of the Groups european operations and future development plans was such that these should have direct representation at Board level.
After careful consideration the Committee recommended his appointment to the main Board.
By way of induction a detailed pack and programme was provided to Mr. C. J. Davies on his appointment.
on 10 January 2008 it was announced that Mr. C. J. Davies had been appointed Deputy Chief executive and that he would succeed Mr. D. Williams as Chief executive following Mr. Williams retirement on 30 June 2008. the process for identifying Mr. Williams successor was conducted by the nominations Committee led by the Chairman and has been described above.
AUDIT COMMITTEE the Audit Committee operates under written terms of Reference, which are consistent with current best practice.
the Group does not have a dedicated internal audit function.
the Board annually reviews the need for such a function.
In 2006 the Audit Committee recommended and the Board accepted that the Groups internal control and risk management systems would be further strengthened by the appointment of an outsourced internal audit function and ernst & Young LLp were appointed in April 2006 to provide an outsourced internal audit function for the Group.
the Committees Report is set out on pages 61 to 62.
50 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe RISk MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL the Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
It is the role of management to implement the Boards policies on risk and control through the design and operation of appropriate internal control systems.
For the whole of the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, the Board has had formal procedures in place to ensure that it is in a position to consider all significant aspects of internal control.
the Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
this review has covered all controls including operational, compliance and risk management procedures, as well as financial.
the review is undertaken on a six monthly basis.
the formal process followed, and reviewed by the Board, to assess the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control accords with the guidance issued by the turnbull Report Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code and is part of the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
this process is summarised as follows: operating management is charged with the ongoing responsibility for identifying risks facing each of the operating units and for putting in place procedures to mitigate, manage and monitor risks: operating units formally review all business risks and set out the significant risks to the operations, the controls in place and additional controls, which could be implemented.
these proposals are approved by each operating units management and submitted in the form of risk action plans to Group executive management for review and approval.
Any significant matters arising from this review are formally reported to the Board by the Finance Director to ensure that appropriate initiatives are developed and implemented to manage those risks.
the Board is advised in this process by the Audit Committee: the risk and control identification and management process is monitored and periodically reviewed by Group executive management: and operating units, both trading sites and central functions, complete comprehensive Control Self Assessment CSA questionnaires every six months.
these questionnaires require managers to respond to questions about procedures and controls in the unit for which they have responsibility.
these are analysed by local and Group management and all potential risks or control failure issues which are raised by the CSA process are classed in terms of escalation levels with any significant group level issues being reported to the Audit Committee.
ernst & Young LLp, as part of the process of their providing an outsourced internal audit function, report on the administration, management and reporting processes which support the CSA process.
the CSA process has been rolled out across the UK, Ireland and the netherlands and commenced across the rest of the Group in 2008. the key elements of the controls framework within which the Group operates are: an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility, delegation of authority and reporting requirements: an embedded culture of openness of communication between operating divisional management and the Group executive management on matters relating to risk and control: defined expenditure authorisation procedures: operating reviews covering all aspects of each business are conducted by Group executive management at least half yearly: and a comprehensive system of financial reporting.
An annual budget for each operating company is prepared in detail and approved by the Chief executive.
the Board approves the overall Groups budget and plans.
Monthly actual results are reported against budget and prior year and the forecast for the year is revised where necessary.
Any significant changes and adverse variances are questioned by the Board and remedial action is taken where appropriate.
there is weekly cash and treasury reporting to the Finance Director and periodic reporting to the Board on the Groups tax and treasury position.
the system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failing to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
the risk framework as outlined above, gives reasonable assurance that the structure of controls in operation is appropriate to the Groups situation and that there is an acceptable level of risk throughout the business.
the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group: that this has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
RICHARD MONRO COMPANy SECRETARy 12 MARCH 2008 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 51
