CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe report of the audIt CoMMIttee this report to Shareholders has been prepared by the Audit Committee the Committee on behalf of the Board in accordance with the requirements of paragraph C. 3.3 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and paragraphs 5.1 and 5.2 of the guidance on Audit Committees produced by Sir Robert Smith.
the Report gives details of the work of the Committee in discharging its responsibilities.
MEMBERSHIP throughout 2007, the Committee comprised the three independent nonexecutive Directors.
Mr. D. A. Haxby was the Chairman and Mr. p. H. Blackburn and Mr. M. J. C. Borlenghi were members.
the Board considers that each Member of the Committee is independent within the definition set out in the Code.
the Chairman of the Committee, Mr. D. A. Haxby is a Chartered Accountant FCA and is considered by the Board to have significant recent and relevant financial experience.
He was a partner in Arthur Andersen for 18 years 19771995 holding senior management positions in the UK practice from 1985 to 1995.
Since then he has served as Audit Committee Chairman of a number of UK listed companies.
the other members of the Committee have a wide range of business experience, which is evidenced by their biographical summaries on page 42. the Board makes appointments to the Committee.
the Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Members of the Committee undertake ongoing training as required.
TERMS OF REFERENCE the Committee operates under terms of Reference which can be found on the Companys website and which are available on application to the Company Secretary at the registered office.
they are reviewed annually by the Committee and changes are recommended to the Board for approval.
the main duties of the Committee set out in its terms of Reference are: monitoring the integrity of the Companys Accounts including its Annual Report and Accounts and Half Yearly Report: reviewing the consistency of accounting policies, including any changes: keeping under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal control and risk management systems: reviewing the Companys arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys outsourced internal audit function: reviewing the annual audit plan and receiving the Auditors Reports and the Companys response: considering and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, reappointment and removal of the Companys external Auditors: overseeing the relationship with the external Auditors, including but not limited to approving their remuneration, assessing annually their independence and objectivity, taking into account relevant professional and regulatory requirements and the relationship with the Auditors as a whole, including the provision of any nonaudit services: and reporting to the Board identifying any matters on which the Committee considers that action or improvement is needed and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
the Committee has the power to engage outside advisers if it considers it to be necessary.
the Committee reviews its own performance annually and considers where improvements can be made.
the Chairman of the Committee attends the Annual General Meeting to respond to any Shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committees activities.
MEETINGS the Committee meets regularly throughout the year and its agenda is linked to events in the Companys financial calendar.
the agenda is mostly cyclical although each member of the Committee may require reports on matters of interest in addition to the regular items.
It is planned to meet four times a year.
In 2007 it met four times and all members of the Committee attended each meeting.
the Finance Director attended all four of the scheduled meetings and the external Auditors three and they have direct access to the Committee Chairman.
the Chairman of the Board and the other executive Directors attend the meetings of the Committee at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
the external Auditors had a confidential discussion with Members of the Committee without the Chairman of the Board and the executive Directors being present on one occasion in 2007 and in March 2008 before the signing off of the 2007 Annual Report and Accounts.
ernst & Young who provide an outsourced internal audit function for the Group are invited to all meetings to present their reports.
the Chairman of the Committee also meets with ernst & Young without the executive Directors present.
wORk OF THE COMMITTEE the Committee discharged its obligations in respect of 2007 as follows: Annual Report and Accounts and Half Yearly Report at its meetings in August 2007 and March 2008, the Committee reviewed the financial reporting issues and judgements contained in the Companys Interim Announcement and its Annual Report and Accounts respectively.
At the March 2008 meeting the Committee received a report from the external Auditors setting out the accounting or judgemental issues which required its attention: accounting policies and standards at its november 2007 meeting the Committee reviewed the application of any new accounting policies or standards that would be applicable to the Groups 2007 Annual Report and Accounts, in particular IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
the Committee is updated regularly on actual and pending changes to Accounting Standards: internal controls and risk management in november 2007 and March 2008, the Committee considered detailed reports from the Group Finance Director on the operation of, and issues arising from, the Groups internal control procedures, together with observations from the external Auditors.
It also monitored the effectiveness of the Groups risk management process, which considers the key risks, both financial and nonfinancial, facing the Group and the effectiveness of the Groups controls to manage and reduce the impact of those risks: SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 61 report of the audIt CoMMIttee ContInued wORk OF THE COMMITTEE CONTINUED in August 2007 the Committee reviewed its terms of Reference and nonAudit Services policy.
Following the appointment of pwC as the Groups tax advisors in August 2006 and other preferred suppliers having been identified for due diligence services, Deloitte & touches role is now solely that of Group Auditor for the whole of the SIG Group together with any auditor permitted services which the Group considers appropriate: external Auditors work and relationship the Committee reviewed the external Auditors proposed audit plan in november 2007: considered its pre yearend issues report in December 2007: reviewed the fees paid for audit and for nonaudit services in March 2008: and assessed the external Auditors independence and objectivity in november 2007 and March 2008: internal audit function in April 2006 ernst & Young LLp were appointed to provide an outsourced internal audit function for the Group.
At that time the Committee agreed a proposed approach and work plan for the remainder of 2006 and for 2007.
During the year ernst & Young undertook work on the Groups Control Self Assessment CSA procedures including the independent validation of CSA reporting at a number of businesses in the UK and Ireland and a number of special projects.
the Committee received reports from ernst & Young at its meetings in March 2007, August 2007, november 2007, December 2007 and March 2008.
In March 2008 the Committee agreed the scope of work of the internal audit function for 2008: and Whistleblowing policy in August 2007 the Committee reviewed the whistleblowing policy under which employees may in confidence notify the Company of any concerns, inter alia matters involving financial reporting.
It also reviewed the procedures for investigating and resolving any such concerns.
A copy of the whistleblowing policy is available on the Companys website.
the Committee also reviewed the arrangements for the Groups Confidential Hotline which provides a facility for employees to bring matters to Managements attention on a confidential basis.
the Hotline is provided by an independent third party.
the Hotline was introduced for UK employees in november 2007 for identification of matters they consider relevant.
A full investigation is carried out on all matters raised and a report is prepared for feedback to the complainant.
the Hotline will be extended to employees of all of the Groups Mainland european operations in April 2008.
INDEPENDENCE OF AUDITORS the Board is aware of the need to maintain an appropriate degree of independence and objectivity on the part of the Group external auditors.
Both the Audit Committee and the external auditors, Deloitte & touche LLp, have safeguards in place to avoid the Auditors independence and objectivity being compromised.
the Group policy with regard to the provision of audit and nonaudit services by the external auditors, which was operated during 2007, is based on the principles that they should only undertake nonaudit services where they are the most appropriate and costeffective provider of the service, and where the provision of nonaudit services does not impair, or is not perceived to impair, the external auditors independence and objectivity.
It categorises such services between: Auditor permitted services those services which it is acceptable for the Auditors to provide and the provision of which can be engaged without referral to the Committee e. g. regulatory and other specialist financial reporting: accounting advisory services : Auditor excluded services those engagements that the Committee and the Board do not consider appropriate for the Auditors to undertake e. g. selection, design or implementation of major financial systems: provision of internal audit services or risk management assessment and monitoring services : and Auditor authorised services those services for which the specific approval of the Committee is required before the Auditors are permitted to provide the service e. g. complex tax planning and structure advice, corporate finance and M&A activity.
the policy defines the types of services falling under each category and sets out the criteria to be met and the internal approvals required prior to the commencement of any Auditor Authorised Services.
the Committee regularly reviews an analysis of all services provided by the external Auditors.
the policy is reviewed annually by the Committee and is approved by the Board.
Details of the amounts paid to the external Auditors for audit and nonaudit services in 2007 are set out in note 4 to the Accounts on page 77. the external auditors report to the Committee each year on the actions they have taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure their independence, including the rotation of key members of the external audit team.
Deloitte & touche have formally confirmed their independence to the Board in respect of the period covered by these financial statements.
Having reviewed and expressed satisfaction with the level of fees, independence, objectivity, expertise, resources and general effectiveness of Deloitte & touche LLp, the Committee recommends and the Board agrees that a resolution for the reappointment of Deloitte & touche LLp as Auditors of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
on behalf of the Board DAVID HAxBy CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE 12 MARCH 2008 62 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
