Corporate governance The board remains committed to maintaining to the board committees, notably the Audit, to stand for annual re-election.
Accordingly, high standards of corporate governance Remuneration and Nomination committees, in addition to Peter Smith seeking election, throughout the group, which it believes are vital which operate within clearly defined terms Galen Weston and Lord MacGregor, who have to its business integrity and successful long-term of reference, reporting regularly to the board.
served for more than nine years, together with performance.
The Listing Rules of the Financial Mike Alexander and Tim Clarke will be required Services Authority require UK listed companies Composition to seek re-election at the forthcoming annual to report on the manner in which they apply the The board currently comprises the general meeting.
Although eligible for re-election, Combined Code.
The board recognises that the non-executive Chairman Martin Adamson, as indicated in the Chairmans statement on Combined Code represents best practice and the Chief Executive George Weston, the page 5, Lord MacGregor and Mike Alexander this report, together with the Remuneration Finance Director John Bason and six nonwill not seek re-election at that meeting.
report, sets out how the Company applies the executive directors who are independent of principles of this Combined Code which deal with management and have no relationships which Induction and continuing professional directors, directors remuneration, relations with, would materially interfere with the exercise of development and accountability to, shareholders, and the their independent judgement.
The board also On joining the board, directors are given audit of the Company.
includes Galen Weston, a non-executive background documents describing the Company director, who is not regarded as independent.
The Company offers major Statement of compliance shareholders the opportunity to meet new The board considers that the Company has The board considers that the non-executive non-executive directors.
New directors complied fully with the provisions set out in directors provide a solid foundation for good are provided with an appropriate induction Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout corporate governance for the group and ensure programme.
Site visits were arranged during the year, except as follows: that no individual or group dominates the the year for the newly appointed independent boards decision-making.
Details of the full non-executive directors to meet the senior The Combined Code provides that the Chairman board are set out on pages 28 and 29. management teams at major business units.
of the Company, Martin Adamson, should not Ongoing training is provided as necessary.
be chair of the Remuneration committee.
The Following the retirement of Lord MacGregor and board of Associated British Foods plc does not Mike Alexander at the annual general meeting Information flow accept this recommendation as it considers that on 7 December 2007, the board will comprise Board and committee papers are circulated Martin Adamson, due to his experience, is best the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director to members in advance of the meetings.
In suited to chair this committee.
No director has and five non-executive directors.
addition to formal meetings, the Chairman and any involvement in the determination of his Chief Executive maintain regular contact with own remuneration.
Chairman and Chief Executive all directors.
The Chairman also holds informal The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive meetings with non-executive directors, without The Combined Code provides that the terms are separately held and the division of their any of the executives being present, to discuss and conditions of appointment of non-executive responsibilities is clearly established, set out in any issues affecting the group.
directors should be made available for inspection.
writing, and agreed by the board.
The Chairman, For Galen Weston, the board has not considered Martin Adamson, is responsible for the running Senior executives below board level are invited, it appropriate to enter into a formal letter of and leadership of the board.
The Chief Executive, when appropriate, to attend board meetings appointment.
This is due to his relationship George Weston, is responsible for leading and and to make presentations on the results and with the Companys ultimate holding company, managing the business within the authorities strategies of their business units.
Galen Weston delegated by the board.
receives no fees for performing his role as a Independent professional advice non-executive director and Associated British Senior independent director The board has adopted a procedure whereby Foods plc does not reimburse him for any Lord MacGregor, who has served on the directors may, in pursuit of their duties and expenses incurred by him in that role.
In board for 13 years, is the recognised senior where they judge it necessary, take independent professional advice on any matter at the accordance with the Combined Code, he is independent director.
The board is fully satisfied Companys expense.
as to his independence, given the manner in which he discharges his duties with the Company Secretary The board of directors Company, but reviews this annually in the Directors have direct access to the advice and Role and responsibilities light of the provisions of the Combined Code.
services of the Company Secretary who is All members of the board take collective As from his retirement from the board at the responsible for ensuring that board procedures responsibility for the business and the forthcoming annual general meeting, Tim Clarke are followed.
The board met will act as the senior independent director.
formally eight times during the year.
The individual attendance by directors is detailed Re-election on page 33.
There is a formal schedule of Under the Articles, all directors seek election matters reserved to the board for decision, at their first annual general meeting and one which includes the approval of annual and third of the directors must retire by rotation interim results, the Companys strategic plans, each year, subject to the requirement that each annual budget, larger capital expenditure and director seeks re-election every three years.
investment proposals and the overall system Furthermore, in accordance with the Combined of internal control and risk management.
Code, each non-executive director who has Other specific responsibilities are delegated served for more than nine years is required 32 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Attendance at meetings The attendance by individual directors at board and committee meetings during the year ended 15 September 2007 was as follows: Nomination Audit Remuneration Full board committee committee committee meeting Directors Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Martin Adamson 3 3 5588 George Weston 8 8 John Bason 8 7 Lord MacGregor 33335588 Mike Alexander 11335588 1 Jeff Harris 223355 Tim Clarke 3333 88 2 Lord Jay 2121 87 3 Javier Ferrn 22 4386 4 Peter Smith 223343 Galen Weston 8 5 1 Jeff Harris resigned as an independent non-executive director on 18 April 2007.
2 Lord Jay was appointed as an independent non-executive director on 1 November 2006.
3 Javier Ferrn was appointed as an independent non-executive director on 1 November 2006.
4 Peter Smith was appointed as an independent non-executive director on 28 February 2007.
Board committees The terms of reference of the Nomination The senior independent director is available Membership of the three key committees was committee, the Audit committee and the to shareholders in the event that they have any refreshed in January 2007.
Current membership Remuneration committee are available on concerns which contact through the normal of each committee is detailed below.
co. uk channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for Nomination committee Board evaluation which such contact is inappropriate.
Current members: Martin Adamson, Lord In the final financial quarter the senior MacGregor, Tim Clarke, Javier Ferrn, Lord Jay.
independent director led the annual process The annual general meeting takes place in which enabled the board to evaluate the London and formal notification is sent to Chairman: Martin Adamson.
This involved shareholders approximately one month in an individual discussion with Lord MacGregor advance and in any event at least 20 working Further details of the Nomination committee can and each director based upon designated areas days before the meeting.
The annual general be found on page 34. and topics.
All input was treated as strictly meeting gives shareholders an opportunity to confidential and was not attributed to any hear about the general development of the Audit committee individual board member.
The results of this business and to ask questions of the Chairman Current members: Mike Alexander, Lord exercise were subsequently reviewed by the and, through him, the chairmen of the key MacGregor, Tim Clarke, Lord Jay, Peter Smith.
The performance of the Chairman was committees and other directors.
The practice also appraised at a meeting of the non-executive has been for a short film to be shown at the Chairman: Peter Smith.
directors chaired by the senior independent meeting explaining a particular area of the director and taking into account the views of the groups business.
Further details of the Audit committee can be executive directors.
Accountability and audit The process in 2007 confirmed that all directors The board is required by the Combined Code Remuneration committee continued to contribute effectively and with to present a balanced and understandable Current members: Martin Adamson, Mike proper commitment, including of time, to assessment of the Companys position and Alexander, Lord MacGregor, Javier Ferrn, their roles.
In relation to this requirement, Peter Smith.
reference is made to the statement of Relations with shareholders directors responsibilities for preparing the Chairman: Martin Adamson.
The manner in which the Company financial statements set out on page 46 communicates with its shareholders is described of this annual report and accounts.
Details of the Remuneration committee and its in the Corporate citizenship section on page 27. policies can be found on pages 40 to 45.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 33 Corporate governance continued The independent auditors report on page 47 The time required from a non-executive director Report of the Audit committee includes a statement by the auditors about is reviewed annually.
The annual board Summary of the role of the Audit committee their reporting responsibilities.
The board evaluation is used to assess whether the nonThe Audit committee is responsible for recognises that its responsibility to present executive director is spending enough time to maintaining an appropriate relationship with the a balanced and understandable assessment fulfil his duties.
groups external auditors and for reviewing the extends to interim and other price-sensitive Companys internal audit resources, internal public reports, and reports to regulators, as The Nomination committee gives full financial controls and the audit process.
It aids well as information required to be presented consideration to succession planning in the board in seeking to ensure that the financial by law.
the course of its work, taking into account and non-financial information supplied to the challenges and opportunities facing the shareholders presents a balanced assessment Going concern Company and what skills and expertise are of the Companys position.
After making due enquiries, the directors have therefore needed on the board and from senior a reasonable expectation that the group has management in the future.
The Audit committee reviews the objectivity and adequate resources to continue in operation independence of the external auditors and also for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they The Nomination committee reviews the considers the scope of their work and fees paid continue to adopt the going concern basis for structure, size and composition including the for audit and non-audit services.
preparing the financial statements on pages skills, knowledge and experience of the board 48 to 99 of this annual report and accounts.
and, if appropriate, makes recommendations The Audit committee has unrestricted access for changes to the board.
In this respect, to Company documents and information, Report of the Nomination committee the committee has regard to the results of the as well as to employees of the Company and the Composition of the Nomination committee annual board evaluation.
The committee keeps external auditors.
Members of the committee The members of the Nomination committee who under review the leadership needs of the may, in pursuit of their duties, take independent held office during the year and at the date of this organisation, both executive and non-executive, professional advice on any matter at the report are: with a view to ensuring the continued ability Companys expense.
The committee chairman of the organisation to compete efficiently reports the outcome of meetings to the board.
Martin Adamson Chairman in the marketplace.
The committee makes Lord MacGregor recommendations regarding the membership Composition of the Audit committee Mike Alexander until January 2007 of the Audit committee in consultation with the The members of the Audit committee who held Tim Clarke Audit committee chairman.
office during the year and at the date of this Javier Ferrn from January 2007 report are: Lord Jay from January 2007 Activities The Nomination committee makes Peter Smith from February 2007: Executive directors may be invited to attend as recommendations to the board on succession appointed Chairman in appropriate.
for executive directors, the re-appointment of April 2007 any non-executive directors at the conclusion of Jeff Harris until April 2007: resigned The Nomination committee leads the process for their specified term of office, any matter relating as Chairman in April 2007 board appointments making recommendations to the continuation in office of any director at Lord MacGregor to the board.
any time and the appointment of any director Mike Alexander to executive or other office.
Tim Clarke The Chairman does not chair the Nomination Lord Jay from January 2007 committee when it is dealing with the External recruitment consultants Spencer Stuart, appointment of a successor to the chairmanship.
the global executive search firm, conducted Membership of the Audit committee In these circumstances the committee is chaired a thorough search and identified a number of is determined by the board, on the by a non-executive director elected by the high quality candidates in connection with the recommendation of the Nomination committee and in consultation with the committee remaining members.
The committee met three most recent non-executive director appointment.
chairman, from amongst the independent, times during the year.
non-executive directors of the Company.
The Nomination committee recommended Its terms of reference are set by the board Duties the appointment of Peter Smith to the board and are modelled closely on the provisions The Nomination committee is responsible for and he became a non-executive director on of the Combined Code.
identifying and nominating, for the approval of 28 February 2007. the board, candidates to fill board vacancies as and when they arise.
Before an appointment is Corporate website made, the committee evaluates the balance of The terms of reference of the Nomination skills, knowledge and experience on the board committee, which set out its role and the and, in the light of this evaluation, prepares a authority delegated to it by the board, are description of the role and capabilities required available for inspection at the Companys for a particular appointment.
registered office and can be viewed on the Companys website.
Candidates from a wide range of backgrounds are considered.
The Nomination committee The formal letters of appointment of nonnormally uses external advisors to facilitate executive directors are also available for searches for potential candidates.
inspection at the Companys registered office.
34 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Appointments are for a period of three years Overview of the actions taken by the To fulfil its responsibility regarding the after which they are subject to annual review, Audit committee to discharge its duties independence of the external auditors, extendable by additional three year periods so In order to fulfil its terms of reference, the Audit the Audit committee reviewed: long as members continue to be independent.
committee receives and reviews presentations The Audit committee is comprised of a and reports from the groups senior management, changes in external audit executives in the minimum of three independent non-executive consulting as necessary with the external audit plan for the current year: directors at any time and currently comprises auditors.
Two members constitute a report from the external auditors describing a quorum.
During the year, the Audit committee formally their arrangements to identify, report and reviewed draft interim and annual reports and manage any conflicts of interest: and The Audit committee structure requires the associated interim and preliminary year end inclusion of one financially qualified member results announcements.
These reviews the extent of non-audit services provided as recognised by the Consultative Committee considered: by the external auditors.
Currently the committee chairman fulfils this requirement.
the accounting principles, policies and To assess the effectiveness of the external All committee members are expected to be practices adopted in the groups financial auditors, the committee reviewed: financially literate.
statements and proposed changes to them: the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed The board expects Audit committee members significant accounting issues and areas of audit plan and variations from it: and to have an understanding of the following areas: judgement and complexity: reports highlighting the major issues that the principles of, and developments in, litigation and contingent liabilities affecting arose during the course of the audit.
financial reporting including the applicable the group: accounting standards and statements of To fulfil its responsibility for oversight of the recommended practice: potential tax contingencies and the groups external audit process, the Audit committee compliance with statutory tax obligations: and reviewed: key aspects of the Companys operations including corporate policies and the groups the annual financial statements for the the terms, areas of responsibility, associated internal control environment: groups pension funds.
duties and scope of the audit as set out in the external auditors engagement letter for matters which may influence the presentation The Audit committee is required to assist the the forthcoming year: of accounts and key figures: board to fulfil its responsibilities relating to the adequacy and effectiveness of the control the external auditors overall work plan for the principles of, and developments in, environment and the groups compliance with the forthcoming year: company law, sector-specific laws and other the Combined Code.
To fulfil these duties, the relevant corporate legislation: committee reviewed: the external auditors fee proposal: the role of internal and external auditing and the external auditors management letters the major issues that arose during the course risk management: and and audit highlights memoranda: of the audit and their resolution: the regulatory framework for the groups internal audit reports on key audit areas and key accounting and audit judgements: businesses.
significant control environment deficiencies: the levels of errors identified during the Meetings reports on the systems of internal financial audit: and The Audit committee meets at least three times controls and risk management: and each year and has an agenda linked to events recommendations made by the external in the groups financial calendar.
The committee reports on frauds perpetrated against the auditors in their management letters and invites the Group Finance Director, Group group.
the adequacy of managements response.
Financial Controller, Director of Financial Control and senior representatives of the external auditors The Audit committee is responsible for the The Audit committee has recommended to attend all of its meetings in full, although development, implementation and monitoring of to the board that the external auditors are it reserves the right to request any of these the groups policy on external audit.
Other senior managers policy on external audit sets out the categories are invited to present such reports as are required of non-audit services which the external auditors for the committee to discharge its duties.
will, and will not, be allowed to provide to the group, subject to fide minimis levels.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 35 Corporate governance continued Internal audit function The full terms of reference of the Audit High level controls The Audit committee is required to assist the committee are available on the Companys All operations prepare annual operating plans board to fulfil its responsibilities relating to website: www.
co. uk and budgets which are updated regularly.
the adequacy of the resourcing and plans Performance against budget is monitored at of internal audit.
To fulfil these duties, the Internal control operational level and centrally, with variances committee reviewed: The board acknowledges its responsibilities being reported promptly.
The cash position for the groups system of internal control at group and operational level is monitored internal audits terms of reference, reporting to facilitate the identification, assessment constantly and variances from expected levels lines and access to the committee and all and management of risk, the protection of are investigated thoroughly.
members of the board: shareholders investments and the groups assets.
The directors recognise that they Clearly defined guidelines have been established internal audits plans and its achievement are responsible for providing a return to for capital expenditure and investment of the planned activity: shareholders, which is consistent with the decisions.
These include the preparation of responsible assessment and mitigation of risks.
budgets, appraisal and review procedures and the results of key audits and other significant delegated authority levels.
findings, the adequacy of managements Effective controls ensure that the group is response and the timeliness of resolution: not exposed to avoidable risk, that proper Internal audit accounting records have been maintained and The groups businesses employ internal auditors statistics on staff numbers, qualifications and that the financial information used within the both employees and resources provided by experience and timeliness of reporting: business and for publication is reliable.
The Ernst & Young where appropriate with skills dynamics of the group and the environment and experience relevant to the operation of each the level and nature of non-audit activity within which it operates are continually evolving business.
All of the internal audit activities are performed by internal audit: and together with its exposure to risk.
The system is co-ordinated centrally by the groups Director designed to manage rather than eliminate the of Financial Control, who is accountable to the the changes since the last annual assessment risk of assets being unprotected and to guard Audit committee.
in the nature and extent of significant risks against their unauthorised use and the failure and the groups ability to respond to changes to achieve business objectives.
Internal controls All group businesses are required to comply with in its business and the external environment.
can only provide reasonable and not absolute the groups financial control framework that sets assurance against material misstatement or loss.
A key function The groups whistleblowing policy contains of the groups internal audit resources is to arrangements for the Company Secretary to The directors confirm that there is an ongoing undertake audits to ensure compliance with receive, in confidence, complaints on process for identifying, evaluating and managing the financial control framework and make accounting, risk issues, internal controls, the risks faced by the group and the operational recommendations for improvement in controls auditing issues and related matters for reporting effectiveness of the related controls, which has where appropriate.
Internal audit also conducts to the Audit committee as appropriate.
been in place for the year under review and up regular reviews to ensure that risk management to the date of approval of the annual report and procedures and controls are adhered to.
The The groups anti-fraud policy has been accounts.
They also confirm that they have Audit committee receives regular reports on communicated to all employees and states regularly reviewed the system of internal controls the results of internal audits work and monitors that all employees have a responsibility for utilising the review process set out below.
the status of recommendations arising.
The fraud prevention and detection.
Any suspicion committee reviews annually the adequacy, of fraud should be reported immediately and Standards qualifications and experience of the groups will be investigated vigorously.
There are guidelines on the minimum groupinternal audit resources and the nature and wide requirements for health and safety and scope of internal audit activity in the overall The Audit committee holds private meetings environmental standards.
There are also context of the groups risk management system with the external auditors after each committee guidelines on the minimum level of internal set out below.
The Director of Financial Control meeting, and with the Director of Financial control that each of the divisions should exercise meets with the chairman of the committee as Control as appropriate but at least annually, to over specified processes.
Each business has appropriate but at least annually, without the review key issues within their spheres of interest developed and documented policies and presence of executive management, and has and responsibility.
procedures to comply with the minimum control direct access to the Chairman of the board.
standards established, including procedures for The chairman of the Audit committee will be monitoring compliance and taking corrective Risk Management Review present at the annual general meeting to answer action.
The board of each business is required The Companys risk management process seeks questions on this report, matters within the to confirm annually that it has complied with to enable the early identification, evaluation and effective management of the key risks facing the scope of the committees responsibilities these policies and procedures.
businesses at operational level and to operate and any significant matters brought to the internal controls, which adequately mitigate committees attention by the external auditors.
The key risks and internal control procedures are reviewed by group personnel 36 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 together with internal audit activities.
Each Primark is a member of the Ethical Trading policies in line with the Companys Corporate business is responsible for regularly assessing Initiative, an alliance of companies, trade Citizenship principles and the requirements of its risk management activities to ensure good unions and non-profit organisations that aims their customers.
Compliance with group to promote respect for the rights of people in requirements is monitored six monthly, and factories and farms worldwide.
Competition rules these assessments are formally reviewed by is committed to monitoring and progressively The penalties for failing to comply with the group personnel at least annually.
The Audit improving the working conditions of the 1998 Competition Act, the 2003 Enterprise Act, committee receives reports on internal financial people that make its products.
relevant EU law and all relevant competition control issues from management and from legislation are recognised as risks to be the external auditors and regularly reports Primark currently has an extensive and managed within the group.
Clear policy to the board for the purposes of the boards independent audit programme active in all direction, which includes compulsory awareness annual review.
Unannounced audits training and close support from the in-house comprise a large percentage of the total, in an legal department, has reduced the likelihood The principal corporate risks as identified attempt to ensure that audits reflect the actual of the group breaching these regulations.
by each business and noted by the board situation within the factory and not the one the are currently: owner would like Primark to see.
Environment Primark will have visited all of its major The Company recognises the impact that its 1.
businesses have on the environment.
Therefore, The Company derives over 55% of its turnover as a minimum, it aims to comply with current from the production and sale of food and has Where issues are identified, suppliers are applicable legislation of the countries in which a positive role to play in contributing to the asked to commit to corrective actions and it operates and its operations are conducted quality of peoples lives by providing wholesome timescales for their implementation.
These with a view to ensuring that: and nutritious foods, food ingredients and suppliers continue to have Primarks full animal feedstuffs.
Sugar, tea, flour, bread, commercial support throughout the agreed emissions to air, releases to water and cereals, meat and dairy products are part of remediation period, and the suppliers are land filling of solid wastes do not cause peoples daily lives all over the world and the supported by Primarks own ethical trade unacceptable environmental impacts and Company plays an important part in making experts where additional guidance is required.
do not offend the community: sure these are produced efficiently and to a Primark has recruited managers based high quality.
in China and India Bangladesh to help to significant plant and process changes are progress the findings of the auditors more assessed and positively authorised in advance To manage food safety risks, the Companys thoroughly.
to prevent adverse environmental impacts: sites operate food safety systems which are regularly reviewed to ensure they remain Follow-up audits are conducted within a energy is used efficiently and consumption effective, including compliance with all three-month period of the initial audit and is monitored: regulatory requirements for hygiene and food progress is recorded.
Where progress is not safety.
The Companys food products are made forthcoming the senior buying directors are natural resources are used efficiently: to high standards regardless of where they are included in the process.
The group always puts food not be forthcoming, Primark will consider its raw material waste is minimised: safety before economic considerations.
future trading relationship with this supplier.
solid waste is reduced, reused or recycled 2.
Supply chain labour standards Twinings is a member of the Ethical Tea where practicable: Those businesses within the group with global Partnership which requires its suppliers and supply chains are at greater risk of controversy subcontractors to meet the International the amount of packaging used for group relating to breaches, by suppliers, of the Labour Organisation core labour standards, products is minimised, consistent with International Labour Organisation core labour respecting an observance of human rights requirements for food safety and product standards.
Since the group uses extensive global and fundamental freedoms without protection: supply chains, it takes all reasonable steps to discrimination as to race, sex, language mitigate the risk of damage to its reputation in the or religion.
products are transported efficiently to minimise fuel usage, consistent with customers case of any breaches by striving to ensure that demands, production arrangements and it does not buy from factories with poor working Illovo operates a comprehensive set of policies vehicle fleet operations: conditions.
Examples of such steps include: and standards to cover all aspects of its operation, including supply chain labour accidents are prevented so far as is Primark requires all the factories that standards.
Performance is measured on a reasonably practical: and manufacture its clothes to sign up to its regular basis by means of self-assessments Supplier Code of Conduct which lays out strict and audits by independent consultants.
effective emergency response procedures guidelines on working conditions.
Primarks are in place to minimise the impact of buyers visit all factories before they start Many businesses within the group do not rely foreseeable incidents.
working with them and will not buy from upon third parties to source their products.
factories with obviously poor conditions.
However, those that do have ethical sourcing Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 37 Corporate governance continued The Company gives particular attention to The Company employs Environmental Resources The Company employs ERM to audit a recently acquired businesses, to ensure they Management Ltd ERM to continue its rolling representative sample of its operations to operate in accordance with the standards programme of audits of the management of understand how companies manage their risks expected of the groups businesses.
environmental risks at a representative range of and to verify the data.
Companies are required group companies.
The sites audited are selected to develop action plans as appropriate and The principal environmental risk is the use of on the basis of materiality with regard to the progress is monitored by the group health and energy and the resultant emissions of carbon range of issues as well as the contribution to safety manager.
dioxide, a gas involved in climate change.
The the health, safety and environment performance efficient use of energy is a major element of our of the group as a whole.
ERM also carry out The Company publishes detailed information of environmental policy.
Indeed, all sites which a sample data verification process on the groups its health and safety performance in a separate are subject to the EUs Pollution Prevention data to check completeness and accuracy.
Each report on its website: www.
asp and Control regime are also under a statutory year the board reviews the verified results and requirement to minimise energy consumption provides strategic direction.
Financial and commodity risks by use of best available techniques.
required to develop action plans as appropriate Treasury operations are conducted within a and progress is monitored by the group health framework of board-approved policies and The Companys manufacturing operations and safety manager.
guidelines to manage the groups financial and in the UK participate in the UK Governments commodity risks.
Financial risks essentially arise Climate Change Agreement Scheme.
The sugar The Company publishes details of its through exposure to foreign currencies, interest sites in the UK and Poland participate in the environmental performance in a separate report rates, counterparty credit and borrowing EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
These schemes on its website: www.
Commodity risks arise from the allow the sites to reduce energy consumption procurement of raw materials and the exposure and therefore reduce emissions of carbon 5.
Health and safety to changes in market prices.
The Company is committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace in line with local regulations Foreign currency risk In addition to the consumption of energy to protect all employees, visitors and the public The group publishes its financial statements the Company generates surplus electricity from insofar as they come into contact with foreseeable in sterling and conducts business in many highly efficient Combined Heat and Power CHP work hazards.
The Company considers health foreign currencies.
As a result, it is exposed to schemes and sells this electricity to other and safety as equal in importance to that of any movements in foreign currency exchange rates companies.
All UK CHP schemes participate other function of the Company and its business which affect the groups transaction costs and in the UK Governments CHP quality assurance objectives.
It requires its businesses to build the translation of the results and underlying net scheme and qualify for a full exemption from a culture of sustained improvement.
assets of its foreign operations into sterling.
the UKs Climate Change Levy.
Peoples health and safety at work is a prime Translation exposure Carbon dioxide is emitted both directly from responsibility for all those who manage and The group does not hedge the translation the combustion of fossil fuels at the Companys supervise.
All employees and those working on impact of exchange rate movements on the sites to create steam, heat and electricity, and behalf of the Company have a responsibility for income statement.
A partial hedge of the indirectly by the power stations from which the the health and safety of themselves and others balance sheet translation exposure is provided Company buys its electricity.
The use of bagasse who may be affected by their actions.
The by borrowing in the currencies of some of sugar cane fibre, which is a renewable resource Company ensures that they are well informed, the groups overseas assets, as well as the and hence carbon neutral as a fuel in the cane appropriately trained and are consulted on designation of certain intercompany borrowings factories eliminates the need to use coal and matters affecting their health and safety.
other fossil fuels to provide energy to our boilers.
The principal health and safety risks relate to Transaction exposure Other significant environmental risks include the potential for serious injuries, fatal accidents The groups main transaction exposures are: handling and disposal of waste and the and regulatory action for non-compliance with treatment of waste water.
sugar prices in British Sugar UK and Poland to movements in the sterling euro and Polish The principal legal risk is regulatory action As with environmental risks, all the groups zloty euro exchange rates respectively: against the Company for non-compliance with businesses have named accountable senior licence conditions and statutory requirements.
executives who employ specialists to manage sugar prices in Illovo to movements in the these risks, which form part of their annual South African rand US dollar euro exchange All the groups businesses have named objectives.
rates: and accountable senior executives and responsible managers and the management of the physical sourcing for Primark costs are denominated and legal risks, for which they employ specialists, in a number of currencies, predominantly is included in their annual objectives.
sterling, euros and US dollars.
38 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Elsewhere, a number of businesses purchase Credit risk raw materials in foreign currencies but, in all Our businesses are exposed to counterparty material respects, they operate in their local credit risk when dealing with customers, and currency and, as a result, transaction exposure from certain financing activities.
Credit to exchange rate movements is modest.
evaluations are performed on all customers requiring significant credit and outstanding debts The group uses derivative financial instruments are continuously monitored by each business.
to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign Aggregate exposures are monitored at group exchange on its trade receivables and trade level and, where appropriate, limits are set for payables that are exposed to movement in higher risk counterparties.
credit risk are limited as a result of the groups large and diverse customer base.
The group does not seek fair value hedge accounting for transaction hedges but marks Banking relationships are generally limited them to market with the resulting changes in to those banks that are members of the core fair value taken through the income statement.
These banks are selected for their credit status, global reach and their ability The group hedges forecast foreign currency to meet the businesses day-to-day banking exposures in respect of a significant proportion requirements.
The credit ratings of these of its future sales and purchases on a rolling institutions are monitored on a continuous basis.
The group classifies its forward foreign exchange contracts, used to hedge Liquidity risk forecast transactions, as cash flow hedges and The group has committed bank facilities states them at their fair value.
available to meet its long-term capital and funding obligations and to meet any unforeseen Significant foreign currency transactions are obligations and opportunities.
generally covered through forward foreign currency sale or purchase contracts, the 7.
Taxation risks majority of which have maturities of less than Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is one year.
probable that the position taken is sustainable.
Management reviews each material tax benefit Interest rate risk to assess whether a provision should be taken Interest rate risk comprises the interest price against full recognition of the benefit on the risk that results from borrowing at fixed rates basis of potential settlement through negotiation and the interest cash flow risk that results from and or litigation.
Any interest and penalties on borrowing at floating rates.
The groups policy tax liabilities are provided for in the tax charge.
is generally to maintain floating rate debt for the majority of its bank finance although interest rate The group operates internationally and is subject swaps are entered into in more volatile markets.
to tax in many different jurisdictions.
As a consequence, the group is routinely subject Commodity price risk to tax audit and local enquiries which, by their The group purchases commodities including very nature, can take a considerable period to wheat, oils, cocoa, tea and energy in the conclude.
Provision is made for known issues ordinary course of its business.
Exposure based on managements interpretation of to changes in the market price of such country specific tax law and the likely outcome.
commodities is managed through the use of hedging instruments including futures and 8.
Loss of a major site options contracts.
The use of such contracts The group operates from many key sites the is tightly controlled within set limits.
loss of which, for example as a result of fire, would present significant operational difficulties.
Our operations have business continuity plans in place to manage the impact of such an event and group insurance programmes to mitigate the financial consequences.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 39
