ACCOUNTABILITY, AUDITAND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK Risk Management and Internal Control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These systems which have been in place for 2007 and to the date of approval of the report and accounts involve: the identification, evaluation and management of key risks through a Risk Committee, which reports to the Board annually: business reviews by the Board of each of the business units: and the review by the Audit Committee of internal controls over financial reporting and the risk management process.
These systems are reviewed annually by the Board.
Whilst not providing absolute assurance against material misstatements or loss, these systems are designed to identify and manage those risks that could adversely impactthe achievementof the Groups objectives.
Risk Committee The Risk Committee is comprised of the executive directors and the executive officers ofthe Groupandischaired by the Chief Executive.
As an integral part of planning and review, management at each of the business units identify the risks involved in their business, the probability of those risks occurring, the impact if they do occur and the actions being taken to manage and mitigate those risks.
Areas of potential major impact are reported to the RiskCommittee forreviewat its meetings, whichare held twicea year.
The annual Group Risk Report of the Risk Committee to the Board details all principal risks categorised by potential financial impact on profit and share price.
The most significant Group risks are reported to the Board quarterly, which include new key or significantly increased risks along with actions put in place to mitigate such risks.
Theprincipalrisksare detailed inRisk Factors to be foundonpages 22 to26.
In 2007 the effectiveness of the business units systems to identify and manage material risk were evaluated and the findingsreported to the Board.
Nomaterial weaknesses were identified inthese systems.
Managements Report on Internal Control overFinancial Reporting Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined inRule 13a-15 f and 15d-15 f underthe SecuritiesExchange Act of 1934.
Because of inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or .
In accordance with the requirement in the US under s404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act management assessed the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over financial reporting as at 31 December 2007.
In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control-Integrated Framework.
The assessment excluded the internal controls over financial reporting relating to entities acquired as part of the Plus acquisition the Plus entities because they were acquired on 31 May 2007 as described in Note 32 of the Notes to the Accounts.
As of, and for the year-ended, 31 December 2007, the Plus entities represented 8%, 13%, 6% and 17% loss of the Groups consolidatedtotal assets, net assets, total revenues and attributable profit respectively.
Based on its assessment, management has concluded and hereby reports that, as at 31 December 2007, the  effective based onthose criteria.
Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an audit report on the Groups  of 31 December2007.
There has been no change in the Groups internal control over financial reporting during the period covered by this Annual Report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Groups internal .
DisclosuresCommittee and Evaluation of  Procedures The Disclosures Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and comprises the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Director of Corporate Affairs.
The secretary is the Company Secretary.
The Committee approves the releases of all major communications to investors, to the UK Listing Authority and the London and New York stock exchanges.
57 Corporate Governance The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer have evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at 31 December 2007.
Based upon, andas ofthe date of, that evaluation, the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures wereeffective.
Codesof BusinessPrinciples The Codes of Business Principles, which include a whistleblowing policy are available at www.
com sustainability2007 and are available on request, apply to all directors, officers and employees.
Any breaches of the Codes are reported to the Company Secretary who is obliged to raise the issue with the Chief Executive or Chairman and the Audit Committee.
During 2007 and up until 12 March 2008 no waivers have been put inplace noranyamendments made to the Codes.
Code of Ethicsfor SeniorFinancial Officers The Board of Directors has adopted a Code of Ethics for senior financial officers, which is available at www.
com sustainability2007 and is available on request.
It applies to the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller and the Groups senior financial officers.
There have been no waivers to any of the Codes provisions nor any amendments made to the Code during2007 or up until 12March 2008.
Activitiesof the Audit Committee for 2007 TheAudit Committees remit, whichis set outinits terms of reference, : monitoring the integrity of the Groups accounts, ensuring that they meet statutory and associated legal and   containedinthem:  the Groups financialperformance: monitoringand reviewingthe effectiveness of the Groups internalaudit function: recommending for shareholder approval, the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditors, as appropriate: approvingthe remunerationand terms of engagement of the external auditors: monitoringand reviewingthe external  the effectiveness ofthe auditprocess: pre-approval of the external auditorsto supply non-auditservices: monitoring the effectiveness of internal financial controls and reviewing compliance with s404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002: reviewingthe operationof the riskmanagement process: and reviewing arrangements by which staff may raise complaints against the Group regarding financial reporting orothermatters.
TheGrouphas : the conduct of non-audit work by the external auditors which prohibits the auditors from performing services which would result in the auditing of their own work, participating in activities normally undertaken by management, acting as advocate for the Group and creating a mutuality of interest between the auditors and the Group, for example being remunerated through a success fee structure.
Each year, the Audit Committee pre-approves the budget for fees relating to audit and non-audit work, including taxation services, in accordance with a listing of particular services.
In the event that limits for these services are expected to be exceeded or the Group wants the external auditors to perform services that have not been pre-approved, approval by the Chairman of the Audit Committee is required, together with a notification to the Audit Committee of the service and the fees involved.
All services provided by the independent auditors duringthe year were pre-approved by the Audit Committee: and audit partner rotation, which is in accordance with the Auditing Practices Board Ethical Standards in the UK and the SEC rules in the US.
Partners and senior audit staff may not be recruited by the Group unless two years has expired  Group.
The Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and other members of management attend the meetings when necessary and the external auditors have unrestricted access to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee meets without management in attendance, when appropriate, and meets with the auditors, without management present, fromtime to time.
58  of the Audit Committee duringthe year ended 31 December2007included: considerationof the quarterly, interimand preliminaryresults and the annualaccounts: considerationof the Groups compliancewiths404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002: a reviewof the Groups approachto , its processes, : a review of the Internal Review departments activities for the year, together with its resource requirements andfindings: a reviewof : a review of the reports from the auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, on their professional and regulatory compliance  objectivity, includingthe rotationofpartners: a reviewof the audit, audit-related, tax and otherservices provided by Ernst & YoungLLP: review and the pre-approval of all services provided by the auditors during the year including all non-audit work performed by the auditors together with associated fees, to ensure that the objectivity and independence of Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the Group was not compromised.
Ernst & Young LLP only  of accountingand tax related matters: consideration of Ernst & Young LLPs in-depth reports to the Committee on the scope and outcome of the annual audit and managements response.
Their reports included accounting matters, governance and controland : a review of the effectiveness of the performance of Ernst & Young LLP effected by the completion of a questionnaireby the unitsaudited withinthe Groupand by the members ofthe Committee: recommendingthe re-appointmentof Ernst & YoungLLPas the Groups auditors: confirmation that no concerns were raised with the Committee about possible improprieties in matters of : reviewing the Committees terms of reference to ensure they reflect developments in corporate governance inthe UK and the US: considerationof the Groups riskmanagement process: and an evaluation of its own performance during the year, effected by means of a questionnaire and individual discussions.
The Committee may obtain legal and other independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, as it deems necessary.
Duringthe year, nosuchadvice was soughtby the Committee.
Auditrelated fees in 2006 principally included accounting consultation in relation to International Financial Reporting Standards and advice regarding compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley.
Tax fees include tax compliance, tax advice and tax planningservices.
In 2007 otherfees related to the acquisitioncosts forPlus.
In2006these related tothe bid costs for Biomet Inc. A more detailed breakdown of audit fees may be found in Note 38 of the Notes to the GroupAccounts.
59 Corporate Governance Disclosureof Information to the Auditors In accordance with s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985, the directors serving at the time of approving the Directors Report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, are unaware and the directors also confirm that they have taken reasonable steps to be aware of any relevant audit informationand, accordingly, to establish that the auditors are aware ofsuchinformation.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue as auditors and resolutions proposing their reappointment and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration, which have been approved by the Audit Committee, willbe proposed at the AGM.
