CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company is committed to the principles of corporate be considered independent.
Consideration was additionally given governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate to the results of individual evaluation and continued satisfactory Governance that was issued in 2006 by the Financial Reporting performance.
Particular scrutiny was applied in assessing the Council the Combined Code or the Code for which the Board continued independence of Mr Peter Kingston, Mr John Norton, is accountable to shareholders.
The Group has applied the and Mr John Snyder, each having served on the Board since 1997, principles set out in Section 1 of the Code, as described below and Mr Olivier Barbaroux, having served since 1999.
Each of these and, in connection with Directors remuneration, in the Directors Directors continues to express their individual viewpoints, debate Remuneration Report.
issues and objectively scrutinise and challenge management.
Each seeks clarification and amplification as deemed required, stateMent of coMPliance with the including through direct access to the Groups employees and coMbined code external advisors.
After careful consideration of the relevant factors, Throughout the year ended 31 December 2007, the Company has the Board has determined that the tenure of these Directors has complied with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined not affected their independence or their ability to bring judgement Code.
to bear in the discharge of their duties as Board and Committee members.
The Board has additionally determined that the board coMPosition and indePendence designation of Mr Peter Kingston as Senior Independent The Board of Directors, whose names and biographical details are Director and Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration set out on pages 30 to 31, comprises nine Directors in addition to Committees remains appropriate.
Five of these nine, including the Senior Independent Director, have been identified in the Directors Report on page The Board has determined that each of these Directors, in addition 32 as independent Non-Executive Directors in accordance with to Mr Martin Roberts, is independent in character and judgement the Boards responsibility for determining whether a Director is and free from any relationships or circumstances which are independent in character and judgement.
Notwithstanding this, likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
The the Board is satisfied that each of the Companys Directors strictly Board considers that the varied and relevant experience of these abides by their legal and ethical duties owed to the Company to independent Directors combines to provide an exceptional balance act objectively and in the best interests of the Company and its of skills and experience required for the business.
reaPPointMent and refreshinG of the board The Board assesses the independence of each Non-Executive Directors are subject to reappointment at least every three years.
Director at least annually, giving full consideration to those Reappointment is recommended in consideration of the results circumstances that the Code states may appear relevant.
In of individual evaluation and demonstrated continued satisfactory considering tenure exceeding nine years, the Board recognises that performance, commitment and effectiveness.
Consideration is an individuals independence cannot be determined arbitrarily on additionally given to the balance of the Boards composition and the basis of a set period of time.
The Company manages a portfolio the need for refreshment.
A Non-Executive Director term of long term, complex projects and benefits from long serving exceeding six years is subject to particularly rigorous review, Directors with detailed knowledge of the Companys operations and a term exceeding nine years is subject to annual and with the proven commitment, experience and competence reappointment.
to effectively advise and oversee the Companys management on behalf of shareholders.
The Company does not impose fixed term The Board embraces the underlying principles of Code provisions limits as this would assure a loss of experience and knowledge regarding tenure and refreshing of the Board, and seeks to strike without assurance of increased independence.
However, particular an appropriate balance between continuity of experience and scrutiny is applied in assessing the continued independence of succession.
The Company undertakes projects requiring long Directors having served over nine years, with attention to ensuring term cycles from licence negotiation to first production.
Its Vietnam their allegiance remains clearly aligned with shareholders.
programme is of major significance to the Company, with first production targeted in mid-2008.
The current Non-Executive In conducting its current assessment the Board has considered Directors comprise an appropriate balance of skills and experience.
whether each Director continues to exhibit those qualities and Additionally, they have acquired, over a number of years, a sound behaviours it considers essential for Non-Executive Directors to and detailed knowledge of the Companys business and are 36 36 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE uniquely qualified to contribute to the Companys leadership at this responsibility is for leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
Although their combined tenure requires particular The Chief Executive is responsible for leading the executives scrutiny under the Code, after assessment the continuity of their and ensuring their effectiveness in the running of the Companys experience is considered to outweigh the potential benefits of business.
Their division of responsibilities is set by the Board.
The Company has planned for a phased Together they are responsible for promoting the highest standards succession to allow for both refreshment and a rebalance of the of integrity and probity.
skills required on the Board as it enters the production phase in Vietnam.
Steps to implement this phased succession will be Executive Directors are responsible for implementing the initiated in the course of the upcoming year, and resulting Board Boards agreed strategy through the development of an appointments will be placed before shareholders for approval at the appropriate business plan and for executing actions approved 2009 and subsequent AGMs.
by the Board in accordance with relevant authorities.
The NonExecutive Directors contribute to the development of strategic board structure and Process proposals through constructive probing based on review and The Board has four scheduled meetings a year and holds analysis that brings to bear the unique skills and knowledge additional meetings as necessary.
The Board determines the each brings to the Board.
Companys business strategy and provides the entrepreneurial leadership required to ensure its strategic aims can be achieved.
The Executive Directors provide the leadership of the senior The Board operates within a formal framework of decision managers in the day to day running of the Groups business and making designed to reserve matters of establishing the strategy, manage the Groups risk programmes including the environmental, business plan and nature or scope of the Companys business to health and safety performance of the business.
They must ensure the Board.
Under this framework, authority for implementing the the Company has adequate financial and human resources strategy and decisions taken by the Board is largely delegated to meet its objectives.
They are responsible for reporting the to the Executive Directors and management within a system of performance and strategic direction of the Group to the Board internal controls designed to enable the risks of the Group to and for providing accurate, timely and clear information to enable be managed effectively.
Additionally, the Board has established the Board to take sound decisions.
The Non-Executive Directors clear expectations for the Companys economic, social and review managements performance and ensure that the systems environmental conduct to promote the highest level of integrity in place provide adequate and effective financial, operational and and honesty in meeting its obligations to its stakeholders.
compliance controls and risk management.
They must be satisfied that they have sufficient information for the discharge of their duties, SOCOs Board membership comprises a broad range of skills, which may be achieved through dialogue with management, knowledge and experience, which is critical to the success of training where appropriate to update their knowledge or skills the Company.
The Board functions as a unitary body, within and consultation with independent professional advisors which Directors assume certain roles to ensure the Board as required.
as a whole fulfils its responsibilities.
These roles, including Committee memberships, are designed to maximise the effective The Company Secretary, who is appointed by the Board, is contribution of each of the Non-Executive Directors to the Board, responsible for facilitating the communications and processes its Committees and to the Executive Directors, while ensuring an of the Board, both within the Board and its committees and appropriate balance is maintained.
The composition of the Board with management, in compliance with Board procedures and and its committees is in accordance with Code guidelines.
The Secretary facilitates an induction Director serves on more than two committees.
At least annually, programme on appointment that is tailored to a new Directors the Non-Executive Directors meet without the Executives present individual qualifications and experience.
The Secretary provides and, led by the Senior Independent Director, meet without the advice and service as may be required in the ongoing discharge Chairman present.
Such meetings are conducted in the spirit of of the Directors duties, including ensuring that the Company good governance and process, and are intended to ensure a provides the necessary resources for access to independent forum for open dialogue without disruption of Board unity.
advice and individual professional development needs.
Additionally, briefing sessions are provided in the course of regular Board The Chairman and the Chief Executive collectively are responsible meetings and Committee meetings on relevant issues as for the leadership of the Company.
The Chairmans primary deemed appropriate.
soco international plc 36 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 37 Corporate Governance continued The table below sets out the attendance of Directors at scheduled Board meetings and attendance of members at meetings of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee No.
Attended R fide Sousa P Kingston O Barbaroux R Cagle R Cathery E Contini J Norton M Roberts J Snyder E Story coMMittees whom are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The names and The Board has established three Committees, as described below, qualifications of each of the members are set out on pages 30 each having formal terms of reference TOR approved by the to 31.
The Board is satisfied that the collective experience of the Board which set out its delegated role and authority.
The TORs, members includes relevant and recent financial experience and which are available for inspection, are set in consideration of the provides the complement of skills required for the Committee provisions of the Combined Code and are reviewed from time to to discharge its functions effectively.
In particular, Mr Norton is time in the context of evolving guidance.
Each Directors specific a Chartered Accountant and former member of the Oil Industry Committee memberships, including as Chairmen, are set out on Accounting Committee.
The Committee meets at least three pages 30 to 31.
Whilst only Committee members are entitled to times a year.
The Chief Financial Officer and a representative attend meetings, other Directors are invited to attend from time to of the external auditors are normally invited to attend meetings.
time to ensure the Committees responsibilities are undertaken with Other Directors are invited to attend as determined appropriate access to the Boards full breadth of knowledge and experience.
At least once a year the Committee meets with the The Company Secretary ensures that the Company additionally external auditors without executive Board members present.
provides such resources as the Committees require in the discharge of their duties.
The Committees primary responsibilities include reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys and the Groups systems of the reMuneration coMMittee internal control, overseeing the selection of and relationship with The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr Peter Kingston, external auditors and the review and monitoring of the integrity of the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, and additionally financial statements.
The Committee is responsible for review of comprises Mr Olivier Barbaroux and Mr Martin Roberts, both of the Groups major financial, operational and corporate responsibility whom are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The names and risk management processes.
The effectiveness of these processes qualifications of each of the members are set out on pages 30 to is monitored on a continuous basis and a formal assessment is 31.
The Committee is responsible for recommending for approval conducted at least annually.
The Committee has been delegated by the full Board the remuneration of the Chairman, the Executive the responsibility for advising the full Board on compliance with the Directors and officers of the Company and Group.
During 2007, the Combined Code, including its internal control requirements, as well Committee conducted a review of its TOR and of the effectiveness as compliance with evolving guidance on corporate governance of its own performance.
Details of the Committees policies and issues generally.
objectives are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 49.
The Committee held three meetings in 2007 and has conducted one meeting to date in 2008, all of which were attended by the audit coMMittee rePort executive management and external auditors.
A private session, The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Peter Kingston, the without executives present, was held during three of these Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, and additionally meetings.
Additionally, a number of other informal meetings and comprises Mr John Norton and Mr Martin Roberts, both of communications took place between the Chairman, various 38 38 Governance Committee members, external auditors and the Companys the noMinations coMMittee rePort executives and employees.
The Committee reviewed and approved The Nominations Committee is chaired by Mr Rui fide Sousa, the the terms and scope of the audit engagement, the audit plan and Non-Executive Chairman of the Company.
It additionally comprises the results of the audit with the external auditors, including the Mr Ed Story, the Chief Executive Officer, and Mr Olivier Barbaroux, scope of services associated with audit related regulatory reporting Mr John Norton and Mr John Snyder, who are independent services.
An assessment of the effectiveness of the audit process Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee meets at least once a was made, giving consideration to reports from the auditors on year.
Its primary responsibilities include making recommendations their internal quality procedures.
Additionally, auditor independence to the Board regarding the appointment and reappointment of and objectivity was assessed, giving consideration to the auditors Directors and Committee memberships.
It is responsible for review confirmation that their independence is not impaired.
and recommendations regarding overall Board structure and composition, succession planning and establishing an ongoing The Remuneration Committee, with approval of the Audit process for evaluating the Board and its members.
Committee, has independently appointed the Companys auditors as advisors.
The advisors terms of reference restrict the provision The Committee held two meetings in 2007 and has conducted of certain services in order to maintain auditor independence, and one meeting to date in 2008.
Other Non-Executive Directors the scope and value of services to the Group is under continuous were in attendance at a portion of these meetings by invitation.
Accordingly, any proposed non-audit service is submitted Certain Committee functions were delegated to a Sub-Committee, for Audit Committee review on a case by case basis, rather than which acted on behalf of the Committee after an appropriate by reference to preallowed or disallowed services, and regardless dialogue among Committee members to ensure a consensus of size or scope.
The Committee approved the non-audit services of views.
Additionally, a number of other informal meetings and provided by the external auditor in 2007, having concluded communications took place between the Chairman, various such services were compatible with auditor independence and Committee members and the Companys executives and were consistent with relevant ethical guidance.
services are set out in Note 9 to the financial statements.
The Board concurred with the Committees recommendation for During the year the Committee reviewed Board structure, size the reappointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Companys and composition, including a profile of the skills, knowledge and auditors for 2008. experience represented on the Board, which was utilised to facilitate the Boards review of Director independence, including The Committee has reviewed, and is satisfied with, the Companys tenure in particular.
The Committee made recommendations to the arrangements whereby staff may raise concerns regarding Board concerning plans for succession which were developed in improprieties in confidence, which would be addressed with consideration of the need for refreshment while taking into account appropriate follow-up action.
On behalf of the Board, the the skills and experience needed on the Board to meet the specific Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys challenges and opportunities facing the Company.
The results of internal controls and risk management systems, including these reviews were in turn utilised in developing the Committees consideration of an internal audit function, which is more fully recommendations for continuation in office and reappointment of described in the Internal Control section of this report.
Committee has reviewed and approved the related compliance statements set out therein.
The Committee has additionally The Committee has a process in place for identifying and nominating reviewed and approved the statements regarding compliance with candidates to fill vacancies which may arise from time to time, the Combined Code.
including ensuring Board membership is sufficiently refreshed and retains an appropriate balance of skills and experience.
The Committee reviewed and discussed with management and The Committee develops an appropriate description of the role, the auditors the Companys relevant financial information prior to estimated time commitment and the capabilities which would recommendation for Board approval.
This included in particular complement the composition of the Board and its Committees.
the financial statements and other material information presented The Committee would expect to utilise an independent external in the annual and interim reports.
The Committee considered advisor to facilitate any search.
A diverse list of candidates is the significant financial reporting issues, accounting policies and compiled and a rigorous review process undertaken, involving judgements impacting the financial statements, and the clarity of other Board members as deemed appropriate.
The Committee conducted a review of its TOR and of recommendations are submitted for full Board approval.
The the effectiveness of its own performance.
Company Secretary facilitates induction upon appointment.
soco international plc 38 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 39 Corporate Governance continued The Committee led the Board in evaluating its own performance to shareholders and the general public and to actively solicit and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
The Company feedback as to the effectiveness of such efforts.
Additionally, the Secretary facilitated compilation of the results.
The Senior Company maintains an ongoing, active dialogue with institutional Independent Director facilitated relevant discussions regarding the shareholders, specifically and proactively seeking opportunities for role of the Chairman.
The process was undertaken for the purpose face-to-face meetings at least twice a year, coincident with midof adding value to the quality of the Board and its procedures term and full year results, between fund managers and Company through identifying and addressing strengths and weaknesses.
Additionally, it was utilised to assess Director effectiveness and the time commitments of Non-Executive Directors.
Actions Brokers reports are discussed at scheduled Board meetings and for improvement were undertaken as deemed appropriate.
public relations and analysts reports are distributed to the full Board.
The Committee performed a review of its TOR and of its own A Non-Executive Director maintains regular communications with performance as part of this process.
SOCOs major institutional shareholders, reports feedback directly to the Board and advises the Board when additional communication After giving consideration to Board structure and composition, from the Chairman, Senior Independent or other Non-Executive evaluations, time commitments, length of service, individual Directors has been requested.
The Chairman regularly interfaces with contributions and the requirements of the Board, the Committee other principal shareholders.
The Board considers whether additional recommended that each of the retiring Directors be proposed by communication may be appropriate or desirable.
In particular, the the Board for reappointment at the forthcoming AGM.
Additional delegated role of the Senior Independent Director includes being detail regarding the Board process in making this determination is available to shareholders if they have concerns which cannot be fully or set out within this report on pages 36 to 38. appropriately addressed by the Chairman or the Executive Directors.
relations with shareholders internal control The Executive Directors are responsible for ensuring effective The Directors are responsible for establishing, maintaining and communication is maintained with key stakeholders and partners, reviewing the effectiveness of a sound system of internal control including establishing an appropriate level of contact with major which is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the shareholders and ensuring that their views are communicated to reliability of financial information and to safeguard the shareholders the Board.
The Non-Executive Directors are responsible for taking investment and the assets of the Company and Group.
Given the sufficient steps to understand these views, including any issues inherent limitations in any system of internal control, even a sound or concerns.
system can only provide reasonable assurance, and not absolute assurance, that the Company will not be hindered in achieving its SOCO maintains an open and active dialogue with shareholders.
business objectives or be protected against material misstatement The Company maintains an internet website wherein important or loss.
information can be posted and disseminated promptly to a wide audience and through which shareholders can electronically interface The Board has put in place formally defined lines of responsibility with executive management.
At a minimum, the Company provides and delegation of authority and has delegated to executive three personal communication forums annually the AGM, the management the implementation of material internal control presentation of Annual Results and the presentation of Interim Results systems.
Documented policies and procedures are in place for whereby shareholders can directly interface with Company executive key systems and processes and the authority of the Directors is management.
Notice of the AGM is circulated to all shareholders at required for key matters.
least 21 clear days prior to the meeting, and resolutions are proposed for each substantially separate issue.
The result of proxy voting is A comprehensive budgeting process is in place for all items of announced after votes are taken on a show of hands.
Directors are expenditure and an annual budget is approved by the Board.
available to answer shareholder questions and, in particular, the Actual results are reported against budget on a regular basis.
Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees Revised forecasts for the year and longer term financial projections are in attendance to respond to any specific queries.
are produced regularly throughout the year.
The Company has assigned a senior executive the responsibility The Board has the primary responsibility for identifying the major for investor relations and has employed an outside agency, business risks facing the Company and Group and developing both to provide assistance in the dissemination of information appropriate policies to manage those risks.
The risk management 40 40 Governance approach is used to focus attention on the Groups most significant directors resPonsibilities areas of risk and to determine key control objectives.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements, including a Directors Report The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the Combined Code, and Directors Remuneration Report in compliance with the by establishing a continuous process, which has been in place requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Financial statements are throughout the year to the date of this report and which is in prepared in accordance with IFRS both for the Group, as required, accordance with Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors and for the Company, by election.
Company law requires the on the Combined Code published in October 2005, for identifying, Directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces.
The IFRS, the Companies Act 1985, and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Board regularly reviews the process, which is constantly evolving to meet the demands of a dynamic environment.
IFRS requires that financial statements for each financial year fairly present the financial position, financial performance and cash flows In compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code, of the Group.
The Directors are required to faithfully represent the the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, management, is regularly reviewed by the Directors.
The review income and expenses in accordance with the relevant framework is based principally on discussions with management and on set out by the IAS Board.
The Directors are also required to: reviewing reports provided by management to consider whether properly select and apply accounting policies: present information significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and but also may include independent interaction with employees or understandable information: and provide additional disclosures third parties.
The Board considers whether appropriate actions are when compliance with IFRS requirements is insufficient to enable taken promptly to correct any significant weaknesses identified, the user to fully understand the impacts on the entitys financial and if more extensive monitoring may be required.
The Board position and financial performance.
confirms that such actions as deemed necessary and appropriate have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or The Directors are required to prepare financial statements on the weaknesses identified in its review.
The Board seeks to ensure that going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that internal control and risk management processes, including dealing the Group will continue in business.
After making enquiries, the with any identified areas of improvement, are embedded within Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the business.
Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they have adopted the The Board has performed a specific assessment for the purpose going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The of this Annual Report and Accounts, which considers all significant Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, aspects of internal control arising during the period, and is which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial satisfied with the process employed and the results thereof.
The position of the Company and Group.
They are also responsible for Audit Committee spearheads the Board in discharging its review safeguarding the assets of the Company and Group and hence responsibilities.
Audit Committee membership comprises highly for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of experienced professionals with complementary areas of expertise fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the in the oil and gas sector and each Committee member makes an maintenance and integrity of the Company website.
important contribution to the assurance process.
Mr Peter Kingston, Mr John Norton and Mr Martin Roberts undertake specific review auditors resPonsibilities processes in the areas of technical and operating, financial and The auditors responsibilities are set out in the Independent audit, and commercial and legal, respectively, and report the results Auditors Report on page 50. of their work to the full Committee and to the Board.
Although the Company does not currently have an internal audit function, the Directors review at least annually the need to establish such a function.
The Companys current staff size limits the ability to form an effective internal audit function and, accordingly, the Company expects to outsource any internal audit requirements.
soco international plc 40 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 41
