Corporate Governance The Board supports the principles of corporate governance set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Standards Council in July 2003 the Combined Code.
This statement describes how the principles of the Combined Code have been applied to the Group in the current financial year.
The Board The Board currently comprises three Non-Executive and three Executive Directors, in addition to the Non-Executive Chairman.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are clearly defined, approved by the Board and separate.
The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board in determining the Groups strategy, achieving its objectives and organising the business of the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the executive management of the Groups operations and day-to-day activities.
The Board is responsible for setting the Groups strategy, assessing and managing risk and monitoring the financial performance of the Group.
To assist in the effective running of the Board a comprehensive set of documents, including financial performance, operational issues, reports on developments and acquisitions and compliance matters is provided to the Board on a timely basis.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval: these matters include approval of the annual strategic plan and budgets and the review of overall corporate governance arrangements.
During the year the Board adopted a Code of Ethics for Board members.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring Board procedures are complied with.
On 4 April 2007, Joseph Baratta, who was the nominee director of the Blackstone shareholders, resigned as a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
This resignation followed the sale of Blackstones holding in the Company.
Mr Baratta was not regarded as independent for the purposes of the Combined Code: however following his resignation the Company became fully compliant with the requirement of the Combined Code that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, be comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors.
On 4 October 2007, the Company announced that Philip Scott had tendered his resignation with effect from 1 January 2008.
It was also announced that William Colvin would succeed him as Chief Executive Officer and that Ray Miles will be appointed as Non-Executive Chairman with effect from 1 January 2008.
The Board has decided to appoint Christopher Fisher as its senior independent Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 January 2008.
On 10 December 2007, the Company also announced the appointment of Nancy Jane Hollendoner as a Non-Executive Director.
This appointment is to be confirmed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Her biographical details are contained in the notice calling the meeting.
The Board meets, formally, bi-monthly, and additional meetings are arranged as necessary to consider urgent business.
The Chairman also holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the presence of the Executive Directors.
The table below summarises the total number of formal Board, Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee meetings held during the period and the attendance by each Director.
Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Total number of meetings 65 34 Attendance at meetings William Colvin 6 1 3 3 Philip Scott 6 Graham Sizer 6 5 John Murphy 5 Ray Miles 65 34 Joseph Baratta resigned 4 April 2007 21 Baroness Morgan of Huyton 65 33 Christopher Fisher 65 4 By invitation In addition to the above meetings, a number of meetings were held over the telephone, to deal with urgent business that arose between the formal meeting dates.
Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 27 Corporate Governance The Chairman has responsibility for the induction process in respect of new Directors.
The process includes industry specific presentations from third parties and management presentations.
Directors can take independent advice on matters relating to their duties, at the expense of the Company, and have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The removal from office of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the whole Board.
The Board considers Mr Ray Miles, Baroness Morgan of Huyton and Mr Christopher Fisher to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
In the view of the Board they are independent of management and free from any relationship, business or otherwise, which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
One third of the Directors is subject to retirement from the Board at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Details of the retiring Directors and of those individuals nominated for office are set out in the Notice calling that Meeting.
During the year the Board carried out a formal evaluation of its own performance and of individual Directors.
The evaluation covered all aspects of Board behaviours and processes including its composition, the performance of its committees, directors and secretary and its interaction with its stakeholders.
The evaluations were carried out without the use of external advisers.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by the senior independent Non-Executive Director are responsible for evaluating the performance of the Chairman and the executive members of the Board.
Resources are available to support Directors in addressing any identified training needs that arise out of performance evaluations.
Committees of the Board The Board has Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, the roles and terms of reference of each are summarised below.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is comprised of the three independent Non-Executive Directors namely Christopher Fisher, Ray Miles and Baroness Morgan of Huyton.
Christopher Fisher, the committees Chairman, was formerly vice chairman, corporate finance, at KPMG and a managing director of Lazard, and brings recent and relevant financial expertise to the committee.
The committee meets formally at least four times a year and otherwise as required.
The external Auditors, Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller and Head of Internal Audit are invited to attend the Audit Committee meetings.
At each meeting, an opportunity is given for the Non-Executive Directors and the external Auditors to meet in private.
The committee has clearly defined terms of reference: these are set out on the Groups website.
Its responsibilities include: assisting the Board in the effective discharge of its duties in respect of corporate governance: financial reporting: risk management: and internal control.
The independence and objectivity of the external Auditors is reviewed by the Audit Committee, with specific consideration of the level of nonaudit fees.
Information on non-audit fees is given in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
During the period the Auditors continued to provide further assurance services related to acquisitions and disposals.
The Board considered it appropriate to engage  LLP to undertake this type of work because of their knowledge and experience of the business.
KPMG LLP were also engaged to undertake some work in this area during the year.
The committee approves each appointment and does not consider the non-audit fees paid to the external Auditors to have affected their independence or objectivity.
The committee receives an annual independence confirmation from the external Auditors.
The committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, reappointment and any matters of resignation or dismissal of the external Auditors as well as the approval of fees for external Auditors.
During the year, after consultation with the Audit Committee, the Company appointed Brian Ross as its Head of Internal Audit and established an internal audit function.
Brian joined the Group after 11 years with Deloitte where, for the previous four years he was the Head of the Internal Audit and Risk Management team within the Newcastle office.
The Board, through its Audit Committee, has agreed the Companys Internal Audit Charter and its 2007 08 internal audit plan and will, on a regular basis, receive reports on the outcomes of the internal audits.
Work under the plan commenced on 1 October 2007.
The committee also has responsibility for reviewing the Groups procedures by which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters and to ensure these arrangements allow for independent investigation and appropriate follow up.
28 Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Remuneration Committee The composition and role of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 31 to 35.
Full details of Directors remuneration and shareholdings are also given in the report.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is comprised of three Non-Executive Directors namely William Colvin, Ray Miles and Baroness Morgan of Huyton.
The Chairman of the committee is presently William Colvin.
Membership of the committee will be adjusted after 1 January 2008 when William Colvin becomes Chief Executive Officer.
The committee meets formally at least twice a year and otherwise as required.
The committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities relating to the composition and make up of the Board.
It is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, identifying potential candidates to be appointed as Directors, as the need may arise, and determining succession planning for the Chairman and Chief Executive.
The committee did not use an external executive recruitment agency during the year.
It concluded that there were several internal candidates who could be considered for each of the three executive director positions, before it would be necessary to conduct an external search.
The committees terms of reference are set out on the Groups website.
Internal Control and Risk Management The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal controls and risk management.
The system includes an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group.
The process is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
As with any system of internal control it can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has regularly reviewed both the key risks faced by the Group and the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems for the period under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board is responsible for risk assessment and management within the Group however, outside of its review, the Board delegates responsibility to the Group Risk Management Committee and Audit Committee for more regular reviews of both key risks and internal controls.
The key elements of the Groups system of internal control are: Risk Management The Group Risk Management Committee GRMC is responsible for setting Group policy and strategy for risk management, identifying, assessing and managing risks facing the Group and communicating, educating and training employees on the risks facing the Group.
The GRMC has representatives from finance, operations, legal, human resources, estates, health and safety, compliance and IT.
The head of internal audit attends the meetings.
The committee has established a risk register and it meets at least twice per year to review and update the register.
The committee reports into the Board, via the Audit Committee.
The Board has put in place a documented organisational structure with clearly defined and understood roles and responsibilities.
There are also established and documented policies and procedures at both the home level and for the head office finance function.
Internal Audit Throughout the period, the Regional Administrator and Operational Manager groups have performed financial and operational compliance work at the home level.
To help ensure compliance, the Group has a quality assurance department that assists in training both groups on internal compliance techniques and also ensures a uniform approach is adopted across the Group.
Management Information Systems The Group has a comprehensive management information system for regular and timely reporting into the Board.
Every four weeks the financial reporting system reports on: the results for the period and the period to date together with key performance indicators comparing them against budgeted performance : working capital movements: and detailed cash flow information.
The management reporting system also includes information on internal, external, regulatory and compliance audits, health and safety and other operational matters.
The Board reviews this information at each of its meetings.
Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 29 Corporate Governance Effectiveness of Internal Controls The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls, in accordance with the guidance of Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, and is satisfied that the Group complies with that guidance.
Investor Relations The Board supports the view that effective communications with its shareholders, stakeholders and the wider market is a critical element of corporate governance.
The Chairman has overall responsibility for ensuring effective communication with the Groups stakeholders and to ensure the Board develops an understanding of the views of key stakeholders.
The Groups Annual and Interim Reports are the primary method by which information is communicated to our stakeholders.
In accordance with the EU Transparency Directive the Company plans to also issue quarterly Interim Management Statements, beginning with quarter one of the 2007 08 financial year.
In addition there is also regular dialogue with individual institutional Shareholders and general meetings are held after the announcement of interim and preliminary results.
All Non-Executive Directors are given the opportunity to attend these meetings and receive copies of any briefings on the Company produced by analysts or brokers.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are available to meet with major shareholders at any time.
The Groups Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity to communicate with private investors and to give all ordinary Shareholders the opportunity to ask questions of the Directors.
In an effort to communicate more readily with an audience of stakeholders, the Groups website has been developed so as to incorporate an investor relations page.
A Group profile, statutory financial statements, all announcements and regular corporate news are included.
Going Concern After making enquiries the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the financial statements continue to be prepared on the going-concern basis.
Compliance Statement The Board confirms that for the period under review the Company has been in compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2003 Combined Code, except that: i during the period 2 October 2006 to 4 April 2007, the Remuneration Committee membership was not made up entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors: and ii during the period 2 October 2006 to 4 April 2007, independent Non-Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, did not make up half of the Board.
By order of the Board William McLeish Company Secretary 10 December 2007 30 Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007
