qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:01 Page 24 Corporate governance Highlights Highlights 24 Continued full compliance with Combined Code Risk management procedures continue to exceed standards Directors 24 expected of similar sized companies in independent review by The Board 24 Marsh Ongoing review of the effectiveness of the Boards operation Chairman and Chief Executive 25 Combined Code Compliance Statement, including terms of Board balance and independence 25 reference of the Board and each Committee, available on the Appointments to the Board 26 Companys website Information and professional development 26 The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of Corporate Performance evaluation 26 Governance.
The Board first reported its compliance with the new Re-election 27 Combined Code in 2004 and since then has continued in its efforts to develop further its approach to corporate governance and the Directors remuneration 27 effective management of risk in the context of a rapidly growing business.
The level and make-up of remuneration 27 Procedure 27 Accordingly, the following paragraphs together with the flow diagram on page 25 explain how the Company has applied the principles of Accountability and audit 28 good governance and code of best practice set out in the Financial reporting 28 Combined Code.
Internal control 28 Throughout the year ended 31 March 2007, the Company has been Audit Committee and auditors 28 in compliance with the provisions set out in the Combined Code.
Relations with shareholders 28 Directors The Board Dialogue with institutional shareholders 28 The Board normally meets at least ten times per annum for Constructive use of the AGM 28 scheduled Board meetings including a two day off-site meeting solely to discuss strategy.
The Board also meets as required on an ad hoc Further development of internal control basis to deal with urgent business, including the consideration and approval of transactions.
The table below lists the number of Board and risk management procedures 28 Meetings, Board Committee Meetings and Directors attendance during the year.
Corporate governance summary 31 The Board has approved a schedule of matters reserved for decision by it.
This schedule, which forms part of a Combined Code Compliance Statement formally adopted by the Board, is available for inspection at the Companys registered office and on the Companys website www.
The matters reserved for specific approval by the Board can be subdivided into a number of key areas including but not limited to: Financial reporting including the approval of interim and final financial statements and dividend policy declaration Audit Remuneration Nomination Plc Board Committee Committee Committee David Wallis 11 3 3 2 Frank Dee 11 332 David Galloway 11 332 Steve Corcoran 11 3 3 2 Neil OBrien 11 3 1 Peter Atkinson 11 332 Mike McGrath 11 3 1 by invitation 24 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8 1348 13481SPEEDYHI.
qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:01 Page 25 Good governance is about living it, not just reporting it The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive are held by David Wallis Corporate governance structure and Steve Corcoran respectively.
In addition to the Chairman, the Board includes three independent Non-Executive Directors, Frank Dee, David Galloway and Peter Atkinson, who together bring a Keep it simple, strong and independent Non-Executive element to the Board.
Committees Senior Independent Director is Frank Dee.
The Audit Committee is chaired by David Galloway.
Its other Audit Remuneration Nomination members are Frank Dee and Peter Atkinson.
In accordance with the Smith Guidance on Audit Committees, the Chairman, David Wallis, is not a member of the Audit Committee.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Frank Dee.
Its other External evaluation members are David Galloway and Peter Atkinson.
Group Board of projects consultants The Nomination Committee comprises the three Non-Executive Directors, the Chief Executive together with the Chairman and is chaired by David Wallis.
Executive Management Team Strategic Projects Group The Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors meet at least twice Chief Executive Executive Management Team Finance Director Project Team a year without the Executive Directors present.
In addition, the Commercial Director e. g. Chairman regularly briefs the other Non-Executive Directors on Divisional heads Business processes IT relevant developments regarding the Company and Group as Group sales marketing Sales customers Director of Environment, necessary.
The Senior Independent Director, Frank Dee, and the HR people Safety and Health Asset management other Non-Executive Directors meet at least annually without the Property Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans performance as part of the overall Board annual appraisal process.
Project teams drive through Operating businesses projects into the businesses see separate structure The minutes of all meetings of the Board and each Committee are diagram in the OFR, page 11 taken by the Company Secretary.
In addition to constituting a record of decisions taken, minutes reflect questions raised by the Directors relating to the Companys businesses and, in particular, issues raised The Groups finance, banking and capital structure arrangements from the monthly reports included in the Board or Committee papers Group strategy and transactions circulated prior to the relevant meeting.
Any unresolved concerns are Stock Exchange Listing Authority matters including the issue of recorded in the minutes.
shares, the approval of circulars and communications to the Risk management process market On resignation, concerns if any raised by an outgoing NonApproval of the policies and framework in relation to remuneration Executive Director are circulated by the Chairman to the remaining Regular reporting across the Group following appropriate recommendations from members of the Board.
the Remuneration Committee Approval of the Groups risk management and control Appropriate Directors and Officers insurance cover is arranged and framework following appropriate recommendations from the Risk Working Group maintained via the Companys insurance brokers, Marsh, and its Audit Committee Executive Management Team terms are reviewed annually.
Identify and evaluate The constitution of the Board itself, including its various risks Board sponsor for each Committees, and succession planning following appropriate Develop and monitor Chairman and Chief Executive identified area of risk recom action mendaplans tions from the Nomination Committee A statement as to the division of the responsibilities of the Chairman Liaison with line management Line management Approving the Groups policies in relation to, inter alia, the and Chief Executive is included in the Combined Code Compliance responsibility environment, Health & Safety and Corporate Responsibility.
Statement formally adopted by the Board referred to above.
The Quarterly review Board considers that the Chairman on his appointment met the of Risk Register Matters requiring Board and Committee approval are generally the and trends in independence criteria set out in paragraph A3.1 of the Combined subject of a proposal by the Executive Directors submitted to the changes in risk Code.
It is the policy of the Board that the Chief Executive should not Independent evaluation Board, together with supporting information, as part of the Board or go on to become Chairman.
Marsh Committee papers circulated prior to the relevant meeting.
The Group Board implementation of matters approved by the Board, particularly in Board balance and independence Evaluation of risk Independent relation to matters such as significant acquisitions or other material Review of risk The Board considers that all of the Non-Executive Directors are review management plans projects sometimes includes the establishment of a sub-committee independent, on the basis of the criteria specified in paragraph A3.1 Audit Committee Review of progress comprising at least one Non-Executive Director.
of the Combined Code and generally, and are free from any business against plans Oversee process or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Currently there are, in addition to the Chairman, three Non-Executive Directors on the Board out of a total Annual reporting Keep it simple, do it well!
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 25 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8 13481SPEEDYHI.
qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:01 Page 26 Corporate governance of seven Directors and their respective experience, details of which Board of a listed company.
The Board also recognises the importance of ongoing training and education, particularly regarding new laws and are set out on pages 20 and 21, clearly indicate that they are of sufficient calibre and number for their views to carry appropriate regulations which relate to or affect the Group.
Such training and weight in the Boards decisions.
The Senior Independent Director, education is obtained by the Directors individually through the Frank Dee, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which Company or through other companies of which they are Directors.
contact through the normal channels of Chief Executive and Chairman or Group Finance Director fail to resolve or for which such The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Commercial contact is inappropriate.
Director each have a business coach to help with their overall development as business leaders.
During the year the provision of Appointments to the Board business coaches has been extended to include senior management The Board has established a Nomination Committee.
Its terms of below Executive Director level.
The Group has continued to work reference are also included in the Combined Code Compliance closely with Ashridge Business School as regards the provision of Statement referred to above.
The Committee meets formally as ongoing management training for Executive Directors and other necessary, but at least once a year and met twice during 2006 07. senior management.
The principal functions of the Nomination Committee are also to All the Non-Executive Directors have, during the course of the year, consider and review the structure and composition of the Board and membership of Board Committees.
It considers candidates for Board attended briefings and seminars relevant to their role, including nomination at both Plc and operating level, including job description, updates on best practice in audit and remuneration issues and economic affairs in general, as well as bringing knowledge and re-election to the Board for those candidates retiring by rotation and succession planning generally.
A specification for the role of information gathered from their other business interests.
Chairman, including anticipated time commitment, is included as part of the written statement of division of responsibilities between The Chairman and the Company Secretary meet on a regular basis Chairman and Chief Executive.
Details of the Chairmans other to discuss corporate governance and other issues including, material commitments are disclosed to the Board in advance inter alia, information flows, induction and training programmes for and included in a register of the same maintained by the Directors and operational management.
Procedures are in place to enable Directors to take independent The terms and conditions of appointment of all the Non-Executive professional advice, if necessary at the Companys expense, in the Directors, including those of the Chairman, are available for furtherance of their duties.
The procedure to enable such advice to inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business be obtained is included in the Companys Combined Code hours.
Each letter of appointment specifies the anticipated level of Compliance Statement.
time commitment including, where relevant, additional responsibilities derived from involvement with the Audit, Remuneration or Nomination All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Committees.
Details of other material commitments are disclosed Secretary, whose role is to ensure that all procedures are followed to the Board and a register of the same maintained by the and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
removal of the Company Secretary is a matter specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
None of the Directors is a Non-Executive Director or Chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
Performance evaluation The Chairman appraises all Board members annually.
This takes the A more detailed summary of the work of the Nomination Committee form of a review of the degree of success in achieving objectives set during the year is contained in the separate report of the Committee for the year and agreeing areas for improvement going forward.
During the previous financial year, the Chairman and Company Secretary had engaged the services of specialist performance Information and professional development consultants, Lintstock, to carry out a detailed independent review of Before each scheduled Board meeting, all Directors receive the Boards processes and procedures.
appropriate information regarding the Group comprising a financial report and briefings from senior executives.
The Chief Executive also Lintstocks evaluation concentrated on six key questions: briefs Directors on results, key issues and strategy.
During Board Meetings, the Non-Executives regularly make further enquiries of the How does the Board ensure that the long-term objectives of the Executive Directors and seek further information which is provided Companys senior management are aligned with those of its either at the relevant meeting or subsequently.
How does the Board test the Companys medium-term strategies A monthly information pack is compiled on market data, including and evaluate the performance of its senior management?
information and activity in relation to competitors and the How does the Board set the remuneration of the Executive construction industry generally.
This information is drawn from a Directors?
number of respected sources and provides a current, constantly How does the Board monitor the Companys systems of audit, updated summary of trends in the Groups market.
internal control and financial reporting?
The Board offers appropriate training to any Director whose How does the Board assist in the Companys succession appointment to the Board is the first appointment of that Director to the planning?
26 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8 1348 13481SPEEDYHI.
qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:01 Page 27 been designed with a view to aligning the interests of the Executive How does the Board safeguard and develop the Companys Directors with those of shareholders and to incentivise performance core values?
The Boards policy is that no executive share options should be offered at a discount save as permitted by the Lintstocks evaluation process included a series of confidential Listing Rules.
interviews with each main Board member and selected members of divisional regional management.
Lintstocks key findings were, in the Levels of remuneration payable to Non-Executive Directors are main, very positive and concluded that the Board operates effectively regularly benchmarked, with the assistance of external advisers, in relation to each of the above areas.
However, suggestions for against companies of a similar size.
The levels of remuneration also improvement included: reflect the time, commitment and responsibilities of each role including, where relevant, Chairmanship of Board Committees.
It is Giving a greater focus to a smaller number of issues at each Board the policy of the Board that remuneration for Non-Executive Directors meeting and reducing the number of standing items.
should not include share options.
No current Executive Director Improvements in the quality of business as opposed to financial serves as a Non-Executive Director elsewhere.
information, particularly in relation to employees, in order to allow trends to be spotted more easily.
On a regular basis, the Remuneration Committee, with the assistance Ensuring greater clarity regarding the understanding of the role of of NBSC, reviews the compensation commitments the Executive the Board and the Groups central functions with the operational Directors service contracts would entail in the event of early businesses.
The Committee also from time to time considers the Ensuring greater clarity in the setting of agreed objectives with advantages of liquidated damage clauses in service contracts.
In any executives at the start of each financial year.
event, the Committees policy remains that compensation for Arranging dinners the night before set piece Board meetings with termination of the service contract of an Executive Director would not senior management below executive level to encourage debate be paid in the case of removal for misconduct and that a robust line and discussion in a more relaxed and informal environment.
should be taken as regards departing Directors obligations to Placing more focus on the Groups internal communication mitigate loss.
strategy to ensure key messages reach all levels of the business consistently.
The service contracts of all Executive Directors provide for termination by the Company on one years notice.
Lintstocks findings were reviewed and discussed by the Board as a whole and steps were taken to implement the suggested Procedure improvements.
The Board has constituted a Remuneration Committee which met three times during the year.
Its terms of reference are included in the Re-election Combined Code Compliance Statement and are fully compatible with Under the Companys Articles of Association, all Directors are subject the provisions of paragraph B2.1 of the Combined Code.
The to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting Remuneration Committee consists of the Non-Executive Directors, following appointment and all Directors are subject to retirement by excluding the Chairman, who are independent of management and rotation provisions requiring re-election at intervals of no more than free from any business or other relationship which could materially three years.
Sufficient biographical details of all the Directors, interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Chief including those subject to election or re-election, are included in this Executive regularly attends by invitation but is not present for Report in order to enable shareholders to take an informed decision discussions relating to his own remuneration.
The Remuneration on any re-election resolution.
The letters of appointment of each of Committee has appointed NBSC to advise it in relation to the design the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman confirm that of appropriate executive remuneration structures.
NBSC have no appointments are for specified terms and that reappointment is not other connection with the Company.
Frank Dee, David Galloway and the Chairman commenced second three year terms in April 2004 which expired in The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee include setting March 2007. remuneration policy, ensuring that remuneration including pension rights and compensation payments and the terms of service of the The appointments of Frank Dee, David Galloway and the Chairman Executive Directors, the Chairman and the tier of operating have each been renewed to 31 March 2008. management immediately below Board level are appropriate and that they are fairly rewarded for the contribution which they make to the Directors remuneration Groups overall performance.
It is also responsible for the allocation of The level and make-up of remuneration shares under long-term incentive arrangements approved by The performance-related elements of the remuneration of the shareholders and in accordance with agreed criteria.
In addition, it Executive Directors form a significant proportion of their total monitors current best practice in remuneration and related issues.
The performance-related elements of the schemes in which the Executive Directors are entitled to participate The Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is dealt with by a are set out in more detail in the Remuneration report.
The Committee of the Board specifically established for this purpose Remuneration Committee, with the advice of New Bridge Street comprising the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Consultants LLP NBSC, reviews on a regular basis the Companys Commercial Director.
The Remuneration of the Non-Executive remuneration policy including the design of performance-related Directors is the subject of regular benchmarking reviews carried out remuneration schemes.
Such performance-related elements have Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 27 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8 13481SPEEDYHI.
qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:01 Page 28 Corporate governance at least every two years with the assistance of NBSC.
The last such The effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function is one of the benchmarking exercise was carried out in February 2007. matters reviewed in conjunction with KPMG.
The Boards policy is that all new long-term incentive schemes as The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making a defined in the Listing Rules and significant changes to existing recommendation on the appointment, reappointment and removal of the schemes should be specifically approved by shareholders.
The policy of the Audit Committee is to ensure auditor addition, as part of the Companys commitment to transparency as objectivity and independence is safeguarded at all times.
Specifically, regards its remuneration policy and maintaining a continuous non-audit services, including taxation and consultancy advice and due dialogue with shareholders, the Chairman of the Remuneration diligence in relation to significant acquisitions, are routinely put out to Committee, Frank Dee, holds discussions with shareholders to take tender to other external accounting firms.
During the year the Company soundings on aspects of the Companys remuneration policy used two such additional firms.
Accordingly, the Audit Committee generally and, in particular, the key features of any proposed new considers that the Companys auditors are independent.
A more detailed description of the work of the Audit Committee Accountability and audit during the year is contained in the separate report of the Committee Financial reporting on page 41.
The Directors report and Auditors report appear on pages 22 to 23 and 43 respectively and comply with the provisions of paragraphs Relations with shareholders C1.1 and C1.2 of the Combined Code.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders The Chairman routinely attends brokers and analysts presentations in Internal control relation to the Companys interim and full year results.
The Chairman, with The Board is responsible for the Companys schemes of internal assistance from the Companys brokers, collates feedback from such control and reviewing the effectiveness of such systems.
presentations and reports the findings to the next meeting of the Board.
The Chairman also maintains a regular dialogue with major shareholders The Board, via the Audit Committee, conducts a review, at least in relation to, inter alia, strategy and corporate governance issues.
The annually, of the Groups systems of internal controls.
Such review Senior Independent Director, Frank Dee, is available to attend sufficient examines all material controls, including financial, operational and meetings with major shareholders in order to understand their issues and compliance controls and risk management systems.
A formal report concerns should the normal communication with the Chairman and Chief is prepared by KPMG Audit Plc KPMG, highlighting matters Executive be ineffective or inappropriate.
identified in the course of its statutory audit work and reviewed by the Audit Committee in the presence of KPMG, the Chief Executive, the Constructive use of the AGM Group Finance Director and the head of the Groups Internal Audit The Companys AGM procedures indicate, as a matter of course, the function.
The Committee also considers formal reports prepared and level of proxies lodged on each resolution and the balance for and presented by the internal audit function.
The findings and against each resolution and votes withheld after it has been dealt with recommendations of the Committee are then reported to the Board on a show of hands.
It is also the Companys policy to propose a for detailed consideration.
separate resolution at the AGM on each substantive separate issue, including in relation to the report and accounts and the Directors Audit Committee and auditors remuneration report.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are set out in full in the Combined Code Compliance Statement.
Such terms of reference are All Committee Chairmen are available at the AGM.
compatible with the provisions of paragraph C. 3 of the Combined Code.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman of the Audit The Companys standard procedure is to arrange the notice of AGM Committee, David Galloway, has appropriate recent and relevant and related papers to be sent to shareholders at least twenty working financial experience.
days before the meeting in compliance with paragraph D2.4 of the Combined Code.
In addition to its work in relation to the Groups systems of internal controls set out above, the Committee is also responsible for Further development of internal control and risk management reviewing the integrity of the Companys accounts, including the procedures annual and interim results, and recommending their approval to the The Board is fully committed to identifying, evaluating and managing Board.
The Committees work also includes reviewing the adequacy significant risks facing the Group, and has developed a set of of the Groups whistle-blowing procedures which have been processes and protocols that enable it to do so.
Our approach to developed in conjunction with the Groups retained security and managing risk is summarised in the diagram at the top of page 29. investigation advisers.
In 2006, Speedy Hire joined the FTSE 250, further underlining our The Committee meets on a regular basis with the external auditors requirement to demonstrate effective internal controls.
We are and internal audit function, without the Executive Directors being confident that the controls we have established meet the present as appropriate, to review and discuss issues arising from requirements of the Combined Code.
Moreover, we continue to internal and external audits and to agree the scope and planning of enhance our risk management processes and protocols to enable future work.
the Group to undertake key strategic initiatives with confidence and with a clear understanding of the risks.
28 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8 1348 13481SPEEDYHI.
qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:01 Page 29 Executive Management Team Strategic Projects Group Chief Executive Executive Management Team Project Team Finance Director Commercial Director e. g. Divisional heads Business processes IT Group sales marketing Sales customers Director of Environment, HR people Safety and Health Asset management Property Project teams drive through Operating businesses projects into the businesses see separate structure diagram in the OFR, page 11 regulation and current business projects.
Each risk is assigned a score, Risk management process based on its likelihood and its probable impact on the Group in the event of it materialising.
Impact is measured not only by financial Regular reporting metrics loss of income additional expenditure but also according to effects on employees, operational efficiency and stakeholder relations.
A Director from the Group has been assigned to monitor and oversee Risk Working Group the management of each risk.
Overall responsibility for the risk Executive Management Team Identify and evaluate management process rests at Board level with Neil OBrien.
The Board risks systematically reviews and evaluates the risks of the Group on a halfBoard sponsor for each Develop and monitor identified area of risk yearly basis, which ensures that as new risks emerge in connection action plans Liaison with line management Line management with projects or general market developments, appropriate actions can responsibility be discussed, agreed and taken in a flexible manner.
Quarterly review of Risk Register Since 2006, two new risks have been added to the Groups risk and trends in register.
The first, concerning ability to maintain a high degree of changes in risk Independent evaluation external focus through a period of major internal change, is being Marsh controlled through the hiring of an outside firm to provide regular Group Board customer audits for the Group and more detailed analysis of sales on Evaluation of risk Independent a weekly basis.
The second, ability to maintain absolute growth rate, Review of risk review management plans is being addressed through the development of a strategic plan and Audit Committee Review of progress regular, formal performance benchmarking with Speedy Hires against plans Oversee process peer group.
Building on work from previous years, the Group once again Annual reporting engaged its risk advisers, Marsh, to undertake risk interviews and independently facilitate a number of workshops with the Executive Keep it simple, Directors and senior operational management.
These workshops do it well!
were focused on the identification, monitoring and management of risk.
Each risk identified by the Group was mapped according to its The Board has established a detailed register listing the strategic, likelihood and potential impact.
The results of this exercise were financial and operational risks potentially affecting the Group.
These compared with 2006 risk profiling results to establish how each of the include, but are not limited to, the macro-market and economic key risk issues from 2006 had evolved over time.
The map below conditions in which the group operates, competitor activities, gearing, summarises the current position.
Risk map 1 4 5 8 3 7 2 6 Low High Likelihood Decreasing risk Increasing risk Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 29 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8 Impact Low High 13481SPEEDYHI.
qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:01 Page 30 Corporate governance The Groups systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Nevertheless, the Board places great emphasis on improving the Groups position, either through mitigation measures to reduce the likelihood of the risk occurring, or in monitoring controls to limit the impact in the event that it materialises.
The table below summarises the small group of risks that were identified as key, together with a short description of monitoring mitigation activities and sponsorship at Board level.
Risk Risk Board Risk monitoring mitigation Progress 06 07 no.
area sponsor & target 07 08 1 IT business Neil OBrien Detailed testing and phased, budgeted Third company going live.
Ongoing internal audit phase to be implemented during implementation review.
Project risk analysis to project performance.
be monitored on a regular basis.
2 Effective Steve Corcoran One Speedy initiative.
Feedback from staff on internal communication Full review of internal external communication programme to be marketing structures and strategies.
Major risks to the One Speedy initiative to be identified and managed.
3 Business Steve Corcoran Implementation by Executive Improved cross-selling through co-ordination Management Team.
4 Major acquisition: Mike McGrath Consideration of project impact as Ongoing review of impact on risk of poor performance part of all major acquisition programmes.
Monitoring of performance against integration plan with reporting to the Board.
5 Major acquisition Mike McGrath Documented procedures, with Continue to monitor and manage integration alignment of deal and integration teams.
Formal review and reporting to the Board following the acquisition.
6 Employee training and Mike McGrath Training and development plans in Joint venture entered into with the development place, supported by internal leading training provider Carter & communication programme.
Mandatory training line to support current standard operating procedures.
7 Market Neil OBrien Market developments continuously Continue to monitor and manage competition monitored and reported monthly existing controls.
8 Co-ordination All Phased strategic projects, monitored Implement key findings of integration implementation by Strategy Steering Committee project.
Undertake talent review of key strategic and overseen by CEO.
projects Other risks which do not feature on the above table nevertheless are The Board remains committed to the ongoing enhancement and regularly reviewed.
For example: performance of Speedy Hires risk management and internal controls.
Going forward, we expect to further improve our qualitative and 1.
The Boards belief is that the outlook for the construction industry quantitative techniques for the continuous analysis of business risk remains strong see Stratton report and OFR.
issues and the cost of risk to the Group.
The Group is aware of the risk of product obsolescence and management of risk as a business enabler, aligned to our corporate mitigates this by continually monitoring developments in strategy and creating reassurances for our shareholders, employees technology relevant to the industry and discussing customers and stakeholders around the Groups decision making, management needs with its suppliers.
of change and capital allocation.
The Board is also conscious of the potential for the expansion of off-site construction reducing the demand for hired tools to site.
However, this is perceived to be a medium to long-term risk.
30 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8 1348
