qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:01 Page 31 In June 2006 the Financial Reporting Council published a revised version of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code and this is appended to the UKLA Listing Rules, which are the rules which apply to public companies listed on the London Stock Exchange.
For financial years commencing on or after 1 November 2006, companies are required to comply with this version of the Code.
Accordingly this version of the Code does not apply to Speedy Hire until next year.
The Company has nevertheless decided to report against the revised Code a year early and confirms that throughout the year ended 31 March 2007, the Company has remained fully compliant.
The Code comprises a set of main principles which cover the general themes of Directors remuneration, financial reporting, internal control and communication with shareholders.
Each main principle is expanded by a set of supporting principles as well as detailed provisions.
Listed companies are required to include a statement in their Annual Report to say how the main and supporting principles have been applied and whether or not the Company has complied with the Codes provisions during the year.
Where the Company is not compliant, the Code requires the Company to explain why this is so.
The Corporate governance report on pages 24 to 30 and the Directors remuneration report on pages 34 to 40 contain a detailed explanation of how Speedy Hire applied the main and supporting principles of the Code.
For ease of reference, a summary of Speedy Hires compliance with the Codes provisions is included here with cross-references to the relevant pages of the Companys Corporate governance report, Remuneration report, other sections of the Annual Report and the Notice of Meeting in respect of the 2007 AGM.
Combined Directors Code provision Comment Page The Board meets at least ten times a year which is sufficiently regular to discharge its duties A.
There is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision.
The Corporate governance report includes a statement of how the Board operates and which issues are delegated to management.
The 2007 Annual Report identifies the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Senior Independent A.
1.2 Compliant 20 & 24 Director and the Chairmen and members of the Audit, Remuneration and the Nomination Committees.
The number of meetings of the Board and the Committees and individual attendance by Directors is provided.
In 2007, the Chairman met the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present and A.
1.3 Compliant 25 the Non-Executive Directors met without the Chairman and Executive Directors present at least once.
Where Directors have concerns about the running of the Company or a proposed action which A.
1.4 Compliant 25 cannot be resolved, they ensure that their concerns are recorded in the Board minutes.
The Company arranges comprehensive Directors and Officers liability insurance cover.
1.5 Compliant 25 The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are not exercised by the same individual.
2.1 Compliant 25 division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive is set out in the Combined Code Compliance Statement available on the Companys website.
On appointment, the Chairman met the independence criteria set out in A.
2.2 Compliant 25 The Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors to be independent.
3.1 Compliant 25 There are, in addition to the Chairman, three independent Non-Executive Directors out of a total A.
The Board has appointed Frank Dee as Senior Independent Director.
Frank Dee is available to A.
3.3 Compliant 26 shareholders if they have concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels of communication or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Nomination Committee, comprising the Chairman, the three other Non-Executive Directors A.
4.1 Compliant 25 & 26 and the Chief Executive meets as necessary and at least once a year.
The Chairman of the Company chairs the Nomination Committee.
The Nomination Committees terms of reference are set out in the Combined Code Compliance Statement available on the Companys website.
The Nomination Committees principal functions are to review the structure, size and composition A.
4.2 Compliant 26 of the Board, the membership of Board Committees and succession planning.
The Chairman is not Chairman of another FTSE 100 company.
The Chairman discloses to the Board A.
4.3 Compliant 26 any changes to his other significant commitments as they arise.
The Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors each have a letter of appointment for specified terms A.
4.4 Compliant 26 & 27 of three years or less containing reciprocal notice provisions of six months in the case of the Chairman and three months in the case of Frank Dee, David Galloway, and Peter Atkinson.
The letters of appointment of the Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors will be available for A.
4.4 Compliant 26 inspection at the 2007 AGM.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 31 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8 13481SPEEDYHI.
qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:01 Page 32 Corporate governance Combined Code provision Comment Page The letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors state that they should exercise such A.
4.4 Compliant 26 powers and perform such duties as are appropriate to the role.
The Non-Executive Directors undertake that they will have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them.
Details of other material commitments are disclosed and a register of the same maintained by the Company Secretary.
None of the Directors is a Non-Executive Director or Chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
4.5 Compliant 26 The work of the Nomination Committee and the process used in relation to Board appointments A.
4.6 Compliant 26 & 42 is described in the Corporate governance and Nomination Committee reports.
The process for inducting new Directors to the Board and details of ongoing training is described A.
5.1 Compliant 26 in the Corporate governance report.
A procedure is in place so that Directors are able, if required, to seek independent professional A.
5.2 Compliant 26 advice at the Companys expense in connection with their duties.
This is set out in the Combined Code Compliance Statement available on the Companys website.
All Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
5.3 Compliant 26 Company Secretary has responsibility for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
The Corporate governance report contains a description of how performance evaluation of the Board, A.
6.1 Compliant 20 & 26 its Committees and the individual Directors was conducted in the year ended 31 March 2007.
The NonExecutive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, reviewed the performance of the Chairman.
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment A.
7.1 Compliant 27 and a minimum of one third of Directors must retire at each AGM.
The Notice of Meeting for the 2007 AGM contains sufficient biographical details to enable shareholders to take an informed Notice of decision in relation to those Directors seeking election or re-election.
2007 AGM David Wallis, Frank Dee and David Galloway have each served on the Board for more than six years.
7.2 Compliant 20 & 27 Galloways proposed re-election has been subject to rigorous review and takes into account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
Directors remuneration Performance-related elements of the remuneration of Executive Directors form a significant B.
1.1 Compliant 27 proportion of the total remuneration and are designed to align their interests with those of shareholders and to give the Directors keen incentives to perform at the highest levels.
The Remuneration Committee followed the provisions of Schedule A to the Code in designing B.
1.1 Compliant 35 the share plans approved by shareholders at the 2004 AGM.
The Company does not offer executive share options at a discount save as permitted by the B.
The Board sets levels of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors which reflect the time commitment B.
1.3 Compliant 27 and responsibilities of the role.
Non-Executive Directors are not awarded share options.
None of the Executive Directors served as a Non-Executive Director elsewhere.
1.4 Compliant 27 The Remuneration Committee has carefully considered what compensation commitments B.
1.5 Compliant 27 including pension contributions and all other elements the Directors terms of appointment would entail in the event of termination and this is explained in the Directors remuneration report.
Notice or contract periods for all Executive Directors are set at one year.
1.6 Compliant 27 The Remuneration Committee comprises all the independent Non-Executive Directors excluding the B.
A description of the role of the Remuneration Committee and the authority delegated to it by the Board is included in the Directors remuneration report.
The Remuneration Committees terms of reference are contained in the Combined Code Compliance Statement available on the Companys website.
The Directors remuneration report includes a statement on whether the remuneration B.
2.1 Compliant 27 consultants appointed by the Remuneration Committee have any other connection with the Company.
The Board has delegated responsibility to the Remuneration Committee for setting remuneration for B.
2.2 Compliant 27 all Executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Committee also recommends and monitors the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
The Non-Executive Directors fees, excluding those of the Chairman, are determined by a B.
2.3 Compliant 27 Committee comprising the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Commercial Director, without the Non-Executive Directors present.
Shareholders are invited specifically to approve all new long-term incentive schemes and significant B.
2.4 Compliant 28 changes to existing schemes.
Notice of 2004 AGM 32 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8 1348 13481SPEEDYHI.
qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:01 Page 33 Combined Code provision Comment Page Accountability and audit The Directors explain their responsibility for preparing the Accounts and there is a statement by the C. 1.1 Compliant 28 auditors on their reporting responsibilities.
The Directors report that the business is a going concern.
C. 1.2 Compliant 28 The Board conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls in C. 2.1 Compliant 28 2007.
The review covered all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
The Audit Committee, comprising the independent Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman, C. 3.1 Compliant 28 meets at least three times a year and met on three occasions during the year ended 31 March 2007.
David Galloway, Chairman of the Audit Committee, has recent and relevant financial experience.
The main role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in its terms of reference, C. 3.3 Compliant 28 details of which are included in the Combined Code Compliance Statement available on the Companys website, and these include all the requirements set out in the Code.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee have recently been reviewed and are available on C. 3.3 Compliant 41 the Companys website.
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee are described in the Corporate governance and separate report of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee has reviewed arrangements by which employees of the Company may, in C. 3.4 Compliant 28 confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
Arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of internal audit activities.
C. 3.5 Compliant 28 The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making recommendations on the appointment, C. 3.6 Compliant 28 reappointment and removal of the external auditors.
A statement on how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded is included in the C. 3.7 Compliant 28 Corporate governance report.
Relations with shareholders The Chairman ensures that the views of major shareholders are communicated to the Board as a D. 1.1 Compliant 28 whole.
Non-Executive Directors are offered the opportunity to meet major shareholders and the Senior Independent Director has attended meetings with a range of major shareholders to listen to their views in order to develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of the major shareholders.
The Corporate governance report sets out the steps taken by the Board to ensure that Directors D. 1.2 Compliant 28 develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders about the Company.
Constructive use of the AGM It is the policy of the Company to propose a separate resolution at its AGM on each substantially D. 2.1 Compliant Notice of separate issue and there will be a resolution to receive the Annual Report and Accounts for 2007.
2007 AGM For each resolution proxy appointment forms provide shareholders with the option to direct their D. 2.1 Compliant Notice of proxy to vote either for or against the resolution or to withhold their vote.
The proxy form makes 2007 AGM it clear that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for and against the resolution.
It is the policy of the Company to ensure all valid proxy appointments received are properly D. 2.2 Compliant Notice of recorded and counted.
2007 AGM It is the policy of the Company to ensure that for each resolution, after a vote has been taken, unless D. 2.2 Compliant 28 a poll is taken, to give at the meeting and then make available on its website details of the number of i shares in respect of which proxy appointments have been made: ii votes for and against the resolution: and iii shares regarding which votes were withheld.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be available to answer D. 2.3 Compliant 28 questions at the 2007 AGM and all Directors will attend.
The Notice of Meeting for the 2007 AGM was sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before D. 2.4 Compliant 28 the meeting.
The ABI has published its new Responsible Investment Disclosure Guidelines, intended to update and replace its Socially Responsible Investment Guidelines published in 2001.
Given that the new guidelines were published towards the end of Speedy Hires reporting year, this document has not been prepared on the basis of the new guidelines.
Speedy Hire will be reviewing the new guidelines for the current reporting period.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 33 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8
