Directors statement on corporate governance Compliance This statement describes how the principles and provisions as set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Code have been applied within the Group during 2007.
The Board As at 31 December 2007, the Board comprised an Executive Chairman, four independent non-executive directors, one non-executive director not classified as independent for the purposes of the Code when determining the composition of the Board or its Committees, and one executive director, details of whom are provided on page 20.
The Board operates within a framework of controls including a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision.
At an Extraordinary General Meeting held on 22 December 2006 2006 EGM shareholders elected Edward Bramson as a director of the Company, following which the Board elected him as Chairman.
Mr Bramson assumed responsibility for the management of the Group by becoming Executive Chairman on 7 March 2007, at which point the Chief Executive Officer, Anders Gustafsson left the Company.
At that point in time, as there was no longer a separation of the Chairman and Chief Executive roles, Code Provision A.
Although Mr Bramson performed a critical role during the strategic review and the reorganisation of the Group, the Board considers that, given the balance of non-executive directors, no single individual dominated its decision making.
The Board is therefore of the opinion that an Executive Chairman was appropriate for the Company during the period under review.
It is intended that the role of Chairman and that of Chief Executive will be separated before the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
The Board discharges its responsibilities by providing leadership of the Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls, which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
It sets the Companys strategic aims, ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives, and reviews management performance.
It also defines the Companys values and standards and ensures that its obligations to its shareholders are understood and met.
Following the appointment of Edward Bramson, Ian Brindle, Gerard Eastman and Alex Walker to the Board at the 2006 EGM, the Board became non-compliant with Code Provision A.
During 2007 however, the Board appointed two independent non-executive directors to bring the composition of the Board back into compliance with the Code.
The independence of each director is reviewed at least annually.
The Board determined that, within the terms of the Code, Ian Brindle, Duncan Lewis, Tom Maxwell and Alex Walker are all independent non-executive directors.
As Edward Bramson and Gerard Eastman have a connected material notifiable interest in the issued Ordinary share capital of the Company see the Report of the directors on pages 24 to 27, the Board has concluded that they should not be considered independent of the management of the Company.
Alex Walker currently serves as the Senior Independent Director.
The Senior Independent Director is available to meet shareholders upon request if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels the Executive Chairman or executive directors has failed to resolve, or for which such contact would be inappropriate.
It is Company policy to hold at least five Board meetings a year.
There were eight Board meetings during 2007.
Full attendance of the Board is expected at meetings and in 2007 all directors attended all eight meetings except Gran Ennerfelt, who missed two meetings due to ill health, and Ian Brindle, who missed one meeting due to an unavoidable schedule clash.
Where the director was absent, full documentation for the meeting was issued to them and briefings were provided as appropriate.
Certain of the matters specifically reserved for the Boards decision have been delegated to three Committees with clearly defined terms of reference which, together with the composition of each Committee, are reviewed annually.
The terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available upon request to the Company Secretary and are also available on the Companys website at www.
The directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary whose removal may be effected only with the approval of the Board.
All directors can obtain independent professional advice relating to their duties at the Companys expense, if required.
28 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 29 Directors statement on corporate governance continued Board appointments and induction The Board has in place a procedure for the appointment of new directors to the Board which is in compliance with the Code and this procedure was applied in relation to the appointment of Duncan Lewis and Tom Maxwell during 2007.
The Companys Articles of Association require that all directors seek election by shareholders at the first annual general meeting following their appointment and as a result, Duncan Lewis and Tom Maxwell will offer themselves for election at the 2008 Annual General Meeting 2008 AGM.
They also require that all directors seek re-election at least every three years and therefore, Eric Hutchinson will offer himself for re-election at the 2008 AGM.
Notwithstanding the requirements of the Companys Articles of Association, Edward Bramson and Gerard Eastman have agreed to offer themselves for re-election at each annual general meeting whilst they serve on the Board and will, therefore, also offer themselves for re-election at the 2008 AGM.
On appointment to the Board and its Committees all directors receive an induction tailored to their individual requirements.
New directors are briefed on their legal and other duties and obligations as directors of a UK listed company.
Visits to different facilities and meetings with senior management are organised, as appropriate, to assist the new director in developing an understanding of how the Group operates and the key issues that it faces.
Performance evaluation Performance evaluations of the Board, its Committees and the directors themselves are carried out each year.
Questionnaires were completed by directors evaluating the performance of the Board and its Committees and the results were collated and analysed by the Company Secretary, who prepared a report for the Board.
The results were then considered by the Board as a specific item of business.
The Executive Chairman communicates regularly with the non-executive directors and this contact provides an opportunity to assess performance and to raise any questions regarding the performance of the executive directors or in respect of any other matters.
Following the performance evaluation of each director, the Executive Chairman confirms that all those non-executive directors seeking election or re-election at the 2008 AGM continue to contribute effectively and to demonstrate commitment to their roles, including having time to attend all Board and appropriate Committee meetings and to carry out other appropriate duties.
As a result of the ongoing performance evaluations, the Executive Chairman has recognised the strengths and addressed the weaknesses of the Board as a whole by proposing new members be appointed to the Board, resulting in the appointment during 2007 of Duncan Lewis and Tom Maxwell.
The Senior Independent Director also meets with the non-executive directors and, in the absence of the Executive Chairman, held a meeting to assess the Executive Chairmans effectiveness.
The Board is of the opinion that Mr Bramson had no other significant commitments during 2007 that would have affected his performance in his role.
Board Committees Audit Committee Chairman, Ian Brindle At the start of 2007, the Audit Committee comprised three non-executive directors, only one of whom was considered to be independent within the terms of the Code.
However, during the year, Tom Maxwell joined the Audit Committee and Gerard Eastman resigned from the Committee.
The Board also determined that Ian Brindle became independent during the period in accordance with the terms of the Code.
The Code requires that the Audit Committee includes at least one member who has recent, significant and relevant financial experience and the Board believes that both Ian Brindle and Tom Maxwell provide such experience.
Accordingly, the Audit Committee now comprises Ian Brindle, Tom Maxwell and Alex Walker, all of whom are independent non-executive directors and the composition of the Committee is compliant with the Code.
During 2007, the Audit Committee held four meetings at which there was full attendance by Committee members.
At all meetings the Companys external auditors, the Executive Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Vice President Finance and the Head of Financial Reporting were in attendance.
30 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 31 The Audit Committee reviews all published financial statements and post audit findings before their presentation to the Board, focusing in particular on accounting policies, compliance, management judgement and estimates.
It also monitors the Groups internal control and risk management regime and financial reporting.
Any significant findings or identified weaknesses are closely examined so that appropriate action can be taken, monitored and reported to the Board.
The Audit Committee also advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors and on the scope, results and cost effectiveness of both audit and non-audit work.
The Board has adopted a policy which prohibits certain types of non-audit work from being performed by the Companys auditors, particularly where auditor objectivity and independence would be at risk.
Non-audit work is put to tender where considered appropriate.
Remuneration Committee Chairman, Alex Walker At the start of 2007, the Remuneration Committee comprised three non-executive directors, only one of whom was considered to be independent within the terms of the Code.
However, during the year, Duncan Lewis joined the Remuneration Committee and Gerard Eastman resigned from the Committee.
Accordingly, the Remuneration Committee now comprises Ian Brindle, Duncan Lewis and Alex Walker, all of whom are independent non-executive directors and the composition of the Committee is compliant with the Code.
Further details about the Remuneration Committee are included in the Report on directors remuneration on pages 33 to 42.
Nomination Committee Chairman, Edward Bramson The Nomination Committee comprises the Executive Chairman and all non-executive directors and meets at least once each year.
During 2007, the Nomination Committee held three meetings at which there was full attendance by Committee members.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing the composition and structure of the Board and for identifying and recommending candidates for executive and non-executive positions, based on the required role and capabilities which have been specified for the appointment.
Executive search consultants are used by the Nomination Committee to assist this process as appropriate.
The Board appointed two independent non-executive directors, Duncan Lewis and Tom Maxwell during 2007 in order to bring the composition of the Board back into compliance with Code Provision A.
As the majority of members are independent non-executive directors, the composition of the Committee is compliant with the terms of the Code.
Relations with shareholders Communication with all shareholders is given a high priority and a number of methods are used to promote greater understanding and dialogue with investment audiences.
Dialogue with institutional investors is conducted on a regular basis by the Executive Chairman and the Chief Financial Officer.
The Company has an established cycle of communication based on the Groups financial reporting calendar.
This includes the full year results in February, Annual Report in March, Annual General Meeting in May, half year results in August and trading updates, now called interim management statements, in May and November.
The Executive Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, together with feedback from external advisers, ensure that the views expressed at meetings with institutional shareholders are communicated effectively to the Board as a whole so that any issues or concerns are fully understood.
The Company promotes the use of electronic communication: all stock exchange announcements and presentations to shareholders are made available on our website, together with webcasts of our full and half year financial results.
Our website also contains up to date corporate information including terms of reference for the three Board Committees.
30 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 31 Directors statement on corporate governance continued Delisting from the New York Stock Exchange and deregistration from the US Securities and Exchange Commission On 25 May 2007, the Company announced its intention to delist its American Depositary Shares ADS from the New York Stock Exchange NYSE and to deregister its Ordinary shares and ADS from the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, while maintaining its American Depositary Receipt facility with The Bank of New York Mellon as a Level 1 programme.
The delisting from NYSE became effective on 14 June 2007 and the reporting obligations under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ceased on 5 June 2007.
The SEC registration was deemed terminated on 3 September 2007.
Pensions governance The Groups principal pension and retirement schemes exist in the UK and the US.
Scheme funds are held separately from those of the Group and are administered by Trustees which include employees and independent bodies.
The schemes do not lend money or lease any assets to the Group.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control.
The Board, assisted by the Audit Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of this system and this review did not reveal any significant findings or weaknesses.
The Board confirms that this process was in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of these financial statements.
The primary aim is to operate a system which is appropriate to the business and which can, over time, increase shareholder value whilst safeguarding the Groups assets.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Process Day-to-day responsibility for effective internal control and risk monitoring rests with senior management at business unit level.
With the reduced number of business units in the Group, the Audit Committee and the Board agreed in February 2007 that there was no need at that time for a dedicated Internal Control department and that continues to be the case.
Responsibility for internal control was transferred to two senior financial managers, who are independent of any business unit and play a key role in providing an objective view and continuing assessment of the effectiveness of the internal control systems throughout the Group.
One of the financial managers attends all Audit Committee meetings to give an update on any internal control issues arising and any outstanding remedial actions.
With the Company implementing the delisting of its ADS from NYSE and deregistration of its Ordinary shares and ADS from the SEC, all work on compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 was stopped.
However, the Group has maintained key controls introduced to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 wherever possible.
The Groups system of risk management comprises an integrated risk management strategy consisting of regular selfassessment encompassing all business units.
Significant risks are regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee and by the Board.
In addition to this process, the following key elements are critical to the overall internal control environment: an organisational structure with clear operating procedures, defined lines of responsibility and delegated levels of authority: an Ethics Policy which has been approved by the Board, which sets standards of professionalism and integrity for all employees and operations.
The Ethics Policy also includes whistleblowing procedures whereby employees may report, in confidence, suspected wrongdoings: a comprehensive strategic planning, financial control and budgeting system which is properly documented and regularly reviewed: and a disciplined acquisitions and divestments due diligence process and post acquisition integration programme.
32 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 33
