Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 Corporate Governance Report 38 The Chairman and non-Executive Directors The Board of Directors is committed to the Alistair Phillips-Davies and Sir Kevin Smith met during the year without the executive highest standards of corporate governance come up for re-election at the forthcoming management being present.
The nonand believes that strong corporate AGM.
Following the Board evaluation Executive Directors would consider meeting governance improves the performance of reported on below, it is confirmed that the without the Chairman if there were concerns the Group and enhances shareholder value.
performance of the Directors coming up which the Chairman had failed to resolve or Due regard is given to the continuing for re-election continues to be effective if there were any issues concerning his developments in this field, including policy and they have demonstrated commitment in performance.
The Directors are fully briefed guidelines which are regularly issued and their respective roles.
In addition, Sir Kevin in advance of all Board meetings on all updated by organisations representing major Smith as a non-Executive Director, has the matters to be discussed, including regular institutional investors.
Recently there have appropriate experience, knowledge, and business and financial reports, and they been some new appointments to the Board, independence to scrutinise effectively the also receive copies of analysts and brokers designed to broaden the range of skills performance of management.
Nick Baldwin reports on the company.
This report sets and Richard Gillingwater, both of whom have out how the governance framework been appointed since the last AGM, come up The non-Executive Directors appointment is implemented across the Group.
for election at the forthcoming AGM.
letters are available on the companys The Remuneration Report on pages 44 website.
to 49 details the remuneration policies Biographical details for all the Directors and practices.
Directors Attendance In addition to the AGM, the Board had nine Combined Code Compliance Division of Responsibilities scheduled meetings during the year and The Board considers that this report on how The roles of the Chairman and the Chief would meet more frequently as required.
The the company complies with the UK Financial Executive are separate and clearly defined attendance of Directors at Board meetings Reporting Councils Combined Code on and have been approved by the Board.
The and meetings of its Committees during the Corporate Governance the Combined Chairman is responsible for the operation, year to 31 March 2007 are set out in the Code provides the information necessary leadership and governance of the Board.
There was full attendance at to enable shareholders to evaluate how the The Chief Executive is responsible for all Board and relevant Committee meetings principles of the Combined Code have been the management of Group business and the during the year with the exception of Susan applied.
Throughout the year, the company implementation of strategy and policy once Rice who was unable to attend the Board has complied with all the provisions set out agreed by the Board.
In discharging his meeting held in July 2006 due to unforeseen in Section 1 of the Combined Code and the responsibilities, the Chief Executive is advised travel problems.
Board therefore considers that the company and assisted by a number of committees has satisfied its obligations under the including the Executive Committee Board Procedures Combined Code.
comprising the senior management The Board has a schedule of matters of the Groups main businesses.
specifically reserved to it for decision, ORGANISATION AND STRUCTURE which includes strategic items, Board and Director Independence Committee appointments and related Board Membership All of the non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent according governance matters, approval of the annual The non-Executive Chairman, Sir Robert to the principles of the Combined Code.
budget, Company Reports and Financial Smith, chairs the Board.
The Board consists Statements, significant contracts and of six non-Executive Directors and four The non-Executive Directors bring a wide capital expenditure and certain key policies.
Executive Directors in addition to the range of skills and experience to the Group, The Board regularly reviews this schedule.
Chairman, ensuring an appropriate balance including independent judgement on issues of independence and experience.
Nick of strategy, performance, financial controls The Board receives detailed financial and Baldwin joined the Board on 1 September and systems of risk management.
operational information to allow it to monitor 2006, and Richard Gillingwater joined the effectively the performance of the key areas Board on 25 May 2007.
David Payne will The Senior Independent Director is the of the business.
It also receives regular retire at the forthcoming AGM.
He is a updates on the progress and performance member of the Audit, Nomination and of investments and other major decisions All Directors are subject to election by Remuneration Committees.
made by it, together with regular business shareholders at the first AGM following reports and presentations from senior appointment and thereafter to re-election management.
Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Executive Risk Health, Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Safety and Environmental Committee 9 meetings 3 meetings 1 meeting 4 meetings 12 meetings 12 meetings 3 meetings Nick Baldwin 6 1 Gregor Alexander 9 12 12 Colin Hood 9 12 3 Ian Marchant 9 1 12 12 Ren Mdori 9 3 2 David Payne 9 3 1 4 Alistair Phillips-Davies 9 12 12 Susan Rice 8 2 1 2 Sir Kevin Smith 9 1 4 2 Sir Robert Smith 9 1 2 Nick Baldwin was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 September 2006 and he attended all meetings from that date.
All members of the Remuneration Committee attended meetings while members of the Committee.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 39 All of the non-Executive Directors have been focussed on the correct areas.
This review As reported above, an evaluation of the appointed for fixed terms of three years.
will continue to be carried out on an annual performance of this Committee was carried basis.
The Board was satisfied that the out during the year.
This evaluation also BOARD EFFECTIVENESS review of its performance was a worthwhile included the principal attendees of the exercise and the Directors had participated Committee, namely the Finance Director, Induction and Professional Development in an open and frank basis.
the Group Audit Manager and the external Directors receive a comprehensive induction auditors.
course on joining the Board tailored to their Led by the senior independent director, individual requirements which includes David Payne, the non-Executive Directors Activities of the Committee in 2006 2007 meetings with senior management, visits to evaluated the performance of the Chairman.
The Committee had three meetings during key sites, and a meeting with the company the year.
Where appropriate other Directors, broker and analysts.
It also covers a review BOARD COMMITTEES the internal and external auditors and senior of all risks facing the Group including key management attend Committee meetings operational issues such as safety and The Board has six committees.
The terms to present reports and respond to questions environmental performance.
of reference for all Committees are available posed by the Committee.
on the companys website www.
scottishDuring the year, the Board and its key southern.
Financial Statements committees received briefings on new The Committee ensured that the annual and developments affecting the Groups AUDIT COMMITTEE interim statements represented an accurate, activities, such as company law reform, clear and balanced assessment of the corporate governance, regulatory Role of the Committee Groups position.
It reviewed the effectiveness The principal responsibilities of the developments and financial reporting of the overall audit process and met with the Committee are: standards.
Directors were also able to external auditor and management separately update their knowledge of the business k ensuring the financial reports represent to identify any areas of concern in the through regular presentations by senior an accurate, clear and balanced preparation of the financial statements.
management on the full range of the assessment of the companys position: Groups activities, and visits to key offices k monitoring the effectiveness of internal Internal Financial Control and Risk and operational sites.
Separate more control and risk management in areas Management Systems informal meetings were also held with such as Energy Trading and Treasury: The Committee considers areas where groups of key managers.
There is an agreed k monitoring and reviewing the Groups there could be significant risk such as procedure for Directors to be able to take internal audit function: and Energy Trading and Treasury.
Follow-up independent professional advice in the k ensuring the independence of the reports are also provided to the Committee furtherance of their duties, if necessary, external auditor.
to ensure appropriate actions are completed.
at the Groups expense and all Directors The review by the Committee of the have access to the advice and services The Chairman of the Committee reports effectiveness of the companys internal of the Company Secretary.
to the Board following each Committee financial control and risk management meeting on the main areas and subjects systems is described in the Internal Control The company continues to operate an the Committee has reviewed such as risk and Risk Management section below.
enhanced programme of performance management, internal control, internal coaching for members of the Executive audit reports and any issues arising from External Auditors Committee which was rolled out to senior its review of Group Financial Statements.
The Committee has an established policy managers of the Group during the year.
which restricts the engagement of the The purpose of the programme is to Membership and Experience auditors for non-audit services.
The policy develop the Executive Directors and senior All members of the Committee are details non-audit work from which the management and maximise individual independent non-Executive Directors.
The auditors are excluded, and other non-audit and group performance to ensure that membership of the Committee is as follows: work which may be awarded to them in a the business is managed effectively.
k Ren Mdori Committee Chairman : competitive tender process where non-audit k David Payne, the companys Senior fees exceed a threshold of 30,000 for Performance Evaluation Independent Director and Deputy general advice and 75,000 for tax related During the year the Chairman conducted Chairman : advice.
Where such non-audit work was a comprehensive evaluation of the k Nick Baldwin: and awarded, the Committee was satisfied that performance of the Board, its six k Richard Gillingwater it was best handled by the auditors because Committees and the individual Directors.
of their knowledge of the Group.
The nonEach Director completed a questionnaire Susan Rice stood down as a Committee audit work awarded during the year related which covered such areas as Board reports member on 13 November 2006 and Nick primarily to taxation and regulatory reporting and presentations, effectiveness, Baldwin joined the Committee on that date.
The Committee is confident that the development, strategy, management of risk Richard Gillingwater joined the Audit objectivity and independence of the auditors and corporate responsibility.
The Chairman Committee on 25 May 2007. was not affected by this further work.
It is and, where appropriate, the Chairmen of the clear from independent surveys that the Committees then discussed these matters The Board considers that the membership of company continues to award a low amount with each Director and the Company the Audit Committee as a whole has sufficient of non-audit work to its auditors KPMG Secretary during a series of individual recent and relevant financial experience to Audit Plc, compared to most FTSE100 meetings.
The outcome of this process discharge its functions.
Full disclosure of the nonwas reported to the Board at its meeting particular relevant financial experience in audit fees paid during the year is made on 22 January 2007.
Following the review, his executive career.
Currently he is the in Note 3 to the Accounts.
a number of improvements were made to Finance Director of Anglo American plc.
the Board and Committee procedures.
The external auditors attended each However, the outcome was that generally The Deputy Company Secretary is Secretary committee meeting.
In addition, the the Board continued to set clear objectives, of the Audit Committee.
Committee met with the external auditors it monitored performance well, and was without the presence of management.
Evaluation of the Committee Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 Corporate Governance Report continued 40 During the year the Committee approved the Membership of the Nomination Committee The Committee members are Colin Hood terms of appointment of the external auditors is made up of: four non-Executive Directors, Chairman, the Director of Human and their remuneration.
The Committee Susan Rice, David Payne, Sir Kevin Smith Resources, the Group Safety and recommended to the Board that KPMG Audit and Ren Mdori: the Company Chairman, Environmental Manager and Sir Kevin Smith, Plc be proposed for reappointment, having Sir Robert Smith who chairs the committee : non-Executive Director, with Ian Marchant attending as appropriate.
A senior member been satisfied with the scope and results and Ian Marchant.
Members do not take part of the Safety Team is Secretary to the of the audit work, their objectivity and in discussions about their own appointment.
The Board endorsed On 13 November 2006, Ren Mdori joined the Committees recommendation.
The Company Secretary is INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK Secretary to the Nomination Committee.
MANAGEMENT Internal Audit The Committee reviews the plans and During the year the Nomination Committee The Directors acknowledge that they have work of internal audit.
The Group Audit reviewed the current and future structure of responsibility for the Groups systems of Manager reports to the Committee on the the Board including Board committee internal control and risk management and audit programme, progress against the membership, general succession planning, for monitoring their effectiveness.
The programme and any follow-up actions.
and the appointment of new non-Executive purposes of these systems are to manage, Further details relating to internal audit Directors.
rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to can be found below in the section headed achieve business objectives, and provide Internal Control and Risk Management.
It is the Committees practice to identify reasonable assurance as to the quality of possible future non-Executive Directors management information and to maintain REMUNERATION COMMITTEE with the assistance of a professional search proper control over the income, expenditure, firm.
The appointments of Nick Baldwin assets and liabilities of the Group.
The principal responsibilities of the and Richard Gillingwater were confirmed Remuneration Committee are: by the Board following all Directors having No system of control can, however, provide k formulation of remuneration policy and the opportunity to meet them.
Nick Baldwin absolute assurance against material approval of all aspects of the Executive was chosen because of his experience misstatement or loss.
Accordingly, the Directors remuneration, including of the industry, and Richard Gillingwater Directors have regard to what controls, in bonuses and the granting of incentives because of his investment banking and their judgement, are appropriate to the under the companys schemes: city experience.
Groups businesses, to the materiality k ensuring that an appropriate proportion of the risks inherent in these businesses, of pay is linked to corporate and RISK COMMITTEE and to the relative costs and benefits of individual performance: and implementing specific controls.
k review and approval of the Chairmans The Risk Committee comprises Alistair fees.
Phillips-Davies Chairman, Ian Marchant, The Board and its Committees maintain an Gregor Alexander and senior managers ongoing process of identifying, evaluating During the year the Remuneration from Energy Trading, Electricity Generation and managing the significant commercial, Committee met four times.
It met 12 times during the financial, social, ethical, environmental year to review and manage the operational and general risks to the Groups business.
The Committee members are Susan Rice, and financial risks and exposures in Throughout the year, each business unit Sir Robert Smith, Sir Kevin Smith and Energy Trading, interest rates and currency evaluates risks with the key risks being David Payne.
A senior manager in Energy reflected in reports to the Board and or Trading is Secretary to the Audit Committee.
This process is On 13 November 2006 the following changes regularly reviewed by the Board, has been were made to the membership of the EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE in place throughout the year and up to the Committee: date of approval of the accounts.
As part k Susan Rice replaced David Payne as The Executive Committee comprises all the of this process the Audit Committee reviews Chairman: Executive Directors and other senior Group the arrangements by which staff can, in k Sir Robert Smith joined the Committee: Executives.
The Chairman is Ian Marchant, confidence, raise concerns about any possible and apart from meetings on operational improprieties in financial and other matters.
k Ren Mdori stood down as a performance matters, which are chaired by Committee member.
It met 12 times during the year Control is maintained through an and was responsible for all key management organisation structure with clearly defined Full details of Directors remuneration, issues arising from the business of the responsibilities, authority levels and lines general policy and developments during the Group: the implementation of the Group of reporting: the appointment of suitably year are given in the Remuneration Report strategy: and monitoring the operational qualified staff in specialised business areas: set out on pages 44 to 49.
The Company and financial performance and assessing and continuing investment in high quality Secretary is Secretary to the Remuneration and reviewing risks arising from the Groups information systems.
The Company Secretary is control are subject to periodic review as Secretary to the Executive Committee.
to their implementation and continued NOMINATION COMMITTEE suitability.
HEALTH SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL The Nomination Committee reviews the ADVISORY COMMITTEE composition and balance of the Board and following a formal and rigorous The Committee met three times during review recommends suitable candidates the year and was responsible for ensuring for appointment as Directors.
that health, safety and environmental policies had been implemented, setting targets and monitoring performance, and promoting awareness of these issues throughout the Group.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 41 The main financial risks which the Group during its annual review of the effectiveness to explain the Groups position on a wide could face includes those in respect of of the Groups systems of internal control range of business and policy issues.
interest rates and, to a lesser extent, and risk management did not identify nor inflation, foreign exchange, liquidity and was advised of any failings or weaknesses The company promotes the use of electronic credit.
The Board reviews and agrees which it has determined to be significant.
For all policies for addressing each of these risks.
Therefore a confirmation in respect of shareholders who have opted for this service The other key financial risk of exposure to necessary actions has not been considered where they can view documents online and energy prices and volumes is addressed by appropriate.
The Board is satisfied that the lodge their proxy vote over the internet, the the Risk Committee and is further explained Group complies with the Turnbull Guidance company has undertaken to plant a native in note 28 to the Financial Statements.
species tree in a designated woodland.
There is relatively little exposure to foreign This process did not extend to joint ventures The company runs a dividend reinvestment currency risk as the United Kingdom is the and associates for the purposes of this plan, details of which can be found on the Groups main area of operation.
If either fuel report, although the Group seeks to ensure companys website.
or plant are contracted in foreign currency, such joint ventures and associates have it is the Groups policy to hedge all material appropriate corporate governance systems Shareholders can also access Investor purchases through the use of foreign in place.
Centre, a free-internet based service currency swaps and forward rate contracts.
provided through our registrar where GOING CONCERN shareholders can view their shareholdings, There is also the risk of mechanical or update their details and manage their share The Directors consider that the Group process failure in the Groups operations.
In addition shareholders can has adequate resources to continue in Any material failure in the Groups licensed also make use of the share dealing service operational existence for the foreseeable operations in electricity generation, also provided through our registrar.
The Financial Statements are transmission, distribution and supply and of both services can be found on the therefore prepared on a going concern basis.
in the supply and storage of gas would companys website.
Operating risk COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS is addressed through the Groups focus In early 2007 the first provisions of the AND MAJOR BUSINESS STAKEHOLDERS on seeking operational excellence and Companies Act 2006 were brought into on maintaining the highest standards force.
The key change allows companies The Directors acknowledge the importance of safety and quality.
to use electronic communications with of communication with shareholders.
There its shareholders as a default position.
is a continuing programme of meetings The Group is exposed to economic The purpose of this change is to reduce between Executive Directors and institutional regulation and government policy.
There the number of paper copies of the Annual shareholders on a wide range of issues.
The are management structures in place to Report and Accounts that are printed and non-Executive Directors receive feedback on mitigate, influence and respond to such posted to shareholders.
The company is these meetings on a regular basis to allow developments, and to engage with the seeking approval for this proposal at the them to form a view of the priorities and Industry Regulator, Government ministers forthcoming AGM, and more details concerns of institutional investors.
and officials, and other key bodies.
accompany the notice of meeting.
It is intended to review the companys Articles All Directors were present at the Annual There are established procedures in place of Association following full implementation General Meeting in 2006 apart from Susan for regular budgeting and reporting of of the Companies Act 2006, and bring the Rice who could not attend due to unforeseen financial information.
The Groups proposed changes to the Articles to the travel problems.
All intend to be present performance is reviewed by the Board and AGM in 2008 for approval.
at the Annual General Meeting in 2007 the Executive Committee.
Reports include to answer shareholders questions.
variance analysis and projected forecasts To ensure that shareholders have easy of the year compared to approved budgets access to as much information as possible, The companys shareholders are widely and non-financial performance indicators.
co. uk contains financial and ensure that the maximum number of There are Group policies in place covering other information about the Group, including shareholders have the chance to attend a wide range of issues and risks such as shareholder presentations, stock exchange an AGM, its location is alternated between financial authorisations, IT procedures, announcements, and general business Scotland and the south of England.
The health, safety and environmental risks, news.
In addition, the website contains Chairman gave a presentation on the crisis management, and a policy on ethical information relating to the governance of companys business at the AGM in 2006, principles.
The business risks associated the company, including the Memorandum and will do so again at the forthcoming AGM.
with the Groups operations are regularly and Articles of Association, the schedule of assessed by the Board and the Audit matters reserved to the Board, the terms The Chairman introduces the presentation Committee.
The Risk Committee comprising of reference for each Board Committee of the companys interim and preliminary three Executive Directors, together with and the letters of appointment for the results to analysts and investors and he and senior managers, meets regularly to review non-Executive Directors.
the Senior Independent Director also meet risks and authority levels in key areas of the with major shareholders from time to time.
In September 2006, the Board held its Review of the System of Internal Control The effectiveness of the Groups systems of meeting in Edinburgh and took the opportunity internal control is monitored by the internal of hosting a meeting with representatives audit department which distributes reports of a number of organisations which have and where appropriate action plans to senior an interest in the Groups activities in areas managers, Directors and the external such as the environment, energy efficiency, auditors.
Throughout the year, the Audit the community and customer service.
The Committee kept these systems under review purpose of this was to hear their views, reporting regularly to the Board.
The Board suggestions and any concerns, and also
