Corporate governance Introduction During the year under review, the Board continued to be led by the The Board is responsible for delivering value to shareholders and other Chairman, Gerald Corbett.
Garry Watts, the Chief Executive, is primarily stakeholders, by developing strategy and by leading the Group, ensuring responsible for the effective running of the Groups business.
There is that the appropriate resources, processes and controls are in place to a clear, written schedule on the division of responsibilities between the execute that strategy.
Developing and maintaining high standards of Chairman and the Chief Executive.
In addition to the Chairman and corporate governance is integral to the delivery of value.
Chief Executive, there are four Non-Executive Directors one of whom is the Senior Independent Director SID and two Executive Directors.
This report explains SSLs corporate governance arrangements and how Mike Pilkington served as an Executive Director during the year, until the Group has applied the Combined Code on Corporate Governance he resigned on 22 March 2007. the Code.
Details of the Chairmans professional commitments are included in The Board his biography.
The Board is satisfied that the other commitments of There is a written schedule of matters reserved to the Board.
This the Chairman do not interfere with the performance of his duties as schedule includes: Chairman.
The Board considers that all of the Non-Executive Directors Approval development of the Groups long-term objectives and are independent in character and judgement and by reference to the commercial strategy: Combined Code and that controls are in place to ensure that no single Approval of annual operating and capital expenditure budgets and any Director has unfettered powers of decision.
material changes to them: Review of performance in the light of the Groups strategy, objectives, The management of operational matters within the Group is delegated to business plans and budgets and ensuring that any necessary corrective the Executive Committee, which comprises the Executive Directors and action is taken: certain other senior executives.
The Executive Committee meets monthly.
Approval of major capital projects, including acquisitions: Approval of contracts which are material strategically, or by reason Board evaluation of size: and During the year, the Board reviewed the process for the evaluation of the Monitoring the system of internal control and corporate governance.
performance of the Board, its committees and the individual Directors.
Previously, evaluations have been conducted internally and led by the SID.
To ensure proper consideration at the appropriate time, the Board has The Board concluded that an internal evaluation remained appropriate, a schedule of matters for each meeting.
These matters include: but that the process be led by the Chairman, whilst the SID conducted the Reports from the Chief Executive and Finance Director: evaluation of the Chairman.
Health and safety: Presentations from the heads of the business units: All Directors were required to complete a detailed questionnaire, which Investor relations: and each Director then discussed with the Chairman and with the SID, in relation Regulatory reviews.
to responses about the Chairman.
The results were presented and fully discussed by the Board.
Overall, the results were good.
Recommendations The Board receives regular updates on relevant legal, environmental and that are being implemented include a more detailed half-year review on regulatory matters, as necessary between meetings.
strategy and greater focus on succession planning.
The schedule below sets out the number of scheduled Board and The Board considers the annual evaluation to be a valuable process committee meetings held during the year and the attendance by Directors which has contributed to fostering an environment within the Board which at those meetings.
is challenging but supportive and encourages focus on the main issues facing the Group.
In 2005 06, the recommendations included improving Scheduled Audit Nomination Remuneration the Boards knowledge of the supply chain process.
Regular updates on Board Committee Committee Committee the supply chain are now presented to the Board and consequently the meetings meetings meetings meetings knowledge of the Directors in this area has improved.
G Corbett 7 7 5 5 1 1 G Watts 7 7 5 5 Dialogue with shareholders I Adamson 7 7 The Company has a comprehensive investor relations programme M Moran 7 7 involving existing and potential investors.
The Chief Executive, Finance P Read 7 7 4 4 5 5 4 4 Director and certain senior executives meet with institutional investors R Adam 7 7 4 4 5 5 4 4 on a regular basis.
The Chairman and SID make themselves available to A Catalano 6 7 3 4 3 4 meet with institutional investors.
The SID attended the preliminary and S Murray 7 7 4 4 4 4 interim results presentations with investors and analysts.
An investor M Pilkington 7 7 relations report is presented and considered at each Board meeting.
The figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings in the period in which the The Board uses the Annual General Meeting, which all Directors attend, individual was a Board member.
When Directors are unable to attend meetings, they receive to communicate with investors and encourage their participation.
the relevant papers and are invited to comment in advance of the meeting.
The Directors are available to speak informally with shareholders after the meeting.
In addition, there is an annual off-site meeting devoted solely to strategy.
34 35 Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Board Committees The Board has established three committees.
Each committee operates in accordance with formal terms of reference, which are reviewed annually and can be viewed on the Companys website, www.
Committee meetings are generally held immediately prior to Board meetings and the committee chairmen report at the next meeting on the proceedings of the committee which they chair.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Chairman Richard Adam Peter Read Peter Read Members Anna Catalano Richard Adam Richard Adam Susan Murray Gerald Corbett Anna Catalano Peter Read Garry Watts Gerald Corbett Attending by invitation Group Chairman Group HR Director Chief Executive Chief Executive Company Secretary Group HR Director Finance Director Company Secretary External auditor Head of Business Assurance internal audit Financial Controller Company Secretary Summary of principal activities Review of interim and annual Reviewing the size and Reviewing the remuneration during the year reports, including a consideration composition of the Board policy for the Executive Directors of the comments of the external including the mix of skills and the Executive Committee auditor thereon and experience Agreeing the compensation Review of risk management Consideration of succession arrangements for Mike Pilkington and internal control systems issues Further information on the work Review of the Groups internal Recommending the extension of this committee can be found audit processes, including of the appointments of Richard in the Remuneration report on approval of the annual internal Adam and Peter Read as Nonpages 39 to 45 audit plan Executive Directors Monitoring the provision of services by the external auditors and an annual appraisal of their effectiveness as auditors Policy on auditors independence Risk management is embedded within the day-to-day activities of all Safeguarding the independence of the external auditors is paramount and executives.
Management of this area is now the responsibility of the controls are in place to ensure their continued independence.
A significant element of this process is there are occasions when services can be more efficiently undertaken by the maintenance of a Group Risk Matrix the Matrix.
The Matrix contains the external auditor and at no risk of impairment of their independence.
both financial and non-financial risks, identified through regular top down The Audit Committee has put in place a detailed policy on the provision and bottom up reviews.
of services by the external auditors, which sets out the services which the external auditors are allowed to carry out on behalf of the Group and those The Board believes that the Company operates an effective embedded which are prohibited to them.
Under this policy, external auditors cannot system of internal control and is confident that it complies with Internal be engaged to provide any of the following services: Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Report.
Design or implementation of IT systems: Valuation: Further information about the risk management processes is given on Internal audit: and pages 36 and 37.
Litigation support, legal or corporate finance advice, tax advice if on a wholly or partly contingent fee basis, recruitment, executive compensation Combined Code compliance advice, accounting and actuarial valuation.
Secondment of senior audit During the year the Company complied with the Code except in the staff to the Company is also prohibited.
following respect: Under this policy, it has been agreed that due to their understanding of A4.1 The Nomination Committee comprises the Group Chairman, the the Groups business and therefore ensuring cost efficiency, the external Chief Executive, the SID and a Non-Executive Director.
Whilst the Board auditors may be engaged for the following non-audit services, for which considers the Group Chairman to be independent, membership of this there is a pre-agreed limit for fees not including VAT which do not require Committee does not consist of a majority of independent Non-Executive prior approval from the Audit Committee: Directors, as defined by the Code.
Audit-related regulatory reporting including interim review, covenant reporting and other audit certificates 100,000 : Going concern Further assurance including advice on accounting matters, nonAfter making enquiries, the Directors believe that the Group and the regulatory reporting on internal controls or corporate governance, Company have adequate resources to operate for the foreseeable due diligence work and environmental audits 100,000 : and future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis Tax compliance and tax advisory services 300,000. in preparing the financial statements.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee may approve urgent engagements not covered by these categories, subsequently notifying the Audit Committee at its next meeting.
Details of fees paid to the external auditor during the year are set out in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
Internal control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, and this is monitored by the Audit Committee.
Key elements of this system include: Regular Board meetings with a formal schedule of matters reserved for Board discussion: Clearly defined organisational structures and appropriate delegation of authority adherence to which is kept under review : Centralised treasury operations operating within defined limits: Review of the Groups accounting manuals and procedures: Receipt of annual compliance statements from all statutory units within the Group, stating compliance with Group accounting manuals: and An effective internal audit function providing independent scrutiny of internal control systems and risk management procedures.
