Corporate governance report Ewan Brown, one of the five independent Non-Executive Directors, has 6.1 Introduction served on the Board since 1988 and is a non-executive director of Noble The Stagecoach Board is accountable to shareholders for the Groups Grossart, which is an advisor to the Company.
The Company recognises and activities and is responsible for the effectiveness of corporate governance understands investor concerns over longer-serving Non-Executive Directors practices within the Group in conformity with the Combined Code on but nevertheless continues to regard Ewan Brown as independent.
Ewan Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
Browns long association with the Group enables him to provide a robust and This section of the report discusses Stagecoach Groups corporate governance effective challenge to management because of the sound and detailed arrangements and management structures.
It also includes the disclosures knowledge of the Groups business that he has developed.
The Board believes recommended by the Combined Code, and describes how the principles of that Ewan Browns length of service enhances his effectiveness as a nongood corporate governance that are set out in the Combined Code have been executive director and that he remains independent in character and applied.
In line with best practice, separate reports are provided from each of judgement.
In recognition of the factors suggested by the Combined Code the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, Health, Safety and for determining independence, Ewan Brown stands for annual re-election as Environmental Committee and Remuneration Committee.
In addition, Ewan Brown does not serve on the Remuneration Committee or the Audit Committee.
In assessing independence, the Board takes into account the wider composition and balance of the Board as a 6.2 Compliance with the Combined Code whole.
In July 2006, the Financial Reporting Council published an amended version of the Combined Code.
Although the amended version only applies to In determining the independence of Non-Executive Directors, the Board accounting periods starting on or after 1 November 2006, the Directors considers a number of factors.
In particular the Board satisfies itself on the believe that from 1 July 2007 the Group will comply with all of the following questions: recommendations contained in the amended Combined Code.
Does the Director provide a robust and effective challenge to executive However, for a period during the year the Company did not fully comply with management?
the recommendations of the Combined Code.
Russell Walls stepped down as Is the Director prepared to challenge others beliefs, assumptions and a Non-Executive Director on 25 August 2006 and Garry Watts will be viewpoints for the overall good of the Group and its shareholders?
appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 July 2007.
In the period from 25 August 2006 to the date of this report: Does the Director effectively contribute to constructive debate by the Board and its Committees?
The Audit Committee did not have a Chairman and comprised only two Directors, neither of whom have recent and relevant financial experience.
Is the Director willing to defend his or her own beliefs and viewpoints for However, Iain Duffin acted as Chairman at meetings and at least one of the the overall good of the Group and its shareholders?
Companys other independent Non-Executive Directors who have recent and relevant financial experience was also in attendance at all meetings of Does the Director have a sound and detailed knowledge of the Groups the Committee.
This ensured that at least two independent Non-Executive business that enables him or her to effectively question strategy and Directors attended each meeting.
executive managements running of the business?
The Remuneration Committee comprised only two Directors.
However, at least one of the Companys other independent Non-Executive Directors 6.4 Operation of the Board attended meetings of the Committee thus ensuring at least three The Board is scheduled to meet six times each year.
Additional meetings of independent Non-Executive Directors attended each meeting.
the Board are held to consider matters arising between scheduled Board If the criteria for determining independence suggested by the Combined meetings, where a decision of the Board is required prior to the next Code were applied, less than half of each of the Board and Nomination scheduled meeting.
Committee in each case excluding the Chairman was independent.
The Chairman ensures that meetings of the Board and shareholders are However, the Boards own view was that at least half of the Board and properly conducted and is responsible for setting and moving forward the Nomination Committee excluding the Chairman was independent, Boards agenda.
Leadership of the Board by the Chairman is not the same as because it regards Ewan Brown as independent.
the leadership required from the Group Chief Executive to turn the Boards Notwithstanding the above, the Board believes that it and its Committees strategic and policy decisions into actions.
The Group Chief Executive has remained effective during this period.
The appointment of Garry Watts with day-to-day responsibility for all business of the Group and carries out the effect from 1 July 2007 will remedy the above areas of non-compliance with agreed strategy and policies of the Board.
The split of the Chairmans and the Combined Code.
Chief Executives responsibilities is in writing and has been approved by the Board.
6.3 Composition of the Board The Directors biographies appear on pages 20 and 21 of this Annual Report The Combined Code suggests that independent Non-Executive Directors and illustrate the Directors range of experience, which ensures an effective should make up at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman.
Board to lead and control the Group.
The Non-Executive Directors bring an Following Garry Watts appointment with effect from 1 July 2007, the independent viewpoint and create an overall balance.
Companys Board will comprise nine Directors.
Excluding the Chairman, the The Executive and Non-Executive Directors have a complementary range of Board considers there will be five independent Non-Executive Directors.
financial, operational and entrepreneurial experience that ensures no one director or viewpoint is dominant in the decision-making process.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors periodically meet without the Independent Independent Non-Executive Other Executive Directors being present.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors, Chairman Director Director led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, meet without the Chairman at least annually.
Robert Speirs Chairman Ewan Brown Non-Executive Director All Directors meet regularly with other senior management and staff of the Iain Duffin Non-Executive Director Group, have access to confidential advice from the Company Secretary and Sir George may take independent legal or other professional advice at the Groups Mathewson Non-Executive Director expense where it is considered necessary for the proper discharge of their Janet Morgan Non-Executive Director duties as Directors.
The Company Secretary, whose appointment and Garry Watts Non-Executive Director removal is a matter for the Board as a whole, is responsible to the Board for Ann Gloag Non-Executive Director ensuring the Board procedures are complied with.
Brian Souter Chief Executive Martin Griffiths Finance Director All Directors submit themselves for election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment and all Directors are required to page 26 | Stagecoach Group plc 59983 StCoachRep1to38 5 7 07 19:31 Page 27 stand for re-election by shareholders at least every three years.
Non-Executive the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director obtains feedback from each Directors, including the Chairman, who are not considered by the Board to be individual director on the performance of the Chairman.
A similar process is independent, or are considered independent but have served on the Board undertaken to assess the performance of each of the Boards committees.
for more than nine years, submit themselves for annual re-election.
Each The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and its director receives induction training on appointment and subsequently such committees.
Each Director has assessed the effectiveness of the Board and training or briefings as are considered necessary to keep abreast of matters each committee of which he or she is a member.
affecting their roles as Directors.
The Chairman endeavours to ensure that all Directors including any newly appointed Directors attend the Annual The assessment of effectiveness included consideration of: General Meeting, providing an opportunity for shareholders to meet the The effectiveness of the formal Board and committee meetings: : Directors.
The nature and extent of the Boards interaction with the management of The number of full Board meetings during the year was six.
The full Board the Group: meets once a year at an operational location and regular verbal communication is maintained by the Chairman between meetings to ensure The timeliness, relevance and accuracy of the information provided to the all Directors are well informed on strategic and operational issues.
Board and its committees: The Board has a number of matters reserved for its consideration, with The allocation of the Boards time between differing priorities including principal responsibilities being to agree the overall strategy and investment the time spent on strategic considerations relative to other matters: and policy, to approve major capital expenditure, to monitor performance and risk The composition of the Board and its committees.
management procedures of senior management, to ensure that there are proper internal controls in place and to consider major acquisitions or The Board has considered the results of these assessments and has concluded disposals.
The Directors have full and timely access to information with that overall the Board and its committees continue to operate in an effective Board papers distributed in advance of meetings.
The Board keeps the roles and contribution made by each director under review and changes in responsibilities are made where necessary to improve 6.7 Audit Committee the Boards effectiveness.
To provide a more manageable process and better The Audit Committee currently comprises two independent Non-Executive control, certain of the Boards powers have been delegated to committees.
Directors, but a further director will join the Committee with effect from 1 Minutes are taken of each meeting of the Board and its Committees.
It receives reports from major business functions including the Risk any director has significant concerns that cannot be resolved about the Assurance Function.
It also receives reports from the external auditors.
It running of the Group or a proposed action, these concerns are recorded in considers the scope and results of the audit, the interim and annual financial the minutes.
It is also the Groups policy that where a director resigns, the statements and the accounting and internal control systems in place director is asked to provide a written statement to the Chairman of any throughout the Group.
The Audit Committee reviews the cost effectiveness, concerns leading to his or her resignation.
independence and objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
The Audit Committee report is set out on page 30.
6.5 Operational management of the Group The Board delegates the operational management of the Group to the Group 6.8 Remuneration Committee Chief Executive and Group Finance Director Executive Directors.
The The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the Board for Executive Directors maintain day-to-day contact and meet regularly face-toensuring that the Executive Directors and senior management remuneration face or in videoconferences with non-board senior management.
Following is appropriate to attract, motivate and retain Executive Directors and senior the Groups disposal of its New Zealand operations in November 2005, there managers of the quality needed to run the Groups business successfully.
The are three principal operating divisions UK Bus: headed by a Managing constitution and operation of the Remuneration Committee is detailed in the Director, North America: headed by two Chief Operating Officers and UK Rail: Directors remuneration report on pages 32 to 38. headed by a Chief Executive which each comprise a varying number of autonomous business units, each headed by a chairman or managing director 6.9 Nomination Committee who is responsible for the day-to-day performance of the business unit.
Each chairman or managing director is supported by his her own management The Nomination Committee currently comprises three Non-Executive teams.
Directors one of whom is the Chairman of the Company that the Board considers to be independent.
The Committee is responsible for evaluating A Rail Business Development Committee, comprising the two Group the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board, and where Executive Directors and other senior management, oversees the performance appropriate suggesting new appointments.. and development of the Groups rail business, including bidding on new rail franchises.
The Nomination Committee report is set out on page 31.
A Chief Executive heads the Groups joint venture, Virgin Rail Group.
The Chief Executive of the Rail division and the Company Secretary attended 6.10 Health, Safety and Environmental Virgin Rail Group board meetings during the year.
Committee The Health, Safety and Environmental Committee is chaired by an independent Non-Executive Director, Janet Morgan, and comprises one other independent 6.6 Performance evaluation Non-Executive Director, Iain Duffin, and one other Non-Executive Director, Ann The Board assesses its own performance and the performance of each Gloag.
The Committee was established to consider health, safety and individual Board member: this assessment is co-ordinated and directed by the environmental issues across the Group and to report regularly to the Board on Chairman with the support of the Company Secretary.
It has access to internal safety executives and also external Independent Non-Executive Director co-ordinates the Boards assessment of consultants.
the performance of the Chairman.
As part of the assessment process, the Non-Executive Directors meet without the Executive Directors being present.
The Health, Safety and Environmental Committee report is set out on The Non-Executive Directors also meet without the Chairman being present.
The Chairman obtains feedback from each individual Director on the performance of the Board and other Board members this involves the completion of a questionnaire and a follow-up discussion.
In the same way, Stagecoach Group plc | page 27 59983 StCoachRep1to38 5 7 07 19:31 Page 28 Corporate governance report 6.11 Individual director participation at meetings The following is a table of participation in full Board meetings, meetings of committees and the Annual General Meeting by Director during the year ended 30 April 2007: Health, Safety PARTICIPATION Full Board Audit Remuneration and Environmental Nomination Annual General IN MEETINGS meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Meeting Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Robert Speirs 6 6 n a n a n a n a n a n a 1 1 1 1 Brian Souter 6 6 n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a 1 1 Martin Griffiths 6 6 n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a 1 1 Ewan Brown 6 6 n a n a n a n a n a n a 1 1 1 1 Iain Duffin 663 3 3 333 n a n a 11 Ann Gloag 6 6 n a n a n a n a 3 3 n a n a 1 1 Sir George Mathewson appointed 8 June 2006 6 6 n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a 1 1 Janet Morgan 562 3 3 333 1 1 11 Russell Walls resigned 25 August 2006 2 2 1122 n a n a 1 1 1 1 6.12 Relations with shareholders 6.13 Risk management The Board endeavours to present a balanced and understandable assessment The Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks that it faces.
The Board regularly reviews the process, and of the Groups position and prospects in communications with shareholders.
the Board considers that the process accords with the Turnbull Guidance on The Board considers communications with shareholders, whether large or internal control.
small, external or employee, to be extremely important.
The Group holds The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are discussed on pages periodic meetings with representatives of major institutional shareholders, 15 and 16. other fund managers and representatives of the financial press.
The Board considers acceptance of appropriate risks to be an integral part of The programme of investor relations includes presentations in London of the business and unacceptable levels of risk are avoided or reduced and, in some full-year and interim results and meetings with institutional investors in the cases, transferred to third parties.
Internal controls are used to identify and UK and overseas.
Investor and analyst feedback is sought after presentations manage acceptable levels of risk.
The Directors acknowledge their to ensure key strategies, market trends and actions being taken are being responsibility for establishing and maintaining the Groups system of internal effectively communicated and shareholder objectives are known.
During the control, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Although the system can provide year, written responses are given to letters or e-mails received from only reasonable and not absolute assurance of material misstatement or loss, shareholders and all shareholders can receive annual reports or summary the Groups system is designed to provide the Directors with reasonable annual reports.
assurance that any risks or problems are identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
The Group has established an ongoing process of risk The Board receives regular updates on the views of shareholders through review and certification by the business heads of each operating unit.
briefings from the Chairman and the Executive Directors, reports from the Companys brokers and reports from the Companys Financial PR consultants.
Certain of the Groups businesses are subject to significant risk.
Each identified The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to shareholders business risk is assessed for its probability of occurrence and its potential severity of occurrence.
Where necessary, the Board considers whether it is where contact through the normal channels is inappropriate, or has failed to appropriate to accept certain risks that cannot be fully controlled or mitigated resolve concerns.
Private and institutional shareholders are welcome to attend and participate at The Groups risk management process was embedded throughout the the Annual General Meeting and any Extraordinary General Meetings.
The businesses during the financial year ended 30 April 2007 and up to the date of Group aims to ensure that all Directors, including the chairmen of the Audit, the approval of this report.
The Board has carried out a review of the Remuneration, Nomination and Health, Safety and Environmental effectiveness of the Groups internal control environment and such reviews are Committees are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions.
supported on an ongoing basis by the work of the Audit Committee.
The The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for shareholders to Board is satisfied that processes are in place to ensure that risks are question the Chairman and other Directors on a variety of topics and further appropriately managed.
information is provided at the Annual General Meeting on the Groups principal business activities.
It is the Companys policy to propose a separate The Board has designated specific individuals to oversee the internal control resolution at the Annual General Meeting for each substantially separate issue.
and risk management processes, while recognising that it retains ultimate Resolutions are proposed annually in respect of the financial statements and responsibility for these.
The Board believes that it is important that these the Directors remuneration report.
At each Annual General Meeting, the processes remain rooted throughout the business and the managing director Chairman reports, after each show of hands, details of all proxy votes lodged of each operating unit is responsible for the internal control framework within for and against each resolution, and the number of votes withheld.
The Audit Committee meets with representatives of operating units the proxy votes are also published on the Groups website at because this is one way for an independent and objective appraisal of risk http: www.
com scg ir shareholder agm.
The Company and management to be obtained.
its registrars have established procedures to ensure that votes cast are properly Self-assessment of risk conducted by the Directors and senior management is received and recorded.
ongoing and has been considered at several levels, with each division maintaining a separate risk profile.
page 28 | Stagecoach Group plc 59983 StCoachRep1to38 5 7 07 19:31 Page 29 The Group Risk Assurance or internal audit function, which is outsourced to each operating unit maintains internal controls and procedures and managed by Deloitte, reports to the Audit Committee and is utilised in appropriate to the business.
A written certificate is provided at least monitoring risk management processes to determine whether internal annually by the management of each business confirming that they have controls are effectively designed and properly implemented.
A risk-based reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the approach is applied to the implementation and monitoring of controls.
As might be expected, a number of minor internal control monitoring process also forms the basis for maintaining the integrity and weaknesses were identified by this procedure and will be monitored and improving where possible the Groups risk management process in the context addressed.
None of the weaknesses have resulted in any material losses, of the Groups overall goals.
contingencies or uncertainties that would require disclosure in the Groups Annual Report.
This process is considered to be an integral part of the The Audit Committee reviews Group Risk Assurance plans, as well as external maintenance and improvement of our risk management procedures.
audit plans and any business improvement opportunities that are recommended by the external auditors.
a competition compliance programme, which the Board has approved and which is subject to regular monitoring.
Virgin Rail Group has its own audit committee and internal audit function.
The Groups risk management process does not specifically cover Virgin Rail Group, but the Group maintains an overview of Virgin Rail Groups business 6.15 Pension schemes risk management process through representation on the board and audit The assets of the Groups pension schemes are held under trust, separate committee.
Stagecoach management representatives also meet regularly from the assets of the Group and are invested with a number of independent with representatives of Virgin Rail Group to ensure that the joint venture fund managers.
There are ten trustees for the principal UK scheme of whom follows appropriate risk management procedures.
four are employee representatives nominated by the members on a regional basis and one is a pensioner trustee.
The chairman of the trustees of the 6.14 Internal control principal UK scheme is a professional trustee who served for eight years as a fund member elected representative on the National Association of Pension The wider process described above and the key procedures noted below, enable the Directors to confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of Funds investment council.
He also sits independently on two industry-wide the system of internal control of the Group during the year.
The key schemes, as a Department of Trade and Industry appointed trustee of the Mineworkers Pension Scheme and as an elected representative of all railway procedures, which the Directors have established, are as follows: employers on the board of the Railways Pension Scheme.
He was elected an annual budgeting process with periodic re-forecasting of out-turn, Chairman of the Railways Pension Scheme trustees with effect from 1 June identifying key risks and opportunities.
All budgets are presented to a 2007.
The other trustees of the principal UK scheme include senior Group and panel consisting of Executive Directors and or senior managers by each UK Bus executives.
business units management team, before being approved by the Board.
 LLP PwC acts as the actuary for The Yorkshire reporting of financial information to the Board encompassing income Traction Company Limited Pension Plan which was acquired as part of the statement, cash flow, balance sheet and key performance indicators.
Group acquisition of Traction Group Limited during the year ended 30 April 2006. management monitors the results throughout each financial year.
PwC do not act as actuaries or advisors of any of the other principal UK a Risk Assurance function which reviews key business processes and pension schemes.
business controls, reporting directly to the Audit Committee.
A Pensions Oversight Committee was in operation throughout the year.
This third party reviews commissioned periodically by the Group of areas where Committee is chaired by a Non-Executive Director and also comprises one significant inherent risks have been identified, such as treasury Executive Director and other members of senior management.
The management, insurance provisioning, pensions strategy and competition Committee operates at a strategic level and its remit covers all matters policy.
affecting the Groups pension schemes from the perspective of the Groups a decentralised organisational structure with clearly defined limits of shareholders and other stakeholders, and it will consider, develop and responsibility and authority to promote effective and efficient operations.
propose recommendations to the Board in respect of such issues as may arise.
The Committee reviews pension scheme funding, investment strategy, control over the activities of joint ventures and associated undertakings risk management, internal controls surrounding pension matters and the through Stagecoach representation on the boards of the entities together related administration for all of the employee pension schemes of the Group with regular contact between Stagecoach management and the and its subsidiaries.
management of the relevant entities.
a performance management appraisal system covers the Groups senior management and is based on agreed financial and other performance objectives, many of which incorporate managing risk.
significant emphasis is placed on cash flow management.
Bank balances are reviewed on a daily basis and cash flows are compared to budget on a four-weekly basis.
regular reporting to the Board and or its Committees on specific matters including updated key risks, taxation, pensions, insurance, treasury management, foreign exchange, interest and commodity exposures.
The Board regulates treasury management policies and procedures.
defined capital expenditure and other investment approval procedures, including due diligence requirements where material businesses are being acquired or divested.
