Nomination Committee report No Director of the Company is currently a chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
8.1 Composition of the Nomination The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available on the Committee Groups website at The Nomination Committee currently comprises three Non-Executive http: www.
com scg csr corpgov committees nom.
pdf Directors that the Board considers to be independent, Robert Speirs who acts as Chairman, Ewan Brown and Janet Morgan.
The Committee also includes, by invitation, the other Non-Executive Directors, as necessary.
Russell Walls 8.3 Succession Planning Arrangements resigned from the Nomination Committee during the year.
With effect from 1 The Board and the Nomination Committee recognise the importance of July 2007, the Committee will comprise Robert Speirs Chairman, Ewan succession planning to ensure that the Group continues to prosper in the Brown, Janet Morgan and Sir George Mathewson.
The Group operates a decentralised organisational structure with clearly defined limits of responsibility and authority, and oversight from head office.
This structure provides the opportunity for managers to develop in 8.2 Operation of the Nomination Committee some of the Groups smaller business units before progressing to wider and The Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge more responsible roles.
The Group has a history of developing good managers and experience of the Board, and where appropriate suggesting new who have progressed to take on senior positions within the Group.
Based on its assessment, the Committee will prepare a operates a graduate recruitment programme, and some of the graduates description of the role and the required attributes for each particular recruited have gone on to become Managing Directors of individual business appointment.
The description will include a job specification, the estimate of units, both in the UK and North America.
the time commitment expected, and the Groups policy on Directors having other significant commitments.
Potential candidates will be asked to disclose The Nomination Committee is mindful of the need to ensure appropriate their other commitments and confirm that they will have sufficient time to succession arrangements are in place for the Directors.
The Nomination meet what is expected of them.
The Directors are also required to report any Committee and the Board seeks to identify new Directors and senior significant changes in their other commitments as they arise.
The Committee managers to ensure succession of Directors is conducted in a managed way, will identify suitable candidates and make proposals for each appointment, without significant disruption to the ongoing business of the Group.
although final appointments are the responsibility of the Board as a whole.
Potential new Non-Executive Directors are chosen based on a shortlist compiled by the Nomination Committee taking account of known candidates and candidates suggested by the Groups advisors.
For example, the selection of Garry Watts was made following a recruitment process that involved the use of external recruitment consultants and the consideration of a number of Robert Speirs candidates.
Every director met with Garry Watts prior to his formal selection Chairman of the Nomination Committee by the Board.
27 June 2007 Non-Executive Directors receive a letter of appointment.
For any new appointments, the letter of appointment sets out the expected time commitment.
Health, Safety and Environmental Committee report depot and Wimbledon rail depot.
The Committee has also visited operational 9.1 Composition of the Health, Safety and locations in the US and Canada.
Committee members attend meetings of Environmental Committee the Safety Committees of individual business units from time to time, such as the South West Trains Strategic Safety Group.
The Health, Safety and Environmental Committee is chaired by an independent Non-Executive Director, Janet Morgan, and comprises one other The Committee receives reports on trends in health and safety indicators independent Non-Executive Director, Iain Duffin, and one other Nonacross the Group as well as information on significant accidents involving the Executive Director, Ann Gloag.
Key performance indicators are provided and reviewed in respect of each major operating division.
During the year, the Committee agreed a The terms of reference of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee, revised set of key performance indicators to better drive local accountability which were updated during the year, are available on the Groups website at and to recognise that each division has differing attributes and risks.
com scg csr corpgov committees health.
pdf Training is provided to the Committee on health, safety and environmental matters.
In the year ended 30 April 2007, training was focused on matters 9.2 Operation of the Health, Safety and relevant to the Groups largest division, the UK Bus division.
Environmental Committee The Committee liaises with the Remuneration Committee in determining any The Committee was established to consider health, safety and environmental health and safety objectives to form part of the Executive Directors personal issues across the Group and to report regularly to the Board on these matters.
The Committee also approves the Groups overall strategic safety framework.
It has access to internal safety executives and also external consultants.
Details of the Groups health, safety and environmental policies and activities are contained in sections 3.11.4 and 3.11.6 of this Annual Report.
A new strategic safety framework was approved by the Committee during the year.
Executive management is responsible for ensuring that local health and safety policies and procedures are consistent with the overall framework.
Managers from each of the Groups key divisions attend meetings of the Committee from time to time providing the Committee with an opportunity to question and challenge management on health, safety and environmental matters.
Janet Morgan The Committee visits operational locations to observe health, safety and Chairman of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee environmental management in practice.
During the year ended 30 April 27 June 2007 2007, the Committees activities included visits to the Groups Sunderland bus Stagecoach Group plc | page 31
