Audit Committee report 7.1 Composition of the Audit Committee 7.4 Policy on the Auditors Providing The Audit Committee presently comprises two independent Non-Executive Non-Audit Services Directors.
At the present time, its members are Janet Morgan and Iain Procedures in respect of other services provided by the auditors are: Duffin.
They also have access to the advice of a Board with a wealth of Audit related services - These are services that the auditors must undertake financial experience.
Russell Walls resigned as Chairman of the Committee on or are best placed to undertake by virtue of their role as auditors.
Such 25 August 2006 when he stepped down as a Non-Executive Director of the services include formalities relating to bank financing, regulatory reports, Company.
Garry Watts will join the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 and certain shareholder circulars.
The auditors would generally provide all July 2007 and will become Chairman of the Audit Committee from that date.
such services, subject to approval by the Audit Committee.
Garry Watts is a former Finance Director and a serving Chief Executive of a FTSE 350 company.
The Committee will therefore have significant recent Tax consulting - It is the Groups policy to select the advisor for each and relevant financial expertise and be appropriately qualified to undertake its specific piece of tax consulting work who has the most appropriate skills duties in an effective manner.
The designated Committee member with and experience for the work required.
The Group uses a range of advisors recent and relevant financial experience will be Garry Watts for tax consulting, including the auditors where they are best suited to the In the period from 25 August 2006 to the date of this report, the Committee work being undertaken, subject to approval by the Audit Committee.
did not have a Chairman and comprised only two Directors.
However, Iain General consulting - For other consulting work, the Group will select an Duffin acted as Chairman at meetings held during that period and at least advisor after taking account of the skills and experience required and the one other independent Non-Executive Director of the Company attended the expected cost of the work.
The Group uses a range of advisors for general meetings thus ensuring that at least two independent Non-Executive consulting, including the auditors where they are best suited to the work Directors were present at all meetings.
The auditors are only permitted to provide general consulting when the Group, the Audit Committee and the auditors are 7.2 Operation of the Audit Committee satisfied that there are no circumstances that would lead to a threat to the The Audit Committee met three times during the year and has met a further audit teams independence or a conflict of interest.
It receives reports from major business functions including the Risk Assurance Function internal audit, which is outsourced 7.5 Review of Risk Assurance Function and managed by Deloitte.
It also receives reports from the external auditors.
It considers the scope and results of the audit, the half-year and annual The Audit Committee has the delegated responsibility for making financial statements and the accounting and internal control systems in place recommendations on the appointment, reappointment, removal and throughout the Group.
The Audit Committee reviews the cost effectiveness, remuneration of the Group Risk Assurance Function internal auditors.
independence and objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
There have been no instances of disagreements between the Board and the Audit Committee relating to the Risk Assurance Function.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on the Groups website at The Audit Committee conducts a continuous review of the relationship http: www.
com scg csr corpgov committees audit.
pdf between the Group and the Risk Assurance Function.
This review includes a consideration of independence and objectivity, the overall level of fees, the quality of the risk assurance process, and the role of the function in the 7.3 Review of External Auditors context of the broader sources of risk assurance.
The Audit Committee has the delegated responsibility for making recommendations on the appointment, reappointment, removal and The Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the risk assurance remuneration of the external auditors.
There have been no instances of function on an annual basis.
disagreements between the Board and the Audit Committee relating to the external auditors.
7.6 Speaking Up Policy Subject to the annual appointment of auditors by the shareholders, the Audit The Audit Committee reviews the Groups Speaking Up policy, which Committee conducts a continuous review of the relationship between the provides a mechanism for employees with serious concerns about the Group and the auditors.
This review includes: interests of others or the Group to come forward.
The Committee ensures that appropriate arrangements are in place to receive and act proportionately the consideration of audit fees that should be paid and advance approval upon a complaint about malpractice.
The Committee takes a particular of any other fees in excess of 50,000 cumulative which are payable to interest in any reports of possible improprieties in financial reporting.
Any auditors or affiliated firms in respect of non-audit activities: known instances of fraud affecting the Group are reported to the Audit the consideration of the auditors independence and objectivity: Committee.
the nature and scope of the external audit and the arrangements which have been made to ensure co-ordination where more than one audit firm or offices of the same firm are involved: and discussions on such issues as compliance with accounting standards.
The Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the external audit process on an annual basis.
Iain Duffin Acting Chairman of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee, having considered the external auditors performance during their period in office, recommends re-appointment.
The audit fees of 27 June 2007 0.6m for  LLP and non-audit related fees of 0.4m were discussed by the Audit Committee and considered appropriate given the current size of the Group and the level of corporate activity undertaken during the year.
The Committee believes the level and scope of non-audit services does not impair the objectivity of the auditors and that there is a clear benefit obtained from using professional advisors who have a good understanding of the Groups operations.
Other accounting or consulting firms have been used where the Group recognises them as having particular areas of expertise or where potential conflicts of interest for the auditors are identified.
