Corporate governance Tate & Lyle is committed to high standards of corporate Other specific responsibilities are delegated to Board governance, business integrity and professionalism in the Committees, which operate within clearly defined terms way it conducts its activities.
Throughout the year ended of reference.
Details of the responsibilities delegated to 31 March 2007, the Company complied with the provisions the Board Committees are given on pages 65 to 68. set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in The Board meets at least eight times each year.
meetings usually take place at an operating subsidiary or joint venture company.
Board meetings are structured The paragraphs below, together with the directors to allow open discussion and all directors participate in remuneration report on pages 73 to 82, provide details discussing the strategy, trading and financial performance of how the Company applies the principles and complies and risk management of the Company.
The chart below with the provisions of the Code.
shows the approximate time the Board has taken to consider agenda items during the year separated into The Code was revised and reissued in June 2006. general categories.
The revised Code will apply to Tate & Lyle for the first time Board allocation of time for the year ending 31 March 2008.
Tate & Lyle is in Year ended 31 March 2007 compliance with the new requirements of the revised Code.
Governance Other 7% 3% Board of directors The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the Operations Strategy success of the Company and for providing entrepreneurial 13% 38% leadership within a framework of prudent and effective controls that enable risk to be assessed and managed.
It sets the Companys strategic aims and ensures that necessary financial and human resources are in place to enable these objectives to be met and undertakes reviews Finance and risk Capital expenditure of management performance.
In addition, the Board sets 27% and investment the Companys values and standards and ensures that 12% its obligations to its shareholders and others are understood and met.
All substantive agenda items have comprehensive briefing papers, which are circulated five days before the meeting.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to Members of executive management attend Board meetings it for its decision.
This schedule is reviewed annually and and make presentations to the Board on a regular basis.
includes approval of: The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Group strategy: Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules annual budget and operating plans: and regulations are complied with.
All directors have access major capital expenditure, acquisitions or divestments: to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, annual and interim financial results: whose appointment or removal is a matter for the Board safety and environmental policies: as a whole.
In addition, there is a formal procedure in place appointments to the Board and as Company Secretary: whereby, in the furtherance of their duties, directors can senior management structure, responsibilities and obtain independent professional advice, if necessary, at succession plans: the Companys expense.
treasury policies: system of internal control and risk management: and The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover dividend policy.
in respect of legal proceedings and other claims against its directors.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 63 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR 04 How we run the business Corporate governance The attendance of individual directors at Board meetings The non-executive directors have a wide range of skills and held during the year which they were eligible to attend is knowledge and combine broad business and commercial shown in the table below.
experience with independent and objective judgement.
The names and biographical details of the current directors Meetings attended are given on page 61.
The Board is aware of the other Sir David Lees, Chairman 8 8 commitments of its non-executive directors and is satisfied Elisabeth Airey from 1 January 2007 2 3 that these do not conflict with their duties as directors Richard Delbridge 8 8 of the Company.
Changes to the commitments of the Iain Ferguson 8 8 non-executive directors are reported to the Board.
Simon Gifford until 19 July 2006 2 2 Evert Henkes 8 8 The terms and conditions of appointment of the Stanley Musesengwa 8 8 non-executive directors are available for inspection at Kai Nargolwala 6 8 the Companys registered office and will be available John Nicholas from 19 July 2006 6 6 for inspection at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Carole Piwnica until 19 July 2006 2 2 Stuart Strathdee 8 8 Re-election of directors Robert Walker 8 8 The Companys Articles of Association require the Dr Barry Zoumas 7 8 re-election of one-third of the Board or the nearest whole number below one-third at each AGM.
All directors are subject to re-election at least once every three years.
Any In addition to the meetings set out in the table above, one directors appointed by the Board since the last AGM must unscheduled meeting was held to approve the publication stand for re-election at the next AGM.
Any non-executive of a trading update.
directors who have served for more than nine years will be subject to annual re-election.
In the very few instances where a director is unable to attend a Board or Committee meeting, his or her The names of the directors retiring and standing for comments on the briefing papers to be considered at that re-election at the 2007 AGM are set out on page 71. meeting are given in advance to the relevant Chairman.
Further details are given in the letter from the Chairman to shareholders in relation to the 2007 AGM.
Chairman and Chief Executive The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are Information, induction and professional development separated and their responsibilities are clearly established, The Chairman, with the assistance of the Company set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that the directors is responsible for the leadership and workings of the Board receive accurate, timely and clear information on all and ensuring its effectiveness, and the Chief Executive for relevant matters.
the running of the business and the implementation of Board strategy and policy.
On appointment to the Board, directors receive a comprehensive induction programme, which includes site The significant current commitments of the Chairman, visits and meetings with senior management across the Sir David Lees, are set out in his biography on page 61. businesses and Group functions.
New directors also receive The Board is satisfied that his other commitments do not a pack of background reading about the Group and details unduly restrict him from carrying out his duties effectively.
of Board procedures and other governance-related matters.
Major shareholders have been offered the opportunity to Board balance and independence meet new non-executive directors as part of their induction The Board currently comprises the Chairman, who has no programme.
executive responsibilities, four executive directors and six non-executive directors.
Training and updates on particular issues are arranged for directors, as appropriate, on an ongoing basis taking into With the exception of the Chairman, who is presumed account their individual qualifications and experience.
under the Code not to be independent, the Board The Company Secretary also helps directors to undertake considers all the non-executive directors to be independent.
any other professional development they consider necessary or desirable to assist them in carrying out their Richard Delbridge is the Senior Independent Director and is duties as directors or as members of the relevant Board available to shareholders if they have any issues or concerns.
Visits to external events or organisations are also arranged for the Board to help the non-executive directors in particular to gain a deeper insight into the Groups strategy and business activities.
64 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 Performance evaluation In addition, all directors receive copies of analysts reports During the year, the Board carried out an evaluation on the Company, and the Board is briefed periodically by of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
the Companys financial advisers on investors perceptions As in previous years, this was an internal exercise led of Tate & Lyle and its investor relations activities.
The non-executive directors are encouraged to attend The 2007 evaluation involved the Chairman holding one-topresentations to analysts and shareholders, and in particular one performance review meetings with each director, the the presentations that take place on the publication of the Company Secretary and the Group Human Resources Companys annual and interim results.
A number of assessment areas, both on an individual and on a collective basis, were identified by the The Chairman provides feedback to the Board on any Chairman in advance of these meetings, which were used matters raised with him by major shareholders.
as the framework for the discussions.
The Chairman summarised the main themes and comments arising from Some 250 shareholders normally attend the AGM and the meetings and presented a report to the Board for are invited to ask questions and meet informally with the discussion.
The Board concluded that it was operating directors after the formal proceedings have ended.
The level in an effective manner but identified some areas where of proxy votes lodged for and against each resolution, improvements could be made, such as to the content of together with the level of abstentions, are announced to strategic and operational papers provided to the Board.
shareholders at the AGM and are published on our website.
With regard to the performance of individual directors, The Company aims to present a balanced and following the review process, the Chairman concluded that understandable assessment in all its reports to the public each director continues to make an effective contribution and to regulators.
Key announcements, financial reports to the work of the Board, is well prepared and informed and other information about the Group can be found on concerning items to be considered by the Board, has a the Companys website at www.
good understanding of the Groups businesses and that their commitment to the role remains strong.
Board Committees There are four main Board Committees: Chairmans: During the year, the non-executive directors met together Nominations: Remuneration: and Audit.
The terms of without the Chairman present, under the chairmanship of reference of each Committee are reviewed annually by the Senior Independent Director, to appraise the Chairmans the Board, are available upon request and are on the performance the Senior Independent Director having first Companys website at www.
sought the views of the executive directors.
In addition, the Chairman held a private meeting with the non-executive The Committees are provided with sufficient resources to directors to appraise the Chief Executives performance undertake their duties through access to the services of and to address any other matters the non-executive the Company Secretariat and, if deemed necessary, can directors wished to raise.
The outcome of both appraisals obtain independent professional advice at the Companys was highly positive.
The Company Secretary, Robert Gibber, is Secretary to each Board Committee.
The Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees each also held an evaluation of their work and effectiveness Chairmans Committee during the year, the results of which were reported to the The members of the Committee during the year, together Board by the respective Committee Chairmen.
The reviews with a record of their attendance at meetings that they concluded that each Committee was operating in an were eligible to attend, are set out below.
Meetings attended Sir David Lees, Chairman 8 8 Shareholder communications The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Director Elisabeth Airey from 1 January 2007 3 3 Richard Delbridge 8 8 of Investor Relations maintain a regular programme of visits and presentations to major institutional shareholders both Iain Ferguson 8 8 Evert Henkes 8 8 in the UK and overseas.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director participate in this programme as Kai Nargolwala 6 8 Carole Piwnica until 19 July 2006 2 2 appropriate.
The Investor Relations Department provides the Board with a detailed report on discussions with major Robert Walker 8 8 Dr Barry Zoumas 7 8 institutional shareholders each time it meets.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 65 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR 04 How we run the business Corporate governance The Committee comprises the non-executive directors Nominations Committee and the Chief Executive under the chairmanship of the The members of the Committee during the year, together Chairman of the Board.
The Committee meets before each with a record of their attendance at meetings that they Board meeting, as required, and provides an opportunity for were eligible to attend, are set out below.
the Chairman and Chief Executive to brief and obtain the Meetings attended views of the non-executive directors on specific issues.
Sir David Lees, Chairman 6 6 Remuneration Committee Elisabeth Airey from 1 January 2007 2 2 Richard Delbridge 6 6 The members of the Committee during the year, together with a record of their attendance at meetings that they Iain Ferguson 6 6 Evert Henkes 6 6 were eligible to attend, are set out below.
Kai Nargolwala 5 6 Meetings attended Carole Piwnica until 19 July 2006 2 2 Evert Henkes, Chairman 8 8 Robert Walker 6 6 Elisabeth Airey from 1 January 2007 3 3 Dr Barry Zoumas 5 6 Richard Delbridge 8 8 Kai Nargolwala 6 8 The Committee comprises the non-executive directors Robert Walker 8 8 and the Chief Executive under the chairmanship of the Dr Barry Zoumas 7 8 Chairman of the Board except when the Committee is dealing with the appointment of a successor to the The Committee meets as required, usually before each Chairman of the Board when the Senior Independent Board meeting.
Throughout the year, the Committee Director chairs the Committee.
The main responsibilities consisted solely of independent non-executive directors.
of the Committee are to: As permitted under the revised Combined Code published review the size and composition of the Board, in June 2006, with effect from 1 April 2007 the Chairman of including the planning of succession to the Board the Company, Sir David Lees, was appointed as a member and the leadership needs of the Group generally: of the Committee.
The Board believes that this appointment make recommendations to the Board on candidates will help ensure that the Companys remuneration policy is for appointment as executive and non-executive aligned with its strategic objectives.
directors and as Company Secretary, taking into account the balance of the Board and the required blend of skills The Committee determines the individual remuneration and experience: packages of each executive director and other members of make recommendations to the Board on the the Group Management Committee.
This includes base appropriate processes for the appointment of the salary, bonus, long-term incentives, benefits and terms of Chairman of the Board: employment, including those upon which their service may review annually the performance of each member be terminated.
Additionally, the Committee approves the of the Group Management Committee and to report base salary, long-term incentives and benefits of members on that review to the Remuneration Committee: and of the Senior Operational Management.
In consultation with make recommendations to the Board on the nomination the Chief Executive, the Committee also determines the of the Senior Independent Director, the re-appointment remuneration of the Chairman.
of non-executive directors upon the expiry of their term of office and the proposed re-election of directors retiring The remuneration of non-executive directors is by rotation at the AGM.
determined by the Board excluding the non-executive directors.
The directors remuneration report on During the year, one non-executive director, Elisabeth Airey, pages 73 to 82 provides more information on the was appointed to the Board.
For her appointment, the Companys executive remuneration policy and practice, Committee first considered the particular skills, knowledge and on the working of the Committee.
and experience that would most benefit the Board.
External recruitment consultants were engaged who provided the Committee with a shortlist of potential appointees from which candidates were interviewed and then selected for recommendation to the Board.
The recommendation to appoint Elisabeth Airey as a non-executive director from 1 January 2007 was approved by the Board.
66 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 With the help of external recruitment consultants, the make recommendations to the Board, for submission Committee also selected and made a recommendation to to shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in the Board during the year for the appointment of John relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal Nicholas as Group Finance Director from 19 July 2007. of the external auditors and to approve the remuneration The recommendation was approved.
and terms of engagement of the external auditors: monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal Audit Committee audit function: The members of the Committee during the year, together develop and implement a policy on the engagement with a record of their attendance at meetings that they of the external auditors to supply non-audit services: and were eligible to attend, are set out below.
review arrangements by which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties Meetings attended in matters of financial reporting, financial control or Richard Delbridge, Chairman 4 4 other matters.
Elisabeth Airey from 1 January 2007 1 1 Evert Henkes 4 4 During the year, the Audit Committee discharged its Kai Nargolwala 4 4 responsibilities as set out in its terms of reference by Robert Walker 2 4 undertaking the following work: Dr Barry Zoumas 3 4 meeting prior to the Board meeting at which the annual report and financial statements, and the interim report The Committee consists solely of independent nonand financial statements were approved.
In doing so, executive directors.
All the Committee members have the Committee reviewed significant accounting policies, extensive management experience in large international financial reporting issues and judgements and reports organisations and the Chairman, Richard Delbridge, who is from the external auditors: a chartered accountant, is a former group finance director reviewing the effectiveness of the external audit process, of a FTSE 100 company.
The Committee meets four times the external auditors strategy and plan for the audit, and each year.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance the qualifications, expertise, resources and Director, Head of Internal Audit and other members of the independence of the external auditors: senior management team as invited by the Committee, agreeing the terms of engagement and fee of the together with the external auditors, usually attend meetings.
external auditors for the audit and recommending to the The minutes of each meeting are circulated to all members Board that  LLP be proposed of the Board.
Both the Head of Internal Audit and the to shareholders at the AGM for re-appointment as external auditors have access to the Chairman of the external auditors to the Company: Committee outside of formal Committee meetings.
reviewing the policy on auditor independence and the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors: The Committee maintains a formal calendar of items that receiving and considering regular reports from the Head are to be considered at each Committee meeting and of Internal Audit on the Groups risk management within the annual audit cycle to ensure that its work is system, findings from internal audit reviews, and the in line with the requirements of the Code.
remit, organisation, annual plan and resources of the internal audit function: The main responsibilities of the Committee are to: undertaking a review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
During the year, Ernst & Young was monitor the integrity of the annual and interim financial appointed by the Committee to undertake an statements and any formal announcements relating to independent review of the internal audit function.
the Companys financial performance, paying particular This review identified some areas where improvements attention to significant reporting judgements contained to processes and practices could be made and these therein, including critical accounting policies and are being implemented: practices: reviewing the Committees terms of reference and its review the Groups internal financial controls and its effectiveness and recommending changes to the Board internal control and risk management systems: as a result of this review.
The review in 2007 concluded review and monitor the external auditors independence that no substantive amendments to the terms of and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit reference were required and that the Committee was process, taking into consideration relevant UK operating in an effective manner: professional and regulatory requirements: reviewing the annual report disclosure items relevant to the Committee, including the going concern statement and the reports on risk management and internal control: Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 67 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR 04 How we run the business Corporate governance reviewing the potential impact on the Groups financial Having undertaken a review of the non-audit related statements of significant corporate governance and services provided during the year, the Committee is satisfied accounting matters: that they did not prejudice the external auditors reviewing the findings of the external auditors, their independence.
management letters on accounting procedures and internal financial controls and audit representation letters: Risk management meeting privately with the Chief Executive, Group The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Finance Director, external auditors and the Head of Groups system of internal control and risk management.
Internal Audit: The schedule of matters reserved to the Board ensures that reviewing procedures under which employees may, in the directors control, amongst other matters, all significant confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties strategic, financial and organisational issues.
in matters of financial reporting, financial control or other matters: and The Groups enterprise-wide risk management and reviewing an annual report on the Groups systems of reporting process, which was developed, defined and rolled internal control and its effectiveness, and reporting the out across the Group by a dedicated risk management results of the review to the Board.
team, assists management throughout the Group to identify, assess and mitigate risk.
The process, which is During the year, training was also provided to Board and designed to deliver competitive advantage for the Group, Committee members outside the scheduled meetings on involves the identification and prioritisation of key risks subjects of particular relevance.
through an ongoing programme of workshops, facilitated by the risk management team, held around the Group.
During The Committee operates a policy to safeguard the the year, over 250 employees attended 29 risk workshops objectivity and independence of the external auditors.
held throughout the Group in order to identify risks to the This policy sets out certain disclosure requirements business.
The identified risks then cascade up through by the external auditors to the Committee, restrictions functional and divisional levels to the Group Management on the employment of the external auditors former Committee.
This culminates in the identification of the employees, partner rotation and procedures for the Groups key business, financial, operational and compliance approval of non-audit services by the external auditors.
risks with associated action plans and controls to mitigate During the year, the Committee reviewed the processes them where possible and to the extent deemed which  LLP have in place to appropriate taking account of costs and benefits.
safeguard their independence and received a letter from them confirming that, in their opinion, they remained Under the process, senior executive management confirms independent.
to the Audit Committee at least twice a year that these key risks are being managed appropriately within their The procedure for the provision of non-audit related operations and controls have been examined and are services by the external auditors is governed by a schedule effective.
Responsibility for managing each key risk and the appended to the policy on auditor independence.
associated mitigating control is allocated to an individual This schedule categorises such services between: executive within each division.
Changes in the status of the key risks and changes to the risk matrix are reported those services which the external auditors are permitted quarterly to executive management and to the Board.
to provide: The Board reviews the Groups key risks quarterly.
those services which the external auditors are not permitted to provide: and Internal control those services which require approval of the Audit The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Committee before the external auditors can be Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its appointed.
The Board delegates to executive management the responsibility for designing, operating A report is made to the Committee each time it meets and monitoring both the system and the maintenance of setting out the non-audit services provided by the external effective internal control in each of the businesses which auditors during the year and the fees charged.
Details of the comprise the Group.
These systems of internal control are amounts paid to the external auditors are given in note 7 to designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, and can the Group financial statements on page 100. only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material errors, losses, fraud or breaches of laws or regulations.
All the material joint ventures which the Group is party to currently follow the Groups formal systems of internal control and their internal control procedures are regularly reviewed by the Groups internal audit function.
68 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 The systems of internal control are based on a process The Audit Committee periodically reviews the effectiveness of identifying, evaluating and managing risks and include of the system of internal control through reports from the risk management processes set out above.
These the external auditors and the internal audit function.
accord with the guidance in the Turnbull Report and The internal audit function follows a planned programme were in place throughout the year and up to the date of reviews that are aligned to the risks existing in the of the signing of this annual report.
The key risks that Groups businesses.
It has the authority to review any might hinder the achievement of the Groups business relevant aspect of the business.
objectives are managed, controlled and monitored by the following processes: The Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, has conducted an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the the Groups businesses operate under mandatory systems of risk management and internal control during the written policies and procedural manuals to provide an financial year and up to the date of this annual report.
The Group policies The review, which is co-ordinated by the internal audit and procedures set out the Groups commitment to function, includes a Group-wide certification that competence, integrity and ethical values.
These policies appropriate internal controls are in place and on the state of are reviewed by the Board annually and changes are their effectiveness.
The internal audit function monitors and made as appropriate to enhance existing control selectively checks the results of this exercise, ensuring that procedures: the representations made are consistent with the results of key strategic risks are addressed through the Groups the departments work during the year.
Where weaknesses process of preparation of plans by each operating unit have been identified, plans for correcting them are also and the compilation of these risks in the Groups reported.
The results of this exercise are summarised for operating plan: the Audit Committee and the Board.
In the event that any there is a comprehensive annual planning and financial significant losses are incurred during the year as a result of reporting system comparing results with plan and the the failure of controls, a detailed analysis would be provided previous year on a monthly and cumulative basis.
This to the Audit Committee and the Board.
The Board confirms process of planning, budgeting and making short-term that no significant weaknesses were identified in relation to forecasts provides early warning of potential financial the review conducted during the year and accordingly no risks.
Revised forecasts for the year are produced at remedial actions are required to be taken.
Reports include a monthly cash flow statement projected for 15 months: the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Chief Operating Officer undertake regular financial and operational reviews of the major operating units within the Group: the Chief Executive, Chief Operating Officer and the Group Finance Director submit written reports to each Board meeting, which include consideration of changing threats and opportunities within the business.
The standard Board review of investments and disposals includes identification of major risks that could affect the outcome of each project, with a sensitivity analysis: the Company has defined procedures for the authorisation and project management of capital expenditure and investment, granting of guarantees, trading and hedging of currencies and commodities and use of treasury products: and formal annual reports and presentations are received by the Board on certain areas of special risk.
These include insurance, treasury management, commodity trading, pensions, safety and environmental issues.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 69 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
