Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Governance Statements Information Corporate governance report The board is pleased to confirm that throughout 2007 the group Paul Murray, the Senior Independent Director, remained available to complied in full with all provisions of the June 2006 version of the shareholders throughout 2007, to address concerns not satisfied by Combined Code on Corporate Governance, with the sole exception normal channels.
He was not approached during the year.
that following the resignation of Sharon Studer and until Drummond In seeking to maintain and comply with the highest possible Hall was appointed there were only two independent non-executive governance standards, the board has continued to delegate certain directors appointed to the audit committee.
responsibilities and aspects of its work to its three committees: audit, The board: composition, non-executives, responsibilities nomination and remuneration.
Each committee has specific terms of and attendance reference, which are available on the group website and on request from the Company Secretary.
Composition Audit committee As at 29 February 2008, the board comprises the Chairman, the Chaired by Paul Murray, who has recent relevant financial Chief Executive, the Finance Director and a further executive director, experience, the committee consists of three independent nontogether with four independent non-executives.
All of the currently executive directors.
There were four committee meetings during appointed directors served throughout the financial year, with the the financial year, all previously scheduled.
The external auditor, exception of Drummond Hall who was appointed in April 2007.
 LLP, attended each meeting and met Dawn Airey was also appointed to the board as a non-executive privately with the committee after each meeting.
director in April 2007, but resigned in May 2007 following her appointment at ITV plc.
Paul Murray continued to act as Senior The primary responsibilities delegated to, and discharged by, the Independent Director.
Biographical information for current board committee included: monitoring the effectiveness of internal control directors is given on pages 40 to 41. and risk management systems and associated functions: approving and amending group accounting policies: reviewing and ensuring the In accordance with the articles of association, executive directors integrity of interim and annual financial statements before submission retire by rotation and submit themselves for re-election every three to the board: monitoring and approving the scope and costs of audit: years and non-executive directors every two years.
The board has and ensuring audit independence by approving significant non-audit collectively agreed that the directors proposed for re-election in 2008 services provided by the auditor in accordance with the appropriate have made significant contributions to the business since their last committee policy.
A summary of non-audit fees incurred during re-election and each has a key role to play in the formulation of the 2007, including due diligence, tax advisory and tax compliance work, groups future strategy.
is included in note 3 to the financial statements on page 65.
Non-executives The audit committee is regularly updated regarding use of the Throughout the financial year the board comprised a majority of companys Ethics helpline, has full powers of investigation and independent non-executives.
The non-executive directors continue remains entitled to take independent professional advice.
to contribute their considerable collective experience and wideranging skills to the board and provide a valuable independent Nomination committee perspective: where necessary constructively challenging proposals, Chaired by Donald Brydon with effect from 28 February 2007, the policy and practices.
In addition, they helped formulate the groups committee consists of four independent non-executive directors.
The strategy at specifically held board meetings.
During the year, the Chief Executive attends committee meetings by invitation.
There was Chairman met the other non-executives in the absence of the one committee meeting during the first quarter of the year.
executive directors to re-confirm and take account of their views.
The primary responsibilities delegated to, and discharged by, the All have sufficient time to fulfil their commitments to the company.
committee included: regularly reviewing the composition of the Responsibilities board: the consideration of succession planning and the The board meets regularly, with eight meetings scheduled and development of associated policies: and the identification and held in 2007.
It was only necessary for the board to hold one recommendation of candidates to join the board whenever deemed unscheduled board meeting in the year.
Thorough appointment processes and policies have with comprehensive background information for this meeting and been developed by the committee, involving the development of all directors were available to participate.
There remains in place objective criteria, creation of precise job specifications taking into a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for board account existing board expertise, the use of external search consideration and approval, which includes matters related to consultancies and appropriate interviewing.
These processes and strategy and management: acquisitions and disposals: structure and policies were followed in respect of the appointment of Drummond capital: financial reporting and controls: internal controls: significant Hall and Dawn Airey in April 2007. changes to group operations: board constitution, communications Remuneration committee and performance evaluation: remuneration and delegated authorities.
Chaired by Alice Perkins, the composition and delegated In 2007, the board remained satisfied that the roles of the Chairman, responsibilities of the remuneration committee are outlined in the Chief Executive and other executive directors continued to be clearly directors remuneration report on pages 50 to 54, together with a and comprehensively defined.
consideration of the companys application of the Combined Code.
com The directors are satisfied that all relevant provisions have been attend numerous other meetings and visits throughout the year complied with.
and the board considers that directors contributions should be measured beyond simple attendance records.
Attendance The following table details board and committee meetings held in 2007, and individual directors attendance.
However, directors Board meetings Committee meetings 1 Regular Ad hoc Audit Nomination Remuneration Number of meetings in year 8 1 4 1 4 Executive directors David Lowden 7 1 Andy Boland 8 1 Pedro Ros 8 1 Non-executive directors 3 Donald Brydon 8 1 14 Paul Murray 8 1 4 4 2 4 Drummond Hall 61 2 0 3 Alice Perkins 8 1 4 1 4 Rmy Sautter 8 1 1 4 1 The meeting was convened on 24 May 2007 to consider Dawn Aireys request to step down from the board.
2 Appointed 12 April 2007 and to the audit committee with effect from 1 August 2007.
3 Donald Brydon was in attendance at all audit committee meetings held in the year.
4 Committee meeting held prior to appointment.
Indicates not a member of that committee.
The board: performance evaluation, information groups operations.
On request, meetings can be arranged with the and development major shareholders.
Drummond Hall underwent a thorough induction In 2007, the board, utilising an independent process overseen by from April 2007 onwards.
Continuing directors are also given Professor Goffee of the London Business School, completed an opportunities to meet with senior management, and to have any annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees internal or external training they feel may benefit them in their role.
The directors individually evaluated each of Tailored arrangements were made during the year for certain these areas by questionnaire, with the results being collated, directors.
In 2007, the board also conducted site visits in New York analysed and reported to the board as a whole by Professor Goffee, and Paris.
who also assisted by benchmarking performance and facilitating Directors duties agreement to a plan to improve performance.
Where appropriate, the The directors note the gradual implementation of the 2006 results have been incorporated into board and individual objectives Companies Act, having been made fully aware of their restated for 2008. legal responsibilities through a series of related presentations and updates.
The board has established reporting mechanisms, which simultaneously ensure that it receives timely and appropriate reports All directors are entitled to seek independent professional advice and proposals from senior management in advance of its scheduled under an agreed board procedure, which would then be organised meetings, and is immediately informed of significant developments by the Company Secretary & Group General Counsel, Paul Wright.
The reporting framework ensures that No director sought such advice in 2007.
All directors additionally directors have appropriate time to consider all information relevant to have access to the services provided by the Company Secretary & key decisions and are kept informed of market, regulatory and Group General Counsel.
The removal of the Company Secretary & legislative developments.
Group General Counsel remains a matter for the board as a whole.
Newly appointed directors can expect a detailed and systematic The Company Secretary takes responsibility for organising and induction on joining the board.
They meet various members of senior renewing the Directors and Officers Liability insurance maintained by management and familiarise themselves with all core aspects of the TNS Annual Report and Accounts 2007 45 Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Governance Statements Information Corporate governance report the company, further details of which are included on page 48 of The group has a widely publicised Code of Conduct, a specific the other statutory information report.
He additionally oversees delegated authorities framework, and a dedicated Ethics hotline.
the operation of the group pension plans and post-retirement Performance across the group is also closely scrutinised against arrangements on behalf of the company.
The group operates a budget and forecasts.
These initiatives help establish and promote number of defined benefit and defined contribution plans, the assets an improved control environment and working practices.
All enquiries of which are held independently from those of the group.
to the helpline were appropriately investigated and reported to the audit committee.
In the UK, pension assets are held under trust and managed by Taylor Nelson Sofres Trustees Limited, the board of which comprises The head of the internal audit function reports directly to the audit both employee representatives and group executives in accordance committee, the board and senior management, highlighting with the requirements of the Pensions Act, 1995.
In the Netherlands, significant findings and key recommendations, and updating the funds are held by Stitching NIPO Pension funds.
In the US, performance against previous recommendations.
pension assets are now held and managed by Fidelity Management Investor relations IR and communications Trust Company.
Competitive Media Reporting LLC separately The company has well-established IR procedures and processes, maintains a Union Pension Plan and sponsored defined benefit which support a structured programme of communications with plans, the assets of which are held under trust by Wells Fargo Bank.
existing and potential investors and analysts.
Executive directors The group also maintains a defined benefit plan in the US closed to and members of the IR team regularly meet or are in contact with new participants: the former NFO Worldgroup, Inc. Pension Plan, the existing and potential institutional investors from around the world, assets of which are held under trust by KeyBank.
Details of pension ensuring that group performance and future strategy is effectively contributions and obligations are provided in note 23 to the financial communicated, within regulatory constraints.
Other representatives statements on page 83. of the board and senior management meet with investors from Financial reporting, internal controls and control environment time to time.
The IR team provides regular reports to the board on In presenting this report, and having monitored, reviewed or approved related matters, issues of concern to investors, and analyst views all shareholder communications in 2007 and since, the board is and opinions.
confident that it has presented a balanced and understandable Whenever required, the executive directors, the Chairman and the assessment of the companys position and prospects.
Senior Independent Director communicate with the companys In accordance with the 2005 Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control, brokers to confirm shareholder sentiment and to consult on the group has a sound system of internal control based on governance issues.
assessment of risk and a framework of control procedures.
This During 2007, 24 regulatory announcements were released includes a well-established internal audit function responsible for informing the market of acquisitions, financial results, the results reviewing, reporting and monitoring improvements in internal control of annual general meetings and board changes.
Copies of these performance and risk management across its global operations.
This announcements, together with other IR information and documents, is achieved by: performing internal audits and making associated are available on the group website.
recommendations, completed at 17 group subsidiaries in 2007: reviewing progress against previous recommendations, completed at The annual general meeting AGM 7 group subsidiaries in 2007: and an internal control effectiveness The 2007 AGM was held in May.
All directors, including questionnaire, completed by all subsidiaries and operating units in Rmy Sautter who joined via video-conferencing link, were 2007.
Responsibility for managing day-to-day compliance and present, and made themselves available to answer questions from responding to recommendations is delegated to senior management shareholders.
The AGM provides an opportunity for the directors to at the relevant operating units.
communicate personally performance and future strategy to noninstitutional shareholders and for those shareholders to meet with The internal audit function has specific procedures, processes and and question the board.
The enclosed circular notice convening the policies that have been in place throughout the financial year.
These 2008 AGM, circulated over 20 days in advance of the meeting include an annual review and prioritisation of the key risks facing the as in previous years and including substantially separate resolutions, business, which is reported to the board.
By these means the board outlines the business to be considered.
All directors again plan to be has reviewed, to its satisfaction, the effectiveness of the groups present.
All results of proxy votes are read out, made available for system of internal controls for the financial year.
The board confirms review at the meeting, recorded in the minutes of the meeting and that any necessary action has been or is being taken to remedy any communicated to the market and via the group website.
significant failings or weaknesses identified from the review and that it accords with the guidance of the 2005 Turnbull Guidance.
By order of the board The groups system of internal controls and audit is designed to Paul Wright ensure local legal and regulatory compliance and manage, rather Company Secretary & Group General Counsel than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It 29 February 2008 can therefore only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
com Directors responsibility statement The directors are required by UK company law as adopted by the European Union to prepare financial statements for each financial period, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group and of the profit and loss for that period.
The directors consider that, in preparing the accounts, appropriate accounting policies have been used and applied consistently, supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and the accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and on a going concern basis.
Applicable UK accounting standards have also been applied for the holding company accounts.
The directors are also responsible for maintaining adequate accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the company and the group, which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the UK Companies Act and Article 4 of the International Auditing Standards Regulation.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the information included on the group website, www.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of information of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the company and the group and to prevent and detect fraud or other irregularities.
The directors, having prepared the financial statements, have permitted the auditors to take whatever steps and undertake whatever inspections they consider to be appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit opinion.
TNS Annual Report and Accounts 2007 47
