Governance Corporate Governance Report the Company to meet its objectives and reviews 2007 by the Board, namely, upon completion of the Corporate Governance statement management performance.
It also defines the Merger, will be subject to election by shareholders at the The Board is fully committed to high standards of Companys values and standards and ensures that its Annual General Meeting.
The Board has reviewed and corporate governance and corporate responsibility obligations to its shareholders and other stakeholders re-afrmed that it considers all of the Non Executive throughout the Group.
The Board supports the principles are clearly understood and met.
Directors to be independent in character and judgement of corporate governance contained in the 2006 Combined and that there are no relationships which could affect the Code on Corporate Governance which is appended to Following the Merger the documents listed below were Directors judgement.
The Chairman, at the time of his the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the reviewed and adopted by the Board they outline the appointment, met the independence criteria as set out Combined Code.
The Combined Code sets out the way in which the Board and its Committees operate in the Combined Code.
In line with the Combined Code, governance rules which apply to all UK companies which and will be regularly reviewed by the Board: there will be a rigorous review of any Non Executive are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
This Report on Director wishing to hold ofce for more than six years Corporate Governance together with the Remuneration Schedule of matters specically reserved for the with such review taking into account the need to Report on pages 46 to 55 are intended to explain how decision of the Board: progressively refresh the Board.
Katherine Innes Ker was the Company has applied the principles of the Combined Board policies covering operational matters, appointed to the Board on 1 July 2001 and accordingly Code and provide an insight into how the Board and compliance and stakeholder policies: a rigorous review has taken place.
Following the review, management run the business for the benefit of both the Nomination Committee and the Board were shareholders.
The Chairmans Statement and the Group Terms of Reference of the the Board Committees: entirely satisfied with Katherine Innes Kers performance Chief Executives Review seek to present a balanced Audit, Nomination and Remuneration, which outline and contribution as a Non Executive Director and also assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
their objectives and responsibilities and which define with her ongoing independence of character and a programme of activities to support the discharge of Statement of compliance judgement.
As part of this review the Board took into those responsibilities.
New terms of reference were also For the year ended 31 December 2007, the Company account the requirement of the Combined Code to put in place for the Corporate Responsibility Committee complied with all the provisions of the Combined Code refresh the Board from time to time: as a result of the which was created at the time of the Merger.
Each including the Principles set out in Section 1. changes to the Board made at the time of the Merger as Committees Terms of Reference is available on our set out earlier in this Report, it was concluded that this website www.
The Board and its Committees requirement of the Combined Code had been met.
At the date of this Report the Board consists of ten All Directors have access to the advice and services of Whenever any Director considers that he or she is or Directors: the Chairman, three Executive Directors and the Group Company Secretary and General Counsel.
six independent Non Executive Directors.
Their names, may be interested in any contract or arrangement to which the Company is or may be a party, the Director responsibilities and other details appear on pages 38 and The Board has an established procedure whereby 39.
Upon completion of the merger of Taylor Woodrow gives due notice to the Board in accordance with the Directors may take independent professional advice at Articles of Association.
During the year no such interests plc and George Wimpey Plc on 3 July 2007 the Merger the Companys expense where they judge it necessary a number of Board changes took place as set out below: have arisen in respect of any Director.
to discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
The Board considers that its Directors possess an Three new Executive Directors were appointed: Board and Committee balance, independence Pete Redfern Group Chief Executive, Ian Sutcliffe appropriate balance of skills and experience for the and effectiveness requirements of the business.
Chief Executive, Taylor Wimpey UK and John Landrum It is the Companys policy that appointments to the President and CEO, North America.
On 31 July 2007, Board are made on merit and through a formal, rigorous The Board and its Committees operate within a John Landrum stood down as a Director but remained and transparent process against objective criteria framework of scheduled core meetings and additional as an employee until 31 October 2007: recommended by the Nomination Committee.
The ad hoc meetings are held as required.
All Directors visit Committee also guides the Board in arranging orderly Group operations on a regular basis, engaging with Three new Non Executive Directors were appointed: succession for appointments to the Board and to senior Brenda Dean, Anthony Reading and David Williams: employees at all levels in order to foster and maintain an management.
The work of all Board Committees is understanding of the business.
Board visits are arranged Ian Smith stood down as Group Chief Executive and described later in this Report.
each year to operations in both the UK and elsewhere Vernon Sankey stood down as a Non Executive Director: within the Group.
As part of the post Merger review of procedures, the With effect from the Merger, David Williams became the Board undertook a detailed review of responsibilities and The Group Company Secretary and General Counsel Senior Independent Director in place of Mike Davies.
authorities at all levels of the Group.
It has adopted a acts as Secretary to the Board and its Committees and framework of delegated commercial and operational he attends all meetings.
There is a policy that formal Norman Askew Chairman, Mike Davies Independent authorities, which define the scope and powers of the agendas and reports for Board and Committee meetings Non Executive Director, Andrew Dougal Independent Group Chief Executive and of operating management.
are provided to Directors one week prior to the Non Executive Director, Katherine Innes Ker The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and the meeting in order to allow sufficient time for detailed Independent Non Executive Director and Peter Johnson Group Chief Executive have been reviewed by the Board review and consideration beforehand.
Group Finance Director each held these positions and in line with the Combined Code, have been clearly throughout the year.
dened and are set out in writing.
Information and professional development The Company has procedures whereby Directors Graeme McCallum resigned from the Board on The Board will continue to review the governance including Non Executive Directors receive formal 16 January 2007. framework including delegated commercial and induction.
This includes training and continuing operational authorities to ensure that they meet the During the year the Board met on 10 occasions in total.
familiarisation about the Companys business, operations requirements of the Group going forward.
Prior to the Merger, the Board met on six occasions and and systems, the principles underlying the discharge of there were no absences except that Mike Davies missed their duties as Directors and wider issues relating to the Following the Merger the Board also undertook a review one meeting.
Post the Merger the Board met on four housing and construction sector.
of the interests of each Director outside of the Company.
occasions and there were no absences.
The Board is satisfied that the commitments of each Performance evaluation of the Board, Director do not detract from the extent or quality of time The Board discharges its responsibilities by providing its committees and other functions which they are able to devote to the Company.
strategic and entrepreneurial leadership of the Company, In line with the Combined Code, a formal annual within a framework of prudent and effective controls, During the three years up to and including the 2008 evaluation of the performance and effectiveness of the which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
It sets Annual General Meeting, every Director will have sought Board and its Committees and of individual Directors the Companys strategic aims, ensures that the re-election at least once and Directors appointed during was carried out.
The evaluation was carried out by the necessary financial and human resources are in place for Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 43 Governance Corporate Governance continued Chairman and the Group Company Secretary.
The During the year the Remuneration Committee met on the going concern assumption and compliance with process consisted of a bespoke questionnaire which accounting standards and the requirements of the eight occasions.
Prior to the Merger the Committee met was sent by the Group Company Secretary to all on four occasions and there were no absences except Combined Code.
During the year, post Merger, the Directors for completion.
The questionnaire focused Committee was required to undertake two major that Mike Davies missed one meeting.
Post the Merger on the performance of: the Board, the four Board there were no absences except Mike Davies and David reviews namely, the review of the fair value process Committees, the performance of each Director by way which required the Company under IFRS to fair value the Williams who each missed one meeting.
Consistent of self assessment plus condential evaluation by the with policy, each Director was however consulted prior consideration given and the assets acquired of George Chairman and the performance of the Chairman.
The Wimpey Plc as a result of the Merger and secondly an to the meeting taking place and was able to provide his Secretary collated all of the responses and produced detailed input on the agenda items.
accounting policy alignment as between the Company a summary in respect of each performance area.
The Committee also reviewed, Nomination Committee The Chairman and the Secretary then reviewed the prior to publication, the interim and annual financial The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the summaries that had been prepared in respect of the statements and other major statements affecting the Board and is comprised of a majority of Non Executive Board, each Board Committee and each Director other Group concerning price sensitive information.
Directors as required by the Combined Code.
Prior than the Chairman and reported the findings to the to the Merger the Committee was comprised of the Appointment of the auditors for non Board on a non-attributable basis.
Following this, a set Chairman, Mike Davies, Andrew Dougal, Katherine of actions were agreed designed to increase further the audit services Innes Ker, Vernon Sankey and Ian Smith.
Following the overall effectiveness of the Board.
A specic action item The Audit Committee has approved a policy on Merger the Committee was comprised of the Chairman, will be to arrange for Non Executive Directors to make employing the auditors to provide services other than Mike Davies, Brenda Dean, Andrew Dougal, Katherine additional visits to operations across the Group.
audit services, which is to require a competitive tender Innes Ker, Tony Reading, Pete Redfern and David except in narrowly-dened circumstances where the The Non Executive Directors, led by the Senior Williams.
The Committee has processes in place with Company considers that for condentiality, past Independent Director, undertook the evaluation of the regard to the appointment of new Directors to the Board knowledge or other reasons, there is an advantage Chairmans performance.
The evaluation was based on in order to ensure that appointments are made on merit.
in using a single tender procurement procedure.
the non attributable summary prepared by the Secretary For the appointment of non executive directors, the use of of the feedback from the Non Executive and Executive The Committee has determined that the following an external search agency will usually be incorporated as Directors.
The summary was reviewed by the Non assignments should not be undertaken by the auditors: part of the process.
Executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman, the provision of internal audit services: The Nomination Committee is responsible for succession following which David Williams in his capacity as the planning for the Board and senior management and Senior Independent Director provided feedback direct advice on major IT systems.
assesses the balance of the Boards composition.
Committee met on two occasions during the year at The Board is satisfied that this policy is conducive to the In line with the Combined Code, the Chairman also holds which there was full attendance.
maintenance of auditor independence and objectivity.
meetings with the Non Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present.
Audit Committee and auditors Corporate Responsibility Committee Prior to the Merger the Committee was comprised of Following the Merger, the Corporate Responsibility Internal Audit: Andrew Dougal Committee Chairman, Mike Davies and Committee was established as a formal Committee of A formal evaluation of the Group Internal Audit GIA Vernon Sankey.
Following the Merger the Committee the Board.
The Committee is chaired by Katherine Innes function was carried out by the Audit Committee which was comprised of Andrew Dougal who continued to Ker and the other members are Norman Askew, Pete took into account views fr om Executive Directors, senior Chair the Committee, Mike Davies, Tony Reading and Redfern, Brenda Dean, Andrew Dougal and Ian Sutcliffe.
management and the external auditors.
All members are independent Non The Corporate Responsibility Committee met on two Executive Directors.
The Board has determined that occasions and there were no absences except that The external auditors: Andrew Dougal, who is a member of the Institute of A comprehensive formal competitive tender process with Brenda Dean missed one meeting.
Chartered Accountants of Scotland, has recent and regard to the carrying out of the 2008 external audit was relevant financial experience as have other members of The Companys corporate responsibility practices outline carried out during the year.
The process was conducted the Committee including Anthony Reading and David its approach to the challenge of sustainable development.
by a specially appointed Audit Tender Panel consisting of Williams.
The Chairman of the Company and other Our policies and practices help the business to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Group Chief Non Executive Directors, the Chief Executive, Group demonstrate high standards of governance, reduce Executive and the Group Finance Director.
The Panel Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit, Group Financial risk and comply with current and future legislation.
also involved the Group Financial Controller, Head of Controller and other senior executives attend meetings Internal Audit and Group Company Secretary who each of the Committee by invitation.
Deloitte and Touche LLP The Committee is responsible for recommending the interface with the external auditors as part of their are invited to attend meetings of the Audit Committee.
Companys corporate responsibility strategy, policies, responsibilities.
The Panel reviewed the tenders before reporting and performance monitoring to the Board.
During the year the Audit Committee met on six making its recommendation to the Audit Committee occasions in total.
Prior to the Merger, the Committee The Committees remit includes ensuring that the which in turn made a recommendation to the Board.
met on two occasions and there were no absences Companys corporate responsibility strategy and activity This resulted in Deloitte & Touche LLP being selected except that Mike Davies missed one meeting.
Post the are adequately resourced, have appropriate standing as external auditors to the Company.
Deloitte & Touche Merger the Committee met on four occasions and there within the Company and are aligned to the needs of the LLP will therefore be proposed for re-appointment as the were no absences.
The Board regards corporate responsibility as Companys auditors at the Annual General Meeting.
an integral part of good governance.
The Committees remit includes reviewing the internal Board Committees and their work control framework, the internal audit process, the Full details of the Companys achievements and initiatives Remuneration Committee and remuneration in these areas during 2007 and going forward are set out financial reporting practices and the external audit The Boards policy and approach to the setting of process.
It ensures that the Board regularly assesses in Taylor Wimpeys first Corporate Responsibility Report remuneration for Directors and senior executives and the which is published separately and is also available in business risks, and their management and mitigation.
activities of the Remuneration Committee are described In doing so, the Committee places reliance on regular electronic form on the Groups website in detail in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages www.
The Committee is constituted in accordance the financial reporting practices the Audit Committee with the Combined Code and its members are set out reviewed accounting policies, areas of judgement, on page 46.
com As a result of these reviews the Board has The annual employee performance appraisal process Internal control acknowledged that inevitably, there have been issues in is objective-based, with individual objectives cascaded The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the Combined bringing together different legacy procedures.
Controls down from the appropriate business objectives.
Code by establishing a continuous process for have been identied, appropriately prioritised and are Development reviews identify training needs to support identifying, evaluating and managing the significant being actively managed.
The Board regularly reviews its application of the Revised Turnbull Guidance on Internal Management Whistleblowing Control to ensure the process of internal control remains The Group Chief Executive has responsibility for The Groups whistleblowing policy is supported by effective and appropriate.
The process, which has been preparing and reviewing strategic plans for the Group a clear process that includes an  in place from the start of the year to the date of approval and its divisions and the annual budgets.
These are hotline through which employees of the Company of this Report is in accordance with Internal Control: subject to formal approval by the Board.
Budgets are may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The re-examined in comparison with business forecasts improprieties in financial reporting, other operational Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal throughout the year to ensure they are sufciently robust matters or inappropriate personal behaviours in the control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a to reect the possible impact of changing economic work place.
system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the circumstances.
The Group Chief Executive and the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can All whistleblowing cases are investigated by the Head Board conduct regular reviews of actual results and only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance of GIA, Group HR Director and or the Group Company future projections with comparison against budget and against material mis-statement or loss.
Whistleblowing incidents and their outcome prior year, together with various treasury reports.
are reported to the Audit Committee.
Whistleblowing is In compliance with provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Disputes that may give rise to significant litigation or a standing item on each Audit Committee agenda which Code, the Board regularly reviews the effectiveness contractual claims are monitored quarterly by the Board.
allows the Committee to regularly review the adequacy of the Groups system of internal control.
The Boards of the policy in line with its requirements to do so under monitoring covers all controls, including financial, The Group has clearly dened policies, processes and the Combined Code.
operational and compliance controls and risk procedures governing all areas of the business which will management.
This process is based principally on continue to be reviewed and rened in order to meet the Relations with shareholders reviewing reports from management to consider whether requirements of the business post Merger.
The Board actively seeks and encourages engagement significant risks are identied, evaluated, managed and with major institutional shareholders and other controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are Dened authority limits are in place.
In particular, any stakeholders and has put in place arrangements investment in land, property and other significant assets, promptly remedied and indicate a need for more designed to facilitate contact about business, extensive monitoring.
The Board has also performed including acquisitions and disposals, require detailed governance, remuneration and other issues.
This appraisals and are subject to dened authorisation levels a specic assessment for the purpose of this Report provides the opportunity for meetings with the Chairman, and Accounts.
This assessment considers all significant and post-investment review procedures.
Investment the Senior Independent Director as well as the Group decisions, projects, and tenders for contracts are subject aspects of internal control arising during the period Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and other covered by the report including the work of Internal to approval by the Board, the Group Chief Executive or Executives in order to establish a mutual understanding subsidiary operating management, depending on the Audit.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in of objectives.
The Company also operates a structured discharging its review responsibilities.
Key elements value and nature of the investment or contract.
programme of investor relations, based on formal of the system of internal control are detailed below.
announcements and publications covering the full year There is a clearly identiable organisational structure and interim results.
There are associated briengs for A Group-level review is carried out to identify the major and a framework of delegated authority approved by stockbroking analysts and investors, the presentation the Board within which individual responsibilities of senior risks facing the Group and to develop and implement material for which is published on the Companys appropriate initiatives to manage those risks.
This executives of Group companies are identied and can website www.
These activities are reinforced through process applies across the Group.
process compliance and other audits conducted by GIA.
All Directors receive formal reports and briengs Key operational and financial risks are identied and during the year about the Companys investor relations The GIA function reviews the effectiveness and efficiency assessed at the operating process level, while strategic programme and receive detailed feedback through risks are identied as a part of the business planning of the systems of internal control in place to safeguard surveys, direct contact and other means, through which the assets, to quantify, price, transfer, avoid or mitigate process.
Strategic risk reviews are carried out in each of they are able to develop an understanding of the views the operating divisions to identify business risk, evaluate risks and to monitor the activities of the Group in of major shareholders about the Company.
Regular reports existing controls and develop strategies to manage the risks that remain, the results of which form part of the from these reviews are provided to the Board and The Board encourages all shareholders to participate reported to the Group Chief Executive, Audit Committee, Boards assessment.
Updates to these risk assessments in the Annual General Meeting which is attended by all are reported to the Board.
the Executive Committee and senior management, Directors.
Information about the Company, including full who consider them on a regular basis.
The Head of the year and interim results and other major announcements, The Executive Committee, chaired by the Group Chief GIA function has direct access to the Chairman of the is published on the Companys website Executive, oversees the risk and control framework of Audit Committee, the Chairman and the Group Chief www.
The Head of Group Internal Audit regularly Executive.
A database of audit recommendations and attends the Executive Committee which meets monthly.
Follow up routines Going concern The Group Chief Executive reports on the key elements ensures that such improvements are implemented in a After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a arising from each Executive Committee meeting at the timely manner.
judgement at the time of approving the financial next Board Meeting and the minutes from such meetings statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that are routinely included in each Board pack of documents.
Throughout the year the Board continually considers the Group and the Company have adequate resources the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
During 2007 the Audit Committee assessed the Groups to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable On 5 March 2008 it completed the annual assessment risk management and the internal control framework, future.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the for the year to 31 December 2007 by reviewing reports particularly in the light of the integration process going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
submitted to the Audit Committee and by taking account post-Merger.
It also reviewed business change issues of events since the year end.
and GIA activities across the Group.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 45
