33 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 LongTerm Incentive Arrangements continued Sharesave Scheme Under the Sharesave Scheme, employees may be granted an option to acquire Ordinary shares at a fixed exercise price.
Participating employees are required to save each month into a savings account for a period of either three or four years, the proceeds of which they may use to exercise the option.
The employee will have a right to acquire the number of Ordinary shares which he or she can acquire at the exercise price using the savings in his or her savings account.
A taxfree bonus is payable on the savings in the savings account on completion of the relevant savings contract.
At the end of the savings period the employee may either exercise the option within six months of the end of the savings period using the savings contributions and bonus which he or she has accumulated or have the savings and bonus repaid to him or her.
The maximum amount that an employee may save each month over the three year or four year period is 250.
The option exercise price may be set at a discount of up to 20% to the market value of the Ordinary shares at the time of grant.
However, no discount has been applied to date.
Nonexecutive Directors Fees payable to nonexecutive Directors are determined by the Board and will be reviewed periodically within the limits set by the Articles of Association.
Fees of independent nonexecutive Directors are intended to reflect the time commitment and responsibilities of individual nonexecutive Directors roles and are set at broadly market median levels to ensure individuals of the necessary calibre and experience are recruited and retained.
The nonexecutive Directors do not accrue any other benefits in addition to their annual fee and do not participate in the Groups pension schemes.
No fees are payable to the nonindependent nonexecutive Directors, Robert Morse, Ian Nolan and Sergei Riabtsov.
The Group has letters of appointment with each of the nonexecutive Directors which set out, amongst other things, their duties and expected time commitment.
The Companys Chairman, John Hughes, has an appointment letter dated 5 October 2007.
His appointment is terminable by the Company on twelve months notice within the first two years of the term and six months notice thereafter.
The Chairman may terminate the appointment at any time on six months notice.
The appointment letters of the other nonexecutive Directors are for an initial period of three years but may be terminated at any time by either party on one months written notice.
Table 1 Remuneration audited Directors remuneration in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007 was as follows: Basic Annual Benefits salary fees bonus in kind Pension Total 000 000 000 000 000 Executives 1 Michael Tobin 131 83 3 8 225 1 Brian McArthur Muscroft 87 50 2 4 143 Nonexecutives 2 John Hughes 24 24 3 Simon Batey 9 9 2 John OReilly 10 10 Robert Morse Ian Nolan Sergei Riabtsov 4 Bo Bendtsen 4 Oliver Grace 4 Boris Jordan 4 Jennifer Dunstan 4 Glenn August Total 261 133 5 12 411 1 appointed 1 July 2007 2 appointed 5 October 2007 3 appointed 16 October 2007 4 resigned 5 October 2007 In the previous year, the Companys Directors consisted entirely of nonexecutive Directors who did not receive any emoluments.
In recognition of the Chairmans services in the period prior to 5 October 2007 when payment of the annual fee under his letter of appointment commenced and for work in connection with the Admission of the Company to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange, the Remuneration Committee determined that the Chairman should receive a oneoff payment of 150,000 less statutory deductions.
The Chairman agreed to invest 120,000 as nearly as may be to acquire Ordinary shares at Admission at the offer price of which approximately 30,000 was from his own funds.
The Board considers that neither this payment nor this investment compromised the Chairmans independence on appointment.
34 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 directors remuneration report continued Table 1 Remuneration audited continued The basic salaries and fees of the Directors with effect from 1 January 2008 are as follows: 000 John Hughes 100 Michael Tobin 300 Brian McArthur Muscroft 200 Simon Batey 40 John OReilly 40 Robert Morse Ian Nolan Sergei Riabtsov Total 680 Table 2 Share options audited At At 1 January 31 December Not Exercise 2007 Granted Exercised 2007 Vested vested price Exercise Exercise 000 000 000 000 000 000 period begins period ends Michael Tobin 161 161 161 2.20 Sept 2009 Sept 2017 161 161 161 2.20 Sept 2010 Sept 2017 Brian McArthur Muscroft 101 101 101 2.20 Sept 2009 Sept 2017 100 100 100 2.20 Sept 2010 Sept 2017 Total 523 523 523 The above options were granted under the Telecity Group IPO Share Option Plan, and are not subject to performance conditions, other than continued employment, for the reasons set out in the explanation of that plan.
The highest and lowest prices for the Companys shares during the year, following their Admission to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange were 342.00p and 254.00p respectively.
Total shareholder return The graph below shows the total shareholder return for the Company compared with the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts, which is considered to be the most appropriate comparative index, and the FTSE All Share.
Fees from external appointments Michael Tobin received and retained fees in the year ended 31 December 2007 in respect of his nonexecutive Directorships of two companies unconnected with the Groups business totalling 40,000 2006: 25,000.
On behalf of the Board John OReilly Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 7 March 2008 Total shareholder return 35 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 corporate responsibility report The Group recognises that it has a responsibility to ensure that its business is conducted in a socially responsible manner, resulting in a high standard of social and environmental behaviour.
The Group is committed to achieving environmental best practice and strives to minimise its adverse environmental impact.
The Group endeavours to achieve these goals by ensuring the efficient use of materials and energy, recycling and promoting the use of recycled materials wherever possible, minimising waste and addressing environmental issues in staff training programmes.
The Group regards environmental laws, regulations and codes of practice in each country where it operates as a minimum standard in its target of environmental performance, particularly those relating to the generation, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes.
Further, the Group endeavours to monitor its impact on carbon emissions by measuring power consumed and implementing initiatives designed to maximise efficiency in order to reduce overall impact.
Examples of this policy are the Groups data centres in Sweden, where the majority of energy used in the facility for its standard operational requirements is from renewable sources and, from launch, the new London Powergate facility where 10% of the power used will be from renewable sources.
Both new data centres in London and Amsterdam are incorporating some of the most advanced energy efficient technology available.
Towards the end of the year the Groups French subsidiary won the Annual Award for Innovation by the FrancoBritish Chamber of Commerce & Industry.
The award recognised the pioneering work of the Groups engineering team in France as they became the first data centre provider to test hydrogen fuel cells as an alternative power source at one of its Paris data centres.
The fuel cell was tested to see if it could provide a highly autonomous backup in the event of a grid power outage, ensuring that control is maintained over vital site operations such as access control, CCTV surveillance, fire detectors and alarms, fire suppression methods, lighting, building technical management and telecommunications.
The Group endeavours to ensure that a safe and healthy environment and adequate welfare facilities are provided for its staff, contractors and visitors.
Through the provision and implementation of systems, training and supervision, the Group aims to ensure that staff, both individually and as a company, achieve the highest possible standards.
The Group is dedicated to training and development, and invests time in ensuring that appointed staff are aware of their responsibilities in respect of their appointment and function.
Throughout the year TelecityGroup supported a number of national and international charities including The Loomba Trust, Derian House Childrens Hospice and Starlight Childrens Foundation.
36 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 independent auditors report to the members of Telecity Group plc We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements the financial statements of Telecity Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes 1 to 30.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Business Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Business Review and the Corporate Governance Statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the annual report.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: I the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its loss for the year then ended: I the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2007: I the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and I the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants 7 March 2008
