22 Tesco PLC Annual report and financial statements 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate Corporate governance Directors report on corporate governance All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice Tesco PLC is committed to the highest standards of corporate at the Companys expense in conducting their duties.
We recognise that good governance helps the Company provides insurance cover and indemnities for its business to deliver strategy, generate shareholder value and Directors and officers.
We believe that the Combined Code is a useful guide from which to review For all new Directors, a personalised induction programme is corporate governance within the Group.
This statement designed to develop their knowledge and understanding of the describes the Board s approach to corporate governance.
On appointment, the Director will liaise with the Chairman and the Company Secretary to Board composition and independence ensure the programme is appropriately tailored to their experience, background and particular areas of focus.
It usually As at 24 February 2007, the Board of Tesco PLC comprised includes an overview of the business model, Board processes, seven Executive Directors, seven independent Non-executive one-to-one meetings with the Executive team and briefings Directors and Mr D E Reid, Non-executive Chairman.
with senior managers, an induction to Board Committees that Mr R F Chase is Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent the new appointee will serve on, a briefing on social, ethical Non-executive Director.
Miss Lucy Neville-Rolfe joined the and environmental issues for the business and site visits at Board in December 2006 and will submit herself for election home and abroad.
by shareholders at the AGM in June 2007.
The need for Director training is regularly assessed by the Both Mr C L Allen and Dr H Einsmann have served on the Board and up-skilling sessions for the whole Board take place Board for more than two three-year terms.
The Chairman at least once a year.
This year Board training included sessions conducted a thorough review with each Director to assess on the operations and governance of our property activities.
their independence and contributions to the Board and In the coming year the Board proposes to hold training confirmed that they both continue to be effective independent sessions focusing on the Tesco Operating Model as well as Non-executive Directors.
Mr C L Allen brings large corporate on the implications of climate change for the business.
To operational experience and knowledge of the media industry better facilitate the Directors understanding of the Groups and provides leadership for the Remuneration Committee.
international operations, the Board usually holds at least Through his wealth of business experience Dr H Einsmann one meeting overseas each year.
contributes a different dimension to the Board in terms of international marketing, brand building and human resource Board processes development.
The Board governs through clearly identified Board The Chairman has primary responsibility for running the Committees to which it delegates certain powers.
The Chief Executive, Sir Terry Leahy, has executive itself is serviced by the Company Secretary, who reports to the responsibilities for the operations, results and strategic Chairman in respect of his core duties to the Board.
The Board development of the Group.
Clear divisions of accountability Committees are the Executive Committee, Audit Committee, and responsibility exist and operate effectively for these Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee.
are properly authorised under the constitution of the Company The Board requires all Non-executive Directors to be to take decisions and act on behalf of the Board within the independent in their judgement.
The structure of the Board parameters laid down by the Board.
The Board is kept fully and integrity of the individual Directors ensures that no one informed of the work of these Committees.
Any issues requiring individual or group dominates the decision-making process.
resolution will be referred to the full Board.
A summary of Biographies for the Board Directors can be found on pages the operations of these Committees is set out below.
The 46 and 47 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial effectiveness of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Statement 2007.
Committees is underpinned by their Non-executive Director membership which provides independent insight on Board responsibilities governance matters.
Copies of each of the Committees The Board normally meets eight times a year and annually Terms of Reference are available on the website devotes two days to a Board conference, including senior www.
com corporate or at the AGM.
executives, which discusses current performance and longerExecutive Committee The Board delegates responsibility term planning, including evaluating the opportunities and for formulating and implementing the strategic plan and for risks of future strategy.
The Board has set out a clear Schedule management of the Group to the Executive Committee.
This of Matters Reserved for Board Decision in order to ensure its Committee meets formally every week and its decisions are overall control of the Groups affairs.
These include the communicated throughout the Group on a regular basis.
The approval of financial statements, major acquisitions and Executive Committee comprises the seven Executive Directors disposals, authority levels for expenditure, treasury policies, and is chaired by the Chief Executive.
A number of senior risk management, Group governance policies and succession executives also attend the Committee and their valuable planning for senior executives.
operational experience helps broaden the debate.
Their THE BOARD AND THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES 23 attendance also facilitates the communication of the Audit Committee The Audit Committees primary Committees decisions to the rest of the Group.
responsibilities are to review the financial statements, to review the Groups internal control and risk management systems, The Committee has authority for decision-making in all areas to consider the appointment of the external auditors, their except those set out in the Schedule of Matters Reserved for independence and reports to the Committee, as well as to Board Decision.
The Executive Committee is responsible for review the programme of Internal Audit.
The Committees implementing Group strategy and policy, for monitoring the annual schedule includes a review of the effectiveness of performance of the business and reporting on these matters external and internal audit and a review of Protector Line, the in full to the Board.
The Committee met The Executive Committee has also set up further operational four times this year.
Each year it conducts a review of the groups or boards aimed at implementing the key elements Committees own effectiveness and its Terms of Reference.
of the Groups strategic plan and managing its UK and Mr K J Hydon, who has recent and relevant financial international operations, joint ventures, property acquisitions, experience, is the Chairman of the Committee.
The other finance, funding and people matters.
These groups are heavily Committee members for the year ended 24 February 2007 populated with Executive Directors and senior management were Mr R F Chase, Mr E M Davies and Ms C McCall.
At the from relevant functions.
invitation of the Committee, the Chairman of the Board, the Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee leads Finance Director and his representatives, the Internal Audit the process for Board appointments, re-election and succession Director, the Corporate and Legal Affairs Director, other relevant of Directors and the Chairman.
The Committee is chaired by Executive Directors and representatives of the external auditors Mr D E Reid and its members during the year were Mr C L Allen, regularly attend meetings.
The Company Secretary also attends Mr R F Chase, Mrs K R Cook, Mr E M Davies, Dr H Einsmann, in his capacity as Secretary of the Committee.
The Committee Mr K J Hydon, Ms C McCall and Sir Terry Leahy.
The Company has regular private meetings with the external auditors during Secretary also attends in his capacity as Secretary of the the year.
The need for training is kept under review and the Committee.
Where matters discussed relate to the Chairman, annual agenda ensures time is dedicated to up-skilling the Senior Independent Non-executive Director chairs the sessions which may be provided by external experts.
The Nominations Committee met once in the year training was provided for the whole Committee on pensions ended 24 February 2007 to discuss the ongoing shape and and asset impairment under IFRS.
Training is also provided to capability of the Board.
They fully consider succession plans for meet specific individual needs of committee members.
Executive Directors and the senior executive level below the Board performance evaluation The Board regularly reviews Main Board.
The Committee discussed in detail Miss L Nevilleits own performance.
During the year ended 24 February 2007, Rolfes proposed appointment to the Board.
The Committee the Board agreed that it would be appropriate to conduct an unanimously agreed that she should be appointed to the in-house review.
The Chairman met with each of the Directors Board as Director of Corporate and Legal Affairs and she will individually and reported to the Board on the findings of the submit herself for election at the next AGM.
The Board found this to be an open, constructive and to submit themselves for re-election at least every three years if useful process and the review concluded that the Board is they wish to continue serving and are considered by the Board highly effective.
The main areas of focus in the past year were: to be eligible.
New Directors are submitted for election by meeting the continuing challenges of improving our capability shareholders in their first year.
in terms of talent development, leadership skills and building Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committees the process, systems and organisation for a fast-growing role is to determine and recommend to the Board the international business.
remuneration of the Executive Directors.
It monitors the levels The Chief Executive reviews the performance of each Executive and structure of remuneration for senior management and Director.
The Chairman reviews the performance of the Chief seeks to ensure that they are designed to attract, retain and Executive and each Non-executive Director.
During the year, motivate the Executive Directors needed to run the Company the Chairman met with the Non-executive Directors, without successfully.
Mr C L Allen chairs the Committee, which is the Executive Directors present, to discuss Board issues and composed entirely of independent Non-executive Directors.
how to build the best possible team.
The Senior Independent Committee members for the year ended 24 February 2007 Non-executive Director met with the Non-executive Directors were Mr R F Chase, Mrs K R Cook, Mr E M Davies and in the absence of Chairman, to assess the Chairmans Dr H Einsmann.
At the invitation of the Committee the effectiveness.
Chairman of the Board normally attends meetings.
The Company Secretary also attends in his capacity as Secretary The Board scheduled eight meetings in the year ended of the Committee.
The responsibilities of the Remuneration 24 February 2007 and ad hoc meetings were also convened Committee and an explanation of how it applies the Directors to deal with urgent matters.
The following table shows the remuneration principles of the Combined Code, are set out attendance of Directors at regular Board meetings and at in the Directors remuneration report on pages 27 to 40. meetings of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees during the year.
24 Tesco PLC Annual report and financial statements 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate Corporate governance continued Board Nominations Remuneration Audit Members attendance during the year ended 24 February 2007 meetings Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 8174 Non-executive Directors Mr D E Reid Chairman 81 N A N A Mr C L Allen 816 N A Mr R F Chase Senior Independent 8174 Mrs K R Cook 716 N A Mr E M Davies 7152 Dr H Einsmann 717 N A Mr K J Hydon 81 N A 4 Ms C McCall 81 N A3 Executive Directors Sir Terry Leahy 81 N A N A Mr R Brasher 8 N A N A N A Mr P A Clarke 8 N A N A N A Mr A T Higginson 8 N A N A N A Mr T J R Mason 8 N A N A N A 1 Miss L Neville-Rolfe 1 N A N A N A Mr D T Potts 8 N A N A N A Notes: N A indicates the Director is not a member of the Committee.
Directors leave the meeting where matters relating to them are being discussed.
It is expected that all Directors attend Board and Committee meetings unless they are prevented from doing so by prior commitments and all Directors attend the AGM.
1 Miss L Neville-Rolfe was appointed on 14 December 2006 and has attended the one meeting that took place since that date.
Risk management and internal controls relationships between the Group and its employees, suppliers and contractors.
The Company is a signatory to the DTI Code Accountabilities Accepting that risk is an inherent part of of Conduct and met its obligations for implementing the Code doing business, our risk management systems are designed for the financial year ended 24 February 2007. both to encourage entrepreneurial spirit and also provide assurance that risk is fully understood and managed.
The Board We operate a balanced scorecard approach that is known has overall responsibility for risk management and internal within the Group as our Steering Wheel.
This unites the control within the context of achieving the Groups objectives.
Groups resources around our customers, people, operations, Executive management is responsible for implementing and communities and finance.
The scorecard operates at every level maintaining the necessary control systems.
The role of Internal within the Group, from ground level business units, through Audit is to monitor the overall systems and report on their to country level operations, up to the Group Steering Wheel.
effectiveness to Executive management, as well as to the Audit It enables the business to be operated and monitored on Committee, in order to facilitate its review of the systems.
a balanced basis with due regard for all stakeholders.
Background The Group has a five-year rolling business plan Risk Management The Group maintains a Key Risk Register.
to support the delivery of its strategy of long-term growth and The Register contains the key risks faced by the Group, returns for shareholders.
including their impact and likelihood as well as the controls and procedures implemented to mitigate these risks.
The Every business unit and support function derives its objectives content of the Register is determined through regular from the five-year plan and these are cascaded to managers discussions with Executive management and review by the full and staff by way of personal objectives.
A balanced approach allows the degree of controllability effective risk management is ensuring our people have a to be taken into account when we consider the effectiveness good understanding of the Groups strategy and our policies, of mitigation, recognising that some necessary activities carry procedures, values and expected performance.
We have a inherent risk which may be outside the Groups control.
Our structured internal communications programme that provides risk management process recognises there are opportunities employees with a clear definition of the Groups purpose and to improve the business to be built into our future plans.
goals, accountabilities and the scope of permitted activities for each business unit, as well as individual line managers and Our key risks are summarised on pages 16 to 19 of the other employees.
This ensures that all our people understand Operating and Financial Review.
what is expected of them and that decision-making takes The risk management process is cascaded through the Group place at the appropriate level.
with every international CEO and local Boards maintaining We recognise that our people may face ethical dilemmas in the their own risk registers and assessing their control systems.
normal course of business so we provide clear guidance based The same process also applies functionally in those parts of on the Tesco Values.
The Values set out the standards that we the Group requiring greater overview.
For example, the Audit wish to uphold in how we treat people.
These are supported Committees Terms of Reference require it to oversee the by the Group Code of Ethics which offers guidance on Finance Risk Register.
A further example is that of the THE BOARD AND THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES 25 Corporate Responsibility Risk Register which specifically Internal Audit The Internal Audit department is fully considers social, ethical and environmental SEE risks.
independent of business operations and has a Group-wide Oversight of these risks is the responsibility of the Corporate mandate.
It operates a risk-based methodology, ensuring Responsibility Committee.
The Board incorporates SEE risks that the Groups key risks receive appropriate regular on the Key Risk Register where they are considered material examination.
Its responsibilities include maintaining or appropriate.
the Key Risk Register, reviewing and reporting on the effectiveness of risk management and internal control With reference to the ABI guidelines on social responsibility, to the Executive Committee, the Audit Committee and we confirm that the Board takes regular account of the ultimately to the Board.
Internal Audit facilitates oversight significance of SEE matters to the business of the Group.
of risk and control systems across the Group through a We recognise that some investors and other stakeholders take number of Audit and Compliance Committees established a keen interest in how companies manage SEE matters and on either a geographic or business basis.
The Head of so we report more detail on our policies and KPIs in our Internal Audit also attends all Audit Committee meetings.
Annual Corporate Responsibility Review and on our website www.
To provide further assurance, the External Audit  LLP, the Groups Corporate Responsibility KPIs are audited on a regular Companys external auditors, contribute a further basis by Internal Audit.
independent perspective on certain aspects of our internal financial control systems arising from their work, and report Internal controls Accountability for managing risk at an to both the Board and the Audit Committee.
operational level sits with management.
We have a Group-wide process for clearly establishing the risks and responsibilities The engagement and independence of external auditors assigned to each level of management and the controls which is considered annually by the Audit Committee before they are required to be operated and monitored.
recommend their selection to the Board.
The Committee has satisfied itself that  LLP are The CEOs of subsidiary businesses are required to certify independent and there are adequate controls in place by way of annual statements of assurance that the Boards to safeguard their objectivity.
One such measure is the governance policies have been adopted both in practice and requirement to rotate audit partners every five years.
For certain joint ventures, the Board places reliance year, the audit engagement partner, having served five years upon the internal control systems operating within our on the Tesco audit, will be rotated.
We have a non-audit partners infrastructure and the obligations upon partners services policy that sets out criteria for employing external Boards relating to the effectiveness of their own systems.
auditors and identifies areas where it is inappropriate for Monitoring The Board oversees the monitoring system and  LLP to work.
Non-audit services has set specific responsibilities for itself and Board or Executive work carried out by  LLP is committees as set out below.
The minutes of the Audit, predominantly the review of subsidiary undertakings Finance, Compliance and Corporate Responsibility statutory accounts, transaction work and corporate tax Committees are distributed to the Board and a report is services.
 LLP also follow their submitted for formal discussion at least once a year.
These all own ethical guidelines and continually review their audit provide assurance that the Group is operating legally, ethically team to ensure their independence is not compromised.
and in accordance with approved financial and operational Finance Committee Membership of the Finance policies.
We noted the updates to the Turnbull Guidance and Committee includes Non-executive Directors with relevant keep under review how the Turnbull Guidance has been financial expertise, Executive Directors and members of applied.
In addition, both Internal Audit and our external senior management.
The Committee usually meets twice auditors play key roles in the monitoring process.
a year and its role is to review and agree the Finance Plan Audit Committee Annually, the Audit Committee reports on an annual basis to review reports of the Treasury and to the Board on its review of the effectiveness of the Tax functions, and to review and approve Treasury limits internal control systems for the accounting year and the and delegations.
period to the date of approval of the financial statements.
Compliance Committee Membership of the Compliance Throughout the year the Committee receives regular Committee includes three Executive Directors and reports from its external auditors covering topics such as members of senior management.
The Company Secretary quality of earnings and technical accounting developments.
attends meetings of the Committee in his capacity as its The Committee also receives updates from Internal Audit Secretary.
The Committee normally meets six times a year and has dialogue with senior managers on their control and its remit is to ensure that the Group complies with responsibilities.
all necessary laws and regulations in all of its operations It should be understood that such systems are designed world-wide.
The Committee has established a schedule to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against for the regular review of operational activities and legal material misstatement or loss.
Every international business in the Group is also required to have a local Compliance Committee designed to ensure compliance with local laws and regulations as well as Group Compliance policies.
26 Tesco PLC Annual report and financial statements 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate Corporate governance continued Corporate Responsibility Committee The Committee is We are committed to maintaining a good dialogue with chaired by an Executive Director and membership is made shareholders through proactively organising meetings and up of senior executives from across the business.
It meets presentations as well as responding to a wide range of at least four times a year to support, develop and monitor enquiries.
We seek shareholder views on a range of issues policies on SEE issues, reviewing threats and opportunities from strategy to corporate governance and SEE issues.
KPIs are monitored under the Community recognise the importance of communicating appropriately segment on our Steering Wheel.
The Board formally any significant Company developments.
This shareholder discussed the progress in implementing our Community communication is mainly co-ordinated by the Investor Relations department.
During the year, the Group met with 97 of our Plan and other work of the Committee twice in the last year and the Chair of the Committee reports regularly leading shareholders representing over 53% of the issued to the Executive Committee on SEE matters.
To complement this programme, the Chairman meets with major shareholders independently from Specialist functions such as the Corporate and Legal the Executive team.
Shareholders also have the opportunity Affairs department and the Trading Law and Technical to meet with the Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
department provide assurance and advice on legal The Board is kept updated on the views of stake-holders.
compliance, health and safety, and SEE matters.
These functions report on their work on a regular basis and It is normal that institutional shareholders may be in more escalate matters as appropriate.
regular contact with the Group than others, but care is exercised to ensure that any price-sensitive information is Management In our fast moving business, trading is released to all shareholders, institutions and private, at the tracked on a daily and weekly basis, financial performance same time in accordance with applicable legal and is reviewed weekly and monthly, and the Steering Wheel regulatory requirements.
All key business units in the Group operate a Steering Wheel and report against target KPIs The AGM is an excellent opportunity to communicate directly on a quarterly basis enabling management to measure with all shareholders.
The whole Board attends the meeting performance.
and are available to answer questions from the shareholders present.
To encourage shareholder participation, we offer All major initiatives require business cases normally electronic proxy voting and voting through the CREST electronic covering a minimum period of five years.
At our last AGM in July 2006, all appraisals, carried out by management, determine the resolutions were voted by way of electronic poll.
This follows reasons for any significant variance from expected best practice guidelines and allows the Company to count all performance.
votes, not just those of shareholders attending the meeting.
Relations with stakeholders Every shareholder may choose to receive a full Annual Report and Financial Statements or the Annual Review and Summary We are committed to having a constructive dialogue with Financial Statement.
At the half-year, all shareholders receive all stakeholders to ensure we understand what is important an Interim Report.
These reports, together with publicly-made to them and allow ourselves the opportunity to present trading statements, are available on the Groups website, our position.
Engagement helps us identify new risks and www.
opportunities to ensure that our long-term strategy is sustainable.
In some instances we find that working with Compliance stakeholders in partnership can help deliver shared goals.
We might not be able to satisfy all stakeholder concerns all the The Board considers that Tesco PLC complied in all respects time but through engagement we can do our best to balance with the Combined Code Principles of Good Governance and competing demands.
We know that customers need to be able Code of Best Practice for the year ended 24 February 2007. to trust our business and they will only trust us if we do the right thing by all our stakeholders.
Our programme of engaging with stakeholders including customers, staff, suppliers, investors, non-governmental organisations and others, is set out in more detail in the Corporate Responsibility Review and on our website.
The launch of the Community Plan has helped to demonstrate our commitment to tackling a wide range of social and environmental issues and we carry out external research to help us understand how well we are addressing stakeholder concerns.
