1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 GROUP DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED 11 12 13 14 15 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Thomas Cook Group plc is committed to the principles of corporate AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance D P Allvey Chairman of Committee that was issued in 2006 by the Financial Reporting Council the Combined M E Beckett Code for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
The following R D Burnell section of the report sets out how the Company applies the principles set Dr P Diesch out in the Combined Code.
B Lerenius Dr T Middelhoff THE BOARD The Board regards as paramount the interests of the shareholders NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE and is ultimately responsible for ensuring that the Group discharges M E Beckett Chairman of Committee its corporate governance responsibilities effectively.
The Board also R D Burnell acknowledges its corporate governance responsibilities to the Groups Dr P Diesch customers, employees and other stakeholders.
Dr T Middelhoff Dr A J Porter BOARD AND COMMITTEE COMPOSITION The full Board of Thomas Cook Group plc is as follows: MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE M E Beckett Chairman of Committee Dr T Middelhoff Non Executive Chairman R D Burnell M E Beckett Independent Non Executive Deputy Chairman Dr P Diesch J M Fontenla-Novoa Chief Executive Of cer H Klein H-L Heuberg Chief Financial Of cer Dr T Middelhoff D P Allvey Independent Non Executive Director Dr A J Porter R D Burnell Independent Non Executive Director Dr P Diesch Non Executive Director HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE H Klein Independent Non Executive Director R D Burnell Chairman of Committee B Lerenius Independent Non Executive Director D P Allvey Dr A J Porter Independent Non Executive Director M E Beckett J M Fontenla-Novoa As all appointments of the Directors were made by the Board, each H Klein Director will retire and put himself forwards for re-appointment by the shareholders at the 2008 Annual General Meeting of the Company.
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Mr Beckett has been appointed as the Senior Independent Director.
The Board has appointed the following committees, comprised of the following members.
50|THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 BOARD ATTENDANCE The gures shown below are the number of Board and or Board committee meetings attended by each Director out of the number convened during the time in which each such Director served on the Board or relevant committee during the period.
Management Audit Development Health, and Risk and Safety and 1 Full Board Management Remuneration Nominations Environmental J S Allkins 3 4 N A N A N A N A D P Allvey 7 8 4 4 N A N A 1 1 M E Beckett 8 8 4 4 5 5 1 1 1 1 J M Bloodworth 5 8 N A N A N A N A R D Burnell 7 8 4 4 5 5 1 1 1 1 Dr P Diesch 6 8 4 4 3 5 1 1 N A J M Fontenla-Novoa 9 9 N A N A N A 0 1 H-L Heuberg 8 8 N A N A N A N A H Klein 5 5 N A 1 2 N A 1 1 B Lerenius 5 5 1 1 N A N A N A P T McHugh 9 11 N A N A N A N A Dr T Middelhoff 8 8 2 4 5 5 0 1 N A Dr A Porter 6 8 N A 4 5 0 1 N A 1 In order to consider the terms of the merger and listing and issues relating to them, a number of Board meetings were held prior to the appointment of the majority of the Board of Directors on 28 March 2007.
This results in the different denominator gures above for Mr McHugh and Mr Fontenla-Novoa.
Mr Klein and Mr Lerenius joined the Board on 1 July 2007.
OPERATION OF THE BOARD The Board normally meets at least eight times per annum for scheduled Board meetings.
The Board also meets as required on an ad hoc basis to deal with urgent business including the consideration and approval of transactions.
The Board has approved a schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board.
This schedule can be viewed on the Groups website www.
com within the Corporate Governance Compliance Statement published on that website.
To facilitate swift and ef cient operational management decisions, the Board has established an Executive Board sub-committee, the Finance and Administration Committee comprised of the Chief Executive Of cer and the Group Chief Financial Of cer which has delegated authority, within clearly identi ed parameters, in relation to day to day operational matters.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
In addition, to ensure ef cient and effective conduct of the administrative affairs of the Group, the Board has formally delegated authority to the Group Company Secretary and Assistant Group Company Secretary in relation to a series of administrative matters.
CHAIRMAN The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct.
Dr Middelhoff is the Non Executive Chairman, Mr Beckett is Non Executive Deputy Chairman and Mr Fontenla-Novoa is the Chief Executive Of cer.
The other signi cant commitments of the Chairman and Deputy Chairman are set out in their respective biographies on page 36.
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD The Board has established four standing committees to assist in the discharge of corporate governance responsibilities.
The full terms of reference for these committees are included within the Thomas Cook Group plc Corporate Governance Compliance Statement, published on the Groups website at www.
Nominations Committee The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee are, in summary, to make recommendations to the Board from time to time on the Boards composition and balance, to prepare the description of the role and capabilities required for appointments to the Board and to make recommendations to the Board on all new appointments to the Board.
While the relationship agreement, which formed part of the terms agreed for the merger of Thomas Cook AG and MyTravel Group plc the Relationship Agreement, remains in force the Committee shall be comprised of no fewer than three Non Executive Directors who are considered by the Board to be independent of management and free from any business of other relationship which might materially interfere with the exercise of independent judgement, together with a maximum of two Directors appointed by Arcandor AG.
The majority of the members of the Nominations Committee shall be independent Non Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Committee shall be an independent Non Executive Director.
The quorum is three members of the Committee, the majority of whom must be independent Non Executive Directors.
Meetings are held not less than once a year.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007|51 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 GROUP DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED 11 12 13 14 15 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Group Chief Executive Of cer may attend meetings of the Committee Management Committee has authority to investigate any activity within except to the extent that the matter for discussion is the role or its terms of reference and is responsible for resolution of disagreements performance of the Group Chief Executive Of cer.
The Committee considers between the management and the auditor.
candidates for appointment to the Board following consultation between Meetings are held not less than four times a year.
The regular business the Chairman of the Committee and the Group Chief Executive Of cer.
of the meetings is to consider reports of the internal and external auditors Management Development and Remuneration Committee and of the risk management committee and to make recommendations The Management Development and Remuneration Committee is to the Board as appropriate.
responsible for all elements of Executive remuneration, for performance The Board is satis ed that the Chairman of the Committee, David Allvey, management and for the Groups remuneration and incentivisation has recent and relevant financial experience and is also satis ed that policies.
The terms of reference of the Management Development and all members of the Committee have appropriate knowledge and Remuneration Committee are, in summary, to make recommendations understanding of financial, risk and accounting matters to contribute to the Board on the Groups framework of Executive remuneration and its effectively to the Committee.
cost and to review and determine on behalf of the Board the remuneration and incentive packages of the Executive Directors to ensure that they are The Committee is responsible for reviewing any litigation or regulatory fairly rewarded for their individual contributions to Thomas Cook Groups proceedings to which the Thomas Cook Group is a party or which could overall performance.
The Committee is responsible, in accordance with have material and signi cant affect upon the financial, legal, regulatory the Listing Rules, for reporting to the Board and to the Companys or compliance position or operational results of Thomas Cook Group shareholders in relation to remuneration policies applicable to Executive and the manner in which such matters have been disclosed in the Directors.
The Committee is responsible for determining the basis upon financial statements.
which the employment of any Director is terminated, for operating The Committee is authorised by the Board to investigate any activity Thomas Cook Groups share option and other incentive schemes and within its terms of reference, to require compliance with such in accordance with the rules of those schemes and for making investigation by all employees of the Group and to obtain independent recommendations to the Board as to any adjustments to the terms of legal or other professional advice.
It is also authorised to approve such schemes and proposals intended for submission to shareholders the appointment of or termination of employment or engagement in relation to such schemes.
The Committee has no authority in relation of any regulatory compliance of cer and the internal auditor.
to the remuneration of Non Executive Directors.
While the Relationship Agreement remains in force, the Committee While the Relationship Agreement remains in force the Committee shall shall be comprised of no fewer than three Non Executive Directors who be comprised of no fewer than three Non Executive Directors who are are considered by the Board to be independent of management and free considered by the Board to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which might materially interfere from any business or other relationship which might materially interfere with the exercise of independent judgement, together with a maximum with the exercise of independent judgement, together with a maximum of two Directors appointed by Arcandor AG.
The majority of members of two Directors appointed by Arcandor AG.
The majority of members of the Committee shall be independent Non Executive Directors and of the Committee shall be independent Non Executive Directors and the the Chairman of the Committee shall be an independent Non Executive Chairman of the Committee shall be an independent Non Executive Director.
The quorum shall be three members of the Committee, and the Director.
The quorum shall be three members of the Committee, a majority majority of whom must be independent Non Executive Directors and of whom must be independent Non Executive Directors and meetings meetings should be held not less than four times a year.
The Committee shall be held not less than once a year.
The Group Chief Executive Of cer recognises that its composition is not in full compliance with provision may, on occasion and only for matters which do not personally concern C. 3.1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Committee him, be invited to attend meetings of the Committee and in any event shall considers that the two representatives of Arcandor AG give valuable be consulted by the Committee on proposals relating to the remuneration insight into the German trading market and considers that having of the other Executive Directors.
a minimum of three, and currently four, independent Non Executive Full details of Directors remuneration are included in the Remuneration Directors in addition to the two who represent Arcandor AG gives Report on pages 56 to 64. appropriate balance to the Committee and preserves its independence.
Relevant executive management and a representative of the external Audit and Risk Management Committee auditors are invited to attend meetings as appropriate.
At least one The duties of the Audit and Risk Management Committee include, meeting each year is held with the external auditors and without in summary, the review of internal and external audit functions, the executive management present.
The external auditors may request review of risk management and internal control processes, the making a meeting if they consider one necessary.
of recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of external auditors and the monitoring of the integrity of the half year The Committee has developed a policy for the provision of non-audit and annual financial statements and interim management statements services by the auditors and pre-approves material fees for non-audit before submission to the Board.
The Committee reports to the Board services in accordance with that policy in order to ensure that the on any matter on which it considers that action is required and makes provision of non-audit services does not impair the external auditors recommendations for steps to be taken.
In addition, the Audit and Risk independence or objectivity.
The policy is set out in the Groups Corporate 52|THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Governance Compliance Statement published on the Groups website Actions to improve the Board and Board Committee effectiveness at www.
An analysis of the fees earned by the have been discussed from time to time, agreed and implemented.
Groups auditors for audit and non-audit services is disclosed in note Personal feedback on individual Directors was discussed with them 11 to the financial statements.
No individual performance problems were identi ed.
In respect of all Directors who are to be submitted for Health, Safety and Environmental Committee re-election at the Companys AGM, their performance continues to The terms of reference of the Health, Safety and Environmental be effective and they have continued to demonstrate the appropriate Committee are, in summary, to review and supervise the management level of commitment to their role.
The use of external providers of health, safety and environmental risks and impact in the Groups in the context of Board evaluation is being kept under review.
activities, and to review and oversee the development and implementation of the Thomas Cook Group Health, Safety and BOARD INDUCTION PROCESS Environmental Policy.
It is also responsible for reviewing Thomas Cook In relation to any new Board appointees, the Group Company Secretary Groups compliance with relevant legislation and regulation relating provides a pack of introductory brie ng information to new Board to health, safety and the environment in all of its areas of operation, members and, in conjunction with the Group HR Director, arranges including customer and employee safety.
to provide such additional information to the new Director as that Director requests and arranges to schedule any additional brie ngs The quorum is three members of the Committee, a majority of whom that may be suggested by the Board.
must be independent Non Executive Directors, and meetings shall be held not less than three times a year.
Meetings may be convened more INDEPENDENT ADVICE frequently at the request of the Chairman and to deal with speci c There is a procedure in place whereby the Directors are able to take issues that have arisen.
professional advice at the Companys expense in relation to any matter which relates to their position as Director but not personal matters.
As at 30 January 2008, the Board comprised of the Non Executive Chairman, Non Executive Deputy Chairman, two Executive and six Non SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATION Executive Directors.
Biographical details of the Directors are included The Board promotes open communication with shareholders, which is on pages 36 and 37.
The Non Executive Deputy Chairman who is also formalised within a framework of investor relations, and includes formal the Senior Independent Director and five of the Non Executive Directors presentations of full year and interim results, trading statements and are regarded as being independent for the purposes of the Combined regular meetings between executive management and institutional Code.
The composition of the Board is designed to provide an appropriate investors.
In addition, the Board responds to ad hoc requests for balance of Group, industry and general commercial experience and information and all shareholders have an opportunity to question is reviewed at regular intervals to ensure that it remains appropriate the Board at the AGM.
to the nature of the Groups activities.
A review of the performance and financial position of the key operations PERFORMANCE EVALUATION is provided in the Business Review on pages 25 to 27 and the Financial The Group has established a performance evaluation process for its Review on pages 28 to 35.
The Board uses these reports to present Board, committees and individual Directors, developed by the Group a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position Company Secretary in conjunction with the Group HR Director, which ties and prospects.
in with the evaluation procedures for other staff within the Thomas Cook RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL Group of companies.
Each of the Executive Directors is subject to the The Board recognises its ultimate accountability for maintaining performance management processes established for all employees.
an effective system of internal control that is appropriate in relation For the Executive Directors other than the Chief Executive, this involves to both the scope and the nature of the Groups activities and complies their performance being reviewed by the Chief Executive.
These appraisals with the Turnbull Committee Guidance in the Combined Code and has are then reviewed by the Chairman on behalf of the rest of the Board approved the framework and the standards implemented.
and any key conclusions or points of note passed to the Non Executive Directors.
In relation to the Chief Executive, the Chairman has carried The Board, in reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal out an appraisal of his performance and discussed his conclusions with control, can con rm that necessary actions have been or are being the Non Executive Directors.
taken to remedy any signi cant failings or weaknesses identi ed from that review.
During the year the Chairman conducted an evaluation of the Boards The Board has delegated responsibility for the implementation of overall performance on an informal basis facilitated by the Group Company Secretary.
This focused on attendance at meetings, preparation the Group Risk Management Policy to the Group Chief Financial Of cer.
The Group Chief Financial Of cer has formed the Group Risk Management for discussions, contribution of specialist knowledge and experienced understanding of the Groups structure and activities, understanding Committee to support him in ful ling this responsibility.
of management responsibilities, understanding of and contribution to appropriate financial management policies, risk management and the Groups corporate governance and compliance policies and procedures.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007|53 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 GROUP DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED 11 12 13 14 15 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Group Risk Management Committee is responsible for: The Group encourages employees to report any concerns which they feel need to be brought to the attention of management and has adopted Supervising a thorough and regular evaluation of the nature and extent a whistleblowing policy and a Group theft and fraud reporting policy of the risks to which the Company is exposed.
which are published on the Groups intranet sites, allowing such matters Reviewing the corporate risk pro le and recommending Risk to be raised in con dence through the appropriate channels.
The Group has a code of ethics which deals with: Supervising and assessing the overall effectiveness of the Risk prohibitions on employees using their position for personal gain: Management process.
prohibitions on improper business practices: To support the Group Risk Management Committee there are segment risk management committees.
The Group has established five segmental a requirement for compliance with all internal approval and risk committees: authorisation procedures and legal requirements: UK and Ireland a requirement to disclose potential con icts of interest and potential related party contracts.
Northern Europe During the year, the Board, through the work of the Audit and Risk North America Management Committee, has conducted a review of the Groups system Continental and of internal control.
There is an ongoing process for the identi cation and evaluation of risk management and internal control processes which German Airlines has been in place throughout the year and remains in place up to the which report to the Group Risk Management Committee.
date of the Financial Statements.
By implementing the Risk Management Policy, the segments are This code of ethics is contained within the Groups internal policies responsible for: guide which is available to all employees and, in particular, those with responsibility for procurement or other dealings with third party Maintaining and updating risk reporting.
In addition, the Group Company Secretary is available Managing risk action implementation and measurement systems.
for advice on any matter which may give rise to cause for concern in relation to the code of ethics.
Maintaining and reviewing risk performance and measurement systems.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF THE COMBINED CODE Risk registers are compiled and submitted by each segment for The Directors have carried out a review of the Groups corporate review quarterly.
governance policies and procedures in the light of the requirements The Group Risk Management Committee prepares a half yearly risk report of section 1 of the Combined Code.
This review has indicated that the for the attention of the Audit and Risk Management Committee, based Company has been in compliance with the provisions of the Combined on the feedback from the segment risk management committees for Code throughout the period since listing, with the exception of the review at Group level.
The report identi es the principal risks to the matters referred to below: business and assesses the adequacy of controls and procedures in place Dr Thomas Middelhoff does not ful l the independence criteria set out to mitigate the likelihood and the impacts of these risks.
in code provision A3.1 of the Combined Code, as required by provision The regular risk reporting regime has created an environment for A2.2 of the Combined Code, as he has been from the date of his the development and improvement of risk management procedures appointment, and continues to be, the chairman of the Management across the Group.
The Audit and Risk Management Committee reviews Board of Arcandor AG, the Companys largest shareholder.
Dr Peter Diesch the reports of the Group Risk Management Committee and makes is a Non Executive Director of the Company and is the Chief Financial recommendations to improve risk management and internal control.
The appointments of Dr Middelhoff and Dr Diesch were an agreed part of the merger of MyTravel Group plc and Thomas This process of risk identi cation, measurement and reporting provides Cook AG and were agreed in consultation with the major shareholders a comprehensive ongoing assessment of the signi cant risks facing of those companies, which became the major shareholders of Thomas Cook the Group and the mitigation actions taken in respect of those risks.
This process ensures that the Group complies with the relevant corporate governance best practice in relation to risk management including the guidance issued under the Turnbull Report.
The Group has established an Internal Audit function which reports directly to the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Management Committee.
Internal Audit makes recommendations to that Committee in relation to the maintenance of a sound control environment throughout the Group.
54|THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 In accordance with provision A.
4.6 of the Combined Code the Company notes that neither an external consultancy nor open advertising was used in the appointment of the additional independent Non Executive Directors, Bo Lerenius and Hemj Klein.
Each of these appointments was made following the normal process for the evaluation of potential candidates for appointment to the Board, including meetings between those new Directors and both Executive and Non Executive Directors of the Company, and was approved by the nominations committee, the majority of whom are independent Non Executive Directors.
Provisions B2.1 and C3.1 of the Combined Code provide that the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee respectively should be made up entirely of independent Non Executive Directors.
Under the terms of the Relationship Agreement, Arcandor AG is entitled to appoint up to two Non Executive Directors to each of the Audit and Risk Management Committee, Management Development and Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee.
The corporate governance arrangements referred to above are considered by the Board to be appropriate given the shareholding structure of Thomas Cook Group and the terms of the Relationship Agreement.
The arrangements were agreed in consultation with the major shareholders of MyTravel Group plc and Thomas Cook AG, which became the major shareholders of Thomas Cook Group plc.
The Board has adopted a corporate governance compliance statement that sets out how the policies, procedures and practices of the Group comply with, or in the case of the areas referred to in the preceding paragraphs, deviate from the Combined Code.
A copy of this statement is available, on request, from the Group Company Secretary or on the Groups website at www.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007|55
