Internal control The Directors have overall responsibility for the Groups system Business reviews of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
To full On a quarterly basis, Corporate Centre management performs this responsibility the Directors have established a Performance extensive reviews with each business.
These reviews consider Management Framework within which each of the Groups current and projected financial and operating results, and address businesses operates.
Within this framework, the management of the progress of key strategic and operating initiatives, the risks each of the businesses considers strategic, operational, commercial affecting their achievement and the actions being taken by and financial risks, and identies risk mitigation actions.
Whilst business unit management to manage the risks and achieve their acknowledging the overall responsibility for the system of internal objectives.
control, the Directors are aware that the system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business Financial plans objectives and can provide reasonable and not absolute assurance Each business prepares financial plans in accordance with a prescribed against material misstatement or loss.
format, which includes consideration of risks.
Management at the Corporate Centre reviews the financial plans with the business units During the period under review, the Directors were not aware and a summary is presented to the Board for approval.
of any control breakdowns which resulted in a material loss to the Group.
Balance sheet reviews The Performance Management Framework, which includes an Business unit and Corporate Centre financial management conduct ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the periodic, on-site reviews of underlying rationale and support for the significant risks faced by the Group, has been in place throughout significant line item components comprising the balance sheets for the financial year and up to the approval date of the Directors each business in the Group.
Each business units management identies Investment project authorisation and assesses the key business risks affecting the achievement All significant investment project expenditures are subject to a of its objectives.
Business unit management also identies the formal investment project authorisation process, which takes into risk management processes used to mitigate the key risks to an acceptable level and, where appropriate, additional actions account, inter alia, operational, financial and technical risks.
For required to further manage and mitigate them.
The risk significant investment projects a post-investment analysis is summaries developed out of this process are updated at least completed to facilitate continuous improvement in the investment annually.
In addition, Corporate Centre management considers planning process, including risk identication and mitigation.
those risks to the Groups strategic objectives that may not be Reporting, analysis and forecasts identied and managed at the business unit level.
All businesses are required to report monthly to the Corporate In connection with quarterly business reviews, relevant executives Centre on financial performance.
Comparisons are made with discuss risk management activities with Corporate Centre plan, forecast and prior year, and significant variances and changes management.
The key risks and mitigation strategies are also in the business environment are explained.
Each business reassesses discussed at least annually with the Audit Committee as well its forecast for the financial year on a monthly basis.
Quarterly, as the full Board.
each business prepares a forecast for the following 18 months and reviews projections for the current and following year.
The risk management processes described above are applied to major decision-making processes such as acquisitions as well Financial strategy as operational risks within the business including environmental, The financial strategy includes assessment of the major financial health and safety.
risks related to interest rate exposure, foreign currency exposure, The other key elements of the Performance Management debt maturity and liquidity.
There is a comprehensive global Framework, which constitutes the control environment are: insurance programme using the external insurance market and some limited use of an internal captive insurance company.
Group Business strategy reviews Treasury manages hedging activities, relating to financial risks, with Each business is required to prepare a strategic position assessment external cover for net currency transaction exposures.
The Group taking into account the current and likely future market Tax function manages tax compliance and tax risks associated with environment and competitive position of the business with specic the Groups activities.
The Audit Committee, through periodic consideration given to strategic risk.
The Corporate Centre direct reports from the Group Treasurer and Group Vice-President, management reviews the strategy with each business and the Tax, oversees the financial strategy as well as the tax strategy, and Board is presented with a summary of the plans.
considers the associated risks and risk management techniques being used by the Group.
58 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Governance Reporting certications In connection with the preparation of the annual financial statements, senior business general management and financial management sign a certicate which includes a declaration regarding the existence of internal controls, the proper recording of transactions and the identication and evaluation of significant business risks.
These certications were expanded to encompass section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 the Act in support of statements required to be made by Tomkins Chief Executive officer and Finance Director.
See further discussion of Sarbanes-Oxley below.
Sarbanes-Oxley As a foreign private issuer FPI listed on the NYSE in the US, the Group is subject to the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 the Act.
In particular, Section 404 of the Act requires certications by management regarding the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting and requires the independent auditors to express an opinion on such internal controls.
Accordingly, the Group undertakes each year a comprehensive, risk-based approach to testing its internal controls to ensure Tomkins compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Act.
The Tomkins Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer have issued their report attesting to the Groups compliance with the Act as of 29 December 2007.
While managements certication and the external auditors opinion on internal controls over financial reporting are necessarily reported in Tomkins US SEC lings, the results of Tomkins compliance with the Act also serve to further underpin the internal control framework for the Group.
Internal Audit The Group has an established internal audit function: the Vice President Internal Audit directs the activities of the internal auditors on a day-to-day basis and has a direct reporting line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Board.
Internal Audits responsibilities include performing independent objective assurance activities in order to evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management processes.
The Internal Audit plan is constructed to provide geographic coverage on a cyclical basis while tailoring to address specic risk concerns.
During the year, it reported regularly to the Audit Committee on its internal audit reviews of the Groups operations.
The Directors confirm that the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the year ended 29 December 2007 has been reviewed in line with the criteria set out in the guidance for Directors in the Combined Code.
