Audit Committee report This Report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements Meetings of paragraph C. 3.3 of the Combined Code and paragraphs 5.1 and The Audit Committee meets at least four times a year and on other 5.2 of the Guidance on Audit Committees produced by Sir Robert occasions when circumstances require.
The quorum for a meeting Smith.
The report describes the role of the Audit Committee in of the Committee is two members.
The Finance Director and meeting these requirements.
representatives from the independent auditor and the internal auditor attend meetings under a standing invitation.
The Chairman Terms of reference of the Board, the Chief Executive and other Directors are able The Committees terms of reference, a copy of which can be found to attend meetings of the Committee under the practice that any in the Responsibilities Governance area on the Companys Director may attend any meeting of a Board Committee provided website, are reviewed from time to time and approved by the Board that they have no conict of interest in respect of business to be of Tomkins.
They are based on the model terms of reference set discussed.
It is usual practice for the Chief Executive to attend out in the Guidance Note produced by the Institute of Chartered meetings of the Audit Committee.
Other finance and business risk Secretaries and Administrators and take account of the requirements executives attend meetings and the Company Secretary is Secretary of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Guidance Notes set out to the Committee.
The Committee Chairman reports regularly to in Sir Robert Smiths Report published in January 2003. the Board on its activities.
Five meetings were held during the year and attendance is set out in the table on page 53.
The terms of reference cover membership and appointment, meetings, duties and responsibilities, authority and a number Work of the Committee of other matters.
The Committee has established an agenda framework which Tomkins believes is vital for maintaining an appropriate focus on Membership and appointment the objectives of the Committee.
The agenda sets out all of the The Audit Committee comprises four independent Non-Executive operational duties and responsibilities outlined in the Committees Directors: David Richardson who was appointed to the Committee terms of reference and is based on four regular meetings, in March 2006 and became Chairman in May 2006, Richard in February, April, July and November, which coincide with the Gillingwater, who was appointed in December 2005, John announcement of the quarterly results.
The areas covered by McDonough and Leo Quinn who were appointed on 30 July 2007. the agenda framework are as follows: Jack Keenan ceased to be a member of the Committee upon his retirement from the Board on 13 June 2007.
Corporate Governance, including the regular review of the Committees terms of reference and annual evaluation, The Board has determined that all four members of the Audit regulatory issues, review of delegated authorities and review Committee are independent for the purposes of the Combined of auditor independence.
3 b 1 under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and section 303A of the New York Stock Exchanges Listed 2.
Internal Audit, including the review of the internal audit charter, Company Manual.
The members bring wide-ranging financial, internal audit review reports on the Groups internal control and commercial and management experience to the work of the Audit risk assessment processes, compliance with auditing standards Committee and their biographical details are set out on page 51. and progress against its internal audit plan, functional developments and key performance measures.
The Chairman of the Committee, David Richardson, is a Chartered Accountant FCA, having previously held a number of senior 3.
Condential sessions with the independent auditors and the financial management and strategic planning positions in head of Internal Audit, in the absence of Directors and Company Whitbread plc from 1983 to 2005 in the UK and US, becoming executives.
Prior to 1983, he held financial 4.
Financial Reporting, including current accounting and financial positions in ICL plc and Touche Ross & Co.
In accordance with reporting matters and review of interim and annual statements section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Board has prior to their submission to the Board for approval, which includes determined that David Richardson is an audit committee the consistency of judgements adopted.
financial expert as that term is dened under the rules of the US Securities and Exchange Commission, having significant, 5.
Independent Auditors, including appointment, audit plan relevant and up-to-date UK and US financial and accounting and scope, review of audit fees, cost effectiveness, approval knowledge and experience.
of non-audit fees, reports on interim and annual financial statements, status reports, management letters and the nature and extent of non-audit services.
The audit plan and scope sets out details of the areas to be covered and how the audit is to be conducted.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee meets periodically with the independent auditors to discuss progress on the audit and the major points to arise, and has the opportunity to assess the effectiveness of the process.
The Committee is also able to assess the effectiveness of the auditors and the process through reports made to the Committee by the independent auditors.
60 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Governance In addition to the items considered by the Committee under The Companys practice, in accordance with UK company law and the agenda framework, during 2007 other important issues the Combined Code, in relation to the appointment and termination considered included regular reviews of the internal control systems of the independent auditors, involves a recommendation from and the statement to be made in the Directors Report in respect the Audit Committee to the Board, which will then make a of internal controls, Group risk prole, Group tax reports, updates recommendation to shareholders in general meeting.
This differs on compliance with the Combined Code and approval of Form from the procedure in the US, where the independent auditors 20-F.
The Committee received reports on the Companys efforts are accountable to the Audit Committee, which has the authority in countering potential fraud in the Group.
Changes to the Internal to appoint or dismiss the independent auditors without reference Audit Charter were approved.
Work on compliance with section to shareholders.
404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 was completed during the With the approval of the Board, the Committee has established early part of the year and was the focus of attention of the Internal guidelines for the recruitment of employees or former employees Audit function during that period.
The Internal Audit function is of the independent auditors.
The Group will not engage, on a actively engaged in assessing the adequacy and effectiveness of the part-time or full-time basis, any person who is or was an employee Groups system of internal control and risk management processes.
of the Companys independent auditors, where that person Each quarter, the Committee receives a summary of reviews of has worked on the Groups audit either as a principal or partner the businesses risk management processes: any significant related at any time during a period of not less than three years prior to financial exposures are also highlighted.
The risk assessment the proposed date of joining the Group.
Certain less stringent process and risk mitigation plans are an important part of the conditions apply to other employees or former employees of the development of business strategies.
Business risks are considered independent auditors.
at the quarterly reviews with the businesses, where all of the major strategic, operational, compliance and financial risks are discussed.
A whistleblowing procedure has been established for the Condential meetings with representatives of the independent condential and anonymous submission by employees of concerns auditors and internal audit functions took place during the year regarding accounting, internal controls or auditing matters, in in the absence of executives.
accordance with the requirements of section 301 of the SarbanesOxley Act of 2002.
Should a call be received on the dedicated In determining its policy on the extent of non-audit services telephone line, the Company Secretary or the General Counsel provided by the independent auditors, the Committee has taken would immediately report to the applicable management all account of the rules of the US Securities and Exchange Commission concerns raised.
A course of action is agreed and a report is which regulate and, in certain circumstances, prohibit the provision prepared for review at the next meeting of the Audit Committee, of, certain types of non-audit services by the independent auditors.
including details of actions taken to deal with the matters raised.
Non-audit services require the approval of the Chairman of the The Chairman of the Committee will report, if appropriate, Audit Committee.
During the year, certain projects requiring tax whistleblowing claims to the Committee and the Board.
services were awarded to the rm of the independent auditors.
The Companys Code of Conduct and Ethics includes the In those cases where the work was awarded to the independent whistleblowing procedure.
Calls to the designated telephone auditors, it was concluded that the rm of the independent number, as well as direct contacts with management, are made auditors was best placed to supply such tax services in a costfrom time to time, but no issues material to the Company were effective manner due to the experience and qualications of dealt with by the Committee during the year.
the individuals providing such services, the independent auditors knowledge of the Company and its tax affairs and that the best Shareholders are given the opportunity at the AGM to ask the interests of the Company were served by engaging the rm of Chairman of the Committee questions on this report and any other the independent auditors.
The previous adoption of certain other related matter.
rules by the Committee, including those relating to audit partner David Richardson rotation, relevant ethical guidance issued by the professional bodies Chairman, Audit Committee in the Consultative Committee of Accountancy Bodies in particular that the independent auditors should not audit their own rms 20 February 2008 work, make management decisions for the Company, create a mutuality of interest nor be put in the position of advocate for the Company, when taken together provide adequate protection of auditor independence.
All fees proposed by the independent auditors must be reported to and approved by the Audit Committee or, between meetings, the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Details of audit fees for the year can be found in note 15 to the Groups consolidated financial statements.
