Key governance principles The Tomkins Board promotes the highest standards of corporate The Board sets the standards and values of the Company and much governance within the Company through its support and of this has been embodied in the Companys Code of Conduct and application of the Principles of Good Governance set out in section Ethics and Human Rights Policy which can be found on the 1 of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
A summary of Companys website, www.
The Code of Conduct and the Companys system of applying the principles and the manner in Ethics applies to all Directors, ofcers and employees, including the which the provisions in section 1 have been complied with are set principal executive, financial and accounting ofcers, as required by out below.
Section 1 of the Combined Code sets out the main and section 406 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the related rules supporting Principles of Good Governance for companies, which of the US Securities and Exchange Commission and the rules of the are split into the following areas: New York Stock Exchange.
The Code contains provisions Reporting of Violations under which employees can report violations of 1.
Directors company policy or any applicable law, rule or regulation, including 2.
Remuneration those of the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Accountability and audit have the added protection of section 806 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 4.
Shareholder relations of 2002, which prohibits the discrimination by a company or others against an employee where such violations are reported.
The current Each of these areas is addressed in turn.
procedure, which is set out in Tomkins Code of Conduct and Ethics, 1.
Directors provides for information to be given anonymously or by named A.
The Board employees under conditions of condentiality.
Those employees The Company is controlled through its Board of Directors, whose who come forward and give their name are assured that they will main roles are to: receive the full protection of section 806 and no retaliation will take place.
This is of particular importance since 52% of the Companys Create value for shareholders: employees are based in the US.
Furthermore, the Company ensures Provide leadership of the Company: that the principles are applied in other jurisdictions, subject to Approve the Companys strategic objectives: compliance with local employment and other laws.
Ensure that the necessary financial and other resources are made available to the management to enable them to meet those The Board has delegated to the Chief Executive responsibility objectives: and for the day-to-day management of the Group subject to Operate within a framework of effective controls which enables certain financial limits above which Board approval is required.
the assessment and management of principal business risks.
The delegated authority includes such matters as operations, The Board, which has reserved certain specic matters to itself for acquisitions and divestitures, investments, capital expenditure, borrowing facilities and foreign currency transactions.
decision set out in a Schedule of Reserved Matters, is responsible for approving overall Group strategy and financial policy, acquisition The Board of Directors comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, five and divestment policy and major capital expenditure projects.
additional Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors It also appoints and removes members of the Board and Board who together, with their different financial, commercial, technical Committees, reviews recommendations of the Audit Committee, and operational expertise and cultures, bring with them a wide Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee, and the range of experience to the Company.
appointment of the independent auditor.
It also reviews the financial performance and operation of each of the Companys The Board has determined that David Newlands, Richard businesses.
In 2007, the Company granted qualifying third party Gillingwater, John McDonough, Leo Quinn, David Richardson indemnities to the Directors which remain in force at the time and Struan Robertson are independent, as they are independent of this report.
of the Companys executive management and free from any material business or other relationship with the Company either directly or as a partner, shareholder or officer of an organisation that has a relationship with the Company.
In December 2000, at the request of the Board, the Non-Executive Chairman, David Newlands, temporarily assumed certain executive responsibilities until the recruitment of James Nicol as Chief Executive in February 2002.
It is the Boards view that this short-term arrangement did not affect Mr Newlands independence.
Accordingly, the Board believes that there are no such relationships that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
52 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Governance Non-Executive Directors are normally appointed for a minimum On appointment, Non-Executive Directors receive a range of period of two years, which is renewable by agreement with the information about the Company via an induction programme, Board and is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual which aims to provide an understanding of the Company as a General Meeting AGM.
The terms and conditions of appointment whole, including its strategy, structure, geographical spread of of Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the operations, financial position, markets, products, technologies Companys registered ofce during normal business hours on and people, as well as their legal responsibilities as a Director and, weekdays and will also be available for inspection at the place where appropriate, any training that is necessary for them to carry of the AGM from 15 minutes before the meeting until it ends.
The Board and its Committees receive, The Combined Code recommends the appointment of a senior in a timely manner, detailed information concerning the matters independent Non-Executive Director and Sir Brian Pitman served to be discussed to enable them to make informed decisions.
The in this capacity until his retirement from the Board at the conclusion Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company of the AGM on 13 June 2007 whereupon Richard Gillingwater Secretary, whose removal may be effected only with the approval was appointed senior independent Non-Executive Director.
of the Board, and can obtain independent professional advice at The roles of Non-Executive Directors are to: the Companys expense in furtherance of their duties, if required.
scrutinise the performance of management in meeting the The Board ordinarily meets not less than five times a year, and agreed objectives: will hold additional meetings when circumstances require.
help develop proposals on strategy: and During the year ended 29 December 2007, the Board met monitor the reporting of performance, including satisfying on five occasions.
Between meetings, the Chairman and Chief themselves as to the integrity of financial information and Executive update the Non-Executive Directors on current that financial controls and systems of risk management put matters and there is frequent contact to progress the affairs in place by the Company are robust and effective.
With the encouragement of the Chief Executive, They meet together from time to time in the absence of the Non-Executive Directors have regular contact with senior management and the Chairman normally presides over such management through their presentations at Board meetings, meetings.
at strategic reviews and on other occasions.
Attendance by each individual Director at Board and principal Committee meetings held during 2007 Corporate Social Audit Remuneration Nomination Responsibility Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Meetings held in 2007 5 5 3 1 4 Meetings attended: David Newlands 5 n a 3 1 n a Richard Gillingwater 4 4 3 1 n a Jack Keenan 3 3 2 1 n a Ken Lever 4 n a n a n a n a John McDonough 2 2 n a 1 Iain Napier 2 n a 1 n a James Nicol 5 n a n a n a 4 Sir Brian Pitman 2 n a n a 1 n a Leo Quinn 2 2 1 n a David Richardson 5 5 n a 1 n a Struan Robertson 5 n a n a 1 4 John Zimmerman 1 n a n a n a n a Notes n a not applicable where a Director is not a member of a Committee.
Tomkins Annual Report 2007 53 Key governance principles continued Seven of the Directors served for only part of 2007.
These Directors were Jack Keenan retired 13 June 2007, Ken Lever resigned as a Director on 1 October 2007, with his employment ceasing on 31 October 2007, John McDonough appointed 14 June 2007, Iain Napier appointed 14 June 2007 and resigned 13 December 2007, Sir Brian Pitman retired 13 June 2007, Leo Quinn appointed 6 July 2007, and John Zimmerman appointed 1 October 2007.
Richard Gillingwater was unable to attend one Board meeting and one Audit Committee meeting.
Sir Brian Pitman was unable to attend one Board meeting and John McDonough was unable to attend one meeting of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee.
The remaining Directors attended all Board and Committee meetings for the periods in 2007 in which they held their directorships.
During the year, other Directors have attended meetings of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, Nomination Committee and Corporate Social Responsibility Committee by invitation.
These details are not included in the table on the previous page.
On the rare occasion when a Director cannot attend a meeting, he will normally, prior to the meeting, make his views on the agenda items known to the Chairman or, in respect of Committee meetings, to the Chairman of the respective Committee.
Directors membership of principal Committees Corporate Social General Audit Nomination Remuneration Responsibility Disclosure Purposes David Newlands C M C James Nicol M M C John Zimmerman M M Richard Gillingwater M M M John McDonough M M C M Leo Quinn M M M David Richardson C M Struan Robertson M C C Chairman M member At the Companys forthcoming AGM, and in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, James Nicol and David Richardson will retire from the Board by virtue of length of service and will seek reappointment.
John McDonough, Leo Quinn and John Zimmerman, having been appointed during the year, will retire in accordance with the Articles of Association and will seek reappointment.
Chairman and Chief Executive Nomination Committee There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman The Nomination Committee makes recommendations to the Board and the Chief Executive, with neither having unfettered powers on all proposed appointments of Directors through a formal and of decision with respect to substantial matters.
The Chairman is transparent procedure.
The Committee meets as and when required.
responsible for running the Board and ensures that all Directors In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Directors receive sufficient relevant information on financial, business and are subject to reappointment at the AGM immediately following corporate matters to enable them to participate effectively in the date of their appointment, and thereafter they have to seek Board decisions.
In advance of each meeting, the Board is provided reappointment no more than three years from the date they were with comprehensive brieng papers on items under consideration.
The Committee recommends to the Board the The Chairman, David Newlands, is also Chairman of KESA names of the Directors who are to seek reappointment at the Electricals plc and PayPoint plc.
Whilst these are important AGM in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
appointments, the Board of Tomkins believes that the Chairman During the year, four new Board appointments were made.
The continues to be able to carry out his duties and responsibilities Nomination Committee was central to the recruitment process, effectively for the Company.
including the appointment of professional advisers and conducting The Chief Executives primary role is the running of the Companys interviews with potential candidates, and the Committee and Board businesses and the development and implementation of strategy.
are aware of, and support, the principles set out in section A.
4 of The Non-Executive Directors have the opportunity to meet with the the Combined Code relating to appointments to the Board.
Chairman and with the Chief Executive periodically, either together Corporate Social Responsibility Committee or separately, to consider and discuss a wide range of matters The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee meets at least affecting the Company, its business, strategy and other matters.
The Committee is chaired by an independent C. Board Committees Non-Executive Director and its membership also includes the Chief The Board has established a number of Committees and receives Executive.
Its principal role is to determine, on behalf of the Board, reports of their proceedings.
Each Committee has its own delegated the framework or broad policy and objectives in the areas of authority as dened in its terms of reference, which are reviewed health, safety and the environment HSE and propose any periodically by the Board.
The Board is satisfied that its Committees amendments to existing policies for approval by the Board.
It also have written terms of reference which conform with best corporate reviews managements performance in the achievement of HSE governance practice.
The terms of reference for all Board Committees objectives and reviews HSE reports produced by business units for can be found under Governance in the Responsibilities area compliance with all local health, safety and environmental codes of the Companys website, www.
co. uk, or a copy can be of practice, legislation and relevant industry practice.
obtained by application to the Company Secretary at the Companys More details of the work of the Corporate Social Responsibility registered ofce.
Committee can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report to The Board appoints the chairmen and members of all Board shareholders available on the Companys website www.
Committees upon the recommendation of the Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to all Board Details of the Remuneration Committee and its work can be found Committees.
The principal Committees, their membership and a on pages 62 to 69. brief description of their duties are set out below.
Mr J M J Keenan and Sir Brian Pitman retired from the Board at the conclusion of Disclosure Committee the Companys AGM on 13 June 2007 and Mr R D Gillingwater The Disclosure Committee meets as and when required for the replaced Sir Brian Pitman as Senior Independent Director on that purpose of, inter alia, reviewing and approving for release all date.
Messrs. K Lever and I J G Napier resigned from the Board price-sensitive information relating to the Company and on 1 October 2007 and 13 December 2007 respectively.
All stood compliance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the down from their respective Committee memberships at the date Financial Services Authority.
General Purposes Committee Audit Committee The General Purposes Committee meets as and when required.
Details of the Audit Committee and its work can be found on It comprises Executive Directors and senior executives and the pages 60 and 61. quorum requires the presence of at least one Executive Director.
The Committee deals principally with day-to-day matters of a routine nature and matters delegated to it by the Board.
Tomkins Annual Report 2007 55 Key governance principles continued D. Board, Committee and Chairman evaluations These concerns have been addressed and the 1 January 2008 Under the direction of the Senior Independent Director, Richard review of Non-Executive Directors fees and Chairmans Gillingwater, evaluations of the effectiveness of the Board, its remuneration drew on advice and data supplied by PA Consulting, Committees and Chairman were conducted during the year.
which took account of the above suggestions.
Overall, the Directors The evaluation processes continued with the same approach as continue to believe that the Committees function well.
the previous year which drew on the experiences of the previous Chairman evaluations of the Board and its Committees and concentrated For the evaluation of the Chairman, the more formal approach on six key elements: adopted in previous years continued, including completion of the optimum mix of skills and knowledge amongst the Directors: a questionnaire that sought views across a broad range of the clarity of goals and processes: Chairmans responsibilities.
There was considerable positive tailoring the evaluation to the specic circumstances of Tomkins: feedback from Directors on the role of the Chairman and his the culture of candour that encourages constructive evaluation: leadership of the Board.
A small number of suggestions were regular reviews of assessment criteria: and made and the Senior Independent Director discussed these full disclosure of procedures and criteria to the Board.
The Non-Executive Directors discussed the Board and Committee evaluation report with the Senior Independent Director in the The fifth Board performance evaluation took place during the absence of executives.
year, which continued the processes developed in the first four years.
A Report was prepared and considered by the Board.
Remuneration The overall view of the Directors was that the Board is the right See the Remuneration Committee report on pages 62 to 69. size and mix of skills to ensure its optimum effectiveness, particularly after the recent changes to membership of the Board.
Accountability and Audit A number of suggestions were made relating to the following: A.
Financial reporting In the Directors report, the Board seeks to provide a detailed Dedicated strategy sessions were felt to be of particular use, as understanding of each business of the Group, together with a way of ensuring the Boards involvement in the development a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys of strategy: position and prospects.
It was also felt that the Boards methods of measuring management B.
Internal control performance could be improved in the following ways: Further information on the internal control environment within while the numbers were analysed and the operations explained, which the Group operates may be found in the Directors it was felt that it would be helpful to see some KPIs which statement on internal control on pages 58 and 59. were regularly reported on outside the pure financial numbers: the budgeting and reporting process could be simplied: and C. Going concern by questioning the trends in return on invested capital and The Directors are confident, on the basis of current financial considering the extent of organic growth compared to acquisition.
projections and facilities available, that the Company and the Group have adequate financial resources to continue in operation Additional comments were made in relation to the number, for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Directors continue duration and timing of Board meetings and positive comments to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial were made on the quality of operating and financial reporting, statements.
supported by high-quality papers and presentations.
The Board considered the matters raised by the evaluation and arrangements D. Whistleblower reporting procedures were made to address each of those matters raised.
Under section 301 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, all public companies, including non-US public companies such as Tomkins, The fourth Board Committee performance evaluation reinforced acting through the Audit Committee of the Board, must provide the positive messages that were highlighted in the first three a procedure for the receipt, retention and treatment of complaints evaluations.
The Committees were acknowledged to be well led received by the Company regarding accounting, internal controls with strong and experienced members who were well informed or auditing matters.
The Audit Committee and the Board have and overall the Committees function well.
There were some agreed a procedure for the condential and anonymous submission suggestions on improving particular aspects of the work of the by employees of concerns regarding these matters.
Committees, including the distribution of papers and, in relation to the Remuneration Committee, the following points in particular were raised: There was a preference to have a greater degree of formal Human Resources HR representation and input: It was felt that the supporting processes for the Committee might be improved by more regular updates on market trends in remuneration and more frequent reference to external market data.
Shareholder relations Shareholder rights The Company places a high degree of importance on maintaining The Companys issued share capital is comprised of ordinary shares good relationships and communications with both institutional and of 5p each.
In addition to such ordinary shares, the Companys private investors and ensures that shareholders are kept informed authorised share capital includes convertible cumulative preference of significant Company developments.
shares of US$50 each and convertible cumulative redeemable preference shares of US$50 each, both of which are convertible To assist members of the Board to gain an understanding of the into ordinary shares.
None of such preference shares are in issue, views of institutional shareholders, at each of its meetings the and it is proposed at this years AGM that the authority for such Board receives an Investor Relations Report, which covers a wide preference shares should be removed.
See also notes 37 and 41 range of matters including a commentary on the perception of on pages 126 and 128 respectively.
the Company and views expressed by the investment community, media reports, share price performance and analysis.
Analysts significant agreements and change of control reports and estimates are also made available to all Directors.
The Group has issued bonds totalling 400 million.
The terms of The announcement of quarterly management statements, half-year the bonds entitle the holders to require redemption where there and full-year results provides opportunities for the Company to is a change of control of the Company combined with a ratings answer questions from institutional shareholders covering a wide downgrade.
In addition, under the Groups 400 million credit range of topics.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director facility, the lenders are entitled, on a change of control, to require and Investor Relations staff hold an ongoing dialogue with prepayment of amounts outstanding.
institutional shareholders to ensure the mutual understanding In addition, the service agreement of James Nicol entitles him of objectives.
The Chief Executive and other senior executives to the payment of one years salary, the value of certain benets participate in industry conferences, which are attended by existing and certain additional bonus entitlements where his employment and potential shareholders.
The Company exercises care to ensure is terminated either by the company or by himself within three that all price-sensitive information is released to all shareholders months after a change of control.
Further, the performance at the same time, as required by the Listing Rules of the Financial conditions for certain of Mr Nicols share option entitlements Services Authority and the Securities and Exchange Commission are waived in the event of a change of control.
Compliance statement The Companys website provides shareholders and potential Except where indicated, the Company has complied throughout the investors with information about the Company, including annual year ended 29 December 2007 with all the Code provisions set out and interim reports, recent announcements, investor presentations, in section 1 of the Combined Code.
share price information, Group policies, corporate responsibility and governance matters.
Shareholders are also able to put The certications of the Chief Executive and Finance Director questions to the Company via its website.
required under section 302 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules of the US Securities and Exchange Shareholders also have the opportunity to attend the AGM to Commission, will be led as exhibits to the Companys Form 20-F. put questions to the Board.
Full details of the 2008 AGM are in Pursuant to section 303A, the Foreign Private Issuer Annual Written the Circular to Shareholders dated 27 March 2008.
It has been Afrmation was sent to the New York Stock Exchange NYSE the Companys practice to send the Notice of the AGM and in June 2007, afrming without qualication that Tomkins has related papers to shareholders at least 20 working days before complied with the requirements laid down by the NYSE in respect the meeting and to propose separate resolutions on each of Foreign Private Issuers.
The Company has placed on its website a general summary of The Board notes that section 2 of the Combined Code seeks to the significant ways in which the Companys corporate governance encourage more active participation by institutional shareholders, differs from that followed by domestic US companies under including entering into a dialogue with companies and making the NYSEs listing standards, as required by section 303A.
11. considered use of their votes principles which the Company supports.
Statement on Directors report Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval Substantial shareholdings of the Directors report confirms that: Voting rights notied under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit at 20 February 2008 are as set out in the table below.
information of which the auditors are unaware: and the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken % of total No.
of shares voting rights as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware Tradewinds NWQ Global Investors, LLC 65,864,556 7.47 AMVESCAP plc through AiM Trimark 44,464,570 5.05 of that information.
Sprucegrove Investment This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Management Limited 43,969,223 4.99 with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
Legal & General Group plc 35,977,633 4.08 Approved by the Board on 20 February 2008 and signed on its behalf by David Newlands Chairman Tomkins Annual Report 2007 57
