qxp 19 3 08 23:09 Page 51 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2007 ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee is responsible for: The integrity of the financial statements of the Company and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained therein: Reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and, unless expressly addressed by the Board itself, the Companys internal control and risk management systems: Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: Making recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the appointment and remuneration of the external auditors: Reviewing the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: Reviewing the Companys policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant guidance regarding the provision of CCF holds a large stock of non-audit services by an external audit firm.
plasterboard, a fast selling The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the the Committee also invited the Group Chairman, the Group product line Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers Finance Director, the Group Chief Operating Officer, the that action or improvement is needed, and make Group Financial Controller, the Group Head of Business Risk recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
The and Assurance and the external auditors to attend each Committees full terms of reference are available on the meeting.
During each meeting, the external auditors and Companys website, or on request to the Company Secretary.
the Group Head of Business Risk and Assurance were given the opportunity to talk with the Committee without the COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE presence of management.
In addition, during the year, the Chris Bunker was Chairman, and Michael Dearden and Committee Chairman held a number of meetings or Stephen Carter, members of the Committee, throughout telephone conferences with the Group Head of Business 2007.
John Coleman was appointed a member on 28th Risk and Assurance and with the external auditors, all January 2008.
All members of the Committee are without management being present.
The Group Company Secretary, Andrew Pike, is secretary to the Committee.
The MAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE Board considers that Chris Bunker has the recent and DURING THE YEAR relevant financial experience required by the Combined At its meeting in March, the Committee reviewed the Code see also the Board profiles on pages 46 and 47. annual financial statements of the Company and received reports from the internal auditors on internal control matters MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE and from the external auditors on the conduct of their audit, The Committee met four times during 2007 to consider their review of accounting policies, areas of judgment and inter alia, the annual and interim results.
The Chairman of the financial statements and their comments on statements 51 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPOR T 77266 Pre.
qxp 19 3 08 23:09 Page 52 concerning risk and internal control.
A similar review was Audit related services undertaken at its July meeting when the interim statements The Auditor is invited by the Company to undertake those were considered.
At these meetings, and at its meetings in services that they are required to and are most suited to May and November, the Committee also reviewed: perform.
Such work includes certification in respect of The committees terms of reference and recommended borrowings, Stock Exchange related reporting and where minor changes to the Board: appropriate, assistance with acquisitions.
The effectiveness of the system of internal financial control and the system for monitoring and reporting on Taxation risks faced by the Group: The Auditors assist the Group to meet general tax The strategy, staffing including training and processes compliance requirements as well as providing advice on of the internal audit department and recommended to acquisitions and tax planning.
Should opportunities arise for the Board minor changes to the terms of reference of them to advise on special tax projects, their suitability is that department: assessed at the time to ensure it would not compromise The status of actions taken in response to their audit independence, with the work being tendered recommendations arising from internal audit work: where appropriate.
The operation of the Groups whistleblowing policy and agreed a change in the method of operation of the Consulting policy: To avoid any possible conflict of interest the Groups policy The policy on engagement of the external auditor for is not to employ its Auditors for general consulting work.
non-audit work, as referred to below, and its policy on Following its November 2007 meeting, the Committee the employment of anyone previously employed by the recommended to the Board that a resolution be put to external auditor: shareholders at the Annual General Meeting for the The plans presented by the external auditor for conduct re-appointment of the external auditors, and to authorise of the year-end audit including terms of engagement, the Directors to fix their remuneration.
fees and letters of engagement: The Companys accounting policies and forthcoming INTERNAL AUDIT International Financial Reporting Standards and other As well as its reviews of the internal audit departments regulatory changes: strategy and processes, as described above, during its The Companys business continuity planning: meetings in 2007, the Committee received presentations The satisfaction of the performance condition in a grant from the Group Head of Business Risk and Assurance, under the Companys executive share option scheme about the results of work undertaken by the department, A proposed policy on the purchase of foreign currencies, and approved its plans for work in 2008.
The Committee which it approved: was satisfied with the overall effectiveness of the An evaluation of its work carried out as part of the Board department.
evaluation process referred to on page 49, and reported to the Board on this evaluation: OVERVIEW The popular Santo kitchen, one of Any comments received on its 2006 report from As a result of its work during the year, and taking into several ranges on display at institutional investor bodies: account the result of the Board and Committee evaluation Benchmarx Watford The effectiveness of the external auditors.
process described on page 49, the Audit Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of EXTERNAL AUDITORS reference and has ensured the independence, objectivity The Company places great importance on the effectiveness and effectiveness of the external and internal auditors.
and independence of its external auditors and together with The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at them is careful to ensure their objectivity is not the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about compromised.
At its November meeting, the Auditors the work of the Committee.
presented to the Committee their plans for the forthcoming audit together with details of their proposed fees and how they ensure that their objectivity and independence are not compromised.
It is the role of the Committee to ensure compliance with the Boards policy in respect of services provided by, and C. J. Bunker fees paid to, the Auditors.
Audit fees are negotiated by the Chairman, Audit Committee Finance Director and approved by the Audit Committee.
For 3 March 2008 other services that may be provided by the Auditors, the Companys policy is: 52 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPOR T
