qxp 19 3 08 23:09 Page 48 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2007 COMBINED CODE Carter and Andrew Simon each missed one meeting The London Stock Exchange first issued the Combined because of conflicting business commitments and John Code on Corporate Governance the Code in 1998 and it Coleman missed one meeting because of illness.
was revised most recently in June 2006.
Section 1 of the Otherwise, all meetings were attended by all directors.
One Code is applicable to companies.
A statement explaining meeting dealt with consideration of the Companys longhow the Company has applied the principles and the term strategy and nine meetings either included visits to extent to which it has complied with the provisions of the parts of the Companys operations or included Code appears below.
The Code contains fourteen main presentations by senior executives on their areas of principles of governance, which are divided into the responsibility.
Individual visits to operational sites by nonfollowing four areas: executive directors also occurred.
In addition to the regular board meetings, key financial information is circulated to 1.
Directors directors outside of meetings.
The Chairman has regular The Company is controlled through a board of directors, direct contact with the executive directors and keeps the which presently comprises the Chairman, three executive non-executive directors informed of material developments and four non-executive directors.
Tim Stevenson is between board meetings.
Chairman and Geoff Cooper is Chief Executive.
Michael All directors have direct access to the Company Dearden is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Secretary and may take independent professional advice in Chris Bunker, John Coleman and Andrew Simon are also the furtherance of their duties if necessary.
The Company independent non-executive directors.
Stephen Carter also maintains directors & officers insurance in respect of the served as an independent non-executive director risk of claims against directors.
throughout the year, but resigned on 8 January 2008.
The Chairman held one meeting during the year with all Appointments of new directors are made by the Board on the non-executive directors, without the executive directors the recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
The Senior Independent Director held a One of several tile border directors will submit themselves for re-election at least number of individual discussions with other directors displays at Tile Giant Macclesfield every three years.
during the year, without the Chairman being present, to The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved evaluate the Chairmans performance, and then provided to it and meets at least ten times a year.
It is responsible feedback to the Board.
The Board has an induction process for overall group strategy, policy on corporate governance for new directors, which is facilitated by the Company matters, acquisition policy, approval of major capital Secretary.
The Chairman ensures that all directors receive expenditure and consideration of significant financial and appropriate training on appointment and then subsequently operational matters.
It monitors the exposure to key as required, taking into account the need to update their business risks and reviews the strategy of the trading skills and their knowledge of the Companys business.
subsidiaries, their annual budgets and progress towards They are also regularly provided with information on the achievement of those budgets and their capital forthcoming legal and regulatory changes and corporate expenditure programmes.
It also considers legislative, governance developments, and briefings on the key risks environmental, health and safety and employment issues.
facing the Company, including those identified in the The Board has approved a written statement of the Corporate Responsibility statement on page 45. division of key responsibilities between the Chairman and The Board has established five standing committees: the Chief Executive.
the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the The Chairman leads the Board, ensuring that each Nominations Committee, the Health and Safety Committee director is able to make an effective contribution.
He also and the Executive Committee, which operate within monitors the information provided to the Board to ensure it defined terms of reference.
Details are available on the is sufficient, timely and clear, and from time to time, the Companys website or may be obtained from the Company Board reviews the adequacy of this information.
The minutes of committee meetings are The Board held twelve meetings during 2007.
Stephen available to all the directors.
During the year, the 48 CORPORA TE GOVERNANCE 77266 Pre.
qxp 19 3 08 23:09 Page 49 Remuneration Committee met five times, the Nominations Secretary separately, focussing on areas pertinent to the Committee once, the Audit Committee four times and the operation of the Board, its committees and each director, Health and Safety Committee which was established in and in particular on the current views on those matters November 2007 once.
All these meetings were attended identified in 2006 where measures were taken to enhance by all members of the relevant committee, except that performance.
These interviews formed the basis of a report John Coleman missed one meeting of the Remuneration by the Chairman that was the subject of a discussion by the Committee because of illness and Stephen Carter missed Board, which was satisfied that the process showed that one meeting of the Audit Committee because of a the Board and its committees worked effectively.
However, it conflicting business engagement.
The reports of the Audit agreed a number of measures relating to the nature and Committee, Remuneration Committee, and the presentation of board business, aimed at further enhancing Nominations Committee are on pages 51 to 52, 53 to 61 its performance.
The activity of the Health and Safety A board evaluation process will be carried out in 2008.
Fencing panel stock located in our garden projects centre at Committee is described in the Chief Operating Officers 2.
Directors remuneration Wickes Newcastle review of the year on pages 28 to 30.
The Remuneration Committee consists of the Chairman and The Executive Committee was established in June 2005. three independent non-executive directors, and meets at Its members are described on page 47.
Other executives least four times a year.
Its responsibilities include are invited to attend from time to time in relation to specific remuneration policy and a review of the performance of matters.
The principal purpose of the Committee is to assist executive directors prior to determining their remuneration.
the executive directors in the performance of their duties in The remuneration of the non-executive directors is relation in particular to: determined by the Board as a whole, except that the Strategy, operational plans, policies, procedures and Remuneration Committee makes a recommendation in budgets: respect of the Chairmans salary.
No director plays a part in The monitoring of operational and financial performance: the discussion about his own remuneration.
The assessment and control of risk: The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 53 to 61.
The prioritisation and allocation of resources.
The Committee met eleven times during the year and all 3.
Accountability and audit meetings were attended by all members except that A review of the performance of the Groups trading Andrew Pike, Company Secretary & Lawyer missed one subsidiaries and the financial position of the Group is meeting because of a bereavement.
included in the Chief Executives review of the year, in the During the year, the Board undertook an evaluation of its Chief Operating Officers review of the year and in the performance and the performance of its committees and Finance Directors review of the year set out on pages 12 to the individual directors.
This entailed interviews by the 43.
The Board uses them, together with the Chairmans Chairman with each other director and the Company statement on pages 10 and 11 to present a full 49 CORPORA TE GOVERNANCE 77266 Pre.
qxp 19 3 08 23:09 Page 50 assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
The carried out an annual review of the overall effectiveness of Directors responsibilities for the financial statements are the system of internal control and risk management described on page 68. procedures, during the year and up until the date of approval of the annual report.
Internal control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal Audit Committee and auditors control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In designing the The report of the Audit Committee is set out on pages system of internal control, consideration is given to the 51and 52. significant risks to the business, the probability of these risks manifesting themselves and the most cost effective 4.
Relations with shareholders means of controlling them.
The system is designed to The Company encourages two-way communication with both its institutional and private investors and responds promptly to all enquiries received.
During the year the Chairman and the executive directors, either separately or together, attended a number of meetings with analysts, and with shareholders representing circa 54% of the issued share capital.
The Senior Independent Director also attended two meetings with investors in 2007.
The Chairman and executive directors report to the Board on any meetings with shareholders or analysts.
In addition, written reports about the Company by analysts or brokers are circulated to all directors.
As well as sending annual and interim reports to shareholders, the Company has normally issued trading statements at the Annual General Meeting and around the year end.
In 2008, it will issue interim management statements.
All shareholders receive at least twenty working days notice of the Annual General Meeting at which all directors are available for questions and a short business presentation takes place.
Each substantive issue is the subject of a separate resolution.
The numbers of proxy votes for and against each resolution are announced at the meeting, after the voting has taken place, and are subsequently published on the Companys website.
GOING CONCERN Our on screen City Plumbing After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a bathroom design service enables manage rather than eliminate risk and therefore can only judgement at the time of approving the financial statements customers to plan their new bathroom layouts provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against that there is a reasonable expectation that the Company material misstatement or loss.
and the Group have adequate resources to continue in The day-to-day operation of the system of internal operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this control has been delegated to executive directors and reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in senior management, but the effectiveness of the system is preparing the financial statements.
regularly reviewed by the Board in a process that accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board receives regular CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE reports on specific areas of risk.
If appropriate, these STATEMENT reports include recommendations for improvement in The Company is pleased to report that it has complied controls or for the management of those risks.
Measures to throughout the year ended 31 December 2007 with the integrate risk management processes into the Groups provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
operations, to extend awareness of the importance of risk management and to ensure that recommended improvements are implemented, are regularly reviewed and refreshed.
Senior executives are asked, twice a year, to confirm the adequacy of internal controls in their areas of responsibility, identify any control weaknesses, and to confirm the accuracy and completeness of information given to the directors and to the external auditors.
In conjunction with the Audit Committee, the Board has 50 CORPORA TE GOVERNANCE
