38 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of Corporate Directors Governance.
This statement, together with the Directors Report There are currently eight directors: Chairman, Sir Ian Gibson: Chief and the Remuneration Report set out on pages 42 to 48, describes Executive, Sly Bailey: Senior Independent Director, Gary Hoffman: how the Company has applied the relevant principles of the June two other executive directors: and three other non-executive 2006 FRC Combined Code.
The Board believes that the Company directors.
The directors biographies are set out on page 36 and complies with the FRC Combined Code in full.
illustrate the directors breadth of experience, which should ensure an effective Board to lead and control the Group.
The Board The Board is responsible and accountable for the Groups operations.
Jane Lighting was appointed to the Board on 2 January 2008.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to itself, including the Groups strategic plans, acquisitions or disposals, Peter Birch, Sir Angus Grossart and David Ross served as Directors capital expenditure, all financing matters, annual operating plan until the AGM in 2007. and budget and operating and financial performance.
The Board meets regularly and a schedule of attendance is shown on page 41.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive has been set out in writing and approved by the Board.
The Board also delegates specific responsibilities to committees, The non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of three each of which has clear written terms of reference, as described years and may be invited to serve subsequent terms.
The Board did not believe that it was necessary to use executive director is proposed for re-election by shareholders at the end of their initial term, the Nomination Committee meets external resources to review its performance during 2007 but chose to evaluate its own performance, that of its committees to consider whether his or her performance continues to be effective and whether they demonstrate a commitment to the role.
During the and of its directors through an extensive questionnaire sent to each director.
This was a process that it had adopted in 2004, 2005 year the Chairman and non-executive directors met twice without the executive directors being present.
The non-executive directors and 2006, having used the services of external consultants in 2003.
The Board has agreed that an externally facilitated review meet without the Chairman being present at least once a year to review the performance of the Chairman.
The Board believes that all its non-executive directors are The form of the questionnaire and the detail of the process itself was reviewed and amended following advice from the independent independent.
Sir Angus Grossart was, until April 2005, non-executive Vice Chairman of the Royal Bank of Scotland, which is one of the consultant Dr Tracy Long, of Boardroom Review.
The questionnaires were reviewed by the Chairman and the Secretary and Group Legal Companys commercial bankers.
As Sir Angus had no executive powers in either company and was not involved in the consideration Director.
A report of findings was distributed to each director and discussed at a meeting of the Board.
The Board was broadly satisfied of the commercial terms of the relationship, the Company does not believe that this former connection affected his independence prior with its performance and an action plan was created for those areas for which it believed improved processes could be introduced.
Following a Corporate Governance review it was agreed that all nonGary Hoffman is Group Vice Chairman of Barclays and is an Executive Director of Barclays Plc.
Although the Company has connections executive directors should serve as members of the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The Board believes that an with Barclays, its relationships are in areas outside of Mr Hoffmans direct control and the Board does not believe that they affect his increasing amount of work is undertaken by these Committees and that a non-executive director can only properly fulfil his or her independence.
responsibilities if they are present during committee meetings and are able to follow the detail of discussion and debate held at those Every director is subject to re-election by shareholders every three years.
An assessment is made of any training needs on a directors meetings.
Similarly the Chairman, in addition to chairing the Nomination Committee, is a full member of the Remuneration appointment and the appropriate training provided.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary and, in the furtherance of Committee and attends meetings of the Audit Committee at the invitation of its Chairman.
their duties, may take independent professional advice if necessary at the Companys expense.
The Board believes that the Chairman was independent at the date of his appointment.
The Chairman has declared to the Company his other significant commitments, which is his Deputy Chairmanship of Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc.
During the period from 1 January 2007 and the date of this report, the Chairman has become a director and Deputy Chairman of Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc and has ceased to be a director of GKN plc, Greggs plc and Northern Rock plc.
The Board believes that he devotes sufficient time to the Company to properly and fully fulfil his responsibilities.
TriniTy Mirror plc AnnuAl reporT & AccounTs 2007 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Audit Committee The Remuneration Report set out on pages 42 to 48 contains a The Audit Committee is chaired by Kathleen ODonovan.
Gary more detailed description of the Companys policies and procedures Hoffman, Jane Lighting and Laura Wade-Gery are members.
The Chief Executive, the Secretary and The Committee meets to review the Groups interim and annual Group Legal Director and Group HR Director and Head of financial statements before their submission to the Board, to review Compensation and Benefits, as appropriate, attend meetings of the the appropriateness and effectiveness of its internal controls, Committee but they do not participate in discussions on their own accounting policies and procedures and financial reporting.
an internal audit function to enhance the rolling programme of review and improvement to the Groups internal controls.
The Audit Committee The Committee has formal written terms of reference which are monitors and reviews the effectiveness of internal audit activities.
published on the Companys website.
Kathleen ODonovan, who became Chairman of the Audit Committee Nomination Committee following the AGM in 2007 is a Chartered Accountant and Gary The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman.
All the nonHoffman has extensive experience in the financial services industry.
executive directors and the Chief Executive are members.
The Committee meets as required to select and propose to the Board Peter Birch, Sir Angus Grossart and David Ross were members suitable candidates of appropriate calibre for appointment as of the Committee until the AGM in 2007.
David Ross is a Chartered directors.
The Committee would normally expect to use the services Accountant and was Finance Director of Carphone Warehouse.
of professional external headhunters to help in the search for and selection of candidates.
It followed this practice in the case of Jane The Group Finance Director, other directors, the Groups external Lighting and Kathleen ODonovan.
The Committee has formal written auditors and the internal auditors, as appropriate, attend meetings terms of reference which are published on the Companys website.
The Committee has formal written terms of reference which are published on the Companys website.
Administration Committee The website and the Companys intranet also carry details The Administration Committee consists of the Chief Executive, of the Companys whistleblower policy, which has been approved Group Finance Director and Secretary and Group Legal Director and implemented by the Committee.
and meets as necessary to deal with administrative matters of a day-to-day nature.
During the year the Committee, with the help of the Head of Internal Audit, followed a process to review and monitor the external auditors Relations with shareholders independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit The Company encourages two-way communication with both its process.
An extensive questionnaire was sent to the Audit Committee, institutional and private investors and responds quickly to all queries other Board members and senior operational and finance managers received orally or in writing.
The Chief Executive and the Group across the Group.
The results were analysed by the Head of Internal Finance Director meet regularly with analysts and institutional Audit and a full report was submitted for review by the Audit shareholders.
At the Annual General Meeting all directors, including Committee.
There were no adverse findings.
The report as a whole Committee Chairmen, are available for questions.
Twice a year the was discussed with the external auditors.
Private meetings were Director of Corporate Communications, who also runs the Companys held with Deloitte & Touche LLP to ensure there were no restrictions investor relations programme, produces a formal report for the Board on the scope of their audit and to discuss any items that the auditors giving details of comment and feedback received from analysts and did not wish to raise with management present.
He is present during the Board discussion of this report.
Communication is also made through the website, The Committee reviewed the letter from Deloitte & Touche LLP www.
com, which is regularly updated.
confirming their independence and objectivity.
It also reviewed the scope of non-audit services provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP to Accountability and audit ensure that there was no impairment of objectivity.
The Board has Operating and financial review accepted the Committees recommendation on a policy on the Through the detailed reviews of the performance and financial engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services.
position in the Chairman and Chief Executives statement page 8, and the Business Review page 12, together with the Directors Remuneration Committee Report page 49, the Board seeks to present a balanced and The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Gary Hoffman.
Sir Ian understandable assessment of our position and prospects.
Gibson, Jane Lighting, Kathleen ODonovan and Laura Wade-Gery The directors responsibility for the financial statements is described are also members.
The Committee meets as required during the on page 49. year to review the Companys general policy on executive remuneration, the application of the policy to the remuneration and benefits of the executive directors and to recommend and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
Peter Birch, Sir Angus Grossart and David Ross were members of the Committee until the AGM in 2007.
TriniTy Mirror plc AnnuAl reporT & AccounTs 2007 40 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Internal control Functional reporting a number of our key functions, including Internal financial control treasury, taxation, internal audit and risk management, litigation, IT The directors are responsible for the Groups established system of strategy and development, environmental issues and insurance, internal financial control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
During are dealt with centrally.
Each of these functions reports to the the review the Board has not been advised of any failings or Board on a regular basis, through the Chief Executive, Group weaknesses which were deemed to be significant.
No system of Finance Director or Secretary and Group Legal Director, as internal financial control can provide absolute assurance against appropriate.
The treasury function operates within the terms of material mis-statement or loss.
Such a system is designed to provide clearly defined policy statements.
The policy statements exist to the directors with reasonable assurance that problems are identified ensure that we are not exposed to any unnecessary risk and that on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
The key procedures where appropriate there is hedging against foreign currency and that have been established and designed to provide effective internal interest rate risks.
The Audit Committee reviews reports from financial control are: management, the internal audit department and the external auditors to provide reasonable assurance that control procedures Management and organisational structure the existing are in place and are being followed.
Formal procedures have been organisational structure is considered appropriate to the size of the established for instituting appropriate action to correct weaknesses Group.
This clearly identifies levels of delegated responsibility to identified from the above reports.
The performance of senior management is regularly evaluated and individual employees responsibilities are Risk management clearly defined and communicated An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks we face has remained in place throughout the Financial reporting part of the comprehensive management financial year and up to the approval date of the Annual Report and reporting discipline involves the preparation of detailed annual Accounts.
The process is subject to regular review by the Board budgets by all operating units.
These budgets are reviewed by the directly and via the Audit Committee.
executive management and are ultimately summarised and submitted to the Board for approval.
Weekly revenue and profit This accords with the Turnbull guidance on Internal Control returns are received from all operating units followed by monthly for directors, as applicable for this accounting period.
Although management accounts, which are prepared promptly and reported the Boards overall responsibility for internal control is recognised, against the approved budget.
Consolidated monthly management the positive contribution made by senior management to the accounts are prepared, including detailed profit analysis with establishment and ongoing development of risk management within comparisons to budget, latest forecasts, prior year and consensus the Group is acknowledged.
market opinion, and treasury report including comparison to our financial covenants, providing relevant, reliable and up-to-date In reviewing the effectiveness of our system of internal control, the financial and other information to the Board.
Revised profit and Board has taken into consideration a number of key elements, which cash flow forecasts for the current year are prepared and submitted include financial and investment controls, management reporting to the Board at quarterly intervals during the year and the various review, steering, policy and Board committees.
Investment appraisal we have a clearly defined framework for The following illustrate how the risk management process and the capital expenditure which is controlled centrally.
Appropriate system of internal control operated during 2007: authorisation levels and limits beyond which such expenditure requires the prior approval of the Capex Committee, consisting of Group internal audit The Head of Internal Audit has recruited a the three executive directors and the Director of Group IT or, in skilled and experienced team to enable the agreed strategy to be certain circumstances, the Board, are clearly set.
The internal audit plan is risk-based and has a focus on prescribed format for capital expenditure applications which places those areas which are critical to the achievement of business a high emphasis on the overall Group strategy or logic for the objectives expenditure, and demands a comprehensive and sound financial representation of the business case being put forward.
All significant Audit Committee The role of the Audit Committee includes corporate acquisitions or investments are controlled by the Board the review, update and approval of the annual internal audit plan: or a Board sub-committee and are subject to detailed investment provision of direction to the internal audit function, external auditors appraisal and performance of due diligence procedures prior to and management in the review of internal controls: alerting the approval by the Board Board to any emerging issues: and consideration of the draft papers prepared for the annual review of effectiveness of the risk management procedures adopted by the Company prior to being submitted to the Board for approval TriniTy Mirror plc AnnuAl reporT & AccounTs 2007 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Risk Management Group The Risk Management Group is formed Corporate governance compliance statement of the Executive Committee together with invited senior executives.
The Company has complied throughout the financial year with The Secretary and Group Legal Director has co-ordinated the risk the provisions set out in the June 2006 FRC Combined Code.
management activities of the Risk Management Group, working closely with members of the Internal Audit department.
The agreed Going concern basis objectives for the risk management framework have been achieved After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement, at during the year and the action plans for all significant risks have the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a been reviewed reasonable expectation that we have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Divisional and Group functional key risks To enable consistent and focused monitoring, reporting, evaluation and management For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern of significant Group risks, the Executive Committee owner of basis in preparing the financial statements.
each key risk and the relevant senior managers have documented the plans, actions and initiatives which have Table of attendance of meetings taken place or are underway Audit Remuneration Board Committee Committee AGM Year-end compliance reporting A formal process exists for yearend risk management compliance reporting, requiring senior Number of operating Company, divisional and Group executive management meetings in the year 11 3 5 1 to confirm their responsibilities for risk management and internal Sly Bailey 11 3 5 1 control.
Ultimate compliance reporting is required of each and 1 Peter Birch 3 1 2 1 every Board member.
Sir Ian Gibson 11 3 5 1 1 Sir Angus Grossart 3 1 2 1 Steps have been taken to embed internal control and risk management further into the operations of the business and to Gary Hoffman 11 2 5 1 2 deal with areas of improvement which come to the attention of Kathleen ODonovan 8 2 3 1 management and the Board.
The Groups systems of internal control David Ross 2 1 1 1 are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to Vijay Vaghela 11 3 1 achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and Paul Vickers 11 3 5 1 not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
Laura Wade-Gery 11 3 5 1 1 Peter Birch, Sir Angus Grossart and David Ross retired from the Board on 10 May 2007.
Further relevant information is included in the Corporate Responsibility 2 Kathleen ODonovan was appointed to the Board on 11 May 2007. Review, published on pages 28 to 33.
The Nomination Committee met twice during the year and all then serving members attended both meetings.
TriniTy Mirror plc AnnuAl reporT & AccounTs 2007
