Directors report: Corporate governance Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 4.
Patrick Plunkett Chairman Age 57 Exploration Director Age 46 Pat Plunkett joined the Board as a non-executive Director in Angus McCoss was appointed to the Board in December 2006.
1998 and was appointed non-executive Chairman in 2000.
He is He joined Tullow in April 2006 as General Manager Exploration.
also Chairman of the Nominations Committee and a member of A geologist: he has 20 years of wide-ranging exploration experience, the Remuneration Committee.
Mr Plunkett is an accountant with working primarily with Shell in Africa, Europe, China, South America over thirty years experience in the financial services sector and is and the Middle East.
He has held a number of senior positions within a former director of the Irish Stock Exchange.
He managed the Shell including Americas Regional Vice President Exploration and stockbroking and corporate finance businesses of ABN AMRO ultimately as the General Manager of Exploration throughout Bank in Ireland from 1993 to 1998.
Since then he has been providing onshore and offshore Nigeria.
strategic advice and non-executive director services to a number of private companies.
Paul McDade Chief Operating Officer Age 44 Paul McDade was appointed to the Board in March 2006.
Aidan Heavey Chief Executive Officer Age 55 joined Tullow in 2001 and was appointed Chief Operating Officer A founding Director and shareholder of the Company, Aidan Heavey following the Energy Africa acquisition in 2004, having previously managed Tullows UK gas business.
An engineer with over 20 years has played a key role in the development of Tullow from its formation in 1985 to its current international status as a leading independent oil experience, he has worked in various operational, commercial and and gas exploration and production group.
A Chartered Accountant, management roles with Conoco, Lasmo and ERC.
He has broad he previously held roles in the airline and engineering sectors in international experience having worked in the UK North Sea, Latin Ireland.
He is a member of the Nominations Committee.
America, Africa and South East Asia and holds degrees in Civil Engineering and Petroleum Engineering.
Aidan is a director of Traidlinks, an Irish-based charity established to develop and promote enterprise and diminish poverty in the 6.
Graham Martin developing world, particularly Africa.
General Counsel and Company Secretary Age 54 A solicitor, Graham Martin joined Tullow as Legal and Commercial 3.
Tom Hickey Director in 1997 from Vinson & Elkins, a leading international law Chief Financial Officer Age 39 practice, where he was a partner.
Prior to that, he was a partner in A Chartered Accountant, Tom Hickey was appointed Chief Financial Dickson Minto WS, a UK corporate law firm.
He has over 25 years Officer and to the Board in 2000.
Prior to joining Tullow he was an experience of UK and international corporate and energy transactions.
Associate Director of ABN AMRO Corporate Finance Ireland Limited, He has been the principal legal adviser to Tullow since its formation which he joined in 1995.
In this role, he advised public and private in 1985 and was appointed to his current position as General Counsel companies in a wide range of industry sectors in the areas of fund in 2004.
He recently also assumed the role of Company Secretary.
raising, stock exchange requirements, mergers and acquisitions, flotations and related transactions.
He is a non-executive director of Ikon Science Limited, a specialist geological software company in which Tullow has a minority equity stake, and of PetroNeft Resources plc, an Irish oil and gas company with development interests, principally in Russia.
46 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
