Directors report: Corporate governance Corporate governance Board performance Achievements Looking ahead to 2008 Audit Committee New Chairman Supervise and guide the management appointed and relevant financial of Tullows first operated deepwater experience of Committee strengthened.
Nominations Committee New SeniorNew non-executive Director to be appointed Independent Director appointed.
to replace Rohan Courtney who retired in December 2007.
Remuneration Committee New Chairman appointed and comprehensive review of Seek shareholder approval to changes Executive Director remuneration undertaken.
to long-term incentive arrangements to encourage long-term performance.
Board Evaluation Comprehensive Board performance review undertaken with Outcomes from 2007 Board performance support from external facilitator.
The growth that Tullow has experienced, in recent years, allied of how the Board and its Committees operate, the nature of the work they undertake and their responsibilities.
Ahead to the extremely dynamic nature of the oil and gas exploration and production business, means that the Group has changed of that, however, I would like to provide a more personal overview of activities during 2007. significantly over the period since I became Chairman in 2000.
At that time, Tullow was an Irish registered company with 99 Audit Committee employees, producing 2,800 bopd and active in fewer than 10 The increasing scale and complexity of Tullows business, countries worldwide.
We had 5,000 shareholders and the total allied to the continual evolution of Accounting Standards and capital investment for the year was 16 million.
The year-end corporate reporting requirements means that an effective Audit oil price was $22.75.
Committee is an essential part of our corporate governance.
While the business has been transformed on a number of The Tullow Audit Committee has a wide-ranging role, and occasions since, the overall objective of the Board remains in addition to normal meetings with external auditors also unchanged this is to provide strategic leadership, guidance reviews the Groups internal audit programme, risk and perspective to the business on behalf of shareholders.
management processes, internal control environment and In doing this, the Board must ensure that the risks and whistle-blowing provisions.
During 2008, the Committee will rewards of the business are properly managed through meet the Groups independent reserve auditors, the Groups different phases of the industry cycle, assess the most Chief Information Officer, Head of Tax and Well Engineering appropriate balance between organic and acquisition-led Manager.
The Audit Committee is now chaired by David growth and constantly evaluate and challenge strategy Williams, who has over 30 years financial experience, most to ensure it remains appropriate and relevant to the recently as Finance Director of Bunzl plc from 1992 to 2006.
Groups business as it becomes progressively larger David is also a member of a number of other audit committees and more complex.
and his skills and experience are already proving invaluable to the Committee and Executive of the business.
In practice, this governance and stewardship obligation requires individual Directors and the Board to regularly Nominations Committee evaluate our performance and identify areas where The role of the Nominations Committee is critical in ensuring improvements can be made or new opportunities exist.
It also that Tullows Board composition and balance supports both our requires Directors to maintain a high degree of awareness business ambitions and best practice in the area of corporate of the wider industry environment and the potential impact governance.
Following the retirement of Rohan Courtney at the on Tullow of the actions of peers and competitors.
end of 2007, the Committee is currently active in seeking an additional non-executive Director.
Steven McTiernan was The majority of Tullow Board business is conducted through appointed to the role of Senior Independent Director following regular meetings there were ten Board meetings during 2007 Rohans retirement.
with other matters also dealt with by the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
In addition there is frequent Remuneration Committee dialogue between the Executive Directors and the nonThe principal objective of the Remuneration Committee is to executive Directors between meetings.
The full Corporate develop and maintain a remuneration strategy that ensures Governance Statement on pages 50 to 56 presents a review Executive Directors and senior management are rewarded 48 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate governance committee structure Committees Audit Board of Senior Executives Group risk register Nominations Directors and Managers Remuneration CSR in a manner that is aligned with the long-term interests development for Directors and key feedback points for of shareholders.
This requires the Committee to set base individual Directors to enhance the overall function of the salaries at a competitive level, agree targets and objectives Board.
Personally, I felt the process was immensely helpful for annual bonus schemes and establish longer-term equity in assisting the Board to reflect on the very positive changes based incentive plans, which are designed to allow staff to in the Group over recent years and prepare for future share in the Groups ongoing growth.
Typically, these schemes opportunities and challenges that our business will face.
will have performance criteria based on Tullows absolute Planning for the future performance and also relative performance against a group We are committed as a Board to maintaining an open and or index of peer companies active in similar regions or of transparent relationship with shareholders through our equivalent scale to Tullow.
Annual Report, website, market announcements, Investor During 2007, the Committee undertook a review of the Relations programme and Annual General Meeting.
We components of executive remuneration which is reported always welcome shareholder feedback and if you have any more fully in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages comments or observations about this report or our business 57 to 66.
Linked to the review, shareholder approval is being in general, I would urge you to contact me by email at: sought at the AGM to changes to the Performance Share chairman@tullowoil.
com or in person at our AGM on 14 May 2008.
I believe the overall changes to Tullows executive remuneration arrangements will ensure that we assess our results and performance against the most appropriate Pat Plunkett comparators, and that the Executive Directors and senior Chairman management will continue to be properly motivated and aligned with shareholders interests.
The Remuneration Committee is now chaired by Clare Spottiswoode.
Board performance and development One of the most important roles of any Board is to provide strategic guidance and perspective over and above the day to day operations of the business.
As Tullow has grown, the role and composition of our Board has changed significantly with both new Executive and non-executive appointments.
During 2007, the annual Board performance review was conducted with the assistance of  LLP.
The objective of the review, as well as evaluating Board and individual performance, was to help the Board to set its own objectives and strategy for the future.
These range from simple procedural and logistical objectives to longer-term themes such as succession planning, ongoing professional Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 49 Directors report: Corporate governance Corporate governance continued The Tullow Board recognises the importance of good corporate Composition governance and is committed to business integrity and high The Board currently comprises a non-executive Chairman, ethical values across the Groups activities, which it views as an six Executive Directors and four independent non-executive integral part of managing the Groups business.
Each of the Executive Directors has extensive knowledge of the oil and gas industry.
Together, the Compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance non-executive Directors bring a broad range of business the Code and commercial experience to the Board, with three of The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders for the four non-executive Directors either currently holding the Groups standard of governance and this report, together or having previously held appointments in oil and gas with the Directors Remuneration Report, aims to demonstrate companies or companies with energy interests.
Biographical how the principles of good governance promoted by the Code details of the Board members including details of any other have been and will continue to be applied across the Group.
major directorships held are set out on pages 46 and 47.
This report explains how the Company has applied the Following the announcement in October 2007 that Rohan principles set out in Section 1 of the Code.
It also discloses Courtney was to step down from the Board at the end of 2007, the extent to which the Company has complied with the the Nominations Committee commenced a search for an detailed provisions of the Code.
additional non-executive Director to replace Mr Courtney.
This The Board considers that the Company has complied with the is more fully reported in the Nominations Committee section provisions of the Code throughout the year under review and later in this report.
subsequently up to the date of this report with the following Chairman and Chief Executive two exceptions: There is a clear separation of the roles of the Chairman, Pat Independent non-executive Directors did not comprise at Plunkett, and the Chief Executive, Aidan Heavey, to ensure an least half the Board throughout the year as recommended appropriate balance of responsibility and accountability.
Whilst the Board considers its current division of responsibilities is clearly established and has been composition to be appropriate and effective at the present set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
time, it continues to keep this Code provision under The Chairman is responsible for the effective running of the regular review through its Nominations Committee.
Board, ensuring that the Board plays a full and constructive Throughout 2007, Pat Plunkett, the Company Chairman, part in the development and determination of the Groups was a member and the Chairman of the Remuneration strategy, and acting as guardian and facilitator of the Boards Committee.
He had held the role of Chairman of the decision-making process.
Committee since 2000 providing continuity during The Chief Executive is responsible for managing the Groups the period of major growth enjoyed by the Company.
business, proposing and developing the Groups strategy and However, mindful of the Combined Code provision overall commercial objectives in consultation with the Board that the Company Chairman should not chair the and, as leader of the executive team, implementing the Remuneration Committee, the Board approved the decisions of the Board and its Committees.
In addition, the appointment of Clare Spottiswoode as Committee Chief Executive is responsible for maintaining regular dialogue Chairman in his place with effect from 1 January 2008. with shareholders as part of the Groups overall investor Pat Plunkett remains a Committee member.
this change, the composition of the Remuneration Committee now complies with the Code.
Non-Executive Directors Appointment Board and Committee structure Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of To support the principles of good corporate governance, the three years, which may be extended by mutual agreement Board and its Committees operate as described below.
The letters of appointment Board of Directors of each non-executive Director are available for inspection at Role of the Board the registered office.
The Board sets the Groups strategic aims, ensuring that Meetings of Non-Executive Directors the necessary resources are in place to achieve those aims, In addition to their attendance at Board and, as appropriate, and reviews management and financial performance.
It is Committee meetings, the non-executive Directors also met accountable to shareholders for the creation and delivery formally on three occasions during 2007 without executive of strong, sustainable financial performance and long-term management present.
At these meetings, the non-executive shareholder value.
To achieve this, the Board directs and Directors examine and review the performance of the executive monitors the Groups affairs within a framework of controls management.
This review process is in part dealt with by the which enable risk to be assessed and managed effectively Board Committees referred to below.
Separately, the Chairman through clear procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated and Chief Executive held informal meetings with authorities.
The Board also has responsibility for setting the the non-executive Directors to discuss issues affecting the Groups core values and standards of business conduct and for Group such as target objectives, strategy, key performance ensuring that these, together with the Groups obligations to its indicators and remuneration matters.
stakeholders, are widely understood throughout the Group.
50 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Senior Independent Director Independent professional advice The Senior Independent non-executive Director is Steven All Directors and Committees have access to independent McTiernan who replaced Rohan Courtney in this role with professional advice, at the Companys expense, as and effect from 1 January 2008.
In this role Mr McTiernan is when required.
available to shareholders who have concerns that cannot Insurance cover be resolved through discussion with the Chairman, Chief The Company maintains Directors and Officers Liability Executive or Chief Financial Officer or where such contact is insurance cover, the level of which is reviewed annually.
No such meetings were held during the year.
Matters reserved Independence A formal schedule of matters reserved for Board approval The Board considers each of the current non-executive is in place and is reviewed annually.
The matters reserved Directors to be independent in character and judgement and include amongst others : there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect or could appear to affect the Directors judgement.
the Groups overall strategy: Election and re-election approval of financial statements, material acquisitions All new Directors are required by the Companys Articles and disposals, material contracts, major capital of Association to be elected by shareholders at the first expenditure projects and budgets: and Annual General Meeting AGM after their appointment.
a regular review of the Groups overall corporate Subsequently, Directors are subject to re-election by governance arrangements.
Where a non-executive Director has served longer than nine years, it is Board Subject to these reserved matters, the Board delegates policy that the Director be subject thereafter to annual authority for the management of the day-to-day business re-election in accordance with the Code.
The directors and operational matters, primarily to the Chief Executive, seeking re-election at the 2008 AGM are identified on the other Executive Directors and certain other senior page 67 of this report and in the separate Notice of AGM executives.
Certain other matters are delegated to the that accompanies this document.
Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees, each of which is described in more detail below.
How the Board operates Board meetings Attendance at meetings The Board meets regularly during the year and on an ad The attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board and hoc basis as required.
The Board has arranged to hold at its Committees during 2007 was as follows: least one Board meeting each year at one of the overseas Board Audit Nominations Remuneration offices of the Group.
This provides senior managers from No.
of Meetings 10 4 2 5 across the Group the opportunity to present to the Board Pat Plunkett 10 10 2 2 5 5 and to meet the Board members informally.
It also provides Aidan Heavey 10 10 2 2 the Board with an opportunity to assess senior managers David Bamford 9 10 3 4 2 2 4 5 at first hand.
Rohan Courtney 6 10 4 4 2 2 4 5 The attendance record of each Director is shown in the table Tom Hickey 10 10 on this page.
During 2007, the Board met formally on ten Angus McCoss 10 10 occasions including two formal strategy review meetings Paul McDade 10 10 held with senior management.
In addition to the formal Steven McTiernan 10 10 4 4 2 2 5 5 meetings of the Board, the Chairman and Chief Executive Graham Martin 9 10 maintain frequent contact with the other Directors to discuss Matthew ODonoghue 10 10 any issues of concern they may have relating to the Group or Clare Spottiswoode 10 10 2 4 2 2 3 5 as regards their area of responsibility and to keep them fully David Williams 10 10 3 4 2 2 4 5 briefed on the Groups operations.
Rohan Courtney retired from the Board on 31 December 2007.
Information flow Directors have access to a regular supply of financial, Board performance evaluation operational, strategic and regulatory information to assist During 2007, the Board considered whether the annual evaluation them in the discharge of their duties.
Such information of it and that of its Committees and Directors should be is provided as part of the normal management reporting conducted by way of an internal review as in 2006 or, as in 2004 process.
Board papers are circulated in time to allow and 2005, by using the assistance of an external body.
The Board Directors to be properly briefed in advance of meetings.
In concluded that a full external review was appropriate and addition, Board meetings generally include a review of the engaged  LLP for this purpose.
The history, performance and future potential of an individual review consisted of a tailored questionnaire completed by each asset or business unit.
This is designed to ensure that all Director with a follow-up interview and also a peer assessment.
material assets are considered on a cyclical basis and to This review focused on matters such as Board composition enable Board members to familiarise themselves with the and conduct: succession planning: roles and responsibilities of key assets and operations of the Group.
Board members: the administration of Board and Committee meetings: Board discussions: Board induction and training and communications with the wider organisation.
51 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report: Corporate governance Corporate governance continued The review concluded that the Board operates effectively Committees and that Board meetings are conducted in a manner that The Board has established the following principal Committees, encourages open and honest discussion in an environment each of which has written terms of reference approved by the of trust and mutual respect.
The separation of duties between Board setting out its authority and duties.
Copies of the terms the Chairman and Chief Executive is clear and the Board of reference can be viewed on the Investor Relations section of Committees function effectively within clear terms of reference.
com or can be obtained The review identified certain areas for improvement including: a from the Company Secretary.
requirement for more formal succession planning for executives and for key non-executive roles: the need to review Audit Committee the balance of the Board between executive and non-executive David Williams, Chairman Directors: to organise and monitor a broader induction and David Bamford training regime for Directors and for more regular review Steven McTiernan meetings between the Chairman and each Director.
These Clare Spottiswoode areas for improvement are now being considered by the Chairman and various related actions and targets will be Main responsibilities included in the Boards own objectives for 2008.
Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements The Chairman has had discussions with each of the Directors and formal announcements relating to the Groups on his or her individual performance and separately, the nonfinancial performance: executive Directors have reviewed the performance of the Reviewing significant financial reporting issues Chairman with input from the Executive Directors.
The Board and accounting policies and disclosures in is of the view that each non-executive Director commits financial reports: sufficient time to discharge his or her duties effectively.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal Induction control procedures and risk management systems: All new Directors receive an induction.
This includes a visit to the principal offices of the Group to meet management Considering how the Groups internal audit from each functional discipline and business unit.
The requirements shall be satisfied and making Company Secretary also provides new Directors with an recommendations to the Board: overview of their duties as Directors, corporate governance Making recommendations to the Board on the policies and established Board procedures as part of the appointment or re-appointment of the Groups induction process.
external auditors: Continuing professional development Overseeing the Boards relationship with the external All members of the Board have access to appropriate training auditors, and, where appropriate, the selection of new in respect of their obligations and duties as Directors, and external auditors: and during the year, a number of the Directors attended external seminars on relevant topics.
In addition, specific briefings were Ensuring that an effective whistle-blowing procedure also given to the Board to ensure Board members remain up is in place.
to date with current regulations and developments.
These included recent developments in company law brought in by David Williams was appointed Chairman of the Committee the Companies Act 2006 and health and safety legislation.
on 23 October 2007 in place of Rohan Courtney.
He is a Chartered Accountant and, until his retirement in 2006, was Finance Director of Bunzl plc.
Currently, he is also a member of the audit committees of four other companies including Meggitt PLC and Taylor Wimpey plc.
For the purposes of the Combined Code, David Williams is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant experience.
In addition, the other members of the Committee have a range of financial and commercial experience and have all served on the Committee for a number of years.
The Groups external auditors are Deloitte & Touche LLP and the Committee closely monitors the level of audit and non-audit services they provide to the Group.
Non-audit services are normally limited to assignments that are closely related to the annual audit or where the work is of such a nature that a detailed understanding of the Group is necessary.
A breakdown of the fees paid to the external auditors in respect of audit and non-audit work is included in note 3 of the accounts on page 79.
In addition to processes put in place to ensure segregation of audit and non-audit roles, as part of the assurance process in relation to the audit, 52 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Deloitte & Touche LLP are required to confirm to the undertook regular audits of non-operated joint Committee that they have both the appropriate independence ventures under the supervision of business unit and objectivity to allow them to continue to serve the members management and the Group Internal Audit Manager.
No matters of concern in relation to the above The Committee considers the whistle-blowing procedures were identified by the Committee.
implemented by management are appropriate for the size and scale of the Group.
The Chief Financial Officer, the Group Internal Audit Manager, the Group Finance Manager and representatives of the external Acquisition of Hardman Resources auditors normally attend meetings of the Audit Committee, at As part of the acquisition of Hardman Resources in the invitation of the Committee.
The Chairman of the Board also late 2006, the overall audit approach to the Hardman attends meetings of the Committee by invitation.
The external acquisition and potential risks identified were approved auditors have unrestricted access by the Committee.
The Committee gave extensive to the Committee Chairman.
During the 2007 audit process, the consideration to the preliminary and final fair value Audit Committee Chairman met with Deloittes Audit allocation exercise undertaken to record the assets Engagement Partner without the presence of management.
and liabilities acquired in the Companys Balance Sheet at 31 December 2007.
During 2007, the Audit Committee met on a total of four occasions.
The key work undertaken by the Committee Review of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee was as follows: During the year the Audit Committee completed a review of the effectiveness of external audit, internal audit and Consideration and review of annual and interim of the Audit Committee itself through a series of financial statements questionnaires answered by key stakeholders.
Internal The Committee met with the external auditors as a Audit coordinated the review with results presented to the part of the interim and final accounts approval process.
members of the Audit Committee.
The Committee was During this exercise the Committee considered the considered to be operating effectively and in accordance most appropriate treatment and disclosure of any new with the guidance recommended by the Smith Committee or judgemental matters identified during the audit, as included in the Combined Code.
A number of enhancements well as any recommendations or observations made to current processes will be implemented during 2008 to by the external auditors.
improve the effectiveness of the Committee further.
The Audit planning and update on relevant internal audit and external audit processes were also accounting developments considered to be operating effectively.
Following the Groups adoption of IFRS in 2004 5, there were limited further regulatory or financial accounting changes during 2007.
These changes are described in the accounting policies note on page 73.
Consideration and approval of the risk management framework, annual Internal Audit Plan and periodic reports from Internal Audit The Group Internal Audit Manager has direct access and responsibility to the Audit Committee.
His main responsibilities include: evaluating and developing the Groups overall control environment, operating efficiency and risk identification and management at operating, regional and corporate levels.
In fulfilling his role, the Group Internal Audit Manager has direct access to the Committee without reference to executive management.
During 2007, the Audit Committee Chairman met with the Group Internal Audit Manager without the presence of management.
The Committee approved the programme of internal audit work aimed at addressing both financial and overall risk management objectives identified within the Group.
A number of internal audit reviews were undertaken during 2007 covering a range of financial and business processes in the Groups three main business unit centres in London, Dublin and Cape Town.
Detailed results from these reviews were reported to management and in summary to the Audit Committee during the year.
Recommendations made as a result of the work of Internal Audit are tracked for timely implementation and reported to the Audit Committee periodically.
No significant weaknesses were identified as a result of risk management and internal controls reviews undertaken by Internal Audit.
The Group also 53 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report: Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Clare Spottiswoode, Chairman Pat Plunkett, Chairman David Bamford David Bamford Steven McTiernan Aidan Heavey Steven McTiernan Pat Plunkett David Williams Clare Spottiswoode David Williams Main responsibilities The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 57 to 66 contains details of the role and activities of the Reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Remuneration Committee.
Board and making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes required: Succession planning for Directors and other senior executives: Identifying and nominating, for Board approval, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise: Reviewing annually the time commitment required of non-executive Directors: and Making recommendations to the Board with regard to membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees in consultation with the Chairman of each Committee.
The Committee comprises all the non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive and meets as required.
Rohan Courtney was a member of the Committee until 31 December 2007.
The Committee met twice in 2007, primarily to review Board Committee composition and succession matters.
The decision by Rohan Courtney in October 2007 to step down as a non-executive Director with effect from 31 December 2007 resulted in the Committee recommending a number of changes to Board Committee composition and governance arrangements.
These changes which were approved by the Board were as follows: the appointment of Steven McTiernan as Senior Independent Director in place of Rohan Courtney with effect from 1 January 2008: the appointment of David Williams as Audit Committee Chairman in place of Rohan Courtney with effect from 23 October 2007: and the appointment of Clare Spottiswoode as Remuneration Committee Chairman in place of Pat Plunkett who remains a member of the Committee with effect from 1 January 2008.
At the same time, the Board agreed with the Committees recommendation that a new non-executive Director be sought to replace Rohan Courtney.
A role profile was produced and external recruitment advisers engaged to assist in the identification of suitable candidates.
The Committee is currently in the process of interviewing short-listed candidates.
54 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Shareholder relations Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Communication with shareholders is given high priority and there is regular dialogue with institutional investors, as well Rohan Courtney Former non-executive Director, Chairman as general presentations to analysts at the time of the Graham Brunton, Head of EHS release of the annual and interim results.
In addition, in Tom Hickey, Chief Financial Officer October 2007, Tullow hosted a visit to its Uganda operations Paul McDade, Chief Operating Officer for a group of analysts.
A similar visit to another of the Kevin Quinn, Business Unit Manager South Asia Groups operations is planned for 2008.
The Board receives Bill Torr, General Manager Cape Town Office regular investor relations reports covering key investor Caragh Whale, EHS Team Assistant Linda Joseph, Cape Town Staff Representative meetings and activities, as well as shareholder and investor feedback.
The Group issues its results promptly to individual Ahlem Gamri, London Staff Representative Oliver McCredie, Trainee CSR Advisor shareholders and also publishes them on the Investor Relations section of the Companys website: In addition to the above principal committees, the Board www.
Regular updates to record news in has established a Corporate Social Responsibility relation to the Group and the status of exploration and Committee.
This Committee the CSR Committee development programmes are also included on the website.
is responsible for managing all Tullows community Shareholders and other interested parties can subscribe to sponsorship support programmes and considers any receive these news updates by email by registering online matters relating to social, charitable, community and on the website.
The Chairman is available to meet with educational issues, CSR publications and CSR expenditure.
institutional shareholders to discuss any issues and address any concerns in relation to the Companys governance and Tullows CSR strategy aligns CSR investment with key strategy.
Non-executive Directors have the opportunity to areas and countries for business development.
Tullows attend meetings with major shareholders and are available CSR funding is a combination of sponsorships under licence to attend if requested to do so.
Criteria for At the AGM, a business presentation is provided for the funding projects concentrate on children, education and, benefit of shareholders at which individual shareholders where appropriate, fulfilling basic needs, such as clean are given the opportunity to put questions to the Chairman, water.
Projects considered will be mainly recurring, longthe chairmen of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration term investments where there is established production, Committees and to other members of the Board.
In addition, an operated activity and or a key country for development.
the Board is committed to maintaining strong links with its One-off investment will also be considered as appropriate significant Irish shareholder base and holds a business in the context of Tullows business.
Overall, Tullows presentation in Dublin following the AGM, to allow these objective is to make a tangible, positive difference and shareholders similar access to the Company.
Notice of the to foster and support longer-term development and AGM is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before self-sustaining enterprise in local communities.
the meeting and details of proxy votes for and against each resolution, together with votes witheld, are made available Main responsibilities after the vote has been dealt with on a show of hands.
Manage the process for submission, assessment and approval of CSR expenditure undertaken by Tullow Group-wide: Consider and propose an annual budget for CSR activities to the Board for approval as part of the overall Group budget process: Evolve and further develop Tullows social and ethical policies as part of the overall risk management framework of the business: Prepare the CSR Report annually: Review the internal CSR programme, ensuring co-ordination between internal and external activities and ensuring that the internal CSR function is adequately resourced and has appropriate standing within the Group: and Consider other CSR matters as specified by the Board.
55 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report: Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Internal controls The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Groups and the Companys systems of internal control, which are designed to safeguard the assets of the Group and to ensure the reliability of financial information for both internal use and external publication.
The Groups internal control procedures require technical, financial and Board approval for all projects.
All major expenditures require senior management approval at the appropriate stages of each transaction.
Overall control is ensured by a regular detailed reporting system covering both technical progress of projects and the state of the Groups financial affairs.
The Board has put in place procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks that face the Group.
Risk assessment and evaluation is an integral part of the annual planning cycle.
Each business unit documents its strategic objectives and the significant risks in achieving them and regularly reports on progress against these objectives.
There is a comprehensive budgeting and planning system for all items of expenditure with an annual budget approved by the Board.
Actual results are reported against budget on a monthly basis.
Revised financial forecasts for the year, and financial projections for future years are regularly prepared.
The Board receives reports from business unit and corporate teams throughout the year to enable them to assess, on an ongoing basis, the effectiveness of the system of internal controls and risk management.
During the year, the Group Internal Audit Manager reviewed a number of areas of risk and his findings were reported to the Audit Committee.
No significant weaknesses were identified.
The Board has confirmed that through its Audit Committee it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, and considers that the system of internal controls operated effectively throughout the financial year and up to the date on which the financial statements were signed.
Going concern After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company, and the Group as a whole, have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Pat Plunkett Chairman 56 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
