53 Directors interests in shares The interests of the directors in ordinary shares all of which are beneficial are shown as at 1 January 2007 and at 31 December 2007 or date of leaving if earlier.
SEEPP and SEEPP and Ordinary Ordinary BIP bonus BIP bonus shares at shares at shares at shares at Director 01.01.07 31.12.07 01.01.07 31.12.07 David Levin 45,164 43,132 36,881 73,166 Charles Gregson 289,944 349,486 36,952 52,288 Nigel Wilson 16,016 14,381 132,342 164,494 John Botts 11,250 11,258 Christopher Hyman 5,308 5,923 Pradeep Kar 209 1,344 Sandy Leitch 3,609 4,397 Jonathan Newcomb 13,049 12,874 Karen Thomson 209 1,344 Adair Turner 9,483 9,672 Geoff Unwin 57,571 59,414 On joining UBM, David Levin was conditionally awarded 28,400 ordinary shares which are included in the opening balance of shares in the table above.
He became entitled to receive 50% of these shares on 6 April 2007 and on 10 April 2007 he sold 14,200 shares at a price of 802.05p per share.
Provided he is still employed by UBM he will be entitled to receive the remaining 50% of these shares on 6 April 2008.
As at 31 December 2007 the Trustees of the United Business Media ESOP Trust and the Qualifying Employee Share Trust held 2,724,794 ordinary shares 2006: 3,512,246.
Changes in directors interests since 31 December 2007 There have been no changes to the interests of directors in UBM shares nor in options over UBM shares between 31 December 2007 and 28 February 2008.
The minimum price of ordinary shares during the year was 579.5p and the maximum price was 867.0p.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf Sandy Leitch 29 February 2008 54 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate governance statement Introduction This report explains UBMs approach to corporate governance, including the manner in which the Company has applied the principles of the Combined Code.
The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of financial reporting, corporate governance and business integrity.
The directors consider that during 2007 UBM complied with all provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, with the exception of Section A.
2.2 independence of chairman on appointment and C. 3.1 composition of the Audit Committee.
Explanation of these issues is set out in the Nomination Committees report below and in the Audit Committees report on page 56.
The Board The Board has overall responsibility to shareholders for the management of the Group.
The primary function of the Board is to set the Groups strategy and to oversee the effective implementation of that strategy.
A formal schedule of matters to be considered by the Board is in place and is reviewed periodically.
The Board meets regularly and is responsible for matters such as the annual budget including capital expenditure, major acquisitions and disposals, succession planning, investment strategy, dividend policy, substantial property transactions, and the Groups system of internal controls.
Decisions on operational matters are delegated to the executive directors.
There is an established agenda of items to be considered at Board meetings, which provides regular updates on the Groups finances, operations, strategy and development.
The Board also receives presentations from executive directors and from divisional management and other senior executives on specific issues.
The Chairman meets separately with the Chief Executive on a regular basis and other informal meetings and discussions take place between directors as appropriate.
The Board receives monthly management accounts and other financial information.
The Board has seven scheduled meetings per annum and meetings may be convened at other times as and when necessary: there were eight meetings in total during 2007, including one ad hoc meeting to consider the chairmanship succession.
Details of individual attendance by directors at Board and committee meetings are set out below.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee attendance is shown only for committee members Geoff Unwin 8 2 of 2 9 David Levin 8 Charles Gregson 8 Nigel Wilson 8 John Botts 7 of 7 4 1 of 1 Pradeep Kar 8 3 Karen Thomson 6 Christopher Hyman 6 3 Sandy Leitch 7 38 of 9 Jonathan Newcomb 8 4 38 of 8 Adair Turner 7 4 3 Board committees The Board is assisted in fulfilling its responsibilities by three principal committees, the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Details of the activities of the Audit Committee are set out in a separate report on page 56 while those of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 53.
The terms of reference for all committees may be viewed on the Companys website and copies can be obtained from the Company Secretary, who acts as secretary to all three committees.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is usually chaired by the Chairman of the Board and the other members are independent non-executive directors.
In compliance with the Combined Code, Geoff Unwin remained a member of the Committee during 2007 but did not chair it during its consideration of the chairmanship succession.
During 2007 the Committee was chaired by Sandy Leitch and its members were Geoff Unwin and Jonathan Newcomb.
Geoff Unwin stepped down as a member of the Committee on 13 December 2007 when he retired from the Board and was succeeded by John Botts, who assumed chairmanship of the Committee.
The Company Secretary and Chief Executive customarily attend the Committees meetings.
The role of the Nomination Committee is to ensure an appropriate balance of experience and abilities on the Board, by reviewing the size and composition of the Board and recommending any proposed changes.
The Committee met nine times during 2007, details of attendance at meetings are shown above.
Its principal activity was to consider the appointment of a new Chairman to replace Geoff Unwin.
The Committee prepared a description of the specific experience and skills needed for this appointment, appointed search consultants Odgers to identify and prepare a suitable shortlist of candidates both internal and external who were considered and interviewed by the Committee and by the Chief Executive.
Following this process the Committee recommended to the Board the appointment of an internal candidate, John Botts.
In making this recommendation the Committee had due regard to the requirements of the Combined Code, specifically paragraph A.
2.2 which stipulates a chairman should be considered to be independent upon appointment.
While John Botts did not fulfil this criterion, having been a member of the Board since July 1997, the Committee considered that his skill, experience and knowledge of the Group are such as to make him the most suitable candidate for the role.
The Nomination Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
55 Board balance and independence For the majority of 2007 there were 11 Board members, comprising the Chairman part-time, Chief Executive, two other executives and seven non-executive directors.
Prior to his appointment as Chairman in December 2007, John Botts was the senior independent non-executive director and has been succeeded in that role by Sandy Leitch.
The Board believes that a strong presence of non-executive directors is a key aspect of effective corporate governance.
The Board assesses and periodically reviews the independence of its non-executive directors: in doing so it has regard to the personal qualities demonstrated by each director, particularly the nature and effectiveness of their contribution to debate at Board and committee meetings.
The Board has taken particular note of those factors which are listed in the Combined Code as possibly affecting the independence of directors: these are relevant to John Botts, who had served as a director of the Company for nine years.
He was re-elected to the Board at the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
Biographies of all the directors currently in office are set out on pages 44 and 45 and illustrate their range of experience.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, at each Annual General Meeting any director then in office who has been appointed by the Board since the previous Annual General Meeting and any director who at the date of the notice convening the meeting had held office for more than 30 months since he was last appointed or re-appointed by the Company in general meeting shall retire from office but is eligible for re-appointment.
Non-executive directors appointments are reviewed every three years.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, and a summary of their respective responsibilities is set out in writing and has been approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for overseeing the operation of the Board but takes no part in the day to day running of the business.
Geoff Unwin is also chairman of Halma plc, Liberata plc, The Cloud Networks Limited and OmniBus Systems Limited and is a member of the advisory board of Palamon Capital Partners.
John Botts, who succeeded Geoff Unwin as Chairman in December 2007, is also chairman of Botts & Company Limited, a private equity investment company.
His other directorships include Euromoney Institutional Investor Plc, Medi Capital Bank Plc and Convera Corporation Inc. Board evaluation During January and February 2007 the Board carried out a formal review of Board and Board committee performance and effectiveness.
This review was conducted with the assistance of an external facilitator, Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review, and the following process was undertaken: A confidential questionnaire was completed by all Board directors in January 2007.
One to one interviews were conducted with all Board directors and the Company Secretary.
Observation of a Board meeting and review of Board papers.
The review covered the roles and processes of the Board and its main committees, as well as Board and committee dynamics and culture.
The results of the review were considered by the Board in May 2007.
The review concluded that the Board operates as an effective team and is considered by its members to have the range of skills needed in order to achieve its long-term objectives.
Key areas for consideration addressed areas of long-term strategic development, management succession planning and Board communication.
The Chief Executive Officer, David Levin, evaluated the performance of executive directors.
David Levins performance was evaluated by the Chairman.
The performance of those non-executive directors proposed for re-election at the Annual General Meeting was evaluated by the Board as a whole.
Information and professional development A procedure exists whereby directors may seek independent professional advice if they consider it appropriate to do so in the furtherance of their duties.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who has primary responsibility for keeping directors updated and informed of general developments which may be of relevance to their responsibilities.
The Company Secretary is not a Board director.
All directors are offered the opportunity to further their professional development by means of attendance at seminars and briefings.
An induction process is in place for all directors on appointment: this includes discussions with the Chairman and Chief Executive as well as one to one briefings and presentations from other directors and senior management on matters relating to the Groups businesses and procedures.
Non-executive directors are encouraged to meet with members of senior management on an individual basis and to visit the Groups operations.
Relations with shareholders The Companys shareholders are kept informed about the activities and progress of the Group primarily by means of the annual and interim reports, and by the publication of updated trading information prior to the start of each close period and at the Annual General Meeting.
Financial and other information about the Company is published on its website, which has links to the websites of other businesses in the Group.
In November UBM held an investor day, which enabled institutional investors and analysts to receive presentations from the executive management team about the Groups businesses.
The Company also maintains an ongoing dialogue with its major institutional shareholders by means of a scheduled programme of meetings, which are generally undertaken by the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, and may be attended if appropriate by the Chairman or senior independent director.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the views of shareholders are communicated to other directors.
Feedback from investor meetings is provided to all directors, as are analysts and brokers reports.
Consultation is undertaken with major investors and with bodies representing shareholders interests on matters which the Company considers appropriate.
All shareholders are welcome at the Annual General Meeting where they have the opportunity to ask questions of all the directors, including the chairman, as well as the chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
