Corporate governance Combined code compliance This section describes how the Group has applied the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, published in June 2006 the Code.
A summary of the Groups compliance position follows with details of any exceptions.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2007, the Group has been in compliance with the Code provision set out in Section 1 of the Code.
Main Board The Board deals with the important aspects of the Groups affairs including setting and monitoring strategy, reviewing performance, ensuring that the Group has adequate financial resources and reporting to shareholders.
The Board has established Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees, to which certain key responsibilities are delegated.
These responsibilities, which are in line with the recommendations of the Code, are set out below.
Ultras main Board structure and composition remained unchanged throughout 2007 and comprised the Chairman, three independent non-executive Directors and four executive Directors.
As senior independent non-executive Director, Andrew Walker has particular responsibility, on behalf of the Board, for safeguarding the provisions of the Code on corporate governance, and is available to shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Company Secretary has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Christopher Bailey and Ian Griffiths continue in their roles as independent non-executive Directors.
Although the Code calls for the majority of the Board to be independent non-executive Directors, it is the view of the Directors that the current structure of the Board remains appropriate for Ultra given the relative complexity of the business and their wish to maintain a flexible, rapid and informed decision-making process.
Any increase in the number of non-executive Directors at this time would result in slower decisions, reduced focus and higher costs.
Mr Jeffcoat, who was appointed to the Board in 2000, is both Finance Director and Company Secretary.
He reports to the Chief Executive in his role of Finance Director and to the Chairman in his capacity of Company Secretary.
Although this does not follow best governance practice, which calls for these roles to be completely separated, Ultras lean management structure and focus on cost effectiveness discourages the appointment of a completely independent Company Secretary.
The Board believes that Mr Jeffcoat is able effectively to separate his two roles sufficiently to avoid significant conflicts of interest.
The Board met ten times during the year.
Details of the numbers of meetings of the main Board and its sub-committees that were attended by the individual Directors are set out in the table on page 34.
Key decisions that are delegated to the Chief Executive include the approval of budgeted capital investments below 500,000 in value, the terms of major contract bids below 100 million, the appointment and dismissal of business unit Managing Directors and Presidents, together with their remuneration levels, and the granting of charitable donations.
This is done with the advice of an internal charities committee.
Audit Committee The Board has overall responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of internal control procedures that are in place throughout Ultras operations.
The Board is supported in this capacity by the Audit Committee, which monitors the internal financial control procedures that are operated by the Group.
During 2007 the Audit Committee consisted of Andrew Walker, Committee Chairman and senior independent non-executive Director, Ian Griffiths and Christopher Bailey.
The Committee met four times during the year.
The main topics considered during the meetings were: a agreeing the strategy and scope of the internal and external audits: b reviewing the outcome of the audits and agreeing upon the necessary actions: c monitoring Ultras financial results and the formal external announcements relating to them: d ensuring that the internal and external audit functions, which are carried out by professional accounting firms on behalf of the Group, remain both independent and effective: e assessing the risk that Ultras financial statements are materially misstated as a result of fraud: f endorsing the Groups public interest disclosure policy and, through the Committee Chairman, providing an independent point of contact for all employees: and g considering the recommendation to the shareholders of a preferred firm of external auditors.
It is the policy of the Group that non-audit services provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP, Ultras external auditors, are restricted to regulatory reporting, due diligence assessments of potential acquisitions and other attestation work.
The Board believes that the auditors familiarity with the accounting techniques that are involved in Ultras long-term contracting activities serves them well in carrying out effective due diligence reviews of other similar companies.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 33 Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprises the non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive.
The Committee, which is chaired by Julian Blogh, was not required to meet during 2007.
The key responsibility of the Committee is to review all main Board and sub-committee appointments.
Remuneration Committee The Board Remuneration Committee consists of Andrew Walker, Chairman, Christopher Bailey and Ian Griffiths.
It met four times during the year.
The Committee is responsible for evaluating the performance of the executive Directors, including the Chief Executive, and for setting their levels of remuneration.
It also meets without the Group Chairman being present to agree his remuneration.
The Directors remuneration report is included on page 37, together with details of the Directors pension entitlements, long-term incentive share awards and shareholdings.
Evaluation of Board and Committee effectiveness Following the recommendations of the Code, the Board operates an evaluation process in which the effectiveness of the Board, its sub-committees and each individual Director are assessed over a rolling two-year period.
The Chairman is responsible, on behalf of the Board, for overseeing this process, which is carried out by an independent external consultant.
He is supported in this regard by the Company Secretary.
In 2006 the main Board and its subcommittees were reviewed, using a questionnaire that was completed independently by all members of the Board.
The scope of the review covered the Board structure, processes and administration, together with the distribution of information.
Its results were communicated to the Directors in a written report, considered at a subsequent meeting and a number of actions were agreed as a result.
Then during 2007 the contribution of each individual Director was assessed by the rest of the Board.
This stage was based upon a questionnaire that was completed by each of the remaining Board members.
The results of this survey were processed and fed back separately to each individual and in total to the Chairman.
The intention is to repeat this review cycle every two years in the future.
Directors re-election Christopher Bailey, non-executive Director, Julian Blogh, Chairman and Frank Hope, executive Director, are all retiring by rotation in accordance with the Articles of Association and standing for re-election.
Andrew Walker, senior independent non-executive Director, has served as a Director for more than nine years and is therefore required to stand for re-election annually.
The Board has discussed Mr Walkers reappointment specifically and has agreed that his extensive knowledge of Ultras complex operations, his previous experience as an executive Director of other major Groups and his exposure to corporate governance arrangements as a non-executive Director in other quoted companies all mean that he remains well qualified for his current position on the Board.
The Directors view is that Mr Walker remains highly effective in his role as senior non-executive and that it is in the best interests of the shareholders for him to continue.
Meeting attendance Main Audit Nominations Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 10 4 - 4 C. Bailey 94 - 4 J. Blogh 10 - - - D. Caster 10 - - - I. Griffiths 93 - 3 A. Hamment 10 - - - F. Hope 10 - - - 1 D. Jeffcoat 10 4 - 4 A. Walker 10 4 - 4 1 Mr Jeffcoat is secretary to the Board and all three sub-committees.
He attends all Committee meetings in that capacity.
Internal controls The Code states that Directors should review the effectiveness of the Groups entire system of internal controls, covering business risks associated with strategic, operational and financial matters, together with those associated with Ultras information technology infrastructure.
Ultras internal controls are designed to meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
In this context the controls can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
The key features of the internal control system that operated during the year are described on the next page.
34 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate governance continued Control environment Ultras organisational structure has clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegated authorities, which are reviewed regularly by the Board to ensure that they are still relevant given the Groups current size and structure.
Appropriate ethical values and the need to maintain effective controls are communicated to managers and staff in specially designed development and training programmes.
All businesses are required to maintain written operating procedure manuals that are consistent with the control principles and policies set out in Ultras Group Operating Manual.
Acquisitions, major capital investments and contract bids above a defined value require main Board approval, with smaller investment decisions delegated to the Chief Executive.
Risk management Management is responsible for identifying the risks facing Ultras businesses and for putting in place procedures to recognise and mitigate such risks.
Strategic risks are formally assessed each year by the Board during the strategic planning process and steps are taken subsequently to ensure that all such risks are minimised throughout the year.
Operational risks are monitored as part of the Groups monthly business performance review process.
Business units are required to report on all key areas of risk, highlighting situations where normal controls have failed to be fully effective and explaining what remedial actions have been taken.
Such situations are then monitored regularly until a satisfactory conclusion is reached.
The responsible executive Director reports all significant deviations twice a year to the Board.
The Board maintains an Internal Audit process, carried out by Ernst & Young LLP, to review financial and information systems control procedures throughout the Group.
All business units are audited at least once every two years and those judged to represent a higher risk are reviewed more often.
In addition, all newly acquired free-standing businesses are audited within a year of their acquisition date.
The leading partner of Ernst & Young reports directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and presents the findings of his team twice annually to the Audit Committee.
Progress reports on follow-up remedial actions are reported regularly to the Committee and Ernst & Young confirms that risks have been eliminated when they next visit the businesses concerned.
The executive Directors take an active role in identifying and assessing potential risks across all aspects of Ultras activities.
This is achieved both through the normal monthly business review programme and also through day-to-day management contact.
The Managing Directors and finance heads of all business units are required to give a formal written representation to the Board every year, confirming that they accept responsibility for maintaining effective internal controls and that they have disclosed full details of any fraud or suspected fraud within their businesses.
In summary, the Board accepts overall responsibility for reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the Groups internal control framework on a regular basis: internal procedures are reviewed and updated where necessary.
The Board has performed a specific assessment for the purpose of this annual report.
This assessment considered all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by the report, including the work of Internal Audit.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
Financial reporting systems The Group has a comprehensive system of financial reporting covering key performance indicators such as order cover, sales, profit and cash flow.
The five year strategic plan and annual budget for each business are approved by the executive Directors.
The Board approves the Groups consolidated plan and budget.
The actual performance of the Group and the key variances against budget are reported monthly to the Board, normally during the third week of the following month.
Revised forecasts for the half-year and full-year are prepared monthly for each business unit, and for the Group as a whole, and presented to the Board.
Shareholder communication The Group encourages two-way communications with both institutional and private investors and endeavours to respond promptly to queries received.
Ultras website provides detailed financial and business information about the Group.
Meetings between Directors, institutional shareholders and other market professionals are held regularly as a part of Ultras investor relations programme.
Shareholders are invited to attend the Annual General Meeting, to ask questions during the meeting and to meet individual Directors after the formal proceedings have ended.
Documentation relevant to Ultras governance framework is available for inspection before the Meeting, including the terms of reference of the Board and its sub-committees and the Directors individual contracts of employment.
The terms of reference can also be found on the Groups website at www.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 35 Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Going concern After making appropriate enquiries the Directors have established that the Groups forward order book provides satisfactory cover for trading in the year to come.
They have a reasonable expectation that the Company and Group have adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Groups banking facilities were renewed in 2005 for a five-year period, confirming the Groups strong credit standing.
The related banking covenants have all been met during the past year with a very comfortable margin and the expectation is that this will continue.
For these reasons, the Board continues to adopt a going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Statement of responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Directors remuneration report and the associated financial statements.
In accordance with applicable law and regulation they are required to prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union but have chosen to prepare company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP and applicable law.
In the case of UK GAAP company financial statements, the Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK accounting standards have been followed: and prepare the statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
In the case of IFRS financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in International Financial Reporting Standards is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless, having assessed the ability of the company to continue as a going concern, management intends either to liquidate the entity or to cease trading, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of Company financial statements which comply with the requirements of the Companies Acts 1985 and 2006 and article 4 of the IAS regulation.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
