AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Directors report Corporate Governance statement Statement of compliance with the code of best practice The Company is committed to the principles of Corporate Governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance which is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Combined Code and for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
The Company has complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year except for the following matters: I A.
7.2 Non-executive Directors who served during the year do not have contracts of employment for a specic term due to their appointment being prior to the issue of the 2003 Combined Code: I A.
4.6 A Nominations Committee has not been established because the full Board is actively involved in all Board appointments: and I B.
2.1 and C. 3.1 The Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee should only consist of independent Non-executive Directors.
Up until 14 July 2006, the Chairman was a member of both Committees.
The Company believed that it was appropriate for the Chairman to sit on both Committees given the size of the Board.
The Chairman stood down as a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees on 14 July 2006 in adherence with the Code provisions on independence which were in force at that time.
The amendments made to the Code in 2006 now permit the Chairman to be a member of the Remuneration Committee.
The Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, including both the main principles and supporting principles, by complying with the Combined Code as noted above.
Further explanation of how the principles have been applied is set out below and, in connection with Directors remuneration, in the Directors remuneration report.
Composition and operation of the Board The Board currently comprises the Chairman, 2 Non-executive Directors, including the senior independent Director, and 2 executive Directors consisting of the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are distinct as agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the effectiveness of the Board and that it meets its obligations and responsibilities.
The Chief Executive is responsible for providing overall leadership, providing management to the Group and is responsible for the execution of the Groups strategic and operating plans.
Brief biographical details of all members is set out on page 22.
The membership of all Board Committees is set out below: Board Audit Remuneration Nick Prest Chairman Chairman David Mann Independent Non-executive Director Member Member Chairman Colin Garrett Independent Non-executive Director Member Chairman Member Richard Longdon Chief Executive Member Paul Taylor Finance Director Member The Board has considered the independence of the Non-executive Directors and believes that both are currently independent of management and free from any material business or other relationships that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The senior independent Director is David Mann and he is available to shareholders if they have concerns, which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group.
There is a formal schedule of matters specically reserved for the Boards decision that covers key areas of the Groups affairs, which includes overall responsibility for the strategy of the Group, Corporate Governance, review of trading performance and forecasts, risk management, Board membership, communications with shareholders, the approval of major transactions including mergers and acquisitions, the approval of the financial statements and annual operating and capital expenditure budgets.
The Board met 11 times during the year and the Board also conducted a full day strategy meeting, receiving presentations from senior management.
The Board delegates the day to day responsibility for managing the Group to the executive Directors.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors receive appropriate and timely information.
Brieng papers are distributed by the Company Secretary to all Directors in advance of Board meetings.
The attendance of individual Directors at Board meetings and Committee meetings is set out in the table below: Board Audit Remuneration meetings Committee Committee attended meetings attended meetings attended Number of meetings held 11 2 2 Nick Prest 11 1 2 David Mann 11 2 2 Colin Garrett 11 2 2 Richard Longdon 11 Paul Taylor 11 The full Board is actively involved in the nomination, selection and appointment of Non-executive and executive Directors and this is the reason that a Nomination Committee for Board appointments has not been established.
Meetings were held between the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors during the year without the executives being present, to discuss appropriate matters as necessary.
indd 4 07 06 2007 13:54:10 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Directors report The Combined Code requires that the Board undertake a formal annual evaluation of the Audit and Remuneration Committees performance.
The review involved the Directors completing individual questionnaires for the performance of the Board, the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and individual Directors.
The matters covered included Board structure, effectiveness information and communication.
The results of the questionnaires were reviewed by the Chairman with the conclusion that the Board and its Committees are operating effectively.
A formal evaluation of the performance of the executive Directors, Richard Longdon and Paul Taylor was also carried out by the Remuneration Committee as part of the process for determining their remuneration for the year.
The Chairman ensures that the Directors take independent professional advice as required at the Groups expense in the appropriate circumstances and all members of the Board have access to the advice of the Company Secretary.
The Group maintains Directors and Ofcers insurance in respect of the risk of claims against Directors.
All Directors are subject to re-election at least every 3 years and Colin Garrett and Paul Taylor are subject to re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Audit committee The Audit Committee met 2 times during the year and its members were Colin Garrett and David Mann.
Nick Prest was appointed to the Audit Committee on his appointment to the Board in January 2006 and resigned from the Committee on 14 July 2006 in adherence with the Code provisions on independence.
The Chairman of the Committee, Colin Garrett, is deemed by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience as he is a Chartered Accountant and has held a number of senior financial roles in his career.
The Committee met during the year to review the scope of the audit and the audit procedures, the format and content of the audited financial statements and interim reports, including the notes and the accounting principles applied.
The Committee also reviews any proposed change in accounting policies and any recommendations from the Groups auditors regarding improvements to internal controls and the adequacy of resources within the Groups finance function.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration both for audit and non-audit work, and discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit with external auditors.
The Audit Committee keeps under review the cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
Controls in place to ensure that the independence and objectivity of the auditors is not compromised include monitoring of the independence and effectiveness of the audit, and a review of the scope, fee and performance of the external auditor.
In addition, audit partners are rotated every 5 years and a formal statement of independence is received from the auditors each year.
The Board is satisfied that the independence of the auditors has been maintained.
The Audit Committee monitors fees paid to the auditors for non-audit work.
During the year there was limited non-audit work performed by the auditors.
The Company engages other independent rms of accountants to perform tax consulting work and other consulting engagements to ensure that the independence of the auditors is not compromised.
Copies of the Audit Committees terms of reference are available on request from the Companys registered ofce during business hours.
The Board has considered the requirement to have an internal audit function and given the Groups relative size, does not consider one necessary at this point but will continue to monitor this annually.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders Communication with shareholders is given high priority by the Board.
The Chief Executive and the Finance Director have meetings with representatives of institutional shareholders and analysts at least twice a year, primarily following the announcement of the interim and full year results, but also at other times during the year as necessary.
In addition, the Company held an investor day in September 2006 when a number of major shareholders visited the ofces in Cambridge and received presentations from senior management.
These meetings seek to build a mutual understanding of objectives with its major shareholders by discussing long-term strategy and obtaining feedback.
The Board also receives formal feedback from analysts and institutional shareholders through the Companys public relations adviser and financial adviser.
The Chairman, senior independent and Non-executive Directors are available for dialogue with shareholders at any time and attend the Annual General Meeting, but are not routinely involved in investor relations or shareholder communications.
During the year the Chairman did meet with institutional shareholders to discuss the long-term strategy and performance of the business.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting The Board seeks to use the Annual General Meeting to communicate with investors and all shareholders are encouraged to participate.
The Chairmen of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions.
indd 5 07 06 2007 13:54:11 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Directors report Corporate Governance statement continued Internal control and risk management The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for monitoring its effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure and by its very nature can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has established a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces.
During the year the Company engaged a 3rd party to help develop a more formal risk review process which involved senior managers throughout the Group.
The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, which have been in place from the start of the year to the date of approval of this report and believes that it is in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
The key elements of the systems of internal controls currently include: I there is an executive Board comprising the Group executive Directors, Head of Sales, Head of Business Strategy, Head of Research and Development and Head of Human Resources.
Each member has responsibility for specic aspects of the Groups operations.
They meet on a regular basis and are responsible for the operational strategy, reviewing operating results, identication and mitigation of risks and communicating and application of the Groups policies and procedures.
Where appropriate, matters are reported to the Board: I the Board receive regular reports from the executive Directors, Head of Sales, Head of Human Resources, Regional Sales Managers and Head of Research and Development on key developments, performance and issues in the business: I operational and financial controls and procedures which include authorisation limits for expenditure, sales contracts and capital expenditure, signing authorities, organisation structure, Group policies, segregation of duties and reviews by management: I there is an annual budget process which is reviewed and approved by the Board: I the executive Board has regular meetings with the Regional Sales managers and with Research and Development managers to discuss actual performance against forecast, budget and prior years.
The operating results are reported on a monthly basis to the Board and compared to the budget and the latest forecast as appropriate: and I insurance cover is maintained to insure all major risk areas of the Group based on the scale of the risk and availability of the cover in the external market.
The Boards monitoring covers all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
It is based principally on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks are identied, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Board has also performed a specic assessment for the purpose of this annual report.
This assessment considered all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by the report.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
