Report of the Directors continued Report of the Nomination Committee Terms of Reference The Prole looks at diversity in terms of nationality, race, gender The Nomination Committee comprises two Independent Nonand relevant expertise and directs that, wherever possible, the Executive Directors and the Chairman.
It is chaired by David Boards should reect Unilevers consumer base.
For more details Simon, Vice Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
com investorcentre corpgovernance members are Michael Treschow and Jeroen van der Veer.
The Group Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Activities of the Committee during the year The Committee met six times in 2007.
David Simon and Jeroen The Committee is responsible for drawing up selection criteria and van der Veer attended all meetings.
The other Committee appointment procedures for Directors.
Under Unilevers corporate members attended all meetings that they were eligible to attend, governance arrangements all Executive and Non-Executive except Jean-Cyril Spinetta who attended three out of four Directors offer themselves for election each year at the Annual meetings he was eligible to attend.
General Meetings, unless they are retiring.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for recommending candidates for The Committee proposed the nomination of all Directors offering nomination as Executive Directors, including Group Chief themselves for re-election at the 2007 AGMs.
In 2007, the Executive, and Non-Executive Directors each year.
The Committee Committee also proposed the nomination of the new Chairman, does so on the basis of an evaluation of the Boards, its and three new Non-Executive Directors.
These were Michael Committees and its individual members.
The Committee Treschow, Genevieve Berger, Narayana Murthy and Hixonia periodically assesses the size and the composition of the Board, Nyasulu respectively.
and makes proposals for the composition prole of the Board.
Michael Treschow is the first person from outside Unilever to hold After Directors have been appointed by shareholders the the ofce of Chairman and, following the restructuring of the Committee recommends to the Board candidates for election as Boards in recent years, is the first independent, Non-Executive Chairman and Vice-Chairman.
Michael has been a member of the Nomination Committee since June 2007.
In addition to its responsibility for succession planning within and to the Board, under its Terms of Reference the Committee has The three new Non-Executive Directors appointed in 2007 were responsibility for supervising the policy of the Group Chief chosen specically to strengthen the Boards knowledge in IT and Executive on the selection criteria and appointment procedures science as well as to increase representation from the D&E for senior management.
markets and enhance diversity of both background and expertise.
All three Non-Executive Directors are members of the Corporate The Committee keeps oversight of all matters relating to Responsibility and Reputation Committee.
corporate governance and brings any issues to the attention of the Boards.
The Committees full Terms of Reference and the In 2007 an outside executive search rm was engaged to identify information used by it for succession planning are available on candidates for the role of Chief Financial officer, following the our website www.
com investorcentre corpgovernance retirement of Rudy Markham at the 2007 AGMs.
Jim Lawrence was chosen by the Boards, through the selection process, to Process for the appointment of Directors become Chief Financial officer with effect from 1 September Unilever has formal procedures for evaluation of the Boards, the 2007, and he will be nominated for election as an Executive Board Committees and the individual Directors.
The results of the Director at the 2008 AGMs.
evaluations are provided to the Committee when it discusses the nominations for election as Directors.
All Directors offer Following the appointment of an outside consultant to support themselves for re-election every year, unless they are retiring.
the 2006 evaluation process, an internal review was undertaken during 2007 in relation to the evaluation of the Boards, the Where a vacancy arises on the Boards, the Committee seeks the Chairman, the individual Directors and the Board Committees services of specialist recruitment rms and other external experts based on the completion of a questionnaire.
to assist in nding individuals with the appropriate skills and expertise.
The Committee discussed general matters of succession planning and talent management with the Group Chief Executive.
The In nominating Directors to the Boards, the Committee follows the Committee reviewed and agreed new the terms of appointment agreed Board Prole of potential Non-Executive Directors, which of Non-Executive Directors in line with best practice.
takes into account the roles of Non-Executive Directors set out in the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and the UK Combined Changes to composition Code on Corporate Governance.
Under the terms of the Antony Burgmans left the Committee when stepping down as Governance of Unilever the Boards should comprise a majority of Chairman in May 2007 and Jean-Cyril Spinetta stepped down Non-Executive Directors and the Prole provides that three of when he resigned as a Director in September 2007.
Michael these have strong financial experience, and staff the Audit Treschow was appointed to the Committee on 27 June 2007.
To represent Unilevers areas of interest, the Prole all times, the majority of the Nomination Committee consisted of also indicates there should be a strong representation from independent Non-Executive Directors.
Developing and Emerging markets as well as from Europe and North America.
Non-Executives should be independent of Unilever The Board evaluated the performance of the Committee and the and free from any conicts of interest.
Committee carried out a self assessment of its performance.
David Simon Chairman of the Nomination Committee Michael Treschow Jeroen van der Veer 48 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
