Report of the Directors continued Corporate governance Introduction The Code of Business Principles is Unilevers statement of values and represents the standard of conduct we require from all of our Unilever aspires to high standards of corporate governance.
Our Code of Ethics applies to the senior executive, We constantly keep our corporate governance arrangements financial and accounting ofcers and comprises the standards under review.
NV and PLC are subject to various corporate prescribed by the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
governance requirements and best practice codes, the most The Code of Business Principles Hotline is a condential way for relevant being those in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom employees to submit concerns regarding accounting and auditing and the United States.
It is Unilevers practice to comply, where issues anonymously and handles all alleged violations of the Code practicable, with the highest level of these codes and respond of Business Principles.
Copies of the Code of Business Principles, to developments appropriately.
the Code of Ethics and the Share Dealing Code are posted on our website at www.
com investorcentre corpgovernance The Unilever Group Unilever N. V. and Unilever PLC are the two parent companies Our internal risk management and control systems are described of the Unilever Group.
Together with the group companies, NV on pages 13 and 14. and PLC operate effectively as a single economic entity.
This is achieved by a series of agreements between NV and PLC the Developments in corporate governance Foundation Agreements, see page 40, together with special Following his appointment as a Non-Executive Director at the provisions in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC.
NV and AGMs in May 2007, Unilever appointed its first independent NonPLC have the same Directors and adopt the same accounting Executive Chairman, Michael Treschow, in succession to Antony principles.
Shareholders of both companies receive dividends on Burgmans who retired as Chairman at those meetings.
NV and PLC and their group companies constitute a single reporting entity for the purposes of presenting In September 2007, the ofces of the Joint Secretaries came to an consolidated accounts.
Accordingly, the accounts of the Unilever end, and the position of a single Group Secretary was introduced Group are presented by both NV and PLC as their respective and adopted by the Boards.
The text that follows describes the corporate governance NV and PLC have agreed to co-operate in all areas and ensure arrangements operating within Unilever and the changes that all group companies act accordingly.
NV and PLC are holding anticipated in 2008.
More information on our corporate and service companies, and the business activity of Unilever is governance arrangements is set out in The Governance of carried out by their subsidiaries around the world.
Shares in group Unilever, the Boards statement of their internal arrangements, companies may ultimately be held wholly by either NV or PLC, or which can be found at jointly by the two companies, in varying proportions.
com investorcentre corpgovernance NV was incorporated under the name Naamlooze Vennootschap The Boards Margarine Unie in the Netherlands in 1927.
Its objects and The Boards of NV and PLC comprise the same Directors and have purposes are set out in Article 2 of its Articles of Association.
This ensures unity of governance and PLC was incorporated under the name Lever Brothers Limited in management by ensuring that all matters are considered by the England and Wales in 1894.
Its objects and purposes can be Boards as a single intellect, reaching the same conclusions on the found in Clause 3 of its Memorandum of Association.
The two same set of facts save where specic local factors apply.
companies have different shareholder constituencies and shareholders cannot convert or exchange the shares of one The Boards are one-tier boards, comprising Executive Directors company for shares of the other.
NV is listed in Amsterdam and and, in a majority, Non-Executive Directors.
PLC is listed in London and New York.
ultimate responsibility for the management, general affairs, direction and performance of the business as a whole.
The Unilever policies responsibility of the Directors is collective, taking into account The implementation of and compliance with our governance their respective roles as Executive Directors and Non-Executive structure is facilitated through a business-orientated policy Directors.
The Executive Directors have additional responsibilities framework.
Unilever policies are universally applicable within the for the operation of our business as determined by the Group Unilever Group.
They are mandatory and have been developed to Chief Executive.
ensure consistency in key areas within our worldwide operations.
They cover operational and functional matters, and govern how Our Directors have set out a number of areas of responsibility we run our business, in order to comply with applicable laws and which are reserved to themselves and other areas for which regulations.
matters are delegated to the Group Chief Executive and committees whose actions are regularly reported to and Unilever policies include: the Code of Business Principles, the monitored by the Boards.
These are described on pages 35 to 38.
Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Ofcers, the Compliance Further details of how our Boards effectively operate as one Manual for the Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency board, govern themselves and delegate their authorities are set Rules including the Unilever Share Dealing Code, the Risk out in The Governance of Unilever, which can be found at Management Policy, the Corporate Pensions Policy and the www.
com investorcentre corpgovernance Accounting and Reporting Policy.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 33 Report of the Directors continued Corporate governance continued Appointment of Directors The following table shows the attendance of Directors at Board Directors are appointed by shareholders at the AGMs.
All existing meetings for the year ended 31 December 2007.
If Directors are Directors, unless they are retiring, submit themselves for election unable to attend a meeting, they have the opportunity before the every year and shareholders can remove any of them by a simple meeting to discuss with the Chairman any agenda items or Board majority vote.
papers: a Name Attendance In order to seek to ensure that NV and PLC have the same Directors, the Articles of Association of NV and PLC contain Antony Burgmans Chairman to 16 May 2007 3 of 3 Michael Treschow Chairman from 16 May 2007 5 of 5 provisions which are designed to ensure that both NV and PLC Patrick Cescau 8 of 8 shareholders are presented with the same candidates for election Kees van der Graaf 7 of 8 as Directors.
This is achieved through a nomination procedure Ralph Kugler 7 of 8 operated by the Boards of NV and PLC through Unilevers Rudy Markham to 16 May 2007 3 of 3 Genevieve Berger from 16 May 2007 5 of 5 Nomination Committee.
Leon Brittan 7 of 8 Lynda Chalker to 16 May 2007 2 of 3 Based on the evaluation of the Boards, its Committees and its Wim Dik 8 of 8 individual members, the Nomination Committee recommends to Charles Golden 8 of 8 the Boards a list of candidates for nomination at the AGMs of Byron Grote 8 of 8 Narayana Murthy from 16 May 2007 4 of 5 both NV and of PLC.
In addition, since 2006 shareholders have Hixonia Nyasulu from 16 May 2007 5 of 5 been able to nominate Directors for this list although to do so David Simon 8 of 8 they must put a resolution to both meetings in line with local Jean-Cyril Spinetta to 14 September 2007 1 of 6 requirements for requisitioning a resolution.
In order to ensure Kees Storm 7 of 8 Jeroen van der Veer 6 of 8 that the Boards remain identical, anyone being elected as a Director of NV must also be elected as a Director of PLC and vice a Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended out of versa.
If an individual fails to be elected to both companies then number eligible to attend.
he or she will be unable to take their place on the Boards.
Board meetings are normally held either in London or Rotterdam, The provisions in the Articles of Association for appointing with at least one off site Board meeting a year.
The Chairman is Directors cannot be changed without the permission, in the case assisted by the Group Secretary, who ensures that the Boards are of NV, of the holders of the special ordinary shares numbered supplied with all the information necessary for their deliberations.
1 - 2400 inclusive and, in the case of PLC, of the holders of The Chairman and the Group Secretary involve the Senior PLC's deferred stock.
The NV special ordinary shares may only be Independent Director see page 36 in the arrangements for Board transferred to one or more other holders of such shares.
joint holders of both the NV special ordinary shares and the Board induction and training PLC deferred stock are N. V. Elma and United Holdings Limited, Upon election, Directors receive a comprehensive Directors which are joint subsidiaries of NV and PLC.
The boards of N. V. Manual and are briefed thoroughly on their responsibilities and Elma and United Holdings Limited comprise the members of the our business.
Updates on corporate governance developments Nomination Committee.
The Nomination Committee comprises and investor relations matters are frequent items at Board Non-Executive Directors only.
Ongoing training is provided for Directors by way of site visits, presentations, circulated updates, teach-ins and agenda Board meetings items at Board or Board committee meetings on, among other Our Boards meet at least seven times a year to consider important things, Unilevers business, corporate governance, regulatory corporate events and actions, such as: developments, and investor relations matters.
In particular, during 2007 the Boards were given a presentation by our external legal approval of corporate strategy: advisers on the new directors duties under the UK Companies approval of the corporate Annual Plan: Act 2006, which came into force on 1 October 2007.
In 2007, a review of risks and controls: Board meeting was held in Durban, South Africa which included a authorisation of major transactions: visit to our factory operations, certain retail outlets and charitable preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts: organisations supported by Unilever in South Africa.
declaration of dividends: agreement of quarterly results announcements: convening of shareholders meetings: nominations for Board appointments: approval of Board remuneration policy: and review of the functioning of the Boards and their Committees.
34 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors continued Corporate governance continued Board evaluation At the 2008 AGMs all of the Executive Directors and the NonThe evaluation process of our Boards consists of a three-year cycle Executive Directors will be nominated for re-election, with the with an independent third party evaluation carried out once every exception of Kees van der Graaf and Ralph Kugler, who will be three years and internal evaluations in each of the two years in stepping down at the meetings.
In addition, Jim Lawrence will be between.
The internal evaluations are based on the independent proposed for election as an Executive Director at the 2008 AGMs third party evaluation materials.
An independent third party following his appointment as Chief Financial officer in September evaluation was last carried out in 2006.
Biographical details for Mr Lawrence are contained in the conjunction with the Senior Independent Director, conducted the 2008 AGM Notices, and on our website at internal evaluation process.
An extensive questionnaire for all www.
com ourcompany investorcentre Board members formed part of the evaluation process.
In addition, our Chairman conducted a process of evaluating the Chairman and Group Chief Executive performance of each individual Board member, including an Unilever has a separate independent Non-Executive Chairman and interview with each.
A similar process with respect to the Group Chief Executive.
There is a clear division of responsibilities performance of the Chairman was conducted by the Senior between their roles.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for Independent Director after consulting Board members.
leadership of the Boards, ensuring their effectiveness and setting their agendas.
He is also responsible for ensuring that the Boards Committees of the Boards evaluate themselves under supervision receive accurate, timely and clear information.
of their respective chairmen taking into account the views of respective committee members.
The results of the evaluations The Group Chief Executive has been entrusted, within the were discussed by the Boards.
parameters set out in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC and The Governance of Unilever, with all the Boards powers, Board support authorities and discretions in relation to the operational The Group Secretary is available to advise all Directors and ensure management of Unilever.
The Group Chief Executive has the that Board procedures are complied with.
The position is authority to determine which duties regarding the operational appointed and can be removed by the Boards.
management of the companies and their business enterprises will be carried out under his responsibility by one or more Executive A procedure is in place to enable Directors, if they so wish, to Directors or by one or more other persons.
This provides a basis seek independent professional advice at Unilevers expense.
for the Unilever Executive team UEx that is chaired by and reports to the Group Chief Executive.
For UEx members Board changes biographies see page 47.
For our business structure, please refer The current Directors, with their biographies, are shown on page to About Unilever on pages 7 and 8.
All the current Executive Directors held ofce throughout the year.
Executive Directors All Executive Directors are members of the UEx: Patrick Cescau Leon Brittan, Wim Dik, Charles Golden, Byron Grote, David and, currently, Kees van der Graaf and Ralph Kugler, who will Simon, Jean-Cyril Spinetta, Kees Storm and Jeroen van der Veer both be leaving the Boards at the 2008 AGMs.
Jim Lawrence were re-elected as Non-Executive Directors of NV and PLC at the will be proposed for election as an Executive Director at those 2007 AGMs.
In addition, Genevieve Berger, Narayana Murthy and AGMs.
He is currently a member of UEx in his capacity as Chief Hixonia Nyasulu were appointed as Non-Executive Directors, and Financial officer.
Michael Treschow became our first independent Non-Executive Chairman.
Michael Treschow was appointed a member of the The Executive Directors are full-time employees of Unilever.
Nomination Committee in 2007 and, following a change in the Information about their remuneration can be found in the report UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance, a member of the of the Remuneration Committee and on our website.
The Remuneration Committee takes the view that the entitlement In 2007, Genevieve Berger, Narayana Murthy and Hixonia Nyasulu of the Executive Directors to the security of twelve months notice became members of the Corporate Responsibility and Reputation of termination of employment is in line both with the practice of Committee.
many comparable companies and the entitlement of other senior executives within Unilever.
It is our policy to set the level of At the 2007 AGMs, Rudy Markham retired as an Executive severance payments for Directors at no more than one years Director but remained as Chief Financial officer until his successor, salary, unless the Boards, at the proposal of the Remuneration Jim Lawrence, was appointed on 1 September 2007.
Lynda Committee, nd this manifestly unreasonable given circumstances Chalker also retired as a Non-Executive Director at the 2007 or unless dictated by applicable law.
AGMs, and in September 2007 Jean-Cyril Spinetta stepped down as Non-Executive Director due to personal reasons.
The Executive Directors submit themselves for re-election at the AGMs each year.
The Nomination Committee carefully considers each nomination for reappointment.
The Directors stop holding executive ofce on ceasing to be Directors.
Those appointed prior to 2004 retire at the latest by the age of 62.
Appointees from 2004 onwards retire at an age between 60 and 65, as decided by either them or Unilever.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 35 Report of the Directors continued Corporate governance continued We do not grant our Executive Directors any personal loans or Meetings guarantees.
The Non-Executive Directors meet as a group, without the Executive Directors present, under the chairmanship of Mr There are no family relationships between any of our Executive Treschow.
In 2007 they met three times as a group.
In addition, Directors, other key management personnel or Non-Executive the Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman usually meet Directors.
None of our Executive Directors are elected or before each Board meeting with the Group Chief Executive and appointed under any arrangement or understanding.
Outside Appointments Senior Independent Director Unilever recognises the benefit to the individual and to the Group Our Non-Executive Directors have appointed David Simon as of involvement by Unilever Executives acting as directors of other Senior Independent Director.
He acts as their spokesman.
The companies outside the Unilever Group, broadening their Senior Independent Director is consulted by the Chairman on experience and knowledge.
The number of outside directorships the agenda and arrangements for Board meetings.
He is also, of listed companies is generally limited to one per individual.
In in appropriate cases, a point of contact for shareholders and the case of publicly listed companies approval is required from the other stakeholders.
Outside directorships must not involve an excessive commitment or conict of interest.
Unilever Executives must at all Tenure times ensure that their time commitment to Unilever takes Our Non-Executive Directors submit themselves for re-election precedence over any outside directorship.
As of 2008 fees paid in each year.
Their nomination for re-election is subject to continued connection with an outside directorship may be retained by the good performance which is evaluated by the Boards, based on individual.
This reects that any outside directorship is for the sole the recommendations of the Nomination Committee.
The responsibility of the individual and that Unilever takes no Nomination Committee carefully considers each nomination for responsibility in this regard.
For Executive Directors biographies reappointment.
The Non-Executive Directors normally serve for a see page 46. maximum of nine years.
Non-Executive Directors Remuneration The Non-Executive Directors share responsibility for the execution The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by of the Boards duties, taking into account their specic the Boards, within the overall limit set by the shareholders at the responsibilities, which are essentially supervisory.
In particular, AGMs in 2007, and it is reported on page 59.
Details of the they comprise the principal external presence in the governance engagement of our Non-Executive Directors can be seen on the of Unilever, and provide a strong independent element.
Other appointments Role and Responsibility Non-Executive Directors may serve on boards of other companies, The key elements of the role and responsibilities of our Nonprovided they do not involve a conict of interest or restrict their Executive Directors are: ability to discharge their duties to Unilever.
supervision of and advice to the Group Chief Executive: Independence developing strategy with the Group Chief Executive: Taking into account the role of Non-Executive Directors, which is scrutiny of performance: essentially supervisory, and the fact that they make up the key oversight of controls: committees of the Boards, it is important that our Non-Executive reporting of performance: Directors can be considered to be independent.
remuneration of and succession planning for Executive Directors: and Our denition of independence for Directors is set out in governance and compliance.
It is derived from the applicable denitions in use in the Netherlands, UK and US.
Our current Our Non-Executive Directors are chosen for their broad and Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent of relevant experience and international outlook, as well as Unilever.
Our Boards reached this conclusion after conducting a their independence.
They form the Audit Committee, the thorough review of all relevant relationships of the Non-Executive Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee and Directors, and their related or connected persons.
in majority the Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee.
The roles and membership of these key Board A number of relationships, such as non-executive directorships, committees are described on pages 37 and 38.
The prole set by exist between various of our Non-Executive Directors and the Boards for the Non-Executive Directors and the chart used for companies that provide banking, insurance or financial advisory orderly succession planning can be seen on our website at services to Unilever.
Our Boards considered in each case the www.
com investorcentre corpgovernance number of other companies that also provide or could readily provide such services to Unilever, the signicance to those companies of the services they provide to Unilever, the roles of the Non-Executive Directors within those companies and the signicance of that role to our Non-Executive Directors.
36 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors continued Corporate governance continued It concluded that none of these relationships threaten the The following table shows the attendance of Directors at Audit independence of the Non-Executive Directors concerned.
For Committee meetings for the year ended 31 December 2007: example, the Boards have satisfied themselves that Leon Brittans a Name Attendance position at UBS Investment Bank and UBS Securities Company Limited does not involve him in any way in its broking relationship Kees Storm Chairman 6 of 7 Wim Dik 7 of 7 with Unilever.
The Boards have also formed the view that the fact Charles Golden 7 of 7 that David Simon is a senior adviser of Morgan Stanley Byron Grote 7 of 7 International is not material.
The Boards have also satisfied a Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended out of themselves that the services provided by Paton Tupper Associates number eligible to attend.
Pty Limited and Barloworld Limited, of which Hixonia Nyasulu is a director and 12.5% shareholder and director respectively, to See page 62 for the Report of the Audit Committee to the Unilever South Africa is not material.
None of our Non-Executive Directors are elected or appointed Nomination Committee under any arrangement or understanding.
Our Nomination Committee comprises a minimum of three independent Non-Executive Directors.
It is chaired by David Simon Committees and its other members are Michael Treschow and Jeroen van der Veer.
Jean-Cyril Spinetta stepped down from the Committee Board committees following his retirement as a Non-Executive Director in September The Boards have established the committees described below, all 2007.
The Committee recommends to the Boards candidates for formally set up by Board resolution with carefully dened remits.
It also has responsibilities for succession They are made up solely of Non-Executive Directors with the planning and oversight of corporate governance matters.
It is exception of the Corporate Responsibility and Reputation supplied with information by the Group Secretary.
Committee which currently has an Executive Director as a member, and report regularly to the Boards.
For all committees, if The following table shows the attendance of Directors at Directors are unable to attend a meeting, they are given the Nomination Committee meetings for the year ended 31 opportunity before the meeting to discuss with the Chairman of December 2007: the committee any agenda items or committee papers.
All committees are provided with sufficient resources to undertake a Name Attendance their duties.
The terms of reference for each committee can be David Simon Chairman 6 of 6 found on our website.
Antony Burgmans to 16 May 2007 3 of 3 Jean-Cyril Spinetta to 14 September 2007 3 of 4 Audit Committee Michael Treschow from 27 June 2007 3 of 3 Jeroen van der Veer 6 of 6 The Audit Committee is comprised only of independent NonExecutive Directors with a minimum requirement of three.
It is a Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended out of chaired by Kees Storm, and its other members are Wim Dik, number eligible to attend.
Charles Golden and Byron Grote.
The Boards have satisfied themselves that all the current members of the Committee are See page 48 for the Report of the Nomination Committee competent in financial matters and have recent and relevant to shareholders.
experience and that, for the purposes of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Kees Storm is the Audit Committees financial Remuneration Committee expert.
The Committees meetings are attended, by invitation, by On 31 December 2007, our Remuneration Committee comprised the Chief Financial officer, the Chief Legal officer, the Group two independent Non-Executive Directors following Jean-Cyril Controller, the Chief Auditor and our external auditors.
Spinetta stepping down from the Committee following his retirement as a Non-Executive Director in September 2007.
It is The Audit Committee assists the Boards in fullling their oversight chaired by David Simon and its other member is Jeroen van der responsibilities in respect of the integrity of Unilevers financial Veer.
Michael Treschow was appointed as an additional member statements: risk management and internal control arrangements: of the Committee in February 2008. compliance with legal and regulatory requirements: the performance, qualications and independence of the external The Committee reviews Directors remuneration and is responsible auditors: and the performance of the internal audit function.
The for the executive share-based incentive plans.
It determines, Committee is directly responsible, subject to local laws regarding within the parameters set by our shareholders, specic shareholder approval, for the nomination, compensation and remuneration arrangements for each of the Executive Directors, oversight of the external auditors.
the remuneration scales and arrangements for Non-Executive Directors and the remuneration of the tier of management The Audit Committee is fully compliant with the rules regarding directly below the Boards.
The Committee is advised by the Group audit committees that are applicable in the Netherlands, UK and Secretary on matters of Corporate Governance.
The Committees responsibilities and powers are fully aligned with all requirements in the Netherlands, UK and US.
The Audit Committee is supplied with all information necessary for the performance of its duties by the Chief Auditor, Chief Financial officer, and Group Controller.
Both the Chief Auditor and the external auditors have direct access to the Audit Committee separately from management.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 37 Report of the Directors continued Corporate governance continued The following table shows the attendance of Directors at Director matters Remuneration Committee meetings for the year ended 31 December 2007: Various formal matters The borrowing powers of NV Directors on behalf of NV are not a Name Attendance limited by the Articles of Association of NV.
PLC Directors have David Simon Chairman 5 of 5 the power to borrow on behalf of PLC up to three times the Jean-Cyril Spinetta to 14 September 2007 1 of 3 adjusted capital and reserves of PLC, as dened in its Articles of Jeroen van der Veer 5 of 5 Association, without the approval of shareholders any exceptions a Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended out of requiring an ordinary resolution.
The Articles of Association of NV and PLC do not require Directors The detailed report of the Remuneration Committee to of NV or Directors of PLC to hold shares in NV or PLC.
However, shareholders on Directors remuneration is on pages 49 to 61. the remuneration arrangements applicable to our Executive Directors require them to build and retain a personal shareholding Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee in Unilever equal to at least 150% of their annual base pay.
The Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee currently comprises four Non-Executive Directors and one Executive indemnification Director.
It is chaired by Leon Brittan and its other members Directors indemnification, including the terms thereof, is provided are Genevieve Berger, Narayana Murthy, Hixonia Nyasulu and for in Article 19 of NVs Articles of Association.
The power to Ralph Kugler.
The Committee has responsibility for the oversight indemnify Directors is provided for in PLCs Articles of Association.
of Unilevers conduct with regard to its corporate and societal Deeds of indemnity have been issued to all PLC Directors.
obligations and its reputation as a responsible corporate citizen.
Appropriate Directors and Ofcers liability insurance is in place for all Unilever Directors.
The following table shows the attendance of Directors at Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee meetings for Conicts of interest the year ended 31 December 2007: We attach special importance to avoiding conicts of interest between on the one hand NV and PLC and on the other hand a Name Attendance their Directors.
The Boards are responsible for ensuring that there Leon Brittan Chairman from 16 May 2007 3 of 4 are rules in place to avoid conicts of interest by Board members.
Lynda Chalker Chair to 16 May 2007 2 of 2 Conicts of interest are not understood to include transactions Genevieve Berger from 16 May 2007 2 of 2 and other activities between companies in the Unilever Group.
Antony Burgmans to 16 May 2007 0 of 2 Wim Dik to 13 September 2007 2 of 3 Ralph Kugler 4 of 4 Shareholder matters Narayana Murthy from 16 May 2007 2 of 2 Hixonia Nyasulu from 16 May 2007 2 of 2 Relations with shareholders and other investors a Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended out of We believe it is important both to explain our business number eligible to attend.
developments and financial results to investors and to understand their objectives.
See page 63 for the Report of the Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee to shareholders.
The Chief Financial officer has lead responsibility for investor relations, with the active involvement of the Group Chief Routine business committees Executive.
They are supported by our Investor Relations Committees are also set up to conduct routine business as and department which organises presentations for analysts and when they are necessary.
They comprise any two of the Directors investors.
Such presentations are generally made available on our and certain senior executives and ofcers.
Briengs on quarterly results are given via teleconference implement certain matters previously agreed by our Boards or the and are accessible by telephone or via our website.
For further Group Chief Executive.
The Group Secretary is responsible for the information visit our website at www.
com investorcentre operation of these committees.
The Boards are regularly briefed on reactions to the quarterly Disclosure Committee results announcements.
They, or the relevant Board Committee, The Boards have set up a Disclosure Committee which is are briefed on any issues raised by shareholders that are relevant responsible for helping the Boards ensure that financial and to their responsibilities.
other information that ought to be disclosed publicly is disclosed in a timely manner and that the information that is disclosed Our shareholders can, and do, raise issues directly with the is complete and accurate.
The Committee comprises the relevant Executive Director or the Chairman and, if appropriate, Group Controller, the Group Secretary, the Chief Legal officer and a relevant Non-Executive Director or the Senior Independent the Group Treasurer.
38 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors continued Corporate governance continued Both NV and PLC communicate with their respective shareholders At the 2007 NV AGM shareholders voted for an amendment to through the AGMs as well as responding to their questions and the NV Articles of Association allowing Unilever to implement the enquiries during the course of the year.
We take the views of our opportunity of electronic communication.
Accordingly, the Board shareholders into account and, in accordance with all applicable of Directors is now authorised to decide upon the use of this legislation and regulations, may consult them in an appropriate means of communication.
way before putting major new proposals to our AGMs.
Voting rights General Meetings of Shareholders To be entitled to attend and vote at NV General Meetings The business to be conducted at the AGMs of NV and PLC is set shareholders must hold their NV shares on the record date, which out in the separate Notices of AGM for NV and PLC.
It typically is set by the Board of NV at a date not more than thirty days includes appointment of Directors, declaration approval of final before the meeting.
Shareholders do not need to block their dividend, appointment of external auditors, approval of changes shares.
NV shareholders can cast one vote for each 0.16 nominal to the Articles of Association, and authorisation for the Boards to capital that they hold.
This means that they can cast one vote for allot and repurchase shares, and to restrict pre-emptive rights each NV ordinary share, or NV New York Registry Share.
Shareholders can vote in person or by proxy.
Similar arrangements apply to holders of depositary receipts issued for NV shares and At the AGMs, a full account is given of the progress of the the holders of NV preference shares see pages 42 and 43. business over the last year and there is a review of current issues.
1 Shareholders are encouraged to attend the meetings and ask PLC shareholders can cast one vote for each 3 9p nominal capital questions, and the question-and-answer sessions form an that they hold.
Shareholders can vote in person at the meeting or important part of the meetings.
This means shareholders can cast one vote for each PLC ordinary share, or PLC American Depositary Receipts of shares.
General Meetings of shareholders of NV and PLC are held at Proxies should be submitted at least 48 hours before the General times and places decided by our Boards.
NV meetings are held in Meeting to the Registrars, whose details can be found on page Rotterdam and PLC meetings are held in London on consecutive 143. days.
The notices calling the meetings normally go out more than thirty days prior to the meetings and include further information More information on the exercise of voting rights can be found on how to gain access to the AGMs and how to vote by proxy.
in NVs and PLCs Articles of Association and in the respective Notices of Meetings.
We welcome our external auditors to the AGMs and they are entitled to address the meetings.
Holders of NV New York Registry Shares or PLC American Depositary Receipts of shares will receive a proxy form enabling Electronic Communication them to authorise and instruct ABN AMRO N. V. or Citibank, N. A.
We are committed to efforts to establish more effective ways respectively to vote on their behalf at the General Meeting of NV of communication with our shareholders around the AGMs.
N. V. Elma and United Holdings Limited the holders of Electronic communication is becoming an important medium for NVs special shares, other group companies of NV which hold shareholders, providing ready access to shareholder information ordinary or preference shares, and United Holdings Limited, which and reports, and for voting purposes.
owns half of PLCs deferred stock, are not permitted to vote at General Meetings.
NV was one of the founders of the Dutch Shareholders Communication Channel.
NV shareholders participating in the Voting on each of the resolutions contained in the Notice of Dutch Shareholders Communication Channel are able to appoint AGMs is conducted by poll.
The final vote is published at the electronically a proxy to vote on their behalf at the NV AGM and meetings and the outcome of the votes, including the proxy NV shareholders who wish to participate should contact their votes, is put on Unilevers website.
For each resolution, proxy bank or broker.
Shareholders of PLC in the UK can choose to appointment forms in 2007 provided shareholders with the receive electronic notication that the Annual Review, Annual option to direct their proxy to vote either for or against the Report and Accounts and Notice of AGMs have been published resolution or to withhold their vote.
Proxy forms and voting result on our website, instead of receiving printed copies, and can also announcements make it clear that a vote withheld is not a vote in electronically appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf at the AGM.
law, and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for and against the resolution voted on.
Registration for electronic communication by shareholders of PLC can be made at www.
com shareholderservices The UK Shareholder proposed resolutions Companies Act 2006 contains provisions facilitating Shareholders of NV may propose resolutions if they individually or communications between companies and their shareholders together hold 1% of NVs issued capital in the form of shares or electronically.
PLC consulted with its shareholders in 2007 to offer depositary receipts for shares, or if they individually or together them the opportunity to review their method of receiving hold shares or depositary receipts worth or representing the shareholder communications in the future.
market value in shares as set in respect thereto by or pursuant to the law currently 50 million.
They must submit these requests at least 60 days before the date of the General Meeting, and the request will be honoured unless, in the opinion of the Boards, it is against a substantive interest of the Company.
Shareholders who together represent at least 10% of the issued capital of NV can also requisition Extraordinary General Meetings to deal with specic resolutions.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 39 Report of the Directors continued Corporate governance continued Shareholders who together hold shares representing at least 5% The Equalisation Agreement provides that if one company had of the total voting rights of PLC, or 100 shareholders who hold losses, or was unable to pay its preference dividends, the loss or on average 100 each in nominal value of PLC capital, can shortfall would be made up out of: require PLC to propose a resolution at a General Meeting.
PLC shareholders holding in aggregate 10% of the issued PLC the current profits of the other company after it has paid its ordinary shares are able to convene a General Meeting of PLC.
own preference shareholders : then its own free reserves: and Required majorities then the free reserves of the other company.
Resolutions are usually adopted at NV and PLC shareholder meetings by an absolute majority of votes cast, unless there are If either company could not pay its ordinary dividends, we would other requirements under the applicable laws or NVs or PLCs follow the same procedure, except that the current profits of the Articles of Association.
For example, there are special other company would only be used after it had paid its own requirements for resolutions relating to the alteration of the ordinary shareholders and if the Directors thought this more Articles of Association, the liquidation of NV or PLC and the appropriate than, for example, using its own free reserves.
alteration of the Equalisation Agreement see below.
So far, NV and PLC have always been able to pay their own A proposal to alter the Articles of Association of NV can only dividends, so we have never had to follow this procedure.
A proposal to alter the Memorandum and did, the payment from one company to the other would be Articles of Association of PLC can be made either by the Board or subject to any United Kingdom and Dutch tax and exchange by shareholders in the manner permitted under the UK control laws applicable at that time.
Proposals to alter the provisions in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC respectively relating to the unity of Under the Equalisation Agreement, the two companies are management require the prior approval of meetings of the permitted to pay different dividends in the following exceptional holders of the NV special shares and the PLC deferred stock.
The circumstances: Articles of Association of NV and the Memorandum and Articles of Association of PLC can be found on our website.
If the average annual sterling euro exchange rate changed so substantially from one year to the next that to pay equal Right to hold shares dividends at the current exchange rates, either NV or PLC Unilever places no limitations on the right to hold NV and PLC would have to pay a dividend that was unreasonable that is to shares.
say, substantially larger or smaller in its own currency than the dividend it paid in the previous year : or Foundation Agreements The governments of the Netherlands or the United Kingdom Equalisation Agreement could in some circumstances place restrictions on the The Equalisation Agreement makes the economic position of the proportion of a companys profits which can be paid out as shareholders of NV and PLC, as far as possible, the same as if they dividends.
This could mean that in order to pay equal dividends held shares in a single company.
The Agreement regulates the one company would have to pay out an amount which would mutual rights of the shareholders of NV and PLC.
Under the breach the limitations in place at the time, or that the other Equalisation Agreement, NV and PLC must adopt the same company would have to pay a smaller dividend.
financial periods and accounting policies.
Dividends are paid in accordance with a formula relating to the nominal values of NVs In either of these rare cases, NV and PLC could pay different and PLCs issued share capital.
amounts of dividend if the Boards thought it appropriate.
The company paying less than the equalised dividend would put the Since the AGMs in 2006 which agreed to split the NV ordinary difference between the dividends into a reserve: an equalisation shares and to consolidate the PLC ordinary shares, each NV reserve in the case of exchange rate uctuations, or a dividend ordinary share represents the same underlying economic interest reserve in the case of a government restriction.
The reserves in the Unilever Group as each PLC ordinary share.
would be paid out to its shareholders when it became possible or reasonable to do so, which would ensure that the shareholders of We pay ordinary dividends for NV and PLC on the same day.
both companies would ultimately be treated the same.
NV and PLC allocate funds for the dividend from their parts of our current profits and free reserves.
We pay the same amount If both companies were to go into liquidation, NV and PLC would on each NV share as on one PLC share calculated at the relevant each use any funds available for shareholders to pay the prior exchange rate.
For interim dividends this exchange rate is the claims of their own preference shareholders.
Then they would average rate for the quarter before we declare the dividend.
For use any surplus to pay each others preference shareholders, if final dividends it is the average rate for the year.
In arriving at the necessary.
After these claims had been met, they would pay out equalised amount we include any tax payable by the Company in any equalisation or dividend reserve to their own shareholders respect of the dividend, but calculate it before any tax deductible before pooling the remaining surplus.
This would be distributed by the Company from the dividend.
to the ordinary shareholders of both companies on an equal basis.
If one company were to go into liquidation, we would apply the same principles as if both had gone into liquidation simultaneously.
40 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors continued Corporate governance continued In principle, issues of bonus shares and rights offerings can only shareholders.
These provisions also allow assets to be transferred be made in ordinary shares.
Again we would ensure that between NV and PLC and their associated companies as dened shareholders of NV and PLC received shares in equal proportions.
in the Deed to ensure that assets are allocated in the most The subscription price for one new NV share would have to be efficient manner.
These arrangements are designed to create a the same, at the prevailing exchange rate, as the price for one balance between the two parent companies and the funds new PLC share.
Neither company can issue or reduce capital generated by them, for the benefit of their respective sets without the consent of the other.
The Articles of Association of NV establish that any payment The Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing under the Equalisation Agreement will be credited or debited to Under the Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing the income statement for the financial year in question.
between NV and PLC, each company will, if asked by the other, guarantee the borrowings of the other.
The two companies Under Article 2 of the Articles of Association of NV and Clause 3 can also agree jointly to guarantee the borrowings of their of the Memorandum of Association of PLC, each company is subsidiaries.
These arrangements are used, as a matter of financial required to carry out the Equalisation Agreement with the other.
policy, for certain significant public borrowings.
They enable Both documents state that the Agreement cannot be changed or lenders to rely on our combined financial strength.
terminated without the approval of shareholders.
For NV, the General Meeting can decide to alter or terminate the Equalisation Share capital matters Agreement at the proposal of the Board.
The necessary approval of the General Meeting is then that at least one half of the total Combined earnings per share issued ordinary capital must be represented at an ordinary We calculate earnings per share on a combined basis.
The shareholders meeting, where the majority must vote in favour: calculation is based on the average amount of NVs and PLCs and if they would be disadvantaged or the agreement is to be ordinary share capital in issue during the year.
terminated, at least two-thirds of the total issued preference share capital must be represented at a preference shareholders In our combined earnings per share calculation, we assume that meeting, where at least three-quarters of them must vote in both companies will be able to pay their dividends out of their favour.
For PLC, the necessary approval must be given by the part of our profits.
This has always been the case in the past, holders of a majority of all issued shares voting at a General but if we did have to make a payment from one to the other Meeting and the holders of the ordinary shares, by a simple it could result in additional taxes, and reduce our combined majority voting at a General Meeting where the majority of the earnings per share.
ordinary shares in issue are represented.
Further information about the calculation of earnings per share, In addition, Article 3 of the PLC Articles of Association states that including the calculation on a diluted basis, can be found in note PLCs Board must carry out the Equalisation Agreement and that 7 on page 85. the other provisions of the Articles of Association are subject to it.
Share capital We are advised by counsel that these provisions oblige our Boards NVs issued share capital on 31 December 2007 was made up of: to carry out the Equalisation Agreement, unless it is amended or terminated with the required approval of the shareholders of 274 356 432 split into 1 714 727 700 ordinary shares of both companies.
If the Boards fail to enforce the Agreement, 0.16 each: shareholders can compel them to do so under Dutch and United 1 028 568 split into 2 400 ordinary shares numbered 1 to Kingdom law.
2 400, known as special shares: and 113 599 014 split into several classes 4%, 6% and 7% of A copy of the Equalisation Agreement can be found on our cumulative preference shares nancing preference shares.
com investorcentre corpgovernance The total number of voting rights attached to NV's outstanding The Deed of Mutual Covenants shares is shown hereunder: The Deed of Mutual Covenants provides that NV and PLC and Total number of votes % of issued capital their respective subsidiary companies shall co-operate in every a 1 714 727 700 ordinary shares 1 714 727 700 70.53 way for the purpose of maintaining a common operating policy.
2 400 special shares 6 428 550 0.26 They shall exchange all relevant information about their respective 750 000 4% cumulative preference shares 200 906 250 8.26 businesses the intention being to create and maintain a 161 060 6% cumulative common operating platform for the Unilever Group throughout preference shares 431 409 276 17.75 the world.
The Deed illustrates some of the information which 29 000 7% cumulative makes up this common platform, such as the mutual exchange preference shares 77 678 312 3.20 and free use of know-how, patents, trade marks and all other a Of which 81 337 992 shares were held in treasury and commercially valuable information.
The Deed contains provisions 40 958 255 shares were held in connection with share-based which allow the Directors of NV and PLC to take any actions to payments as at 31 December 2007. ensure that the dividend-generating capacity of each of NV and PLC is aligned with the economic interests of their respective Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 41 Report of the Directors continued Corporate governance continued NV may issue shares not yet issued and grant rights to subscribe Margarine Union 1930 Limited: Conversion Rights for shares only pursuant to a resolution of the General Meeting The first Viscount Leverhulme was the founder of the company of Shareholders or of another corporate body designated for such which became PLC.
When he died in 1925, he left in his will a purpose by a resolution of the General Meeting.
At the AGM held large number of PLC shares in various trusts.
on 15 May 2007 the Board of Directors was designated, in accordance with Articles 96 and 96a of Book 2 of the Netherlands When the will trusts were varied in 1983, the interests of the Civil Code, as the corporate body which is authorised until beneciaries of his will were also preserved.
Four classes of special 15 November 2008 to resolve on the issue of or on the granting shares were created in Margarine Union 1930 Limited, a of rights to subscribe for shares not yet issued and to restrict or subsidiary of PLC.
One of these classes can be converted at the exclude the statutory pre-emption rights that accrue to end of the year 2038 into 70 875 000 PLC ordinary shares of 1 shareholders upon issue of shares, on the understanding that this 3 9p each.
This currently represents 5.4% of PLCs issued ordinary authority is limited to 10% of the issued share capital of the capital.
These convertible shares replicate the rights which the Company, plus an additional 10% of the issued share capital of descendants of the first Viscount would have had under his will.
the Company in connection with or on the occasion of mergers This class of the special shares only has a right to dividends in and acquisitions.
specified circumstances, and no dividends have yet been paid.
PLC guarantees the dividend and conversion rights of the At the 2007 AGM the Board of Directors of NV was authorised, special shares.
in accordance with Article 98 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, until 15 November 2008 to cause the Company to buy in Foundation Unilever NV Trust Ofce its own shares and depositary receipts therefor, within the limits As at 1 March 2008, around 74.48% of NVs ordinary shares and set by law 10% of the issued share capital, either through around 33.71% of NVs 7% cumulative preference shares were purchase on a stock exchange or otherwise, at a price, excluding held by the Foundation Unilever NV Trust Ofce Stichting expenses, not lower than the nominal value of the shares and not Administratiekantoor Unilever N. V., a trust ofce with a board higher than 10% above the average of the closing price of the independent from Unilever.
As part of its corporate objects, the shares on Eurolist by Euronext Amsterdam for the five business Foundation issues depositary receipts in exchange for these days before the day on which the purchase is made.
These depositary receipts are listed on Euronext Amsterdam, as are the NV ordinary and 7% preference shares The above mentioned authorities are renewed annually.
PLCs issued share capital on 31 December 2007 was made up of: Holders of depositary receipts can under all circumstances exchange their depositary receipts for the underlying shares 1 40 760 420 split into 1 310 156 361 ordinary shares of 3 9p and vice versa.
each: and 100 000 of deferred stock.
Holders of depositary receipts are entitled to dividends that are paid on the underlying shares held by the Foundation.
The total number of voting rights attached to PLCs outstanding shares are shown hereunder: The members of the board are Mr J H Schraven Chairman, Mr P P fide Koning, Prof Dr L Koopmans and Mr A A Olijslager.
Total number of votes % of issued capital Their biographies can be found on the website of the Foundation www.
nl a 1 310 156 361 ordinary shares 1 310 156 361 99.76 100 000 deferred stock 3 214 285 0.24 The Foundation reports periodically, but at least once a year, on a Of which 11 556 216 shares were held by PLC in treasury and its activities.
37 973 522 shares were held by NV group companies or by share trusts as at 31 December 2007.
Voting by holders of depositary receipts Although the depositary receipts themselves do not formally have The Board of Directors of PLC under sections 80 and 89 of the UK voting rights, holders of depositary receipts are in practice Companies Act 1985 may, subject to the passing of the equated with shareholders.
Holders of depositary receipts can appropriate resolutions at a meeting of shareholders, issue shares attend all NVs General Meetings, either personally or by proxy, within the limits prescribed within the resolutions.
At the 2007 and will then automatically, without limitation and under all AGM the Directors were authorised to issue new shares pursuant circumstances, receive a voting proxy on behalf of the Foundation to section 80 of that Act, limited to a maximum of 13 450 000 to vote on the underlying shares.
nominal value, and pursuant to section 89 of that Act, to disapply pre-emption rights up to approximately 5% of PLCs issued Holders of depositary receipts not attending a shareholders ordinary share capital.
These authorities are renewed annually.
meeting and who participate in the Dutch Shareholders Communication Channel can also issue binding voting At the 2007 AGM the Board of Directors of PLC was authorised instructions to the Foundation.
The Foundation is obliged in accordance with its Articles of Association to make market to follow these instructions.
The same applies to all holders purchases of its ordinary shares within the limits prescribed within of depositary receipts who instruct the Foundation outside the resolution until the earlier of the 15 month anniversary after the Shareholders Communication Channel.
the passing of the resolution or the conclusion of the 2008 AGM.
42 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors continued Corporate governance continued Voting by the Foundation Unilever NV Trust Ofce Further information can be found on our website and in The Shares for which the Foundation has not granted voting proxies Governance of Unilever, the Boards own constitutional or for which it has not received voting instructions are voted document.
This describes the terms of reference of our Board on by the Foundation in such a way as it deems to be in the Committees, including their full responsibilities.
It will be kept up interests of the holders of the depositary receipts.
This voting to date with changes in our internal constitutional arrangements policy is laid down in the Conditions of Administration that that our Boards may make from time to time and it is available on apply to the depositary receipts.
Both the Articles of Association our website at www.
com Investorcentre corpgovernance and the Conditions of Administration can be found on the Foundations website.
Following implementation of the EU Takeover Directive, certain information is required to be disclosed in relation to control and Specic provisions apply in the event that a meeting of holders of share structures and interests of NV and PLC.
Such disclosures, NV 7% cumulative preference shares is convened.
which are not covered elsewhere in this Annual Report, include the following: If a change to shareholders rights is proposed, the Foundation will let shareholders know if it intends to vote, at least 14 days there are no requirements to obtain the approval of NV or PLC, in advance if possible.
It will do this by advertising in the press.
or of other holders of securities in NV or PLC, for a transfer of securities: Hitherto the majority of votes cast by ordinary shareholders at NV meetings have been cast by the Foundation.
Unilever and the Trustees of the PLC employee share trusts may vote or the Foundation have a policy of actively encouraging holders abstain in any way they think t and in doing so may take into of depositary receipts to exercise their voting rights in account both financial and non-financial interests of the NV meetings.
beneciaries of the employee share trusts or their dependents: Unilever considers the arrangements of the Foundation there are no arrangements by which, with NV or PLC's coappropriate and in the interest of NV and its shareholders given operation, financial rights carried by securities are held by a the voting rights attached to the nancing preference shares and person other than the holder of securities: the relatively low attendance of the holders of the ordinary shares in its AGMs.
NV and PLC are not aware of any agreements between holders of securities which may result in restrictions on the transfer of Foundation Unilever NV Trust Ofces shareholding securities or on voting rights: Foundation NV Trust Ofces shareholding uctuates daily its holdings on 1 March 2008 were: neither NV or PLC are parties to any significant agreement which include provisions that take effect, alter or terminate NV ordinary shares of 0.16: 1 277 186 652 74.48% : such an agreement upon a change of control following a NV 7% cumulative preference shares of 428.57: 9 776 takeover bid: and 33.71% : NV 6% cumulative preference shares of 428.57: 5 0.00% : NV and PLC do not have any agreements with any Director or and employee that would provide compensation for loss of ofce or NV 4% cumulative preference shares of 42.86: 23 0.00%.
employment resulting from a takeover except that most of Unilever's share schemes contain provisions which operate in Further information on the Foundation, its arrangements the event of a takeover of Unilever, which provisions may for and its activities can be found on its website at instance cause options or awards granted to employees under www.
nl such schemes to vest after a takeover or be exchanged into new awards for shares in another entity.
Requirements and compliance general Unilever is subject to corporate governance requirements in the Requirements the Netherlands Netherlands, the UK and as a foreign private issuer in the US.
In the following section we report on our compliance with the General corporate governance regulations and best practice codes NV is required to state in its Annual Report and Accounts whether applicable in the Netherlands and the UK and we also describe it complies or will comply with the Principles P and best compliance with corporate governance regulations in the US.
practice provisions bpp of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code the Dutch Code and, if it does not comply, to explain the Our governance arrangements are designed and structured to reasons for this.
As will be clear from the preceding description of promote and further the interests of our companies and their our governance arrangements, NV complies with almost all of the shareholders.
The Boards reserve the right, in cases where they principles and best practice provisions of the Dutch Code.
The decide such to be conducive to the interests of the companies text that follows sets out areas of non-compliance, as well as and the enterprise connected therewith or our shareholders, to certain statements that the Dutch Code invites us to make to depart from that which is set out in the present and previous our shareholders that are not included elsewhere in this Annual sections in relation to our corporate governance.
Further changes Report and Accounts.
will be reported in future Annual Reports and Accounts and, when necessary, through changes to the relevant documents published on our website.
As appropriate, proposals for change will be put to our shareholders for approval.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 43 Report of the Directors continued Corporate governance continued Board and Committee structures This statement is not a statement in accordance with the NV is a multinational company with activities and shareholders requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002. located all over the world.
It has a one-tier board, consisting of both Executive and, as a majority, Non-Executive Directors.
Share options and awards We achieve compliance of our board arrangements with the In line with bpp II.
2.2, the awards and grants of shares and Dutch Code, which is for the most part based on the customary options to our Executive Directors are in the material cases subject two-tier structure in the Netherlands, by, as far as is possible and to performance criteria, as referred to on pages 51 and 52 of the practicable, applying the provisions of the Dutch Code relating to Report of the Remuneration Committee.
members of a management board to our Executive Directors and the provisions relating to members of a supervisory board to our Retention period of shares Non-Executive Directors.
Management tasks not capable of The Dutch Code recommends that shares granted to executive delegation are performed by the Board.
Reference is made to Ps II directors without a financial consideration must be retained for and III and corresponding bpps.
Reference is also made to the UK a period of at least five years bpp II.
In 2001 we introduced Combined Code on Corporate Governance, which is fully tailored a new remuneration policy with shareholder approval which to the one-tier board model see page 33. requires our Executive Directors to build and retain a personal shareholding in Unilever equal to at least 150% of their annual Risk management and control base pay.
We believe that this is in line with the spirit of the Reference is made to pages 13 and 14 where Unilevers control Dutch Code.
This incorporates risk management, internal control procedures and disclosure controls and Severance pay procedures.
Our procedures cover financial, operational, social, It is our policy to set the level of severance payments for Directors strategic and environmental risks and regulatory matters.
They are at no more than one years salary, unless the Board, at the in line with the latest recommendations of Internal Control proposal of the Remuneration Committee, nds this manifestly Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published unreasonable given circumstances or unless otherwise dictated by by the Internal Control Working Party of the Institute of applicable law bpp II.
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in October 2005 The Turnbull Guidance and in line with the Recommendations Regulations for transactions in securities in other of the Dutch Monitoring Committee.
On pages 13 and 14 we companies have identied certain specic risks that are areas of focus in The Dutch Code recommends that a director shall give periodic 2008.
Unilever has designed its internal risk management and notice of any changes in his holding of securities in other Dutch control systems to provide reasonable not absolute assurance to listed companies bpp II.
We are a ensure compliance with regulatory matters and to safeguard multinational company operating all over the world and our reliability of the financial reporting and its disclosures.
Directors come from a wide variety of countries.
We therefore have a broader more general requirement for our Directors, The Board considers that the internal risk management and requiring them, upon request, to disclose to the compliance control systems are appropriate for our business and in officer their holdings and transactions in securities in any listed compliance with bpp II.
1.4 the Dutch Code invites our Board to make a Conicts of interest statement on our internal risk management and control systems.
In the event of a potential conict of interest, the provisions of In its reports, published on 20 December 2005 and 19 December the Dutch Code P II.
Conicts of interest 2007, the Dutch Corporate Governance Code Monitoring are not understood to include transactions and other activities Committee has made recommendations concerning the between companies in the Unilever Group.
application of this best practice provision.
In accordance with its recommendation and in the light of the above, the Board believes Financing preference shares that, as regards financial reporting risks: NV issued 4%, 6% and 7% cumulative preference shares between 1927 and 1970.
Their voting rights are based on their the risk management and control systems provide reasonable nominal value, as prescribed by Dutch law.
The Dutch Code assurance that this Annual Report does not contain any recommends that the voting rights on such shares should, in any material inaccuracies: event when they are newly issued, be based on their economic the risk management and control systems have worked value rather than on their nominal value bpp IV.
NV agrees properly in 2007: with this principle but cannot unilaterally reduce voting rights of there are no indications that the risk management and control its outstanding preference shares.
systems will not work properly in 2008: no material failings in the risk management and control systems Anti-takeover constructions and control over the company were discovered in the year under review or the current year up With reference to bpp IV.
3.9, NV has no anti-takeover to the date of signing of these accounts: constructions, in the sense of constructions that are intended solely, or primarily, to block future hostile public offers for its and, as regards operational, strategic, legislative and regulatory shares.
Nor does NV have any constructions whose specic risks: purpose is to prevent a bidder, after acquiring 75% of the capital, from appointing or dismissing members of the Board and no material failings in the risk management and control systems were discovered in the year under review.
44 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors continued Corporate governance continued subsequently altering the Articles of Association.
In some cases the requirements are mandatory and in through a public offer of a majority of the shares in a company other cases the obligation is to comply or explain.
does not under Dutch law preclude in all circumstances the continued right of the Board of the company to exercise its We have complied with the requirements concerning corporate powers.
governance that were in force during 2007.
Attention is drawn in particular to the remit of the Audit Committee on page 37 Provision of information and the Report of the Audit Committee on page 62.
We consider it important to comply with all applicable statutory regulations on the equal treatment of shareholders and provision Actions already taken to ensure compliance that are not of information and communication with shareholders and other specically disclosed elsewhere or otherwise clear from reading parties P IV.
3. this document include: Meetings of analysts and presentations to investors the issuance of a Code of Ethics for senior financial ofcers: We have extensive procedures for handling relations with and the issuance of instructions restricting the employment of communicating with shareholders, investors, analysts and the former employees of the audit rm: and media see description on page 38.
The important presentations the establishment of a policy on reporting requirements under and meetings are conducted as far as practicable in accordance the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC relating to with bpp IV.
Due to their large number and overlap in the standards of professional conduct for US attorneys.
information, some of the less important ones are not announced in advance, made accessible to everyone or put on our website.
In each of these cases, existing practices were revised and or documented in such a way as to conform to the new Requirements the United Kingdom requirements.
PLC is required, as a company that is incorporated in the UK and listed on the London Stock Exchange, to state how it has applied The Code of Ethics applies to the senior executive, financial and the principles and how far it has complied with the provisions set accounting ofcers and comprises the standards prescribed by the out in Section 1 of the 2006 UK Combined Code on Corporate SEC, and a copy has been posted on our website at Governance the Combined Code.
com investorcentre corpgovernance In the preceding pages we have described how we have applied The Code of Ethics comprises an extract of the relevant provisions the principles and the provisions in the Combined Code.
In 2007, of Unilevers Code of Business Principles and the more detailed Unilever complied with the Combined Code except in the rules of conduct that implement it.
The only amendment to these following areas: pre-existing provisions and rules that was made in preparing the Code of Ethics was made at the request of the Audit Committee Since the 2007 AGMs, Michael Treschow has been Unilevers and consisted of a strengthening of the explicit requirement to first independent Non-Executive Chairman.
His predecessor, keep proper accounting records.
No waiver from any provision Antony Burgmans, was not considered to be independent of the Code of Ethics was granted to any of the persons falling during his period as Chairman of Unilever, as he was before within the scope of the SEC requirement in 2007.
We are required by US securities laws and the Listing Standards The Remuneration Committee, following the stepping down of the New York Stock Exchange to have an Audit Committee from that committee by Jean-Cyril Spinetta upon his retirement that satisfies Rule 10A-3 under the Exchange Act and the Listing as a Non-Executive Director of Unilever in September 2007, has Standards of the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
We are fully had two independent Non-Executive Directors on its compliant with these requirements.
We are also required to membership.
Michael Treschow was appointed a member of disclose any significant ways in which our corporate governance the Remuneration Committee in February 2008.
The practices differ from those typically followed by US companies Committee and the Board are currently working to replace listed on the NYSE.
In addition to the information we have Jean-Cyril Spinetta with a new Non-Executive Director.
given you in this document about our corporate governance arrangements, further details are provided in The Governance of Due to the requirement for Unilever to hold two AGMs for its Unilever, which is on our website at respective companies on consecutive days, it may not always be www.
com investorcentre corpgovernance possible for all Directors, and possibly the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, to be We are fully compliant with the Listing Standards of the present at both meetings.
The Chairman ensures that a majority New York Stock Exchange applicable to foreign private issuers.
of Directors attend both meetings and that at least one Our corporate governance practices do not signicantly differ member of each Committee attends each AGM.
from those followed by US companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Requirements the United States Both NV and PLC are listed on the New York Stock Exchange and We also confirm that our shareholders have the opportunity to must therefore comply with such of the requirements of US vote on equity compensation plans.
legislation, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, regulations enacted under US securities laws and the Listing Standards of the New York Stock Exchange as are applicable to foreign private Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 45 Report of the Directors continued Corporate governance Biographical details 7 Chairman The Rt Hon The Lord Brittan of Spennithorne QC, DL Nationality: British.
Vice-Chairman, 1,2 Michael Treschow UBS Investment Bank and Chairman, UBS Limited.
Member, International Advisory Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson.
Member, European Commission and ViceBoard member, Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation.
Home Electrolux 1997-2007 and Confederation of Swedish Enterprise 2004- Secretary 1983-1985 and Secretary of State for Trade and Industry 2007.
Vice-Chairman 8 Professor Wim Dik Nationality: Dutch.
Professor at Delft 3,4, 5 The Lord Simon of Highbury CBE University of Technology.
Chairman, Supervisory Boards of Tele Atlas Nationality: British.
Non-Executive Director, N. V. Zesko Holding B. V. and Chairman, Advisory Board of Spencer Suez Group.
Member of the International Stuart Netherlands.
Non-Executive Director, Aviva plc, LogicaCMG plc Advisory Council, FITCH, France.
Member of the International Advisory and Stage Entertainment B. V. Chairman and CEO, Koninklijke PTT Board, Dana Gas Corporation.
Senior Advisor, Morgan Stanley Nederland KPN 1988-1998 and Koninklijke KPN N. V. Royal Dutch International.
Minister for Foreign Trade, Netherlands Executive, BP p. l. c. 1992-1995 and Chairman 1995-1997.
8 Executive Directors Charles Golden Nationality: American.
Executive VicePatrick Cescau President, Chief Financial officer and Director, Eli Lilly and Company Group Chief Executive 1996-2006.
Non-Executive Director, Clarian Health Partners, Nationality: French.
Group Chief Executive since April 2005.
Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. and Eaton Corporation.
Previous posts Finance Committee, Indianapolis Museum of Art.
include: Chairman, Unilever PLC and Vice-Chairman, Unilever N. V. 8 2004-2005.
Controller Byron Grote and Deputy Financial Director 1998-1999.
President, Lipton USA Nationality: American British.
President and CEO, Van den Bergh Foods USA 1995- Financial officer, BP p. l. c. 1997.
External appointments 6 include: Non-Executive Director, Pearson plc.
Chairman, Asia Kees van der Graaf Business Council, Indian Institute of Information Technology and President Europe Infosys Technologies Limited.
Director, DBS Bank, DBS Group Holdings, Nationality: Dutch.
Joined Infosys Consulting, Inc. Infosys Technologies China Company Unilever 1976.
Previous posts Limited, New Delhi Television Ltd. include: Foods Director 2004, Business Group President, Ice Cream 6 and Frozen Foods 2001.
Executive Vice-President, Foods and Hixonia Nyasulu Beverages Europe 1998.
Senior Vice-President, Global Ice Cream Nationality: South African.
External appointments include: Board member, ECR Director, Barloworld Ltd, JP Morgan SA, Sasol Ltd and Tongaat-Hulett efficient Consumer Response.
Member, Supervisory Boards of ANWB Group Ltd.
Member, Banking Enquiry Panel, South African Club Algemene Nederlandse Wielrijdersbond and ANWB B. V. Competition Commission.
6 9 Ralph Kugler Kees Storm President Home and Personal Care Nationality: Dutch.
President Home and Personal Care since Board, AEGON N. V. 1993-2002.
Chairman, Supervisory Board KLM April 2005.
Royal Dutch Airlines N. V. Board member and Chairman of Audit Previous posts include: President Home and Personal Care Europe Committee, InBev S. A.
Board member and Audit Committee member, 2001. Business Group President, Latin America 1999.
Member, Supervisory Board, Pon Holdings Unilever Thai Holdings 1995.
B. V. Member, Supervisory Board, AEGON N. V. External appointments include: Non-Executive Director, 1,2 InterContinental Hotels Group PLC.
Jeroen van der Veer Nationality: Dutch.
Chief Executive Royal Dutch Shell plc.
Former Member, Supervisory Board of fide Non-Executive Directors Nederlandsche Bank N. V. 2000-2004.
6 Professor Genevieve Berger Nationality: French.
Professor, Medical University Teaching Hospital, Paris.
Member, Technical Committee, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE.
Chairman, Advisory Board, Health for the European Commission.
Director, Biotech and Agri-Food Department 1998-2000 and Director of Technology 2000, the French Ministry for Education.
Director General, National Centre for scientific Research CNRS, France 2000-2003.
1 6 Member Nomination Committee Member Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee 2 7 Member Remuneration Committee Chairman Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee 3 8 Chairman Nomination Committee Member Audit Committee 4 9 Chairman Remuneration Committee Chairman Audit Committee 5 Senior Independent Director 46 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors continued Corporate governance Biographical details continued Unilever Executive UEx Harish Manwani President Asia Africa Patrick Cescau Nationality: Indian.
Appointed President Asia Africa April Group Chief Executive 2005.
He is also Non-Executive Chairman, see previous details on page 46 Hindustan Lever.
Previous posts include: Business Group President, Home and Personal Care, North America 2004. Business Group Vindi Banga President, Home and Personal Care, Latin America 2001 and Senior President Foods Vice President, Hair Care and Oral Care 2000.
Previous posts include: Business Group President Sandy Ogg Home and Personal Care, Asia 2004 in addition to Non-Executive Chief Human Resources officer Chairman, Hindustan Lever 2004-2005.
Chairman and Managing Nationality: American.
Appointed Chief HR officer April Director, Hindustan Lever 2000-2004.
Previous posts include: SVP Human Resources, Foods 2003.
Prior to joining Unilever he worked for Kees van der Graaf Motorola as SVP, Leadership, Learning and Performance Management.
President Europe see previous details on page 46 Michael Polk President Americas Ralph Kugler Nationality: American.
External President Home and Personal Care appointments include: Director, Grocery Manufacturers of America see previous details on page 46 and Food Products Association, GS1, Retail Industry Leaders Association, and Yellowstone National Park Foundation.
Prior to James Lawrence joining Unilever he was at Kraft Foods as President, Biscuits and Chief Financial officer Snacks Sector and President, Asia Pacic Region.
Appointed Chief Financial officer 1 September 2007.
External appointments include: Non-Executive Director, British Airways Plc and Avnet, Inc.
Previous posts include: various senior positions at General Mills, Inc. 1998-2007, including Vice Chairman 2006-2007, Executive Vice  2000-2006 and Chief Financial officer 1998-2007, Executive Vice President and CFO, Northwest Airlines 1996-1998, President and CEO, Pepsi-Cola International Asia, Middle East, Africa 1992-1996, and Chairman, LEK Partnership 1983-1992.
UEx members are treated as executive ofcers and senior management for US purposes and key management personnel for IFRS purposes.
All members of the UEx have existing agreements with varying terms, however, all agreements include a notice period of twelve months.
Details of the remuneration paid and share awards are shown in aggregate in note 31 on page 120.
James Lawrence will be proposed for election as an Executive Director at the 2008 AGMs.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 47
