Report of the Directors continued Report of the Audit Committee The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Unilever Boards in Committee, the Directors will be proposing the reappointment of fullling their oversight responsibilities regarding the integrity of  at the AGMs in May 2008 see pages Unilevers financial statements, risk management and internal 131 and 136. control, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, the external auditors performance, qualications and independence, Both Unilever and the auditors have for many years had safeguards and the performance of the internal audit function.
During the in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors objectivity year ended 31 December 2007 the principal activities of the and independence could be compromised.
The Committee Committee were as follows: reviewed the report from  on the actions they take to comply with the professional and regulatory Financial statements requirements and best practice designed to ensure their The Committee considered reports from the Chief Financial independence from Unilever.
officer on the quarterly and annual financial statements including other financial statements and disclosures prior to their The Committee also reviewed the statutory audit, other audit, publication, issues reviewed by the Disclosure Committee, and tax and other services provided by , and reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts and Annual Report on compliance with Unilevers policy, which prescribes in detail the Form 20-F prior to publication.
types of engagements for which the external auditors can and cannot be used: Audit of the Annual Accounts , Unilevers external auditors, reported in statutory audit services as detailed above, including audit of depth to the Committee on the scope and outcome of the annual subsidiaries: audit, including their audit of internal control over financial other audit services work which regulations or agreements reporting as required by Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley with third parties require the auditors to undertake e. g. in Act of 2002.
Their reports included accounting matters, connection with borrowings and shareholder services: governance and control, and accounting developments.
other services statutory auditors may carry out work that they are best placed to undertake, including internal control reviews: Risk management and internal control arrangements acquisition and disposal services where the auditors are best The Committee reviewed Unilever's overall approach to risk placed to do this work: management and control, and its processes, outcomes and tax services all significant tax consulting work is put to tender, disclosure, including specically: except where the auditors are best placed to do this: and general consulting external auditors may not tender for review of level of disclosure in quarterly financial results general consulting work.
announcements: review of accounting principles and judgements with respect All engagements over 100 000 require specic advance approval to financial statements, including the annual impairment review of the Audit Committee Chairman.
The overall policy is regularly of goodwill and intangibles: reviewed and, where necessary, updated in the light of internal Corporate Audits interim and year-end reports on the Status of developments, external developments and best practice.
Risk Management and Control, and managements response: annual report from the Chief Financial officer on business risks and The Committee held independent meetings with the external positive assurance on operating controls and corporate policies: and auditors during the year.
a quarterly review of business risks and safeguards: the interim and year-end reports from the Code of Business Internal audit function Principles Compliance Committee: The Committee engaged in discussion and review of the monitoring the resolution of complaints received through the Corporate Audit Departments audit plan for the year, and global Ethics hotline including procedures for handling approved its budget and resource requirements.
complaints and concerns relating to accounting, internal control and auditing matters: The Committee carried out a formal evaluation of the quarterly review of progress of the application of the performance of the internal audit function and confirmed that requirements under Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act they were satisfied with their relationship with the Chief Auditor.
of 2002 with respect to internal controls over financial reporting: The Committee held independent meetings with the Chief Auditor review of the application of information and communication during the year.
technology: a review of the annual pension report and pensions related Audit Committee terms of reference accounting and proposals: The Audit Committees terms of reference can be viewed on annual review of anti-fraud arrangements: Unilevers website at www.
com or supplied on request.
a review of tax planning policy: and In June 2007, the terms of reference were updated to include the review of treasury policies, the annual financial plan and review of other financial statements and disclosures prior to their consideration of proposals relating to debt issuance, investment publication.
hedge, dividends and a review of the financial implications of acquisitions.
Board Assessment of the Audit Committee The Board evaluated the performance of the Committee and the External auditors Committee carried out a self assessment of its performance.
The Audit Committee conducted a formal evaluation of the effectiveness of the external audit process.
The Committee has approved the extension of the current external audit contract by Kees Storm Chairman of the Audit Committee one year, and recommended to the Boards the reappointment of Wim Dik the external auditors.
On the recommendation of the Audit Charles Golden Byron Grote 62 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
