DELIVERING VALUE 54 CORpORATE GOVERNANCE REpORT Introduction The Board considers that all of the non-executive Directors The Board of Vedanta Resources plc believes that high are independent of the Group as defined by Code Provision standards of corporate governance are critical to ensuring A.
In making its assessment of the independence of business success.
The Board also believes that, in the the non-executive Directors, the Board has considered the interests of shareholders, the application of corporate fact that Mr A Mehta and Mr ER Macdonald have held governance standards must reflect the nature and location previous senior management positions within subsidiary of the Groups businesses, the ownership of the Company companies of HSBC Holdings plc which acted as the joint and its subsidiaries, and the Groups development needs global co-ordinator and book runner when the Company whilst ensuring the talents within the Group are utilised to listed in 2003.
At the time of their appointments, the Board their fullest potential.
considered that neither Mr A Mehtas nor Mr ER Macdonalds previous employments included the provision of corporate The objective of this report is to provide details of the finance services in London by the HSBC Group and thus they Groups governance policies, processes and structures, had no involvement with the Group prior to their appointment and its compliance with the principles of the Combined and that the value of the business transacted between the Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Company and the HSBC Group was less than 1% of the Reporting Council in 2003 the Code.
The Board therefore remains of the view that these circumstances will not The Board affect the judgement exercised by either Mr A Mehta Role and Responsibilities of the Board or Mr ER MacDonald and therefore considers them to The role of the Board is to provide leadership to the Group be independent.
in a manner which maximises opportunities to develop its portfolio of businesses profitably whilst assessing and Mr N Chandra is Senior Independent Director SID.
The boards of individual His primary responsibilities are to lead discussions at businesses are responsible for managing their businesses meetings of the non-executive Directors, provide an profitably whilst managing risk.
The Board assesses the effective channel of communication between the Chairman strategic objectives of each business, monitors performance, and non-executive Directors, ensure that the views of ensures the availability of financial, management and other the non-executive Directors are given due consideration resources required to meet the objectives, sets Group and provide a point of contact for any shareholder who standards of conduct and ensures that effective controls are wishes to raise concerns which the normal channels of in place to manage risk and that the interests of investors and communication through the Chairman and Chief Executive other stakeholders are observed.
have failed to resolve, or for which contact is inappropriate.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for During the year, the Chairman held regular meetings with its consideration to ensure that the Board is in a position to non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors drive strategy, monitor performance and maintain effective being present.
controls whilst delegating operational management to the Executive Committee and the businesses.
Such matters Board Meetings and Attendance reserved to the Board include, but are not limited to, The Board met five times during the year in the ordinary approving Group strategy and annual budgets, major course of business and maintains close dialogue between capital expenditure, major acquisitions and disposals.
Board committees are appointed to deal with the execution of specific projects requiring Board approval.
There are four Board committees: Remuneration, Audit, The Board is updated regularly by these committees on the Nominations and Health, Safety and Environment.
Each development of specific projects.
The terms of reference of has its own clearly defined terms of reference, which Board committees are reviewed from time to time in order can be obtained from the Company Secretary, and reports to enhance the decision making process.
Additional information on the Remuneration, Audit and Nominations Committees is Each member of the Board receives information comparing given later in this report and, in the case of the Health, the performance of each business and of the Group with Safety and Environment Committee, in the Sustainable the annual budget each quarter and is given sufficient Development Report on pages 32 to 51. briefing materials with the agenda in advance of each Board meeting to enable informed decisions to be made.
Board Balance and Independence In addition to these formal processes, Directors are in The Board comprises the following members: regular communication with the senior executives.
Mr AK Agarwal Executive Chairman Mr N Agarwal Deputy Executive Chairman The Chief Financial Officer, Mr DD Jalan, attends all Board Mr KK Kaura Chief Executive meetings to represent the finance function and act as a Mr N Chandra Non-executive Director and conduit between the Board and the Executive Committee.
Senior Independent Director Mr A Mehta Non-executive Director Only members of a Board committee are entitled to attend Dr SK Tamotia Non-executive Director the relevant committee meetings, although other Directors Mr ER Macdonald Non-executive Director may attend Board committees at the invitation of the relevant committee chairman.
All four non-executive Directors served throughout the year ended 31 March 2007 and up to the date of this report.
There were no changes to the membership of the Board There have been no new appointments to the Board during during the year.
The Board, chaired by Mr Anil Agarwal, has the year.
seven directors comprising the Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and four independent non-executive Brief biographies of all the Directors are set out on page 52.
The non-executive Directors possess a range of VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE 55 experience and are of sufficiently high calibre to bring to The Executive Committee functions as a conduit for keeping bear independent judgement on issues of strategy, the Board informed of significant issues and making performance and resources that are vital to the success recommendations in relation to Group performance and of the Group.
Major capital projects are reviewed by the Executive Committee prior to being submitted to the Board.
Chairman and Chief Executive In addition, to the review of business performance the There is a clear division of the responsibilities between Executive Committee monitors the implementation of the running of the Board and executive responsibility for action plans in response to internal audit findings, treasury running the business, so that no one person should have matters, Human Resource policies and Health, Safety and undue power of decision.
In June 2005 the Board approved Environment and CSR initiatives.
a policy setting out the key responsibilities of the Executive Chairman and Chief Executive.
A clear separation is Mr Navin Agarwal chairs the Executive Committee.
In this maintained between the responsibility of the Chairman role, Mr Agarwal oversees the planning, execution and and the Chief Executive, as detailed below: completion of the significant pipeline of growth projects, bringing together business unit and financial heads to Chairman share best practice to implement and continuous n Setting a vision for Vedanta, formulating its strategy improvement measures are implemented.
and creating a growth pipeline of profitable business opportunities: Relationship Agreement n Providing leadership to the Board and ensuring At the time of Listing, the Company and Volcan, the majority its effectiveness: shareholder, entered into a relationship agreement n Ensuring that there is effective communication the Relationship Agreement to regulate the ongoing with shareholders: relationship between them.
The principal purpose of the n Facilitating the effective contribution of Relationship Agreement is to ensure that the Group is able non-executive Directors: to carry on business independently of Volcan, the Agarwal n Overseeing corporate governance arrangements in family and their associates.
Under the terms of the compliance with the Code.
Relationship Agreement, the Board and Nominations Committee will at all times consist of a majority of Chief Executive Directors who are independent of Volcan and the Agarwal n Developing the executive team: family, whilst the Remuneration and Audit Committees n Supporting the Executive Chairman in the delivery and shall at all times comprise only non-executive Directors.
implementation of strategy: Volcan is entitled to nominate for appointment as Director n Optimising the Groups assets and management, and such number of persons as is one less than the number of allocation of resources: Directors who are independent of Volcan, the Agarwal n Supporting the Executive Chairman in effective family and their associates.
The Board considers these to communication with various stakeholders: be adequate safeguards in that independent non-executive n Creating and maintaining a sound control environment.
Directors make up a majority of the Board and Vedantas ability to operate independently of Volcan is protected by Executive Committee the Relationship Agreement.
The Executive Committee, comprising the Executive Directors and the senior management within the Group Directors Dealings in Shares who head the Groups principal businesses and corporate The Company has a policy based on the Model Code functions, meets on a monthly basis to consider the published in the Listing Rules, which covers dealings operating performance of each of the principal subsidiaries.
in securities and applies to Directors and senior management.
A comprehensive insider list is maintained and all participants are notified of close periods.
Directors attendance at Board and committee meetings during the year Health, Safety Audit Remuneration Nominations and Environment Board Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 2 Director A B A B A B A B A B AK Agarwal 5 4 1 1 N Agarwal 5 5 KK Kaura 5 5 3 3 N Chandra 5 5 4 4 3 3 1 1 A Mehta 5 4 4 4 3 3 SK Tamotia 5 4 1 1 3 3 ER Macdonald 5 5 4 4 3 3 1 1 Notes 1 A Maximum number of meetings the directors could have attended.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 DELIVERING VALUE 56 CORpORATE GOVERNANCE REpORT CONTINUED Re-election of Directors Board Committees Under the Companys Articles of Association, any Director Nominations Committee appointed by the Board during the year must retire at the The Nominations Committee consists of Mr Anil Agarwal Annual General Meeting following his appointment.
In Chairman, Mr Chandra, Dr Tamotia and Mr Macdonald.
addition, the Articles of Association require that one-third The Committee is responsible for succession planning of the remaining Directors retire by rotation and seek for the Board, making recommendations concerning re-appointment.
Accordingly, Mr Mehta and Mr Macdonald candidates for appointment as executive or non-executive will retire at the forthcoming AGM and offer themselves Directors of the Company.
In addition, the Committee for re-appointment to the Board.
Following an appraisal makes recommendations concerning the structure, of Mr Mehta and Mr Macdonald, the Board was satisfied size and composition of the Board.
that each Directors performance continues to be effective and that each one of them continues to demonstrate The Nominations Committee met once during the year commitment to the role.
Accordingly, the Board to consider a recommendation to the Board concerning recommends their re-election.
the extension of Mr Kauras service agreement with the Company.
This was duly extended to 31 March 2008.
Induction and Continuing Professional Development Appropriate induction is provided to all Directors on Remuneration Committee appointment to the Board and programmes of continuing The Remuneration Committee consists of Mr Chandra professional development are arranged as required, Chairman, Mr Mehta and Mr Macdonald, all of whom are taking into consideration the individual qualifications and independent non-executive Directors.
The Remuneration experience of the Directors.
Directors undertake visits to Committee is responsible, on behalf of the Board, for operations and have discussions with local management.
setting the remuneration policy and remuneration packages for the Executive Directors and for maintaining All Directors have access to the advice and services of the an awareness of the overall remuneration of the key Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for operational and financial heads within the Group ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
All Directors have access to the Companys professional The Remuneration Report, which is presented on pages advisers whom they can consult where they find it 59 to 64, sets out the remuneration policy and other necessary in order to better discharge their responsibilities.
disclosures concerning the remuneration of the Executive No Director took such professional advice during the year.
The Remuneration Report will be submitted for The Directors attend other update briefings in order to approval at the forthcoming AGM.
familiarise themselves with new regulatory requirements.
Accountability and Audit Following the evaluation of the Boards performance last Audit Committee and Auditors year, it acknowledged that, whilst being satisfied with its The Audit Committee consists of Mr Mehta Chairman, overall performance, additional training was required for all Mr Chandra and Mr Macdonald, all of whom are independent Board members.
As a consequence, appropriate training non-executive Directors.
The Board considers that Mr Mehta sessions were held for the full Board by the Companys has the required, recent and relevant financial experience legal advisors with particular reference to changes by virtue of his previous full-time role at HSBC Bank and introduced by the revised Combined Code published in through his experience on the audit committees of other 2006 and the impact of the Companies Act 2006. international companies.
Mr Chandra, who chaired the Government of Indias Committee on Corporate Governance, Performance Evaluation has a deep understanding of corporate governance issues in A Board performance evaluation process was undertaken general and of the Indian environment in particular.
During during the year, facilitated by the Company Secretary, to his career, Mr Macdonald has held senior positions in evaluate its effectiveness and that of the Board committees banking and financial services companies.
A structured process was used, which entailed the completion of a questionnaire by each The activities of this committee are explained in more Director.
These questionnaires were collated into a report detail in the following paragraphs.
In addition, the main by the Company Secretary and the report was discussed by subsidiaries of the Group, most of which are listed on stock the whole Board.
exchanges in India, have their own audit committees in accordance with local corporate governance requirements.
Each Directors performance was appraised by the By monitoring their discussions and findings, the Audit Chairman and, in a meeting chaired by the Senior Committee gains further insights into the quality of Independent Director: the non-executive Directors financial reporting and internal control.
assessed the Chairmans performance, taking into consideration the views of their executive colleagues.
The Audit Committee reviews the Groups arrangement for its employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about The Board evaluation process takes place annually and possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other aims to cover Board dynamics, Board capability, Board matters.
The committee ensures that these arrangements process, Board structure, strategic clarity and allow proportionate and independent investigation of such performance of individual Directors.
matters and appropriate follow-up action.
The non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, met to consider the performance of the Chairman and provided him with feedback.
The unanimous conclusion was that the Chairman was fully committed to Vedanta and was effective in his role.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE 57 The Audit Committee met four times during the year The Board is satisfied that it has met this obligation.
The under review, its meetings also being attended by senior Board has considered the financial position of the Company management from the Groups principal operating and the Group as shown in the Balance Sheet and the subsidiaries and the external and internal auditors as Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2007, together required.
During the year, the Audit Committee discharged with the other financial statements, the budget for the the responsibilities described above.
Its activities included: current year, the Groups business plans and the cash n appointing the Head of Group Tax, taking into consideration resources available to the Group.
The Directors consider the advice of the external auditors.
This appointment was that the Company and the Group will be able to meet their effective from April 2007: financial commitments for the foreseeable future and that n a review of the treasury controls, which led to a it is, therefore, appropriate for the Financial Statements to tightening of such controls: be prepared on the going concern basis.
n the commissioning of an investigation, by an external consultant, into an allegation of fraud at KCM in Zambia.
Financial Reporting Systems This led to the preparation of a report on the improvement The Group has a comprehensive financial reporting system, of internal controls within KCM, which the Committee which is reviewed and modified as circumstances require.
is implementing: Procedures include detailed operational budgets for the n linking of internal control and measuring systems into year ahead which are reviewed and approved by the Board.
the Groups key result areas KRAs : Budgets and forecasts are prepared using conservative n review of the half yearly internal audit reports: and consistent assumptions, and these are continuously n review of the Management Assurances Service MAS reviewed.
Performance against key performance indicators function: is monitored throughout the financial year and forecasts n approving the internal audit scope for 2007 08: updated with reference to information on key risk areas.
In n formally reviewing the draft annual report, and the addition, monthly management reports are prepared both interim statement and annual report: on a divisional and consolidated basis.
These are presented n considering the effectiveness of the internal audit to the Executive Committee.
function and risk management process: n reviewing the external audit engagement, scope Internal Control and Risk Management and strategy: The Code requires the Group to maintain a robust system of n reviewing and monitoring the external auditors internal control to safeguard shareholders interests and the independence and objectivity in line with the Companys assets.
In accordance with the Turnbull guidance, Committees policy on the independence of external the Board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of auditors, and the effectiveness of the audit process: the system and an ongoing process is in place to identify, n keeping under review the level of non-audit fees evaluate and manage the significant risks faced by the compared to audit fees paid to the external auditors: and Group.
This process has been in place throughout the year n giving pre-approval to non-audit work carried out under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual by the external auditors see below.
Report and the Financial Statements.
The Board relies on reviews undertaken by the Audit Committee supported by Non-audit Services the Management Assurance Services.
No significant failings The Committee has a policy for the provision of non-audit or weaknesses have been identified through the process.
Under this policy, the Audit Committee has agreed a scope of services which the The Groups internal audit activity is managed through external auditors are permitted to deliver to the Group.
The the Management Assurance Services function and is an policy also specifies which services are prohibited.
This important element of the overall process by which the ensures that the independence of the external auditors is Board obtains the assurance it requires to ensure that thereby safeguarded.
An analysis of the non-audit fees can risks are properly identified, evaluated and managed.
be found in note 8 of the notes to the Financial Statements.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of signing of this report.
It also provides Auditor Independence assurance on the effectiveness of relevant internal The Committee receives written confirmation from the controls.
The scope of work, authority and resources of the external auditor as to any relationships which may be Management Assurance Services function are regularly reasonably thought to impair its independence.
The reviewed by the Audit Committee and its work is supported external auditor also confirms whether it considers itself by the services of leading international accountancy independent, within the meaning of the Auditing Practices firms but specifically not including the Groups external Board APB Ethical Standards.
The Audit Committee has, during the year, reviewed the level of internal audit resources within the Financial Reporting Group and believes that it is appropriate to the Groups size.
The Board is required to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and Each of the Groups principal subsidiaries has in place prospects.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities procedures to ensure that sufficient internal controls are in respect of the Financial Statements is presented on maintained.
These procedures include a monthly meeting page 68. of the relevant management committee and a quarterly meeting of the audit committee of that subsidiary.
These committees are appointed by the board of directors of each relevant subsidiary and the minutes of their proceedings are reviewed by the Company Secretary.
Any adverse findings are reported to the Audit Committee.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 DELIVERING VALUE 58 CORpORATE GOVERNANCE REpORT CONTINUED The responsibilities of the Management Assurance Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting Services function include recommending improvements This years AGM will be held on 1 August 2007 at 3.00pm, in the control environment and ensuring compliance at the Mayfair Conference Centre, 17 Connaught Place, with the Groups procedures and policies.
The Notice of Meeting will therefore be circulated more than 20 working days before The planning of internal audit is approached from the meeting.
An update will be provided on trading a risk perspective.
For internal audit purposes, the performance and shareholders will be given the Group is divided into three auditable groupings, namely: opportunity to ask questions.
The Company will announce manufacturing operating entities, special projects and the numbers of proxy votes cast for, against or abstaining other entities.
In preparing an internal audit plan, reference for each resolution and will make the chairmen of the Audit, is made to the Group risk matrix, input sought from senior Remuneration and Nominations Committees available to management and project managers and reference made to answer questions from shareholders.
past audit experience and financial analysis.
Statement of Compliance with Code Provisions This process is designed to manage rather than eliminate The Board has sought to achieve the standards of corporate the risk of failing to achieve the Groups business governance as set out in Section 1 of the Code and believes objectives.
As such, the process can only provide that the Company complied with the provisions of the reasonable rather than absolute assurance against Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2007, except material misstatement or loss.
as follows: Relations with Shareholders Firstly, as previously reported, the Executive Chairman, Dialogue with Institutional Shareholders Mr Anil Agarwal, did not meet the independence criteria on The Board recognises that meetings with analysts and appointment because he was previously the Chief Executive shareholders constitute an important element of the of the Company and, through Volcan Investments Ltd Companys investor relations programme.
A number of Volcan, he and his family have a controlling interest in meetings were held with the Companys principal the Company Code Provision A.
3.1. institutional shareholders during the year as well as with financial analysts and brokers, including a successful visit As the founder of Vedanta, he has built the Group from its by a group of analysts to the Groups operations in India inception in 1976.
The Board considers that Mr Agarwal has and Zambia.
These meetings may be initiated either by made a major contribution to the Companys development the Company or analysts and investors, and are managed into a FTSE 100 company and that he has been responsible at Group level through Mr Sumanth Cidambi, Associate for leading the Group to strong profitability and cash flows.
Director Investor Relations, who also briefs the Board Mr Agarwals appointment in March 2005 as Executive on the Companys relationships with its shareholders.
Chairman, allowed him to step back from operational The main channels of communication with the investment management and focus on turning new opportunities into community are through the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, value-creating projects, thereby extending the Groups Chief Executive Officer and Associate Director of Investor exceptional growth pipeline into the future.
The Senior Independent Director and nonunanimously of the opinion that his continued involvement executive Directors are also available as appropriate.
in an executive capacity is vitally important to the success of the Group.
The Group attends investor seminars which provide opportunities for two-way communication with investors Secondly, pursuant to the Relationship Agreement and as and analysts.
Feedback provided to the Board has proved disclosed at the time of Listing, Volcan will be consulted on to be very valuable.
all appointments to the Board.
The Nominations Committee therefore works collaboratively with Volcan over making The Company announces its annual and half-year results to appointments to the Board and, to this extent, differs from the London Stock Exchange and the press in advance of the the process set out in Code Provision A.
4.1. publication of the Annual and Interim Reports.
Summary reports are also published for the first and third quarters.
Other price-sensitive information is announced as and when appropriate and the Board has adopted a communications policy to ensure that this is done in a timely and considered manner.
Presentations are made to analysts and the press by the Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive Officer following the release of the interim and preliminary announcements.
The Interim and Annual Reports are the primary means of communicating with all shareholders.
Financial reports, press releases and other information about Vedanta are available on the website www.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
