DELIVERING VALUE 22 RISKS AND RELATIONSHIPS Risks and Risk Management Practices including strategic treasury initiatives are handled by a central team while shortterm funding for routine working Our businesses are subject to several risks and uncertainties and are no different from any other company, capital requirements is delegated to subsidiary companies.
We have a strong system of internal control which enables in general, and its competitors in particular.
These are a result of the business environment in which we operate and effective monitoring of adherence to Group policies.
The internal control measures are effectively supplemented by certain factors over which we have little or no control.
These risks include operational, financial, health, safety regular internal audit.
and environment, political, market related and strategic.
We do not enter into complex derivative transactions to manage our treasury and commodity risks.
Derivative Our documented risk management policies act as an effective tool in mitigating the various risks which our transactions in both treasury and commodities are normally in the form of forward contracts and interest rate businesses are exposed to in the course of their daily operations as well as in their strategic actions.
Risks are and currency rate swaps and these are subject to our Group guidelines and policies.
Interest rate swaps are identified through a formal risk management programme with active involvement of senior management personnel taken to achieve a balance between fixed rate and floating rate obligation as described below under Interest rate and business managers at both the Corporate and at an individual subsidiary level.
Each significant risk has an risks and currency swaps are taken primarily to convert the Groups exposure to nonUS dollar currencies to US owner within our Group at a senior level.
The financial impact to our Group if the risk materialises and its probable dollar currencies.
A risk register and matrix is maintained and regularly updated in consultation with Financial Risks and Sensitivities Within the areas of financial risk the Board approved business managers.
Our risk management process is coordinated by our Management Assurance function and is policies embrace liquidity, currency, interest rate, counterparty and commodity risk.
In principle, we do not regularly reviewed by our Audit Committee.
Key business decisions are discussed at the monthly meetings of our engage in speculative treasury activity but seek to manage risk and optimise interest and commodity pricing through Executive Committee.
Senior managers also address risk management issues when presenting the operating proven financial instruments.
performance of their businesses to the Executive Committee.
The overall internal control environment and a Liquidity We require funds both for shortterm operational needs as risk management programme is reviewed by our Audit Committee on behalf of the Board.
well as for longterm investment programmes mainly in growth projects.
We generate sufficient cash flows from Internal Control our current operations which together with the available cash and cash equivalents and liquid financial asset A strong internal control culture is pervasive throughout our Group.
Regular internal audits at all our operating investments provide liquidity both in the short term as well as in the long term.
The anticipated cash flows and locations and at the holding company are undertaken to ensure that the highest standards of internal control are undrawn committed facilities of $1,011.4 million, together with cash and liquid investments of $2,185.2 million as at maintained.
The effectiveness of a business internal control environment is a component of senior management 31 March 2007, are expected to be sufficient to meet the ongoing capital investment programme and liquidity performance appraisals.
Further details on our internal control environment are provided in the Corporate requirement of our Group in the near future.
We have a strong balance sheet that gives us sufficient headroom to raise further debt should the need arise.
We Treasury Management Our core philosophy in treasury management revolves enjoy good ratings by reputed international rating agencies including Standard & Poor and Moodys.
Our current around three main pillars capital protection, liquidity maintenance and yield maximisation with innovative rating by Standard & Poor and Moodys is BB and Baa3 respectively.
These ratings provide necessary financial measures.
Our treasury policies are approved by the Board and adherence to these policies is strictly monitored at our leverage and access to debt or equity markets at competitive terms.
We generally maintain a healthy debt Executive Committee meetings.
Daytoday treasury operations of our subsidiary companies are managed by equity ratio and retain a flexibility in our financing structure to alter the ratio when the need arises.
their respective finance teams within the framework of the overall Group treasury policies.
Longterm fund raising VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW 23 At 31 March 2007, we had access to funding facilities of Set out in the table below are the key foreign currency $2,738.2 million of which $1,011.4 million was not yet sensitivities on EBITDA resulting from a 10% movement in drawn, as set out below.
Total facility Drawn Undrawn Closing Average Funding facilities $ million $ million $ million US dollar US dollar Impact of exchange rate exchange rate 10% currency Below 1 year 1,260.5 249.1 1,011.4 during the during the movement year ended year ended on EBITDA 12 years 76.2 76.2 Currency 31 March 07 31 March 07 $ million 25 years and above 1,401.5 1,401.5 Indian rupee 43.59 45.2857 247.1 Total 2,738.2 1,726.8 1,011.4 Australian dollar 1.233 0.76 7.0 Zambian kwacha 4,421 4009 37.0 b Foreign Currency Our presentation currency is the US dollar.
A majority of The above sensitivities are based on FY 2007 volumes, our assets are located in India where the Indian Rupee is costs and exchange rates and provide the estimated impact the functional currency for our subsidiaries.
Receipts in of a change in exchange rates on EBITDA assuming that all India are denominated in Indian rupees but revenues are other variables remain constant.
linked to commodity prices derived from the LME and denominated in the US dollar.
Operating costs are c Interest Rate influenced by Indian Rupee and imported materials At 31 March 2007, our Groups net cash of $433 million was and services are determined in US dollars.
made up of liquid investments of $2.2 billion offset by debt of $1.8 billion.
KCMs cost base is a mix of the Zambian kwacha and the US dollar with the functional currency being the US dollar.
We are exposed to interest rate risk on shortterm, KCM earns US dollar denominated revenue.
longterm floating rate instruments and also due to the refinancing of fixed rate debt.
Our policy is to maintain a While our Group borrowings are predominantly balance of fixed and floating interest rate borrowings and denominated in US dollars, a large portion of cash and the proportion of fixed and floating rate debt is determined liquid investments are also held in other currencies, by current market interest rates.
As at 31 March 2007, 52% particularly in the Indian Rupee.
of our total debt was at a fixed rate and the balance was at a floating rate.
The floating rate debt is largely linked to Consequently, currency fluctuations particularly US dollar US dollar LIBOR.
We also aim to minimise our average may have a large impact on our Groups financial results.
interest rates on borrowings by opting for higher proportion We are subject to currency risks affecting the underlying of longterm debt mainly for funding its growth projects.
cost base in our operating subsidiary companies and also in Where appropriate, interest rate swaps are taken to translations of unit cash costs, profit and the balance sheet minimise the impact of rising floating rates.
We invest cash including nonUS dollar denominated borrowings into the and liquid investments in shortterm deposits and debt consolidated financial statements, where the functional mutual funds, some of which generate a taxfree return, currency is not the US dollar.
to achieve the triple goal of maintaining liquidity, carrying insignificant risk and achieving satisfactory returns.
Foreign currency exposures are managed through our Groupwide hedging policy, which is reviewed periodically Considering the net cash position as at 31 March 2007 and to ensure that the risk from fluctuating currency exchange investment in bank deposits and debt mutual funds, any rates is appropriately managed.
All shortterm foreign increase in interest rates would result in a net gain and any currency exposures are fully hedged to insulate our decrease in interest rates would result in a net loss.
Based individual operating entities against shortterm volatility in on our gross floating rate debt as at 31 March 2007 and with currency markets.
all other variables remaining constant, a one percentage However, if and when the US dollar weakens, additional point increase in the US dollar LIBOR would impact our hedges are taken in phased manner at various trigger pretax earnings by approximately $7 million.
rates to crystallize the exposures at attractive rates.
An analysis of our weighted average interest rates for debt and cash and current asset investments as at 31 March 2007 is set out in the table below.
Interest Paid Interest Income Floating Fixed Average yield Currency % % % Indian rupee 7.1 7.5 US dollar 8.1 6.1 4.6 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 DELIVERING VALUE 24 RISKS AND RELATIONSHIPS d Counterparties Risk Set out below are the key commodity price sensitivities on We have clearly defined policies to mitigate counterparty EBITDA resulting from a $100 per mt movement in prices.
Cash and liquid investments are held primarily in mutual funds and banks with high credit ratings.
Limits Average Effect on are defined for exposure to individual counterparties in market price EBITDA case of mutual fund houses and banks.
A large majority of in the of a year ended $100 t change receivables due from third parties are secured.
Moreover, 31 March 2007 in the LME given the diverse nature of our businesses and trade Commodity price sensitivity $ mt $ million receivables are spread over a number of customers with no Copper 6,984 14.9 significant concentration of credit risk.
Our history of trade Aluminium 2,663 37.2 receivables shows a negligible provision for bad and Zinc 3,581 47.1 doubtful debts.
Therefore, we do not expect any material risk on account of nonperformance by any of our counterparties.
The above sensitivities are based on FY 2007 volumes, costs and exchange rates and provide the estimated impact e Commodity Prices of a change in LME prices on EBITDA assuming that all We are exposed to the movement of base metal selling other variables remain constant.
prices which are linked to commodity prices on the London Metal Exchange.
Any decline in the prices of the base Operational Risks metals that we produce and sell will have an immediate Our operations are subject to conditions and events beyond and direct impact on the profitability of our businesses.
As our control that could, among other things, increase our a general policy, we aim to sell our products at prevailing mining, transportation or production costs, disrupt or halt market prices.
We undertake hedging activity in operations at our mines and production facilities for varying commodities to a limited degree and subject to strict limits lengths of time or even permanently.
These conditions set out by our Board and to a strictly defined internal and events include, disruptions in mining and production control and monitoring mechanism.
Decisions relating due to equipment failures, unexpected maintenance to hedging of commodities are taken at the Executive problems and other interruptions, nonavailability of raw Committee level and with clearly laid down guidelines for materials of appropriate quantity and quality for its energy their implementation by our subsidiaries.
Recently, the requirements, disruptions to or increased cost of transport Reserve Bank of India, as part of its credit policy, has services or strikes and industrial actions or disputes.
allowed Indian companies to hedge their domestic positions While many of these risks are beyond our control, we have on the LME.
We are currently reviewing the implications of a rich experience in these areas and have consistently this policy.
demonstrated our ability to actively manage such events proactively.
Our custom smelting copper operations at Tuticorin enjoy a natural hedge except to the extent of a possible mismatch a Asset and Equipment Risk in quotational periods between the purchase of concentrate Productive assets used in our mining and smelting and sale of finished copper.
Our Groups policy on custom operations and the associated power plants may face smelting is to generate its margins from TCRC, premiums, breakdowns in the normal course of operations or due to sale of byproducts and from achieving import parity.
abnormal events such as fire, explosion, environmental Hence, mismatches in quotational periods are actively hazards or other natural calamities.
Our insurance policies managed to ensure that the gains or losses are minimised.
may not cover against all forms of risks due to certain Our Australian mines at Tasmania, supply approximately exclusions and limitations.
Also, it may not be commercially 9% of the requirement of our custom copper smelter at feasible to cover all the risks.
As a result our insurance Tuticorin.
TCRCs are a major source of income for our coverage may not extend to all claims including certain Indian copper smelting operations.
Fluctuations in TCRCs claims for environmental or industrial accidents or are influenced by factors including demand and supply pollution.
We regularly review the adequacy of our conditions prevailing in the market for mine output.
Our insurance coverage by engaging consultants and copper business has a strategy of securing a majority of its specialists and decide on an optimal level of insurance concentrate feed requirement under long term contracts coverage typical of our industry and operations in India, with mines.
KCM is an integrated copper producer and hence our b Delivery of Expansion Projects strategy to protect ourselves from price fluctuations in We have a long pipeline of greenfield growth and copper is to focus on controlling KCMs costs.
We have committed funds for these projects, which are well underway and have While we aim to achieve average LME prices for a month achieved various stages of completion.
Our plans to or a year, average realised prices may not necessarily generate sufficient cash flows from these projects to repay reflect the LME price movements because of a variety of our longterm debt and also our ability to raise further debt reasons such as uneven sales during the year and timing are dependent on successful completion of these projects of shipments.
on time and under budgeted cost.
Our current and future VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW 25 projects may be significantly delayed by a failure to receive generated from this market segment.
We actively strive to timely regulatory approvals or renewal of approvals, failure maintain harmonious relationships with the Governments to obtain sufficient funding, technical difficulties due to in these countries and actively monitor developments in human resources, technological or other resource political, regulatory, fiscal and other areas which may have constraints or for other unforeseen reasons, events or a bearing on our businesses and operations.
As a result, these projects may incur significant cost overruns and may not be completed on Health, Safety, Environment and Social Risks time, or at all.
We have necessary resources in all areas As a metals and mining company we are governed by including technology, finance and human resources and numerous health, safety and environmental laws and have successfully completed our Phase I projects on time regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
and below their budgeted costs, thereby demonstrating our Any changes in laws and regulations can possibly result in ability to manage successful completion of large green field increased costs.
Some of these activities are inherently and brown field projects.
hazardous and may cause accidents, property or environmental damage at our mines, smelters, refineries c Reserves and Resources or related facilities and also to communities near our The ore reserves stated in this Annual Report are operations.
Such incidents not only result in expensive estimates and represent the quantity of copper, zinc, lead litigation, damage claims and penalties but also hamper and bauxite that we believe could be mined, processed, sustainable development activities.
Further we also recovered and sold at prices sufficient to cover the operate in Zambia, which has a high rate of incidence of estimated future total costs of production, remaining HIV AIDS and is a potential threat to the economy at large.
investment and anticipated additional capital expenditures.
To mitigate these risks we accord very high priority to Our future profitability and operating margins depend upon health, safety, environment and the community.
We have a our ability to replenish our mineral reserves that have sound sustainable development programme in tandem with geological characteristics which enable mining at our HSE and social policies.
Further details of our policies, competitive costs.
Replacement reserves may not be initiatives, performance and impact are detailed in the available when required, or, if available, may not be of a Sustainable Development section of this Annual Report.
quality capable of being mined at costs comparable to the existing or exhausting mines.
Moreover, these estimates are subject to numerous uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, inherent in estimating quantities of reserves and could vary in the future as a result of new information on geology and fluctuations in production, operating and other costs and economic parameters such as metal prices, smelter treatment charges and exchange rates, We engage the services of independent experts normally once every three years to ascertain and verify the quantum of reserves and resources including ore grade and other geological characteristics.
Political, Legal, Economic and Regulatory Risks Our mining and smelting operations are located in India, Zambia, Australia and Armenia and our various holding and investment companies are located in other jurisdictions including the United Kingdom, Mauritius and Cyprus.
The political, legal, fiscal and other regulatory regimes in these countries may result in restrictions including an imposition of or increase in royalties, mining rights, taxation rates and repatriation of funds.
Changes in royalty rates, reduction in import tariffs in India, reduction in assistance given by Government of India for exports and reduction or curtailment of income tax benefits available to some of our operations in India and Zambia are some examples of such risks.
A majority of our Group revenues and profits are derived from commodities sold to customers in India.
The performance and growth of our business are dependent on the general health and stability of the Indian economy.
Any downturn in the rate of economic growth in India, whether due to political instability or regional conflicts or economic slowdown may have an adverse impact on margins VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007
