Overview of Our Business Our Performance in 2007 Governance Accounts & Notes Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 37 Corporate Governance Report Introduction The Board, its Structure and Directors Throughout the year, the Board has remained committed to ensuring that The Board formulates its strategy and monitors the operating and high standards of corporate governance are maintained Group wide.
financial performance of the Company, whilst recognising its key role as the link in the chain of authority between the shareholders and the This year saw a number of new Directors appointed, which has further Chief Executive and its responsibility to represent and promote the strengthened the Board.
Two of these appointments were as a result of interests of shareholders.
the strategic investment acquired by 3i Group plc and its affiliates and ArcLight Capital Partners, LLC.
The Board was also further expanded by The Board is accountable to all shareholders for the performance of the creation of a new Executive role of Corporate Development Director the Company and has a written schedule of matters reserved for its which reflects the importance of corporate and business development decision.
These include the approval of interim and financial statements: to the next phase of Ventures growth.
long term objectives and strategy: the annual business plan: operating and capital expenditure budgets: policy on hydrocarbon and currency Compliance with the Combined Code hedging: risk management policy: reserves reporting: and all other The Company complied with the provisions of the Combined Code corporate governance arrangements.
during 2007, except in the following areas: All other matters, including implementing the Boards decisions on A.
3.2 reserved matters, are delegated to the Chief Executive.
The Chief Combined Code Position Executive is responsible in turn for establishing a clear system of At least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise delegation and accountability for all aspects of corporate performance.
Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
Where the Board approves policy, it both sets the standards to be observed by the whole Company and provides a clear framework for Company Position delegation.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board is available At the beginning of the year the Company was compliant with this at www.
provision, but following the appointment of Rod Begbie in June, Robb Turner in September and Graeme Sword in October, it now comprises As at 31 December 2007, the Board comprised the Chairman, four less than half the Board who are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Executive Directors, four independent Non-Executive Directors and three non-independent Non-Executive Directors.
Details of changes Explanation during the year are set out in the Directors Report on pages 34 to 36.
An evaluation of the composition of the Board has been undertaken and in order to fully comply with this provision of the Code, the Board The Non-Executive Directors bring a wide range of business, financial would need to comprise at least 15 members.
The Board wishes to and international experience to the Board.
Biographical details of each avoid becoming unwieldy due to its size, as this may impact upon its Director are set out on pages 32 and 33. current flexibility and effectiveness.
It remains satisfied that the existing independent Non-Executive Directors are capable of safeguarding Chairman and Chief Executive shareholders interests.
Notwithstanding this, the Nominations Committee The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and clearly has recently overseen the recruitment of one new independent defined and have been set out in writing and approved by the Board.
Non-Executive Director, although it should be noted that even following No individual has unfettered powers of decision making.
The Chairman this appointment, the Board is not compliant with this provision.
is responsible for the leadership and governance of the Board, and the Chief Executive for the management of the Company and the A.
4.1 implementation of the Board strategy and policy on its behalf.
Combined Code Position A majority of the members of the Nominations Committee should be The Chief Executive is supported by the Executive Committee and independent Non-Executive Directors.
Executive team which are comprised of the senior management from throughout the business.
Company Position Throughout 2007 the Nominations Committee comprised two Senior Independent Director independent Non-Executive Directors, the Chairman and the Mark Nicholls, the Deputy Chairman, has been appointed as the Senior Chief Executive.
Independent Director SID and he is available to speak to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Explanation Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for The Board believes that it is important for the Chief Executive to be a which such contact is inappropriate.
No such meetings were requested member of the Nominations Committee and to be formally involved during the year.
in the nomination process for new Board members.
38 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Governance Report continued Re-Election of Directors Independence of Directors The Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association require that As outlined above, the composition of the Board has changed during one third of the Directors must submit themselves for re-election each the year following the appointment of an additional Executive Director, year by rotation.
Additionally, newly appointed Directors will submit Rod Begbie and two new non-independent Non-Executive Directors, themselves for election at the AGM following their appointment.
Graeme Sword and Robb Turner.
Larry Kinch is also acknowledged as not The Board has decided that all Directors should submit themselves being independent based upon the Codes definition, as he is a founding for re-election at each AGM.
This is consistent with the annual review member of Venture and a major shareholder.
This has led to the Board process for individual Board members, which includes the review of not complying with Code provision A.
3.2. appointment terms and conditions and confirmation of expected time commitments for Non-Executive Directors.
Meetings Attendance Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings between 1 January and 31 December 2007: Audit Remuneration Nominations Date of Appointment Board Committee Committee Committee and or Resignation Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible AGM RM Begbie 19 June 2007 6 6 T Blades 16 March 2006 10 11 4 5 M-L Clayton 4 February 2005 8 11 6 December 2007 T Ehret 16 March 2006 8 11 2 3 AM Jones 28 April 2005 10 11 3 3 5 5 1 1 LW Kinch 1 November 1996 8 11 JC Morgan 7 September 1998 11 11 5 5 1 1 JD Murphy 16 August 1999 11 11 MP Nicholls 15 January 2004 11 11 3 3 5 5 1 1 GD Sword 24 October 2007 3 3 PA Turner 6 December 2007 RE Turner 12 September 2007 3 4 MJ Wagstaff 26 October 1999 10 11 1 1 During the year the Company also held a number of additional Board and Committee meetings by minuted conference calls.
These were often called at short notice between the scheduled meetings.
Board and Committee agendas and supporting papers are distributed Induction and Development of the Non-Executive Directors seven days in advance of each meeting and in the instances where a New Directors are given a tailored induction programme covering Director has not been able to attend Board or Committee meetings, the overall position of Venture: the role of the Board and the matters any comments he or she may have are relayed in advance to the reserved for Board decision: the function and terms of reference of Chairman of the meeting.
Board Committees: the Companys corporate governance practices: key policy areas and the latest financial and operational information All Directors have access to the Company Secretary and, if required, concerning the Company.
They also meet all the Executive Directors also to independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
and the Company Secretary and key members of the management team and are briefed on their legal and other duties and obligations as a Director of a listed company.
Overview of Our Business Our Performance in 2007 Governance Accounts & Notes Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 39 As part of the annual appraisal process, Directors are invited to identify identifying and nominating candidates for the approval of the Board, any areas in which they would benefit from training and the Company to fill Board vacancies, as and when they arise.
During the year the will seek to identify appropriate programmes to meet their needs.
Committee, in conjunction with Spencer Stuart, was responsible for This is supplemented by routine briefings on major developments.
recommending the recruitment of Peter Turner as the Companys For example, during the year, amongst other briefings, the Directors new Finance Director, in place of Marie-Louise Clayton who left the were updated on the implications of the Transparency Directive and Company in December.
In March 2008, the recruitment of Andrew Carr-Locke as a new Role of the Non-Executive Directors independent Non-Executive Director was announced, and this process The roles and responsibilities of the Non-Executive Directors are was overseen by the Committee in conjunction with recruitment set out in their appointment letters and their key responsibilities, consultants, Egon Zhender.
which are mainly supervisory, are to recommend, advise and monitor matters relating to: Although the Committee only met formally once during the year, The strategy of the Company.
it held a number of both formal and informal Committee calls in The Companys performance.
Present and future availability and use of resources.
Standards of conduct, compliance and control on the Board Audit Committee and in the Company generally.
The Audit Committee reviews the Interim and Annual Accounts, The appointment of key employees and officers.
internal controls and the results of the audit with the external auditors, maintaining an effective relationship with them.
The Committee also A copy of the standard letter of appointment for a Non-Executive Director reviews the scope of the audit and other non-audit services and is available on the Companys website.
The Non-Executive Directors meet recommends the remuneration of the external auditors to the Board.
periodically, often just before a Board meeting, without the Executive It makes recommendations on the appointment, re-appointment or Directors present.
During 2007 they met three times as a group.
removal of the Companys external auditors and during the year the Board accepted the Audit Committees recommendations to re-appoint Directors Indemnities and Insurance  LLP as the Companys external auditor.
The Companies Audit Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004 The Committee reports its activities and makes recommendations came into force in April 2005 and amended the provisions of Section to the Board.
310 of the Companies Act 1985 to give companies the power to extend indemnities to Directors against liability to third parties, excluding For details on fees paid to the external auditors, see Note 4 to the criminal and regulatory penalties, and to pay Directors legal costs as Accounts on page 74. they are incurred.
If judgement is given against a Director, or if the individual is convicted, the Director is liable to reimburse the Company Deloitte & Touche LLP have been appointed as tax advisors to the in relation to the legal costs received.
Company to ensure that the provision of such services does not impair the independence or objectivity of the external auditors.
In June 2007, the Company obtained shareholder approval at its AGM to amend the Articles of Association to give it authority to provide funding Committee Composition for Directors defence costs.
Letters of indemnification have been issued to Throughout the year, the Committee comprised Mark Nicholls all Directors and will be issued to new Directors to provide an indemnity Chairman, Alan Jones and Tom Ehret: details of their attendance to the extent permitted by legislation.
at Committee meetings is shown on page 38.
Representatives from the external auditors attended three meetings and, in addition, have The Company also maintains Directors and Officers insurance cover unrestricted access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Audit in respect of any legal action taken against the Directors in connection Committee has the discretion to decide who, other than its members, with their duties.
shall attend the meetings and during the year the Finance Director and Chief Accounting Officer attended each meeting.
Board Committees The Board has established a number of Committees in order to assist it The Board is of the opinion that the Committee meets the requirement to in fulfilling its role and responsibilities.
The terms of reference of each of have at least one member, in Mr Nicholls, possessing recent and relevant the Board Committees are reviewed on a regular basis and are available financial experience.
It will be seen from the Directors biographical details to view at www.
on pages 32 and 33 that he and the other members of the Committee bring to it a wide range of experience in the financial and oil and gas Nominations Committee sectors in the UK and internationally.
As stated above, Andrew A Nominations Committee has been established and comprises John Carr-Locke has recently been recruited as a new independent Morgan, its Chairman, Mark Nicholls, Alan Jones and Mike Wagstaff.
Andrew was formerly Finance Director of The terms of reference of the Committee set out its key objectives George Wimpey PLC and also possesses recent and relevant financial which include the regular review of the Board structure, size and experience.
He was appointed to the Committee with effect from composition and any recommendations are then submitted to the 3 March 2008 to further strengthen the composition of the Committee.
The Committee is also responsible for 40 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Governance Report continued Terms of Reference As an operator, Venture is subject to audits by the non-operating The Audit Committee is authorised to investigate any activity within its joint venture parties.
These audits cover all charges made to the joint terms of reference, which are reviewed on an annual basis.
It has access account and compliance with the administration of the joint operating to the external auditors, who in turn have unrestricted access to the agreement.
In its own right, Venture undertakes audits on significant third Committee.
If required and at the Companys expense, the Committee party contracts, utilising the services of specialist independent auditors.
can obtain outside legal and or other independent professional advice.
None was obtained during the year.
Where Venture has a concern over a particular area, a specific review will be instigated using either internal or external resources as required Overview of Activities under the direction of the Audit Committee.
This approach of utilising During the year under review, the Audit Committee followed a programme the diverse skill set within the Company, supplemented by external structured around the annual reporting cycle and reports from both individuals, enables Venture to cover the full range of business risks management and the external auditors.
Principal activities included: that it faces without having to employ full-time resources focused on Review of the Preliminary Announcement, the Annual Report and internal control reviews.
The results of all audit reviews are reported Accounts and the Interim Report.
On all occasions, the Committee to the Audit Committee.
receives reports from the external auditors identifying any accounting or judgemental issues requiring its attention.
Following input from the Audit Committee, the Board has again Review of papers prepared and presented by the external auditors in decided against establishing a formal in-house internal audit function.
relation to the 2006 final audit, the 2007 interim review and the audit This decision is partly a function of scale, but more importantly, it is plans and strategy for the 2007 final audit.
believed that an alternative approach to identifying and dealing with Review of the results and effectiveness of the final audit including risk areas is a better fit for the Company.
This involves examining the reporting by the external auditors and review of the independence overall risk review, including the specific areas of financial management and objectivity of the external auditors.
and control, and, together with the external auditors, identifying areas Review and approval of the fee proposals for the final audit and the that require further analysis or benchmarking.
This work will then be interim review.
undertaken by the appropriate internal or external resources.
Private discussions with the external auditors with no executive management present.
The decision on the establishment of an internal audit function will Review of the risk identification process and its management continue to be reviewed on an annual basis.
Review of the systems of internal control.
Performance Evaluation Completion of a performance evaluation of its own performance.
During 2007 the Committee carried out an internal performance Review of the Committees terms of reference.
evaluation, designed to produce an objective assessment of the Review of the Groups whistle blowing policy.
Committees performance and the effectiveness of the external audit Consideration of the risk of fraud.
It was concluded that the Committee and the audit process were effective and that the Committee had appropriate terms of In addition to the principal activities outlined above, the Committee also reference and achieved its remit.
received a number of reports and presentations throughout the year.
These included presentations on the Companys information technology One issue raised that has been addressed during the year is the timing developments, an annual tax review and an update on a review of internal and location of meetings to ensure that the Committee has adequate controls carried out by KPMG.
KPMG also presented to the Committee opportunity to fully consider all areas within its remit.
It was agreed that during the year a review of internal financial controls which concentrated in order to do this, wherever possible, meetings should be fide-coupled on five key processes.
Progress has been made to address the issues from the formal Board meeting schedule.
Briefings and training are provided, where appropriate, to ensure that The Committee acted as an appropriate sounding board for the the Committee remains informed of all material developments in best management on these activities and the wide-ranging experience practice and regulation concerning its remit.
of its members ensured thorough and valuable consideration was given to the matters under discussion.
An evaluation of the Companys auditor was also carried out at the same time, with input provided by each member of the Committee as well as Internal Audit Function regular attendees.
Feedback was provided to the Audit Partner by the The Committee continually monitors the need for the establishment Committees Chairman.
of an internal audit function, bearing in mind the growth in size and complexity of the Company, in accordance with provision C. 3.5 of the Remuneration Committee Combined Code.
Venture currently obtains independent confirmation The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 45 to 53 and on the operation of internal controls from a variety of sources.
KPMG provides detailed information on the Companys remuneration policies had been appointed on a continuing basis during the year to provide and practices.
an external review of the financial controls within the Group, having particular regard to the efficiency of key financial processes and the implementation of best practice.
Overview of Our Business Our Performance in 2007 Governance Accounts & Notes Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 41 Executive Committee Risk Management and Internal Control Composition of the Executive Committee changed during the year, The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Companys with the appointment of Rod Begbie in June, and Peter Turner replacing systems of internal controls and is responsible for the controls including Marie-Louise Clayton in December.
At the year end the Committee financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
In comprised Mike Wagstaff Chairman, Jon Murphy, Peter Turner and accordance with the provisions of the Turnbull Report, the Board is also Rod Begbie.
Meetings are held on a regular basis, within clearly defined responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of those controls.
delegated powers concerning operational matters.
Such a control system can only provide reasonable but not absolute The Board has delegated authority to the Executive Committee in a assurance against material misstatement or loss and is designed not number of areas, including: to eliminate risk, but to enable the Company to achieve its corporate Approval of individual unbudgeted capital expenditure commitment objectives within a managed risk portfolio.
in excess of 1 million but less than 5 million.
Approval to enter into a contract for goods and or services in excess The Board receives regular reports from the executive management of 5 million but less than 10 million.
that enables it to assess the nature of business risks and allows it to Issue of shares to satisfy the exercise of share options or the award review the effectiveness of the controls in place to manage them.
of shares granted under a share scheme previously approved by the As Venture has increased significantly in scale over the last few years, shareholders.
the risk process has also grown in breadth and complexity to support it.
Issue of parent company guarantees, letters of credit or other forms of The Board has fully reviewed the changes in process during the course security that may be required in respect of contracts or agreements of the year and will continue to do so going forward.
that have been approved by the Board.
Recognising and managing risk is a process that occurs at all levels Board Assessment within the business and is an inherent part of the management In March 2008, the Board carried out a review of its performance during culture.
The process recognises not only the downside risks, but also 2007 and discussed opportunities for improvement.
A list of issues opportunities that might otherwise be missed.
In an environment that is and topics was compiled by the Chairman and circulated ahead of the itself subject to increasing market, legislative and environmental changes, discussion, with a clear opportunity to raise additional issues.
Board the dynamic and cultural nature of this risk process is essential to maintain members were free to submit views confidentially in writing, but in its currency.
At the operational level, managers are responsible for practice none did so and all participated in the discussion.
ensuring that their staff and contractors carry out risk assessments of all projects and activities to identify potential hazards.
Following the outcome from the 2006 assessment, the Board agreed to reduce the number of formal Board meetings to five per annum and one Where appropriate, independent third parties with additional specialist Board call, supplemented as necessary by additional calls.
The meetings skills contribute to these assessments.
When risks cannot be removed, in March and December are now held over two days to allow additional controls are identified and implemented and their effectiveness consideration of year end and budgeting matters, respectively.
During monitored throughout the life cycle of the project and activity.
2007, the Board has also received a number of presentations by senior managers from throughout the business, as this was considered to be At the corporate level, the Directors formally review all significant risks an appropriate way for the Directors to receive increased exposure to to the business.
The results of the processes described above and, in the Companys management.
particular, of the annual risk assessment review, are brought to the Board in a summarised form.
The Board unanimously agreed that the process for Board, Committee and Director assessment was appropriate to the size and structure of This identifies the key risks, the likelihood of occurrence, the potential the Company.
impact on the business and the actions being identified and implemented to control or mitigate the risks.
The Board reviews this assessment and Individual Director assessments are based on a self-assessment process brings its own top down contribution and judgement to bear with which is followed up by a conversation with the Chairman who consults particular reference to risks of a strategic nature.
with his colleagues as necessary.
This process ties in with the annual agreement renewal process for Non-Executive Directors.
The resultant findings are fed back to the organisation through management to ensure a common understanding and the Mark Nicholls, the SID, led an assessment of the Chairmans performance implementation of necessary actions.
during 2007, at which the Chairman was not present.
A range of tasks were reviewed and the Board unanimously reaffirmed its view that The Board formally reviewed risk as a separate topic twice during 2007 he remained fully independent in both character and judgement and with the objective of providing assurance that changing circumstances continued to allocate sufficient time to fulfil his duties as the Chairman are being monitored, that the process is robust and that necessary of a FTSE 250 company.
42 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Governance Report continued The Directors acknowledge their responsibility, under the Combined Code, process in place, the Board perceives this risk as relatively low, but to establish and maintain the Companys system of internal control that believes it should continue to be highlighted as a key risk because safeguards its assets and to ensure the reliability of financial information of its fundamental relationship to value.
for both internal use and external publication.
Relevance of Ventures Business Model to Deliver Its Strategic Objectives Internal control systems reflect the particular scale of operations, business There has been a very strong focus on strategy during 2007, which risks, cost effectiveness and overall needs of the Company.
Controls are has reinforced the view that Ventures business model remains valid.
designed to identify and manage risk rather than eliminate all risks to There is evidence that the market for stranded assets in the North Sea which the Company is exposed.
is changing, with more and larger blocks of assets becoming available.
With this development, the competitive environment is also likely to As a result, any system of internal control can only provide reasonable, change.
We continue to believe that Venture has major competitive but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
advantages in this situation, although maximising the leverage of these strengths is becoming a more sophisticated task, making it difficult to The attention to internal control continued during 2007 and has been predict the precise timing with which growth assets will be added to externally validated by KPMG, demonstrating an increase in controls and the portfolio.
This makes it important to express strategic objectives documented processes.
with the appropriate balance between growth and value per share.
Key Risks Third Party Infrastructure After Board evaluation of the business risks presented by management, In common with all operators, Venture relies on third parties to deliver the following key risks facing the business are identified.
The successful development of Chiswick, together with the installation of the Kittiwake pipeline, has provided significant Communication to Investors Analysts External Parties elements of infrastructure diversification.
The fact remains that we This risk centres on the difficulty of providing accurate and consistent will continue to have a high degree of dependence on third party information about business performance when outcomes are subject performance.
Sound relationships and good communication with third to many influences outside direct management control.
The Company party management remains a very high priority and we will continue to is committed to an open and timely process of market communication.
review further diversification as part of our strategic approach.
During 2007, we have enhanced the level of communication with shareholders and analysts.
The potential for enhanced volatility of Technical Risk performance during the year was identified and communicated.
It is paramount to the Board that Venture has a comprehensive Nonetheless, the combined effects of lower gas prices early in the understanding of both subsurface and topside asset risks.
This is an year, weather impacts and uncontrollable operational issues has been area of constant review and analysis within the Company to ensure the higher than anticipated and the challenge of preventing these issues existence of the right technical skills, control processes and relationships from overshadowing real progress remains very real.
The Company with third parties.
The Technical Integrity Management System has now is committed to maintaining a high level of transparency and been fully implemented and its operation reviewed at Board level.
communication, with a strong focus on value creation and will set This system assures sound understanding and management of structural clear strategic objectives to 2010 2011. risks.
Enhanced project evaluation procedures have been implemented and an experienced Senior Technical Manager has been recruited.
Business Valuation This move is focused on enhancing the consistency of approach to and The risk is that, despite enhanced communication with shareholders, providing quality assurance on technical evaluation and presentation the underlying value of the business is not fully reflected in the share of risk across all assets and projects.
This creates concerns around cost of capital and the generation of unwelcome approaches geared to taking advantage of commodity Organisational Capability price volatility, rather than returning underlying business value to Ventures organisational scale and capacity has continued to grow with shareholders.
A high level of communication concerning value has been the Group now having over 140 full-time employees.
The risk continues maintained with key institutional shareholders.
A project to strengthen to be managed, with good progress being made in developing an the group of core strategic shareholders resulted in two new strategic extended management team and strengthening a number of technical shareholders taking a combined holding of around 20% in the Company, and commercial skill areas.
The recruitment and retention record each of them now having Board representation.
This development has continues to be good at a time of very high competition for people.
reduced the risk of a pre-emptive, undervalued take-over approach being successful.
We will continue to communicate the underlying Venture has continued to recruit experienced and talented people who business strength and will target continued profitable growth.
wish to work in a creative and flexible environment.
With continuing growth and high workloads, progress in this area will continue to be Statement of Reserves a key priority for management.
There is a robust and externally validated process applied to Ventures reserves statements.
Reserves are reviewed by the Board twice yearly Performance by Contractors Suppliers and the producing field reserves are subject to an annual third party In current tight markets it is essential that close and value-adding audit.
During 2007, the process successfully reflected significant relationships are created with suppliers and contractors.
Venture has adjustments to reserves, both positive and negative.
With the existing pioneered a partnership approach and this has continued to work well.
Overview of Our Business Our Performance in 2007 Governance Accounts & Notes Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 43 However, market pressures have become much greater over the last Financial Authorities 12 months and the nature of this risk has increased to reflect not just The management structure is supported by a Financial Authorities performance assurance, but also basic access to equipment and services, schedule, which clearly specifies authority by role and type of expenditure as well as the level of cost and its management.
Ventures experience across the organisation.
This document is maintained on the Business over the last three years has contributed to its competitive strength.
Management System together with supporting processes and is owned The issue is now one of heightened strategic significance and building by the Finance Director.
on our track record here is a very high priority.
Quality and Integrity of Personnel Health, Safety and Environmental Performance High quality personnel are essential to the control environment.
HSE has continued to be a top priority and performance has been good.
The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high Nevertheless, the Board considers that it must continue to be reviewed recruitment standards and the encouragement of personnel to identify as a key concern area at Board level.
The challenge of environmental and take responsibility for their own development training.
performance, with substantial additional regulatory requirements, has grown and is receiving greater management focus.
New KPIs are Identification of Business Risks being developed and implemented across this area.
The emphasis on The Board is ultimately responsible for identifying the major business the performance of both Venture and its contractors must remain high risks faced by the Group and for determining the appropriate course and a focus for senior management leadership.
of action to manage those risks.
However, each employee has an active role in identifying and communicating business risks within the Group.
Oil Gas Balance This involvement in identification and management of risk is encouraged The risk here is that a product imbalance could introduce an undesirable through the annual risk review process.
The Board also engages independent skewing of risk in the business.
Ventures attitude to hydrocarbon type professional advice on risk assessment matters as required.
has so far been neutral, with the emphasis being on quality of deal in relation to building the portfolio and project quality for developments.
Budget and Business Plan The result of the outcomes of various projects now means that, based on Each year the Board approves a budget, by month, plus a business plan the existing portfolio, the Company is heading towards a significant bias for the next four years.
to gas production and reserves over the next few years.
This details the proposed work programme, production and financial There are some specific risks in relation to gas.
Firstly, with gas prices lagging performance indicators and incorporates sensitivity for factors such as oil as costs increase, there is a degree of margin pressure on gas.
Secondly, commodity price and exchange rates.
Performance is reported to the gas infrastructure developments including those between mainland Board monthly with significant variances explained, key risks identified and Europe and the UK together with increasing LNG capacity have created forecasts updated.
Executive management has a quarterly performance a degree of short term price uncertainty.
It is our view that the market for review meeting at which the business to date is reviewed and a plan going gas especially for power generation will continue to grow in the medium forward is assessed, with particular emphasis on delivery of that plan.
term and that the major producers will continue to act rationally in their own economic interests.
We remain convinced that, with proper care in the Investment Appraisal selection of projects, the gas market will remain profitable.
We will, therefore, Capital expenditure commitment is controlled by reference to the continue to evaluate all projects in relation to their value and profitability.
approved budget and authorisation levels.
Capital or non-routine operating Nevertheless, the potential for greater volatility in gas markets is recognised expenditure above specified levels requires standard documented and will require continued focus with appropriate hedging policies and proposals and evaluations to be submitted to the appropriate financial operational policies clearly geared to maximising profitability and value.
Venture utilises its in-house expertise to implement rigorous review of all investment proposals at both peer and management The Board is in agreement that appropriate processes and controls are levels.
Increasingly this will be supplemented by the use of external in place to manage these risks effectively and will review the actions expertise where this is appropriate.
Performance is reported to the Board on a regular basis.
monthly with significant variances explained, key risks identified and forecasts updated.
Complete technical, commercial, financial and legal Risk Identification, Evaluation and Management due diligence work is carried out on potential asset and corporate The process of identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the acquisitions.
The key procedures the Board have established with a view to providing effective internal control are as follows: Monitoring of the Internal Control Systems The Board has agreed reporting procedures to monitor key risk areas Management Structure on an ongoing basis, including health and safety, legal and financial There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board.
An annual risk assessment review is completed and presented Each Executive Director has a defined sphere of overall responsibility to the Board, which identifies key risks, the probability of these risks and can also act as part of the Executive of the Board on certain defined occurring, their impact if they do occur, the strategy for handling the risk, issues.
The Executive team, made up of the Executive Directors and an assessment of the controls and procedures in place and actions being senior managers, meet formally on a bi-weekly basis to review current taken to manage risks.
The assessment of risk is monitored throughout business matters, take decisions and identify any areas of concern.
the year and formally reviewed once every quarter by management.
This group is supported by a broader group of lead managers.
44 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Governance Report continued To supplement this annual risk review, Venture has instituted an annual The Company also maintains a less formal dialogue with shareholders review of fraud material error across the business.
This review covers all through regular two-way communication with a growing number of business areas and provides assurance to the Board that no instances of equity research analysts, fund managers and private client stockbrokers.
fraud are known to have occurred during the year and that areas at risk Private investors continue to be encouraged to communicate directly of fraud material error are assessed and mitigating actions put in place.
with the Company and the corporate website has been designed to No material items for 2007 have been notified.
provide detailed information on Ventures assets, as well as including a dedicated investor relations section.
Shareholders and other interested There is also a formal whistle blowing policy that encourages anyone parties can subscribe to receive Company specific news updates by associated with Venture to bring forward any concerns in relation to its email by registering online on the website, and contact details are also operation or reporting.
The policy is widely communicated and provides provided on the website whereby specific queries can be emailed a route of discussion direct to the Non-Executive Chairman of the Audit directly to the Company.
No items for 2007 have been notified.
During January 2008 the Company held its annual Analyst Day at The Board considers that, having undertaken the procedures outlined, which senior management gave a series of presentations on various it has monitored the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and aspects of the Companys business.
Equity research analysts and major that no significant failings or weaknesses were identified.
institutional shareholders were invited to attend and the full Venture senior management team were available for questions.
A copy of the Communication with Shareholders presentation materials has been made available to all stakeholders Investor interest in Venture continues to grow as the scale of our operations via the corporate website.
It is Ventures policy to publish all such increases.
This increased interest is being successfully addressed by an presentations on the website at the same time as they are given live.
increasingly active investor relations programme, fronted mainly by the Companys Executive Directors, and continued development of a wider The Companys communication programme, aimed specifically at range of communication channels.
private client stockbrokers, regional pension funds and smaller financial institutions, has proved successful and will be maintained.
During 2007, The Board continues to believe that effective communication with this programme was extended to target medium-sized institutions not shareholders and other stakeholders is a critical competence for the currently serviced through the Companys joint brokers.
Company and it therefore remains a high priority.
Amongst larger institutions, Venture has also seen increased Confidential feedback reports prepared by third parties after each results international interest, particularly from North America and Europe, and roadshow and Analyst Day are made available to the Board, as are all efforts to target these institutions have increased.
During 2007 and equity analyst research notes.
early 2008, management made trips to the United States, Canada and Continental Europe to meet with investors for the second year running, Venture maintains regular dialogue with all stakeholders through the and it is intended that this will become a regular feature in the annual formal channel of results presentations, stock market announcements, investor relations programme going forward.
In addition, management Annual Reports and Accounts, Interim Accounts and at the AGM.
schedule a conference call for US and European institutions as part of The Company also issues operational and trading updates prior to each results roadshow.
entering into closed periods and seeks to provide timely market guidance on production levels and trading as appropriate throughout Investors are encouraged to attend and participate in the AGM at which, the year.
The Company conducts investor roadshows, during which in addition to the formal business of the meeting, the Chief Executive senior management meet face-to-face with institutional shareholders, provides a review of the most recent results and commentary on current immediately after each results announcement.
In addition, a large business development and activity.
The Chairmen of each of the Board number of ad hoc shareholder meetings are held during the year, Committees are available at the AGM to answer any shareholder questions.
organised either through the Companys joint brokers or in response to direct requests from institutional fund managers.
The SID is also specifically available to meet with shareholders to discuss any concerns either at the AGM or through other channels, and at other times if deemed more appropriate.
The full Board of Directors attends the AGM.
