CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Details are set out in the narrative below of the Companys The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the corporate governance procedures and application of the Chief Executive has been agreed by the Board and is set out in principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued writing.
The Chairman leads the Board and meets routinely with by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Code.
the Chief Executive and Group Secretary to discuss matters The Company has complied with the provisions of the Code relating to its efficient functioning.
The Chairman also serves as throughout the year ended 31 December 2007.
Chairman of Elementis plc and as the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of D S Smith plc.
The Board The Board considers that the Chairman is able to and does devote Ultimate responsibility for the management of Cookson rests with sufficient time to his duties at Cookson.
The Board focuses primarily upon The attendance of Directors at Board and principal Committee strategic and policy issues.
It approves the Groups strategy, meetings during the year, together with the maximum number of oversees the allocation of resources and monitors the meetings in the period when the individual was a Board member performance of the Group in pursuit of this.
as shown in brackets, was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nominations Membership Board Committee Committee Committee The Board currently has seven Directors, comprising the nonChairman executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance R G Beeston 12 12 n a n a 1 1 Director and four non-executive Directors.
The Board considers each of the non-executive Directors, namely Messrs Hewitt, Executive Directors Oosterveld, Perry and Sussens, to be independent of M G Butterworth 12 12 n a n a n a management and free from any business or other relationship N R Salmon 12 12 n a n a 1 1 which could affect the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Company has reviewed the availability of the non-executive Non-executive Directors Directors and considers that each of them is able to, and in J L Hewitt 11 12 4 4 3 3 1 1 practice does, devote the necessary amount of time to the J P Oosterveld 9 12 3 4 2 3 0 1 Companys business.
The Board nominates one of the nonB W Perry 9 12 3 4 2 3 1 1 executive Directors to act as Senior Independent Director and J G Sussens 12 12 4 4 3 3 1 1 provide an alternative contact at Board level, other than the Chairman, to whom shareholder matters can be addressed.
Mr Papers are provided to the Directors in advance of the relevant Sussens held this position during the year.
There were no changes Board or committee meeting to enable them to make further of Board membership during the year.
The biographical details of enquiries about any matters prior to the meeting should they so the individual Directors who served during the year are set out on wish.
The Group Secretary oversees the distribution of these page 31. papers and ensures that there is an appropriate level of The Articles of Association of the Company require that communication between the Board and its committees and Directors should submit themselves for re-election at least every between senior management and non-executive Directors.
Messrs Oosterveld, Perry, Salmon and Sussens will also keeps the Board apprised of relevant developments in therefore be retiring and offering themselves for re-election at corporate governance.
this years Annual General Meeting AGM as set out in the Notice of AGM.
Performance evaluation The Board evaluates its own performance and effectiveness and Responsibilities and meetings assesses the performance of its committees and individual The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and members on an annual basis.
In 2007 each Committee Chairman delegates certain matters to committees as outlined below.
The discussed and evaluated the relevant Committees performance Board met as a full Board on eight scheduled occasions during with all members and provided a report back to the Board.
One of these meetings was held at a Cookson facility during the Chairman of the Board discussed the Boards performance a Board visit to the Groups operations.
Board meetings are also with individual Directors and reported back to the Board.
The convened on an ad-hoc basis for non-routine business.
In Board discussed the results of these reviews and concluded that addition, the Chairman and the non-executive Directors meet overall it was operating effectively and that all Directors routinely on their own without the executive Directors present continued to contribute and were committed to their roles at and at least once each year the non-executive Directors meet Cookson.
Plans have been implemented to address areas without the Chairman present to discuss matters such as the highlighted for additional focus going forward, such as succession Chairmans performance.
Specific matters reserved for the Board include: reviewing The performance of the Chairman was in turn reviewed by the Group and divisional performance: approving significant Senior Independent Director following consultation with other transactions including acquisitions, divestments and capital members of the Board.
The Chairman was judged to have expenditure: setting and approving the Groups strategy and performed satisfactorily.
annual budget: approving the Groups financing and treasury policies: succession planning and approving Board appointments and the remuneration of the non-executive Directors.
In addition the Board considers health, safety and environmental matters and reviews the Groups risk management processes.
Cookson Group plc 32 Annual Report 2007 OUR GOVERNANCE Induction and training Audit Committee report The Group Secretary ensures that a comprehensive induction The principal roles of the Audit Committee are: programme is provided to all new Directors, including visits to assisting the Board in the discharge of its responsibilities in manufacturing facilities, meetings with key Group executives and respect of statutory and other financial reporting and in introductions to the Companys principal external advisers, as respect of its review of the effectiveness of the Groups appropriate.
New Directors are also advised of their legal and internal controls and risk management systems: other duties and obligations as Directors of a listed company.
This monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys is supplemented by reference materials, which are updated as internal audit function: required, including information about the Board, the committees, making recommendations to the Board on the appointment Directors duties, procedures for dealing in the Companys shares and dismissal of the Auditor: and other regulatory and governance matters.
Directors are approving the remuneration and terms of engagement of the provided with details of seminars and training courses relevant to Auditor: their role.
They are encouraged to attend these as they consider monitoring and reviewing the Auditors independence, appropriate and are supported by the Company in so doing.
objectivity and effectiveness, taking into account professional Where a general training need is identified, in-house training is and regulatory requirements: and provided to the entire Board.
In 2007 presentations were given to helping to strengthen the independent position of the Auditor the Board on the Companies Act 2006.
During the year Directors by providing a direct channel of communication between it also attended external seminars and other functions relevant to and the non-executive Directors.
specific areas of their responsibility.
The Committee has established procedures for the receipt, Relations with shareholders retention and treatment of complaints received by the Company The Company has an established investor relations programme including accounting, internal controls, auditing matters and managed by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
The confidential communications from employees.
Company reports its financial results to shareholders twice a year, The Group Head of Internal Audit reports directly to the with the publication of its Annual and Interim Reports.
In Committee Chairman and the Committee reviews and approves conjunction with these announcements presentations are made the internal audit work programme for each year.
During the year to institutional investors and analysts, copies of which are posted under review, the Committee met four times and reviewed, on the Companys website, www.
In addition, amongst other matters, the Companys published financial in 2007 the Company provided trading updates at the Companys results: internal audit reports and management control issues: AGM and in advance of the interim and year-end close-periods, the scope of the external audit and its cost effectiveness: and the and hosted a Capital Markets Day for analysts at its Ceramics extent to which the Auditors remuneration for non-audit services facility in Skawina, Poland in October.
might affect their independence and objectivity in carrying out The Company maintains a regular dialogue with major the audit.
institutional investors and regular updates on shareholder issues More specifically, the responsibilities of the Committee were and discussions are provided to the Board.
Board members also discharged as follows: receive copies of significant analysts notes issued on the at its meetings in July 2007 and March 2008, the Committee Company.
All Directors normally attend the Companys AGM, reviewed the Companys Interim Report and Preliminary providing shareholders with the opportunity to question them Results announcement Annual Report and Accounts, about issues relating to the Group, either during the meeting or respectively.
On both occasions, the Committee received informally afterwards.
reports from the Auditor identifying any accounting or judgmental issues thereon requiring its attention: Board committees at each of the four meetings, the Committee received a report The principal committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration from the Group Head of Internal Audit covering, amongst and Nominations Committees.
Each committee has written terms of other things, the work undertaken by the Internal Audit reference agreed by the Board.
These are available to view on the function and management responses to proposals made in Companys website, www.
the audit reports issued by the function during the year.
In addition, at the December 2007 meeting, the Committee Audit Committee reviewed the internal audit plan for 2008, submitted by the The Audit Committee members are the non-executive Directors, Group Head of Internal Audit: namely Messrs Hewitt, Oosterveld, Perry and Sussens.
During the at the October 2007 meeting, the Committee reviewed and year the Committee was chaired by Mr Hewitt.
The Board believes agreed the audit plan presented by the Auditor, which detailed Mr Hewitt possesses relevant financial experience, as described the approach and scope of the work to be undertaken for by the Code.
2007 and the level of fee to be charged: The Group Finance Director, the Group Head of Internal Audit at its meetings in December 2007 and March 2008 the and the Companys Auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, are normally invited Committee reviewed both the risk management process to attend meetings and other executives are invited to attend as operated by Group management designed to identify the key and when appropriate.
The Committee meets regularly with the risks facing each business and also how those risks were Companys Auditor without any executives being present.
being managed: Cookson Group plc 33 Annual Report 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Audit Committee report continued The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee reports the from time to time, executives were required to make outcome of the Remuneration Committee meetings to the Board.
presentations to the Committee or to the full Board on the identification, management and control of specific areas of Nominations Committee risk which impact the Company and the Group: and The Nominations Committee advises the Board on appointments as a matter of routine, the Committee was presented with to, and retirements and resignations from, the Board.
The information on any significant litigation involving the Group.
members of the Committee are the Group Chairman, the Chief Executive and any three non-executive Directors.
The Committee As noted above, one of the duties of the Committee is to make meets as and when required and is chaired by the Group recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of Chairman or a non-executive Director.
The Group Chairman would the Auditor.
A number of factors concerning the Auditor are taken not act as Chairman of the Committee where it was dealing with into account by the Committee in assessing whether to the appointment of his successor.
Formal meetings are held to recommend the Auditor for re-appointment, including: consider standing items of business: there is also a significant the quality both of reports provided to the Committee and the level of ad hoc discussion between members of the Committee, Board, and of advice given: particularly when a recruitment exercise is taking place.
the level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups When considering the appointment of new Directors, the businesses: and Committee draws up specifications, taking into consideration the the objectivity of the Auditors views on the controls existing balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board throughout the Group and its ability to coordinate a global and the ongoing requirements of the Group.
It utilises the audit, working to tight deadlines.
services of external recruitment consultants to identify appropriate candidates, interviews those short-listed and then The Committee has put in place safeguards to ensure that the makes recommendations for each appointment to the full Board.
independence of the external audit is not compromised.
Such Care is taken to ensure that all proposed appointees have safeguards include: sufficient time available to devote to the role and do not have any seeking confirmation that the Auditor is independent of the conflicts of interest.
Company in its own professional judgement: and The Nominations Committee reviews the Companys considering all the relationships between the Auditor and the succession plans.
The Board as a whole also considers this Group, including those relating to the provision of non-audit subject.
Each of Cooksons divisions submit detailed succession services and whether this impairs, or appears to impair, the plans in respect of senior divisional executives to the Board for Auditors judgement or independence.
The Board also considers succession planning for senior corporate executives with the Nominations Committee The Company has a policy governing the Group-wide conduct of focusing in turn, specifically on succession planning for members non-audit work by the Auditor.
Under that policy the Auditor is of the Board.
prohibited from performing services where it: The Chairman of the Nominations Committee reports the may be required to audit its own work: outcome of the Nominations Committee meetings to the Board.
would participate in activities that would normally be undertaken by management: Finance and Share Schemes Committees is remunerated through a success fee structure: or The Board delegates certain responsibilities on an ad hoc basis to acts in an advocacy role for the Group.
the Finance and Share Schemes Committees.
The Finance Committee is chaired by the Group Chairman, its Other than the above, the Company does not impose an other members being the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director automatic prohibition on the Auditor undertaking non-audit work.
The Committee meets as and when required The Auditor is permitted to provide non-audit services that are to consider the approval of treasury-related matters.
not, or are not perceived to be, in conflict with auditor The Share Schemes Committees membership consists of any independence, providing it has the skill, competence and integrity two Directors.
It meets as and when required to undertake to carry out the work in the best interests of the Group.
Details of administrative matters in relation to the Companys share schemes.
the amounts paid to the Auditor during the year for audit and other services are set out in note 8 on page 67.
Executive Committee and Central Executive The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of In addition to the committees of the Board described above, the the Audit Committee meetings to the Board and the Board receives Group has an Executive Committee which supports the Chief the agenda, papers and minutes of Audit Committee meetings.
Executive in addressing Group-wide issues and initiatives.
This Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and comprises the Remuneration Committee Group Finance Director, the Group Secretary and the Chief The Remuneration Committee members are the non-executive Executives of each of the Groups three divisions.
Specific Directors, namely Messrs Hewitt, Oosterveld, Perry and Sussens authority has been delegated to the Central Executive comprising who chairs the Committee.
The Committees principal roles are to the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Group Secretary.
recommend and monitor the level and structure of remuneration The Central Executive is responsible for reviewing and approving for senior management and to set the appropriate remuneration capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals at certain levels as for the Group Chairman, executive Directors and Group Secretary.
Responsibility for day-to-day operational Further details of the activities of the Remuneration Committee are management rests with the divisional Chief Executives.
provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 47.
Cookson Group plc 34 Annual Report 2007 OUR GOVERNANCE Internal control At the year-end, following the review by the Audit Committee The Directors are responsible for the establishment and of internal financial controls and of the processes covering other maintenance of the Groups system of internal control.
controls, the Board evaluates the results of the internal control The Company has complied with the provisions of the Code on and risk management procedures conducted by senior internal control which require that the Directors review the management.
This includes a self-certification exercise by which effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, including senior management certify the effectiveness of the system of financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk internal controls within the businesses for which they are management systems.
Whilst no system of internal control can responsible, together with their compliance throughout the year provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or with the Groups policies and procedures.
loss, the Groups system is designed to provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that problems are identified on a timely Principal risks and uncertainties basis and are dealt with appropriately.
Since the date of the Throughout its global operations, Cookson faces various risks, review, there have been no significant changes in internal both internal and external, which could have a material impact on controls or other matters which could significantly affect them.
Cookson manages the risks There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and inherent in its operations in order to mitigate exposure to all managing the significant risks faced by Cookson.
Group forms of risk, where practical, and to transfer risk to insurers, management operates a risk management process designed to where cost effective.
identify the key risks facing each business and reports to the Audit Committee on how those risks are being managed.
As a Global economic, political and operational risks basis for this report, each of the Groups major business units With operations worldwide, the Groups businesses are subject to produces a risk map which identifies their key risks and assesses various risks inherent in their international operations, including the likelihood of those risks occurring, their impact if they do economic, political and operational risks.
occur and the actions being taken to manage those risks to a The diverse nature of Cooksons products and services, and desired level.
customers and markets served, helps to mitigate the impact of The internal control system is monitored and supported by any individual exposure to economic conditions.
Political risks the Groups Internal Audit function, which operates on a global include the imposition of trade barriers, changes of regulatory basis.
This function assists management and the Board in the requirements and the volatility of prices, taxes and currencies.
effective discharge of their responsibility for internal control by The Group is subject to various legal and regulatory regimes, conducting reviews of Cookson businesses and reporting including those covering taxation and environmental matters.
objectively both on the adequacy and effectiveness of the system The Groups businesses are subject to a variety of operational of internal control in place and as to whether those businesses risks, the occurrence of which could result in a substantial are in compliance with applicable Group policies and procedures.
interruption to a facility and a potential loss of customers and The Group Head of Internal Audit is responsible for developing revenue, which may materially impact the trading results of the function, within the framework of common Group policies and individual facilities, though not necessarily of the Group as a standards, and for carrying out assignments in accordance with whole.
The Group is exposed to possible natural catastrophe risk an annual audit plan approved by the Audit Committee.
The Audit and possible terrorist action.
Management monitors such risks, Committee receives reports from the Group Head of Internal maintaining what it considers to be adequate insurance cover and Audit on a regular basis and reports to the Board on the results adopting business practices as appropriate to mitigate exposure.
As part of the Boards process for reviewing the effectiveness New products, technology and other market risks of the system of internal control, it delegates the following The Group supplies materials and services primarily to the steel matters to the Audit Committee to be carried out during the year: and electronics industries on a global basis and to the jewellery review of external and internal audit work plans: industry primarily in the US and Europe.
These markets and consideration of reports from management, external audit economies are subject to cyclical changes in demand and to and internal audit on the system of internal control and any associated pricing pressures.
Furthermore, the markets in which material control weaknesses: and many of the Groups businesses operate can experience rapid discussions with management on the actions taken on changes due to the introduction of new technologies.
The Groups problem areas identified by Board members, in internal audit continued success depends upon its ability to continue to develop reports or in external audit management letters.
and produce new and enhanced products and services on a cost In addition to the above, the Board considers significant financing effective and timely basis in accordance with customer demands.
and investment decisions concerning the Group, including the In addition, the markets for the Groups products are competitive giving of guarantees and indemnities, and monitors policy and in terms of pricing, product and service quality, product control mechanisms for managing treasury risk.
The Board also development and introduction time, customer service, financing reviews the role of insurance and other measures used in terms and other similar factors.
Cookson invests significant managing risks across the Group, receives regular reports on any amounts in research and development to sustain its competitive major issues that have arisen during the year and makes an advantage and takes appropriate action to ensure that its cost annual assessment of how the risks have changed over the period base remains competitive.
Cookson Group plc 35 Annual Report 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Principal risks and uncertainties continued The Groups current and former businesses have used and or Legislation and regulatory risk continue to use a wide range of hazardous materials, in the Cooksons operations are affected by various statutes, manufacture of industrial and consumer products.
Legal claims have regulations and laws in the countries and markets in which it been brought against certain Group companies by third parties operates.
Cookson cannot predict whether future developments alleging that persons have been harmed by exposure to such in laws and regulations concerning its businesses will affect the materials, and further claims may be brought in the future.
Two of demands of regulatory agencies in a manner which could the Groups subsidiaries are subject to suits in the US relating to a adversely impact the Group.
small number of products containing asbestos manufactured prior to the acquisition of those subsidiaries by the Group.
These suits also Intellectual property risks name many other product manufacturers.
To date, there have been The Group relies on a combination of trade secrets, patents, no liability verdicts against any of these subsidiaries.
confidentiality procedures and agreements, and copyright and Provision is made for amounts payable in respect of known or trade mark laws to protect its proprietary rights.
If the Group fails probable costs.
Management believes, taking into account legal to or is unable to protect, maintain and enforce its existing advice received and the Groups insurance arrangements and intellectual property, it may result in the loss of the Groups financial provisions, that none of the currently pending or exclusive right to use technologies and processes which are potential claims will, either individually or in the aggregate, have included or used in its businesses.
The Groups involvement in a material adverse impact on the Groups financial position or intellectual property litigation could result in significant expense, trading results.
However, the outcome of legal action is uncertain and or materially adversely affect the development of sales of the and there is always the risk that it may prove more costly than challenged product or intellectual property.
All appropriate expected and exceed the level of insurance cover and provisions measures are taken to protect the Groups intellectual property made, resulting in such a material adverse impact.
rights and to minimise the risk of infringement of third-party rights.
Warranties and liabilities relating to divestments Raw materials risk The Group has divested its interests in certain companies and Tin, solvents, alumina, graphite, silver and gold are among the businesses and has given indemnifications, representations and principal raw materials that the Group purchases.
The Groups warranties with respect to the businesses of the divested businesses may be affected by fluctuations in the price and companies at the time of their divestment.
Management believes supply of such raw materials, although purchasing policies and that sufficient provisions are in place to meet possible claims practices seek to mitigate, where practicable, such risks and the resulting from these indemnifications, representations and Groups geographical and product diversity reduces the warranties, however, significant liabilities arising out of these dependence on any single item or supplier.
The Groups ability to transactions may arise in future which have not been provided for.
pass on increases or decreases in the cost of raw materials to its customers is, to a large extent, dependent upon market Post-employment benefit plans conditions, established market practice and terms of trade.
The Group operates defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans, principally in the UK and US, the valuation of Environmental and health and safety risks which reflected a deficit of 96.1 million as at 31 December 2007.
The Group is subject to applicable laws and regulations in all of The funding level of the Groups pension plans and the Groups the jurisdictions in which it operates, including those relating to liabilities in respect of its post-retirement healthcare plans are pollution, the protection of the environment, human health and subject to adverse change resulting from movements in the safety, the disposal of hazardous substances and waste materials actuarial assumptions underlying the calculation of plan and remediation of any land or water contaminated by such liabilities, including decreasing discount rates, increasing substances.
Violations of legal or other regulatory requirements longevity of plan members and, in the case of pension plans, a could result in restrictions on plant operations, the imposition of decline in the market value of plan investments.
Significant more stringent permitting conditions, damages, fines or other adverse changes in these underlying factors could materially sanctions.
The practices and processes of Cooksons businesses impact the Groups financial position.
The Groups largest defined are subject to routine inspections by internal qualified personnel benefit pension plans are in the UK and US, each of which is and by external regulatory or other enforcement bodies.
closed to new members, with the Groups largest US plans also Provision is made for identified remediation obligations related to being closed to further benefit accrual for existing members.
The contaminated sites based on a reasonable assessment of the Groups main pension plan is its UK plan, which had a deficit of likely costs of rectification.
Deficit-reduction contributions of 26.5 million per annum in addition to the normal cash Product liability risk contributions are being made under the terms of a repayment A large proportion of the Groups products are used in the schedule agreed with the plan Trustee in 2006.
To reduce future manufacturing processes of the Groups industrial customers.
If a volatility in the UK plan deficit, the UK plan Trustee, with support product of the Group or of one of the Groups industrial from the Company, entered into swap arrangements and an customers does not conform to agreed specifications or is equity hedge in 2006 to mitigate significantly the impact of otherwise defective, the Group may be subject to claims by its changes in interest rates and inflation on the UK plans liabilities customers arising from end-product defects, injury to individuals and volatility in the equity performance of the plans assets.
Cookson Group plc 36 Annual Report 2007 OUR GOVERNANCE Compliance with covenants in debt agreements Risks related to the proposed acquisition of Foseco plc The Groups ability to meet the financial ratios and tests and Foseco comply with covenants contained in its current or future debt On 11 October 2007 it was announced that the Boards of Cookson agreements could be affected by a material adverse change in and Foseco had reached agreement on the terms of a the financial position of the Group.
In the event of a default under recommended offer for Cookson to acquire the entire issued and to any of its financing arrangements, the Groups lenders could be issued share capital of Foseco plc.
The transaction has recently terminate their commitments to lend to the Group or accelerate been cleared by the competition authorities in the European Union the repayment of debt and declare all amounts borrowed due and United States and approved by Fosecos shareholders.
date of this report, 11 March 2008, the transaction requires approval by Cooksons shareholders at an EGM scheduled later in Precious metal consignment arrangements the day and Court approval of the scheme of arrangement under The Groups precious metal fabrication operations utilise section 425 of the Companies Act 1985.
The acquisition is expected significant quantities of precious metals, primarily gold by value.
Shareholders of Cookson Group plc These metals are held on consignment arrangements, details of were sent, on 19 December 2007, a circular setting out the details which are given in note 27 on page 79.
The utilisation of of and background to the proposed acquisition.
In the circular to consigned precious metals is established practice in the precious shareholders, the Directors set out a number of risk factors relating metals industry.
Should precious metals consignors decide to to the proposed acquisition of Foseco, which are summarised below.
reduce or withdraw the facilities for whatever reason, or require a return of the consigned metal, or increased metal prices mean Expected costs and synergies that the consignment arrangements become fully utilised, the While Cookson believes that the costs and synergies expected to Groups precious metal fabrication operations may suffer arise from the proposed acquisition have been reasonably shortages of raw materials or may require precious metals to be estimated, unanticipated events or liabilities may arise which supplied in a way which could materially increase Group result in a delay or reduction in the benefits derived from the borrowings and costs.
acquisition or in costs significantly in excess of those estimated.
Currency exchange rates, inflation and interest rate risk Integration of Foseco The Group has no control over changes in foreign currency There can be no assurance that the Group will successfully exchange rates, or inflation and interest rates.
In the normal integrate Foseco into its existing operational structure.
There are course of business, transactions are carried out by Group risks associated with diversion of managements attention from companies in currencies other than their reporting currency, other aspects of the business, unanticipated events or liabilities, leading to transactional foreign exchange risk, although these are and difficulties in relation to retaining key personnel or not material for the Group overall.
It is Cookson policy that assimilating operations.
Furthermore, Foseco is party to foreign currency transaction exposures that are material at an agreements with third parties which, without appropriate individual operating unit level are hedged using appropriate consent, contain termination and review rights in favour of the instruments such as forward foreign exchange contracts.
While counterparties to the agreements in the event of a change of the Group attempts to manage transactional and balance sheet control of Foseco.
Whilst Cookson expects the relevant consents translation risks associated with currency exchange rate to be granted for a change of control of Foseco, if these third fluctuations through its hedging and funding policies, party consents cannot be obtained on favourable terms, the fluctuations in the value of currencies in which it operates may combined businesses of Cookson and Foseco may suffer a loss of nevertheless adversely impact the Groups financial position and potential future revenues or an adverse impact on its outflows.
The Group does not currently hedge translation exposures arising on unremitted non-UK earnings.
Financial indebtedness Where appropriate, the Group manages its interest rate The acquisition of Foseco will be financed by cash raised from the exposures using interest rate swap agreements or other 153 million placing of Cookson shares completed on 11 October instruments: however fluctuations in interest rates could 2007 and by debt provided by multi-tranche, multi-currency term adversely impact the Groups financial results.
Significant interest and revolving credit facilities of approximately 950 million.
The rate and currency hedging programmes require the approval of resulting increase to Cooksons financial indebtedness and the Finance Committee of the Board.
gearing, combined with covenants contained in its material debt facility agreements, could: limit flexibility in the management of Credit risk the combined Cookson and Foseco businesses: place Cookson at a Cash deposits and other financial instruments give rise to credit competitive disadvantage compared to any competitors that have risk, represented by the loss that would be recognised should a less debt: increase Cooksons vulnerability to and ability to counterparty fail to perform as contracted.
The counterparties to withstand general adverse economic and industry conditions as the Groups financial instruments are reputable financial well as to withstand cyclical downturns in demand for its products: institutions and the credit rating of these counterparties is limit Cooksons ability to obtain future financing on terms monitored on a regular basis in accordance with Board-approved acceptable to the enlarged group: and affect its ability to obtain guidelines.
Further information relating to the Groups financial raw materials, particularly precious metals, on a consignment risk management can be found in note 4 on pages 62 and 63 and basis.
Cookson intends to reduce and or refinance its indebtedness in note 36 on pages 85 to 88. on commercially acceptable terms when it falls due.
If it is unable to do this, its future prospects, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected.
Cookson Group plc 37 Annual Report 2007
