Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 20 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Directors have reviewed the Groups compliance with the The Board has a clearly documented schedule of matters reserved for its Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial decision, including approval of the Groups strategy, the annual budget, Services Authority in July 2003 the Code.
material capital expenditure, material contracts, customer credit limits above certain levels, major investments and disposals and entering into For FTSE 250 companies, the Code requires that at least half of the material strategic alliances, joint ventures and partnerships.
The Board Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive delegates day-to-day and business management control to the Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
The Group has executive Directors led by the Chief Executive.
not strictly complied with this requirement as there are four executive Directors and only three independent non-executive Directors although The Board receives sufficient management information and reports on the Board also considers the Chairman to be independent.
However, all strategic and significant operational matters on a timely basis.
Senior the Board is of the view that the current balance between executive executives also attend Board meetings as appropriate.
Site visits and and non-executive members produces the right balance of Board briefings by operational management to enhance the Boards debate and is conducive to the good governance of the business.
understanding of the business take place regularly.
Additionally the Chairman continues to be a member of the Training including social, environmental and ethical matters is provided Remuneration Committee, as the Board considers this beneficial in view for new Directors, by means of a tailored induction, and subsequently of his skills and experience.
While this is not in compliance with the as required.
Directors can take independent professional advice where Code, it is permitted under the Revised Combined Code issued in June necessary at the Companys expense and have access to the services of 2006, which will apply to future reporting periods.
the Company Secretary whose appointment is a Board matter and who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and all applicable Subject to the above paragraphs, the Directors confirm that the Group rules and regulations are followed.
Appropriate levels of insurance complied in all respects with the Code throughout the year, as follows: cover are obtained for all Directors and Officers of the Company.
The Board The Board met formally seven times during the year.
There was full The Board is responsible for the Groups strategic development, attendance at all meetings.
During the year, the Chairman met with the monitoring achievement of its business objectives and maintaining other non-executive Directors without the executive Directors present a system of effective corporate governance, which includes the on two occasions, and the Senior Independent Director met with the responsibility for health, safety, environmental, social and ethical other non-executive Directors, without the Chairman present, on one matters.
The Board comprises a non-executive Chairman, three other nonThe Board has delegated certain responsibilities to standing executive Directors and four executive Directors.
All of the Directors Committees, which report back to the Board on the basis of clearly served throughout the year.
The offices of Chairman and Chief defined terms of reference.
Executive are separate and clearly distinct.
The division of their The terms of reference of the Committees are available on the responsibilities is set out in writing and has been agreed by the Board.
com and, in paper form on request, There is no Deputy Chairman.
from the Registered Office of the Company.
The non-executive Directors including the Chairman, are all considered A formal review of Board and Board Committee performance is carried by the Board to be independent of the management and free from any out annually.
The Chairmans performance is reviewed by the business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the Remuneration Committee excluding the Chairman in conjunction with exercise of their independent judgement.
Anita Frew is the Senior the Chief Executive.
The other non-executive Directors performance is Independent Director.
evaluated by the Chairman in consultation with the executive Directors.
Executive Directors performance is reviewed by the Remuneration Committee in conjunction with the Chief Executive, except in the case of his own performance review.
Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 21 Nominations Committee It is also responsible for overseeing all matters associated with the Chairman Peter Warry appointment, terms, remuneration and performance of the external The Nominations Committee, comprising all of the non-executive auditor and for reviewing the scope and results of the audit and its cost Directors and the Chief Executive, is responsible for regularly reviewing effectiveness.
The Committee reviews annually the independence and the structure, size and composition of the Board, including succession objectivity of the external auditor taking into account the non-audit planning and identifying and recommending appropriate candidates for services provided by the firm.
membership of the Board when vacancies arise.
In considering an Such non-audit services require approval by the Committee.
appointment the Nominations Committee evaluates the balance of In considering whether the provision of such services could impair skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and prepares a the external auditors independence or objectivity, the Committee description of the role and capabilities required for a particular is governed by the following guidelines, which are incorporated appointment.
External search consultants are then used to identify in its terms of reference: appropriate candidates.
This procedure was most recently applied for whether the skills and experience of the external auditor make the appointment of Giles Kerr.
The external search consultants used it a suitable supplier of the non-audit service under consideration: were Blackwood Group.
whether there are safeguards in place to ensure that there is no The Nominations Committee is also responsible for annually reviewing threat to objectivity and independence in the conduct of the audit the time required from each non-executive Director.
The Nominations resulting from the provision of such services by the external auditor: Committee met three times during the year and there was full the nature of the non-audit services, the related fee levels individually attendance at all meetings.
and in aggregate relative to the audit fee and, the criteria which govern the compensation of the individuals Based on recommendations from the Nominations Committee, performing the audit.
Directors submit themselves for re-election at the AGM following their appointment and thereafter by rotation, at least once every three years.
In principle the external auditor should not provide any service which: results in the external auditor auditing its own firms work: Remuneration Committee leads to the external auditor making a management decision for the Chairman Anita Frew Company: The Remuneration Committee, comprising all of the non-executive creates a mutuality of interest or, Directors, is responsible for reviewing and recommending the leads to the external auditor being put in the role of advocate for the framework and policy for remuneration of the Chairman, executive Company.
Directors and senior executives, which the Board as a whole is The Audit Committee met three times during the year and there was responsible for approving.
Once approved, the Remuneration full attendance at all meetings, with the exception of Jonathan Azis, Committee is responsible for evaluating the performance and who was unable to attend one meeting.
Only Committee members are determining specific remuneration packages for the Chairman and entitled to attend a meeting.
However, the Chairman, the Finance each executive Director.
The Chairman and executive Directors are Director, the Financial Controller and the External Audit Engagement responsible for the agreement of non-executive Directors remuneration.
Director are normally invited to attend meetings.
Others are also invited During the year the Committee sought advice on executive Directors to attend as appropriate.
A section of at least one meeting each year remuneration from New Bridge Street Consultants LLP.
takes place without management present.
The Remuneration Committee met five times during the year and there At its meeting on 24 November 2006, the Committee reviewed the was full attendance at all meetings.
Companys preliminary announcement of its results for the financial year ended 30 September 2006 and the draft report and accounts for Audit Committee that year.
The external auditor reported to the Committee on the Chairman Giles Kerr conduct of its audit, its review of the accounts, including accounting The Audit Committee, comprising all of the non-executive Directors policies and areas of judgement, and commented on risk management except the Chairman, is responsible for assisting the Board with its and control matters.
The results of regular internal control reviews were responsibilities in respect of external financial reporting.
The Committee carried out the annual appraisal of the reviewing the Groups financial statements, preliminary announcements external auditor including reviewing non-audit fees and the and any formal announcements relating to financial performance, or effectiveness of the audit process.
other statements containing financial information, before submission to the Board for endorsement.
The Committee also reviews the Groups whistleblowing policy.
Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 22 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED At its meeting on 23 May 2007, the Committee reviewed the Relations with shareholders Companys interim results announcement and draft half year report.
The Company is always ready, where practicable, to enter into dialogue The external auditor reported to the Committee on its review.
The with institutional shareholders to promote a mutual understanding of Committee also considered the results of regular internal control objectives.
Institutional investor relations activity is normally reviews.
concentrated in the periods following the announcement of the interim and final results.
More broadly based presentations and site visits are On 24 September 2007, the external auditor presented its proposed arranged when there is a sufficient demand to make it cost effective.
fees and scope for the audit for the year ended 30 September 2007.
The AGM provides the Board with an opportunity to meet informally The Committee also carried out its annual performance appraisal and and communicate directly with private investors.
Proxy votes lodged terms of reference review.
on each AGM resolution are announced.
At its meeting on 27 November 2007, the Committee reviewed the To ensure that the Board, particularly the non-executive Directors, Companys preliminary announcement of its results for the financial understand the views of major shareholders, the Companys brokers year ended 30 September 2007 and the draft report and accounts for provide a summary of feedback from the meetings following the that year.
The external auditor reported to the Committee on the announcement of the interim and final results.
conduct of its audit, its review of the accounts, including policies and areas of judgement, and commented on risk management and control The Board is also regularly provided with summaries of analysts views matters.
The results of internal control matters were also considered.
In addition the Chairman attends analyst briefings The Committee carried out the annual appraisal of the external following results announcements and is available to meet institutional auditor including reviewing non-audit fees and the effectiveness of the shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director and other non-executive audit process.
Directors will attend meetings with major shareholders if requested.
Disclosure Committee Internal control Chairman Peter Warry, David Hummel or Michael Peacock The Group has complied with the Code provisions on internal control The Disclosure Committees responsibilities are to ensure that the by operating throughout the year ended 30 September 2007 and up Companys obligations to make timely and accurate disclosure of to the date of approval of this Annual Report those procedures information in accordance with any applicable law or regulation are necessary to implement the recommendations of the Turnbull met in circumstances where it is impractical for the Board, or any other Committee and by reporting in accordance with these Board Committee with delegated responsibility, to fulfil those recommendations.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups obligations.
In accordance with these responsibilities the Committee system of internal control which covers all controls including financial, may make disclosures on behalf of the Board.
operational, compliance and risk management as further described on page 23 and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed The Committee comprises all Directors of the Company and senior to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business finance executives.
The Chairman of each Committee meeting will be objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance appointed on an ad hoc basis.
A quorum for a Committee meeting will against material misstatement or loss.
be any two Committee members, provided that this includes at least one of the Companys Chairman, the Chief Executive or the Finance Control environment Director.
Meetings of the Committee may be called by any member of The Group maintains a clearly defined and well established control the Committee on any period of notice provided that notice is given to environment.
The Groups strategy is established and periodically all members.
reviewed by the Board and key projects are considered in this context.
The Committee will consider the circumstances that give rise to the The management of the Group is delegated to the Chief Executive potential need for a disclosure, whether it is practical for the Board and his fellow executive Directors.
Authority is delegated to senior or any other Board Committee to consider the potential disclosure and, executives as appropriate and the organisational requirements if it is impractical, the form and content of a disclosure to be made of a rapidly developing business are regularly reviewed.
The Committee will take advice, including advice from the Companys brokers, external auditor and legal advisers, on the form and content of any disclosure under consideration.
Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23 The Group has a comprehensive process of annual budgeting, detailed Profitability can nevertheless vary due to the impact of fluctuating monthly management reporting and regular forecasting linked to the exchange rates on the uncovered portion of the transaction Groups business objectives.
exposures and from revised forecasts of future trading, which can lead to an adjustment of currency cover in place.
The impact of this The Directors have also reviewed the need for an internal audit hedging policy is disclosed in notes 13 and 26 to the financial function and have concluded that there is no requirement at present.
The Group has a clear and ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks, which is managed by the Risk Directors responsibility for preparing financial statements Management Committee.
The Directors are required by UK company law to prepare financial statements which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of Risk Management Committee the Company and the Group as at the end of the year and of the Chairman Tim Walker profit for the year.
In preparing these financial statements, suitable The Risk Management Committee, chaired by the Production and accounting policies, as explained in the notes to the financial Technical Director, comprising two further executive Directors and statements, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and senior executives from the operational, commercial and finance prudent judgements and estimates and applicable accounting functions, is responsible for ensuring that all risks facing the Group standards have been followed.
are reduced to an acceptable level.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that proper and adequate This is achieved by an ongoing review which includes identifying all accounting records are kept, and that reasonable procedures have risks faced by the Group and assessing those risks, whilst recognising been followed for safeguarding the assets of the Group and for existing control measures, so that unacceptable risks are identified.
preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities.
Plans are developed and implemented to eliminate, reduce or transfer these risks where practicable.
The Committee is also responsible for Going concern reviewing the risk management and control process within the Group.
The Directors are satisfied that the Company and Group have The Committee meets quarterly and regularly reports to the Board.
adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future.
In addition, the Board undertakes annually a formal review of the risk For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis for management process and the performance of the Risk Management preparing the financial statements.
Currency Committee Chairman David Hummel The Currency Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, comprising two further executive Directors and senior finance executives, meets monthly to review and manage the Groups currency hedging activities.
The Board is responsible for setting the hedging policy.
Currently the Group exports 97% of sales from the UK.
These sales are primarily denominated in Euro, US Dollar and Yen.
Group hedging policy is to defer the impact on profits of currency movements by hedging: a minimum of 90% and a maximum of 100% of projected transaction exposures arising from trading in the forthcoming six month period: a minimum of 75% and a maximum of 100% of projected transaction exposures arising in the following six month period and, at the Boards discretion a maximum of 75% of projected transaction exposures arising in the further three month period.
