Directors Contents The Board Page The Board is responsible for the overall conduct of the Groups business and Corporate Governance 67 has the powers, authorities and duties vested in it by and pursuant to the Introduction 67 relevant laws of England and Wales and the Articles of Association.
The Board Directors 67 has final responsibility for the management, direction and performance of the Board Committees 69 Group and its businesses.
The Board is required to exercise objective Statement on Internal Control 70 judgement on all corporate matters, independent from executive Control Environment 71 management, and is accountable to shareholders for the proper conduct of the business.
The Board is also responsible for ensuring the effectiveness of Review of Effectiveness 71 and reporting on the Groups system of corporate governance.
Relations with Shareholders 71 Political Donations 72 The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for its decision and Auditors 72 these include: US Listing Requirements 72 Differences from the New York Stock Exchange group strategy: Corporate Governance Practices 72 major capital projects, acquisitions or divestments: The Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 73 Corporate Governance Rating 73 annual budget and operating plan: Report from the Audit Committee 74 Corporate Responsibility and Environmental Issues 75 group financial structure, including tax and treasury: Corporate Responsibility 75 Environmental Issues 76 annual and interim financial results and shareholder communications: Environmental Performance Indicators 77 system of internal control and risk management: and Boards Report to Shareholders on Directors Remuneration 78 Remuneration Committee 78 senior management structure, responsibilities and succession plans.
Remuneration Policy 78 Report on Executive Directors Remuneration for the 2007 The schedule is reviewed periodically.
It was last formally reviewed by the Financial Year and Subsequent Periods 79 Nominations and Governance Committee in September 2005, at which time Audited Information 83 it was determined that no amendments were required.
Its continued validity Directors Statement of Responsibility 88 was assessed as part of the performance evaluations conducted in the 2007 financial year.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors 88 Going Concern 88 Other specific responsibilities are delegated to Board Committees which Managements Report on Internal Control operate within clearly defined terms of reference.
Details of the over Financial Reporting 88 responsibilities delegated to the Board Committees are given on pages 69 to 70.
Corporate Governance The Board meets at least eight times a year and the meetings are structured to allow open discussion.
All directors participate in discussing the strategy, Introduction trading and financial performance and risk management of the Company.
All The Board of the Company is committed to high standards of corporate substantive agenda items have comprehensive briefing papers which are governance, which it considers are critical to business integrity and to circulated one week before the meeting.
maintaining investors trust in the Company.
The Group expects all its directors and employees to act with honesty, integrity and fairness.
The Group will strive to act in accordance with the laws and customs of the countries in which it operates: adopt proper standards of business practice and procedure: operate with integrity: and observe and respect the culture of every country in which it does business.
The Combined Code The Companys ordinary shares are listed in the UK on the London Stock Exchange.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Company is required to state whether it has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2003 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
The FRC issued a revised Combined Code in 2006, applicable for financial years beginning on or after 1 November 2006.
If it was now to be applicable, the Company would be in compliance with the revised Combined Code.
Statement of Compliance with the Combined Code Throughout the year ended 31 March 2007 and as at the date of this Annual Report, the Board confirms that the Company was compliant with the provisions of, and applied the principles of Section 1, of the Combined Code of 2003.
The paragraphs below, together with the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 78 to 87, provide details of how the Company applies the principles and complies with the provisions of the Combined Code.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 67 Go Gov vernanc ernance e Corporate Governance continued a particular responsibility to constructively challenge the strategy proposed The following table shows the number of years directors have been on the by the Chief Executive and executive directors, to scrutinise and challenge Board as at 1 April 2007 and their attendance at Board meetings they were performance, to assess risk and the integrity of financial information and eligible to attend during the 2007 financial year: controls and to ensure appropriate remuneration and succession planning Meetings arrangements are in place in relation to executive directors and other senior Years on Board attended executive roles.
Sir John Bond 2 7 8 John Buchanan 4 8 8 Appointments to the Board Arun Sarin 7 8 8 There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure, which is based on merit Vittorio Colao from 9 October 2006 1 5 5 and against objective criteria, for the appointment of new directors to the Andy Halford 1 8 8 Board.
This is described in the section on the Nominations and Governance Dr Michael Boskin 7 7 8 Committee set out on page 70.
Individual non-executive directors are generally Lord Broers 9 8 8 expected to serve two three-year terms.
At the end of the second three-year Alan Jebson from 1 December 2006 1 4 4 term, a rigorous and detailed analysis is undertaken and only then is a nonNick Land from 1 December 2006 1 4 4 executive director invited to serve a third term.
Our non-executive directors are Anne Lauvergeon 1 7 8 generally not expected to serve for a period exceeding nine years.
The terms Professor Jrgen Schrempp 6 8 8 and conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors are available for Luc Vandevelde 3 7 8 inspection at the Companys registered office and will be available for Anthony Watson 1 8 8 inspection at the AGM from 15 minutes before the meeting until it ends.
Philip Yea 1 8 8 Thomas Geitner until 31 December 2006 n a 5 5 Vittorio Colao, Alan Jebson and Nick Land were appointed during the year Lord MacLaurin until 25 July 2006 n a 2 2 ended 31 March 2007.
Since the end of the 2007 financial year a further nonPaul Hazen until 25 July 2006 n a 2 2 executive director, Simon Murray, has been appointed to the Board with effect Sir Julian Horn-Smith until 25 July 2006 n a 2 2 from 1 July 2007.
Biographical details of Mr Murray are given on page 65.
Penny Hughes until 25 July 2006 n a 2 2 Information and professional development In addition to regular Board meetings, there are a number of other meetings Each member of the Board has immediate access to a dedicated online team to deal with specific matters.
Directors unable to attend a Board meeting room and can access monthly information including actual financial results, because of another engagement, as was the case for a number of directors in reports from the executive directors in respect of their areas of responsibility the year, are nevertheless provided with all the papers and information and the Chief Executives report which deals, amongst other things, with relevant for such meetings and are able to discuss issues arising in the investor relations, giving Board members an opportunity to develop an meeting with the Chairman or the Chief Executive.
understanding of the views of major investors.
These matters are discussed at each Board meeting.
From time to time, the Board receives detailed Chairman and Chief Executive presentations from non-Board members on matters of significance or on new The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and there is a opportunities for the Group.
Financial plans, including budgets and forecasts, clear division of responsibilities that is clearly established, set out in writing are regularly discussed at Board meetings.
The non-executive directors and agreed by the Board to ensure that no one person has unfettered powers periodically visit different parts of the Group and are provided with briefings of decision.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board, and information to assist them in performing their duties.
ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda, and the Chief Executive is responsible for day-to-day running of the business and for ensuring the The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that induction and training implementation of Board strategy and policy.
programmes are provided and the Company Secretary organises the programmes.
Individual directors are also expected to take responsibility for Board balance and independence identifying their individual needs and to take steps to ensure that they are The Companys Board consists of 14 directors, 11 of whom served throughout adequately informed about the Company and their responsibilities as a the 2007 financial year.
At 31 March 2007, in addition to the Chairman, director.
The Board is confident that all its members have the knowledge, Sir John Bond, there were three executive directors and ten non-executive ability and experience to perform the functions required of a director of a directors.
The Deputy Chairman, John Buchanan, is the nominated Senior listed company.
Independent Director and his role includes being available for approach or representation by directors or significant shareholders who may feel inhibited On appointment, individual directors undergo an induction programme from raising issues with the Chairman.
He is also responsible for conducting covering, amongst other things, the business of the Group, their legal and an annual review of the performance of the Chairman and, in the event it regulatory responsibilities as directors of the Company, briefings and should be necessary, convening a meeting of the non-executive directors.
presentations from relevant executives and opportunities to visit business operations.
If appropriate, the induction will also include briefings on the Sir John Bond became the Chairman of the Company following the scope of the Internal Audit function and the role of the Audit Committee, retirement of Lord MacLaurin and John Buchanan succeeded Paul Hazen as meetings with the external auditor and other areas the Company Secretary the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
The Company deems fit, considering the directors area of responsibility.
The induction considers all of its present non-executive directors to be fully independent.
process is designed to: build an understanding of the Group, its businesses The executive directors are Arun Sarin Chief Executive, Vittorio Colao and and the markets and regulatory environments in which it operates: provide an Andy Halford.
overview of the responsibilities of a non-executive director of the Company: establish links to Groups employees: and develop an understanding of the The Board is aware of the other commitments of its directors and is satisfied Groups main relationships.
that these do not conflict with their duties as directors of the Company.
The names and biographical details of the current directors are given on pages 64 The Company Secretary provides a programme of on-going training for the to 65.
Changes to the commitments of the directors are reported to the directors, which covers a number of sector specific and business issues, as Board.
well as legal, accounting and regulatory changes and developments relevant to individual directors areas of responsibility.
Throughout their period in Under the laws of England and Wales, the executive and non-executive office, the directors are continually updated on the Groups businesses and directors are equal members of the Board and have overall collective the regulatory and industry specific environments in which it operates.
These responsibility for the direction of the Company.
Non-executive directors have updates are by way of written briefings and meetings with senior executives and, where appropriate, external sources.
68 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 The Company Secretary ensures that the programme to familiarise the nonCompany Secretary executive directors with the business is maintained over time and kept The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board and to the relevant to the needs of the individuals involved.
The Company Secretary committees of the Board, but the consent of the Board may delegate confers with the Chairman and Senior Independent Director to ensure that responsibility for the administration of the Committees to other suitably this is the case.
He assists the Chairman in ensuring that all directors have full and timely access to all relevant information.
The Company Secretary is Performance evaluation responsible for ensuring that the correct Board procedures are followed and Performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual directors advises the Board on corporate governance matters.
He also administers the takes place on an annual basis and is conducted within the terms of procedure under which directors can, where appropriate, obtain independent reference of the Nominations and Governance Committee with the aim of professional advice at the Companys expense.
The appointment or removal improving individual contributions, the effectiveness of the Board and its of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Committees and the Groups performance.
In previous years, the evaluation was internally facilitated.
Board Committees During the year, the Board conducted, with the assistance of an independent The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Nominations and external facilitator, MWM Consulting, a formal evaluation of its own Governance Committee and a Remuneration Committee, each of which has performance.
The evaluation was designed to determine that the Board was formal terms of reference approved by the Board.
The Board is satisfied that capable of providing the high level judgement required and that, as a Board, the terms of reference for each of these committees satisfy the requirements the directors were informed and up to date with the business and its goals of the Combined Code and are reviewed internally on an ongoing basis by the and understood the context within which it operates.
The terms of reference for all Board committees can be found on the involved the external facilitator separately interviewing each of the directors Companys website at www.
com or a copy can be obtained by and the Company Secretary, with the output from those interviews compiled application to the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
into a report prepared by the external facilitator.
The Board will continue to review its procedures, its effectiveness and development in the year ahead.
The committees are provided with all necessary resources to enable them to undertake their duties in an effective manner.
The Company Secretary acts as The Chairman leads the assessment of the Chief Executive and the nonsecretary to the Nominations and Governance Committee and the Deputy executive directors, the Chief Executive undertakes the performance reviews Group Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Audit Committee and the for the executive directors and the Senior Independent Director conducts the Remuneration Committee.
The minutes of committee meetings are review of the performance of the Chairman.
Each Board Committee circulated to all directors.
undertakes a review of its own work.
Each committee has access to such information and advice, both from within The evaluations found the performance of each director to be effective and the Group and externally, at the cost of the Company as it deems necessary.
concluded that the Board provides the effective leadership and control This may include the appointment of external consultants, where appropriate.
The Nominations and Governance Committee Each committee undertakes an annual review of the effectiveness of its confirmed to the Board that the contributions made by the directors offering terms of reference and makes recommendations to the Board for changes themselves for re-election at the AGM in July 2007 continued to be effective where appropriate.
and that the Company should support their re-election.
Audit Committee Re-election of directors The members of the Audit Committee during the year, together with a record Although not required by the Articles, in the interests of good corporate of their attendance at meetings which they were eligible to attend, are set governance, the directors have resolved that they will all submit themselves out below: for annual re-election at each Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Meetings attended Accordingly, at the AGM to be held on 24 July 2007, all the directors will be Dr Michael Boskin, Chairman 4 4 retiring and, with the exception of Lord Broers who will not offer himself for Lord Broers 4 4 re-election, being eligible and on the recommendation of the Nominations John Buchanan 4 4 and Governance Committee, will offer themselves for re-election.
Vittorio Nick Land from 1 December 2006 1 1 Colao, Alan Jebson and Nick Land having been appointed to the Board during Anne Lauvergeon 3 4 the 2007 financial year, and Simon Murray who was recently appointed with Penny Hughes until 25 July 2006 1 1 effect from 1 July 2007, are required under the Articles of Association to submit themselves for election by the Shareholders at the first AGM following appointment and therefore, being eligible and on the recommendation of the The Audit Committee is comprised of financially literate members having the Nominations and Governance Committee, will retire and offer themselves for necessary ability and experience to understand financial statements.
Solely election at the AGM on 24 July 2007. for the purpose of fulfilling the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Combined Code, the Board has designated John Buchanan, who is an Independent advice independent non-executive director satisfying the independence The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or more of the requirements of Rule 10A-3 of the US Securities Exchange Act 1934, as its directors feel it is necessary to take independent legal and or financial advice at financial expert on the Audit Committee.
Further details of John Buchanan the Companys expense.
There is an agreed procedure to enable them to do so.
can be found in Governance Board of Directors and Group Management.
Indemnification of directors In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to the extent permitted by the law of England and Wales, directors are granted an indemnity from the Company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
In respect of those matters for which the directors may not be indemnified, the Company maintained a directors and officers liability insurance policy throughout the financial year.
This policy has been renewed for the next financial year.
Neither the Companys indemnity nor the insurance provides cover in the event that the director is proven to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 69 Go Gov vernanc ernance e Corporate Governance continued Under its terms of reference, the Audit Committee is required, amongst other Remuneration Committee things, to oversee the relationship with the external auditors, to review the The members of the Remuneration Committee during the year, together with Companys preliminary results announcement, interim results and annual a record of their attendance at meetings which they were eligible to attend, financial statements, to monitor compliance with statutory and listing are set out below: requirements for any exchange on which the Companys shares and debt Meetings attended instruments are quoted, to review the scope, extent and effectiveness of the Luc Vandevelde, Chairman 9 9 activity of the Group Internal Audit Department, to engage independent Dr Michael Boskin 9 9 advisers as it determines is necessary and to perform investigations.
Professor Jrgen Schrempp 6 9 Anthony Watson from 26 September 2006 4 5 The Audit Committee reports to the Board on the quality and acceptability of Philip Yea 9 9 the Companys accounting policies and practices, including without Sir John Bond until 26 September 2006 3 4 limitation, critical accounting policies and practices.
The Audit Committee also plays an active role in monitoring the Companys compliance efforts for Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and receives progress updates at each The Remuneration Committee determines, on behalf of the Board, the of its meetings.
Companys policy on the remuneration of the Chairman, the executive directors and the senior management team of the Company.
The At least twice a year, the Audit Committee meets separately with the external Remuneration Committee determines the total remuneration packages for auditors and the Group Audit Director without management being present.
these individuals, including any compensation on termination of office.
The Further details on the work of the Audit Committee and its oversight of the Chairman and Chief Executive may attend the Remuneration Committees relationships with the external auditors can be found under Auditors and meetings by invitation.
They do not attend when their individual the Report from the Audit Committee which are set out on pages 72 and remuneration is discussed and no director is involved in deciding his own 74. remuneration.
Nominations and Governance Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for appointing any consultants The members of the Nominations and Governance Committee during the in respect of executive directors remuneration.
Further information on the year, together with a record of their attendance at meetings which they were Remuneration Committees activities is contained in Governance Boards eligible to attend, are set out below: Report to Shareholders on Directors Remuneration on pages 78 to 87.
Meetings attended Executive Management Sir John Bond, Chairman 2 2 The executive directors, together with certain other Group functional heads John Buchanan 1 2 and regional chief executives, meet 12 times a year as the Executive Arun Sarin 2 2 Committee under the chairmanship of the Chief Executive.
The Executive Lord Broers 2 2 Committee is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Groups Professor Jrgen Schrempp 2 2 businesses, the overall financial performance of the Group in fulfilment of Luc Vandevelde from 30 January 2007 1 1 strategy, plans and budgets and Group capital structure and funding.
It also The Nominations and Governance Committees key objective is to ensure reviews major acquisitions and disposals.
The members of the Executive that the Board comprises individuals with the requisite skills, knowledge and Committee and their biographical details are set out on pages 64 to 66. experience to ensure that it is effective in discharging its responsibilities.
The Nominations and Governance Committee leads the process for identifying and making recommendations to the Board of candidates for appointment as Statement on Internal Control directors of the Company, giving full consideration to succession planning and the leadership needs of the Group.
It also makes recommendations to Introduction the Board on the composition of the Nominations and Governance The Board has established procedures that implement in full the Turnbull Committee and the composition and chairmanship of the Audit and Guidance, Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Remuneration Committees.
It regularly reviews the structure, size and Code, for the year under review and to the date of approval of the Annual composition of the Board, including the balance of skills, knowledge and Report.
These procedures, which are subject to regular review, provide an experience and the independence of the non-executive directors, and makes ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
It is also faced by the Group.
See page 88 for Managements Report on Internal responsible for the oversight of all matters relating to corporate governance, Control over Financial Reporting.
bringing any issues to the attention of the Board.
Responsibility The Nominations and Governance Committee meets periodically when The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control.
No-one other than members of the Nominations and Governance sound system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate Committee is entitled to be present at its meetings.
Other non-executive the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide directors and external advisers may be invited to attend.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The process of managing the risks associated with social, environmental The Nominations and Governance Committee recommended Vittorio Colao and ethical impacts is also discussed under Governance Corporate for appointment as an executive director and Alan Jebson and Nick Land for Responsibility and Environmental Issues on pages 75 to 76. appointment as non-executive directors during 2006.
Since the end of the 2007 financial year it has recommended the appointment of Simon Murray Control structure as a non-executive director with effect from 1 July 2007.
The Board sets the policy on internal control that is implemented by management.
This is achieved through a clearly defined operating structure with lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
The Executive Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, manages this on a day-to-day basis.
70 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 The Groups brand essence, which encapsulates the Groups commitment to Reports from the external auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, on certain internal integrity and continuous improvement, in combination with the Groups controls and relevant financial reporting matters, are presented to the Audit Business Principles, sets the tone of the Group and reflects the control Committee and management.
Review of Effectiveness Written policies and procedures have been issued which clearly define the Any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can limits of delegated authority and provide a framework for management to provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance of achieving the desired deal with areas of significant business risk.
These policies and procedures are control objectives.
Management is required to apply judgement in evaluating reviewed and, where necessary, updated at Executive Committee meetings.
the risks facing the Group in achieving its objectives, in determining the risks that are considered acceptable to bear, in assessing the likelihood of the risks Control Environment concerned materialising, in identifying the Companys ability to reduce the The Groups operating procedures include a comprehensive system for incidence and impact on the business of risks that do materialise and in reporting information to the directors.
This system is properly documented ensuring the costs of operating particular controls are proportionate to the and regularly reviewed.
Budgets are prepared by subsidiary management and subject to review by The directors, the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer confirm that both regional management and the directors.
Forecasts are revised on a they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and quarterly basis and compared against budget.
When setting budgets and the disclosure controls and procedures through the monitoring process set forecasts, management identifies, evaluates and reports on the potential out above.
The directors, the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer significant business risks.
have evaluated the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures and, based on that evaluation, have concluded that the disclosure controls The Executive Committee and the Board review management reports on the and procedures are effective as at the end of the period covered by this financial results and key operating statistics.
The process followed by the Board in reviewing the system of internal controls accords with the Internal Control Revised Guidance for Emphasis is placed on the quality and abilities of the Groups employees with Directors in the Combined Code Turnbull.
continuing education, training and development actively encouraged through a wide variety of schemes and programmes.
The Group has adopted During the period covered by this Annual Report, there were no changes in a set of values to act as a framework for its people to exercise judgement and the Companys internal control over financial reporting that have materially make decisions on a consistent basis.
affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the effectiveness of the internal controls over financial reporting.
Directors are appointed to associated undertakings and joint ventures and attend the board meetings and review the key financial information of those Relations with Shareholders undertakings.
Clear guidance is given to those directors on the preparation The Company is committed to communicating its strategy and activities that should take place before these board meetings and their activity at the clearly to its shareholders and, to that end, maintains an active dialogue with board meeting.
It is the Groups policy, where possible, that its auditors are investors through a planned programme of investor relations activities.
The appointed as auditors of associated companies and joint ventures.
investor relations programme includes formal presentations of full year and interim results and quarterly statements on key performance indicators.
The The acquisition of any business requires a rigorous analysis of the financial Company holds briefing meetings with its major institutional shareholders in implications of the acquisition and key performance figures.
A sensitivity the UK, the US and in Continental Europe, after the interim results and analysis takes place of the key assumptions made in the analysis.
Post preliminary announcement, to ensure that the investor community receives investment appraisals of the Groups investments are conducted on a a balanced and complete view of the Groups performance and the issues periodic and timely basis.
The Groups policy is to bring acquired companies faced by the Group.
Telecommunications analysts are invited to within its governance procedures as soon as is practicable and, in any event, presentations of the financial results and senior executives across the by the end of the first full year of operation.
business attend relevant meetings and conferences throughout the year.
The Board reviews a half-yearly report detailing any significant legal actions During the year, the Company hosts investors and analysts sessions at which faced by Group companies.
senior management from its largest operating subsidiaries, its largest joint venture and certain associated undertakings deliver presentations which The Executive Committee monitors legal, environmental and regulatory provide an overview of each of the individual businesses.
The Company, matters and approves appropriate responses or amendments to existing policy.
through its Investor Relations team, responds to enquiries from shareholders.
The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer meet regularly with Monitoring and review activities institutional investors and analysts to discuss business performance.
Overall There are clear processes for monitoring the system of internal control and responsibility for ensuring that there is effective communication with reporting any significant control failings or weaknesses together with details investors and that the Board understands the views of major shareholders on of corrective action.
matters such as governance and strategy rests with the Chairman, who makes himself available to meet shareholders for this purpose.
A formal annual confirmation is provided by the chief executive officer and chief financial officer of each Group company certifying the operation of their The Senior Independent Director and other members of the Board are also control systems and highlighting any weaknesses.
Regional management, available to meet major investors on request.
The Senior Independent the Audit Committee and the Board review the results of this confirmation.
Director has a specific responsibility to be available to shareholders who have concerns, for whom contact with the Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer undertake a review of the Financial Officer has either failed to resolve their concerns, or for whom such quality and timeliness of disclosures that includes formal annual meetings contact is inappropriate.
with the operating company or regional chief executives and chief financial officers and the Disclosure Committee.
Shareholders have the opportunity to receive documents such as the Notice of meeting, form of proxy, the Annual Report and Annual Review in electronic The Group Internal Audit Department, reporting directly to the Audit form via the internet rather than in paper through the post.
Shareholders Committee, undertakes periodic examination of business processes on a risk choosing or deemed to have chosen this option will receive a notification basis and reports on controls throughout the Group.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 71 Go Gov vernanc ernance e Corporate Governance continued each time the Company publishes such documentation on its website.
In addition, the Audit Committee pre-approves the audit fee after a review of Shareholders may also appoint proxies and give voting instructions both the level of the audit fee against other comparable companies, electronically.
including those in the telecommunications industry, and the level and nature of non-audit fees, as part of its review of the adequacy and objectivity of the The principal communication with private investors is through the provision audit process.
of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement and the AGM, an occasion which is attended by all the Companys directors and at which all In a further measure to ensure auditor independence is not compromised, shareholders present are given the opportunity to question the Chairman and policies were in place throughout the year to provide for the pre-approval by the Board as well as the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and the Audit Committee of permitted non-audit services by Deloitte & Touche Nominations and Governance Committees.
After the AGM, shareholders can LLP.
Where there was an immediate requirement for permitted non-audit meet informally with directors.
services to be provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP which were not pre-approved by the Audit Committee, the policies provided that the Group A summary presentation of results and development plans is also given at consulted with the Chairman of the Audit Committee, or in his absence the AGM before the Chairman deals with the formal business of the meeting.
Since the year end, the Audit Committee The AGM is broadcast live on the Groups website, www.
com, and a has amended the pre-approval policies and procedures for the engagement recording of the webcast can subsequently be viewed on the website.
All of the Groups auditors to provide non-audit services.
The Audit Committee substantive resolutions at the Companys AGMs are decided on a poll.
The has pre-approved certain specific permitted services that can be engaged by poll is conducted by the Companys Registrars and scrutinised by Electoral Group management subject to specified fee limits for individual Reform Services.
The proxy votes cast in relation to all resolutions are engagements and fee limits for each type of specific service permitted.
The disclosed to those in attendance at the meeting and the results of the poll provision under the policy for the Chairman of the Audit Committee, or in his are published on the Companys website and announced via the regulatory absence another member, to pre-approve services which were not prenews service.
Financial and other information is made available on the approved by the Audit Committee remains.
com, which is regularly updated.
In addition to their statutory duties, Deloitte & Touche LLP are also employed where, as a result of their position as auditors, they either must, or are best Political Donations placed to, perform the work in question.
This is primarily work in relation to Prior to the 2006 AGM, the Board annually sought and obtained shareholders matters such as shareholder circulars, Group borrowings, regulatory filings approval to enable the Group to make donations to EU Political Organisations and certain business acquisitions and disposals.
Other work is awarded on the or incur EU Political Expenditure, under the relevant provisions of the Political basis of competitive tender.
Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 PPERA.
The approval given restricted such expenditure to an aggregate limit of 100,000 in the period of During the year, Deloitte & Touche LLP and its affiliates charged the Group 12 months following the date of the AGM.
7 million 2006: 4 million for audit and audit-related services and a further 3 million 2006: 4 million for non-audit assignments.
An analysis of these At last years AGM, held on 25 July 2006, the directors sought and received a fees can be found in note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
renewal of shareholders approval for a period of three years until the AGM in 2009 to enable the Group to make donations to EU Political Organisations or incur EU Political Expenditure, under the PPERA.
The approval given restricted US Listing Requirements such expenditure for each year until the AGM in 2009 to an aggregate The Companys ADS are listed on the NYSE and the Company is, therefore, amount of 100,000 50,000 in respect of donations to EU Political subject to the rules of the NYSE as well as US securities laws and the rules of Organisations and 50,000 in respect of EU Political Expenditure.
The NYSE requires US companies listed on the exchange to comply with the NYSEs corporate governance rules but foreign private issuers, such The Group has made no political donations during the year.
as the Company, are exempt from most of those rules.
However, pursuant to NYSE Rule 303A.
11, the Company is required to disclose a summary of any Although the directors have received shareholders approval for a three-year significant ways in which the corporate governance practices it follows differ period, as with previous annual approvals, the Group has no intention of from those required by the NYSE for US companies.
A summary of such changing its current policy and practice of not making political donations and differences is set out below.
will not do so without the specific endorsement of shareholders.
The Board obtained the approval on a precautionary basis to avoid any possibility of The Company has also adopted a corporate Code of Ethics for senior unintentionally breaching the PPERA.
executive, financial and accounting officers, separate from and additional to its Business Principles.
A copy of this code is available on the Groups website at www.
Auditors Following a recommendation by the Audit Committee and, in accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution proposing the reDifferences from the New York Stock Exchange appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to the Company will be put Corporate Governance Practices to the 2007 AGM.
Independence In their assessment of the independence of the auditors and in accordance The NYSE rules require that a majority of the Board must be comprised of with the US Independence Standards Board Standard No.
1, Independence independent directors and the rules include detailed tests that US companies Discussions with Audit Committees, the Audit Committee receives in writing must use for determining independence.
The Combined Code requires a details of relationships between Deloitte & Touche LLP and the Company companys board of directors to assess and make a determination as to the that may have a bearing on their independence and receives confirmation independence of its directors.
While the Board does not explicitly take into that they are independent of the Company within the meaning of the consideration the NYSEs detailed tests, it has carried out an assessment securities laws administered by the SEC.
based on the requirements of the Combined Code and has determined in its judgement that all of the non-executive directors are independent within those requirements.
As at the date of this Annual Report, the Board comprised the Chairman, three executive directors and ten non-executive directors.
72 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 Committees based on their knowledge, the financial statements and other financial Under NYSE rules, US companies are required to have a nominating and information fairly present, in all material respects, the financial condition, corporate governance committee and a compensation committee, each results of operations and cash flows as of the dates, and for the periods, composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter that presented in the Annual Report and Form 20-F: addresses the Committees purpose and responsibilities.
The Companys they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls Nominations and Governance Committee and Remuneration Committee and procedures that ensure that material information is made known to have terms of reference and composition that comply with the Combined them, have evaluated the effectiveness of these controls and procedures as Code requirements.
The Nominations and Governance Committee is chaired at the year end, the results of such evaluation being contained in the by the Chairman of the Board, and its other members are non-executive Annual Report and Form 20-F: directors of the Company and the Chief Executive.
The Remuneration Committee is composed entirely of non executive directors whom the Board they are responsible for establishing and maintaining internal control over has determined to be independent.
The Companys Audit Committee is financial reporting that provides reasonable assurance regarding the composed entirely of non-executive directors whom the Board has reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements determined to be independent and who meet the requirements of Rule 10Afor external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting 3 of the Securities Exchange Act.
The Company considers that the terms of principles: reference of these committees, which are available on its website at they have disclosed in the Annual Report and Form 20-F any changes in www.
com, are generally responsive to the relevant NYSE rules but internal controls over financial reporting during the period covered by the may not address all aspects of these rules.
Annual Report and Form 20-F that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the companys internal control over Corporate governance guidelines financial reporting: and Under NYSE rules, US companies must adopt and disclose corporate governance guidelines.
Vodafone has posted its statement of compliance they have disclosed, based on their most recent evaluation of internal with the Combined Code on its website at www.
The Company control over financial reporting, to the external auditors and the Audit also has adopted a Group Governance Manual which provides the first level of Committee all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the the framework within which its businesses operate.
The manual is a reference design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are for Chief Executives and their teams and applies to all directors and reasonably likely to affect adversely the Companys ability to record, employees.
The Company considers that its corporate governance guidelines process, summarise and report financial information and any fraud are generally responsive to, but may not address all aspects of, the relevant regardless of materiality involving persons that have a significant role in NYSE rules.
the Companys internal control over financial reporting.
The Company has carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with The Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 the participation of management, including the Chief Executive and Chief The Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 the Act was passed by the US Congress in Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the July 2002 to establish new or enhanced standards for corporate Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at 31 March 2007.
There are accountability in the US.
As a result of the listing of its securities on the NYSE, inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls the Company must comply with relevant provisions of the Act.
The Company and procedures, including the possibility of human error and the has adopted procedures to comply with all applicable provisions of the Act.
circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures.
Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable Section 302: Corporate responsibility for assurance of achieving their control objectives.
financial reports The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer expect to complete these In relation to Section 302 of the Act, which covers disclosure controls and certifications and report their conclusions on the effectiveness of disclosure procedures, the Company established a Disclosure Committee reporting to controls and procedures on 12 June 2007, following which the certificates the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
It is chaired by the Group will be filed with the SEC as part of the Companys Form 20-F. General Counsel and comprises members of senior management from finance, legal, global business development and corporate communications.
The Committee has responsibility for reviewing and approving controls and Corporate Governance Rating procedures over the public disclosure of financial and related information, In each of the annual reports issued since 2004 by Governance Metrics and other procedures necessary to enable the Chief Executive and Chief International, a global corporate governance ratings agency, the Company Financial Officer to provide their Certifications of the Annual Report on Form was ranked amongst the top UK companies, with an overall global corporate 20-F that is filed with the SEC.
governance rating of ten out of a possible ten.
In completing their certifications, Section 302 requires the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer to confirm that: they have each reviewed the Annual Report and Form 20-F: based on their knowledge, it contains no material misstatements or omissions: Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 73 Go Gov vernanc ernance e Corporate Governance continued Report from the Audit Committee External auditors The composition of the Audit Committee is shown in the table on page 69 The Committee reviewed the letter from Deloitte & Touche LLP confirming and its terms of reference are discussed under Board Committees Audit their independence and objectivity.
It also reviewed and approved the Committee.
scope of non-audit services provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP to ensure that there was no impairment of independence.
During the year ended 31 March 2007, the principal activities of the Committee were as follows: The Committee approved the scope and fees for audit services provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP and confirmed the wording of the Financial statements recommendations put by the Board to the shareholders on the The Committee considered reports from the Chief Financial Officer and appointment and retention of the external auditors.
the Director of Financial Reporting on the half-year and annual financial statements.
It also considered reports from the external auditors, Deloitte Private meetings were held with Deloitte & Touche LLP to ensure that & Touche LLP, on the scope and outcome of the interim review and there were no restrictions on the scope of their audit and to discuss any annual audit.
items the auditors did not wish to raise with management present.
The financial statements were reviewed in the light of these reports and Internal audit the results of that review reported to the Board.
The Committee engaged in discussion and review of the Group Audit Departments audit plan for the year, together with its resource Risk management and internal control requirements.
Private meetings were held with the Group Audit Director.
The Committee reviewed the process by which the Group evaluated its control environment, its risk assessment process and the way in which Audit Committee effectiveness significant business risks were managed.
It also considered the Group The Audit Committee conducts a formal review of its effectiveness Audit departments reports on the effectiveness of internal controls, annually and concluded this year that it was effective and able to fulfil its significant frauds and any fraud that involved management or employees terms of reference.
with a significant role in internal controls.
The Committee was also responsible for oversight of the Groups compliance activities in relation to section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Committee also reviewed and approved arrangements by which staff could, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
This was achieved through using existing reporting procedures and a website with a dedicated Dr Michael Boskin anonymous email feature.
On behalf of the Audit Committee 74 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007
