CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2007 Compliance with the Combined Code As at 14 May 2007 the board comprises Mike Jeffries, Throughout the period of this report the board has been chairman, Paul Lester, chief executive, five independent in compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate non-executive directors and one executive director.
Governance as issued in July 2003 as applicable under Andrew Given is the senior independent director.
the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Biographies of the directors, giving details of their experience and main commitments are set on out pages The Code requires listed companies to report how the 28 to 29. main and supporting principles of the Code have been applied, giving sufficient detail to enable shareholders to The board holds full meetings at least seven times a year, evaluate the report, and to state whether there has been spread across the full calendar year.
In addition there is a compliance with the provisions of the Code and providing separate meeting each year to discuss the strategic plan.
an explanation for any points of non-compliance.
The directors believe that these meetings enable the board to exercise control over the group and remain fully Directors conversant with its activities.
There is a formal schedule The board of matters reserved for the board which only the board The Code requires the company to have an effective itself can change: these matters include the acquisition board whose role is to provide leadership within a and disposal of businesses and significant contractual framework of controls which allow risk to be assessed commitments.
The chairman and non-executives meet at and managed.
The board sets strategic aims and the least annually without the executive directors.
companys values and ensures that obligations to Directors and officers of the group have the benefit of a shareholders are met.
The role of non-executive directors directors and officers liability insurance policy.
During includes the development of strategy, the scrutiny of the year the company agreed to indemnify each director management and ensuring the integrity of financial through a Deed of Indemnity in respect of certain information and risk management systems.
The board liabilities to third parties which may be incurred as a result believes it has met these requirements.
of discharging his or her duties as a director.
A copy of The composition of the board during the year has the Deed of Indemnity is available for inspection from the changed as follows: Chris Rickard was appointed as registered office and at the annual general meeting.
finance director on 1 July 2006 and resigned from the The number of full scheduled board and committee board on 24 April 2007.
Simon Tarrant retired from the meetings attended by each director was as follows: board on 31 March 2007.
Chris Cundy has taken on the role of Commercial and Finance Director until a replacement for Mr Rickard has been appointed.
Director Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Mr M M E Jeffries 7 7 1 1 Mr D M Barclay 7 7 3 3 4 4 1 1 Baroness Blackstone 6 7 4 4 1 1 Lord Boyce 7 7 4 4 1 1 Mr C J Cundy 7 7 Mr A F Given 7 7 3 3 4 4 1 1 Mr P J Lester 7 7 Mr C J Rickard 5 6 Mr S E Tarrant 7 7 Mr D A Thorpe 7 7 3 3 4 4 1 1 54 VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2007 Chairman and Chief Executive Information and professional development The Code requires that there should be a clear division A main principle of the Code is that information of of responsibilities between the running of the board and sufficient quality is supplied to the board in a timely executive responsibility for the running of the business so manner.
The board is supplied with detailed information that no one person has unrestricted power.
several days prior to the board meeting.
The agenda for each board meeting includes substantial reports on The board has met this requirement by establishing all aspects of the groups business and ad-hoc reports clearly defined roles for the chairman and chief executive.
are circulated if decisions are required between formally This division of responsibilities is set down in writing and arranged meetings.
Non-executive directors have ready agreed by the board.
The chairman is responsible for access to executive directors.
Board meetings are held the leadership of the board, ensuring its effectiveness at different company locations during the year as well and setting its agenda.
Once the strategic and financial as at the head office, enabling directors to make site objectives have been agreed by the board as a whole, visits.
Non-executive directors make site visits during the it is the chief executives responsibility to ensure their year and executive directors carry out regular business delivery.
The chief executive is obliged to comply with a reviews at different locations throughout the year.
practical schedule of matters requiring board approval before implementation: this schedule is reviewed at All newly appointed directors are provided with a least annually.
structured induction programme which includes meetings both internally and externally with those principally The current commitments of Mr Jeffries outside the VT involved with the business.
Group are as chairman of Wembley National Stadium Limited and of Wyless Plc and as a non-executive Ongoing training for directors is provided for all directors director of fide la Rue Plc.
to ensure that directors are aware of their responsibilities.
The board is currently reviewing its training needs.
Board balance and independence The company complies with the requirements of the All directors have access to the advice and services of Code that there should be a balance of executive and the company secretary and are able to take independent non-executive directors so that no individual or small professional advice at the companys expense.
group can dominate decision taking.
The board has met Independent advice was taken by the directors during the the Code requirement that at least 50% of the board year in relation to the Deed of Indemnity referred to above.
should be independent throughout the year.
Performance evaluation The board intends to appoint a new executive finance The Code requires the board to undertake a formal and director once a suitable replacement for Mr Rickard has rigorous evaluation of its own performance annually and been identified.
that of its committees and of the directors.
In deciding the chairmanship and membership of board A formal evaluation was conducted by means of detailed committees both the need to refresh membership and questionnaires which were completed by each director.
the skills of the individuals are taken into account.
The answers formed the basis of a review by the whole board led by the chairman.
Comments were invited on a All non-executive directors are considered by the board wide range of issues including board and board committee to be independent.
skill and balance, frequency of meetings, access to At the time of his appointment as chairman, and in management other than executive directors, sufficiency compliance with the Code, Mr Jeffries was considered to of information, achievement of objectives, operational be independent.
issues and monitoring, dialogue with shareholders, rigour of meetings and working relationships.
The chairman has Processes are in place to ensure that, in the event of a discussed the results with each member of the board.
The conflict of interest, this is reported to the board and the performance of the chairman has been subject to appraisal director involved takes no part in the relevant discussion.
by the board, led by the senior independent director.
Non executive directors are not eligible to participate in Re-election the companys share, bonus or pension schemes.
Under the Code directors should offer themselves for Appointments to the board re-election at regular intervals and all the directors submit There is a rigorous and transparent procedure for the themselves for re-election at least every three years.
appointment of new directors, which are made on merit Directors stand for reappointment by the shareholders and against objective criteria.
Heidrick and Struggles were at the first annual general meeting following their retained as consultants for the appointment of Mr Rickard and appointment and subsequently at least every three years.
the Miles Partnership in the search for his successor.
During Non-executive directors are appointed for a term of three the year the company has introduced a talent management years and may be reappointed for a further term of three process with the intent of identifying and managing talent years by agreement of the board.
On appointment each and planning for succession across the group.
non-executive director receives a letter setting out the 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2007 terms of their appointment.
The terms and conditions HR director attend the committee, by invitation, when of their appointment are available for inspection at the appropriate.
No executive is present when the committee registered office on request and at the AGM.
Nonconsiders matters relating to himself.
Mr Jeffries is absent executive directors are not employees and do not when his remuneration as chairman is under consideration.
participate in the daily business of the group.
The committees responsibilities are described in the Remuneration remuneration report on page 58.
Information regarding the remuneration committee is set The committee meets periodically when required but not out on page 58 and the Directors Remuneration report is less than twice a year.
It has access to information and advice both from within Board committees the group and externally, at the cost of the company, as The board has the following standing committees, each it deems necessary.
It is responsible for appointing any has its own terms of reference which are available on consultants in respect of executive remuneration.
request and on the companys website.
Nomination committee The company secretary is secretary to each committee.
Members during the year were: Mr M Jeffries, Baroness Audit committee Blackstone, Lord Boyce, Mr D Barclay, Mr A Given and Members during the year were: Mr A F Given chairman, Mr D Thorpe.
Mr D Barclay and Mr D A Thorpe.
The finance director Directors appointments are considered before formal and a representative of the external auditors attend by approval by the board and the committee aims to maintain invitation.
The committee meets at least twice a year and a proper balance between executive and non-executive at least once a year there is an opportunity for the external directors in accordance with the Code.
auditors to discuss matters with the committee without the The committee leads the process for identifying, and executive directors being present.
recommending, candidates for appointment as directors, The board has determined that the committee members giving full consideration to succession planning and have sufficient skills and experience to contribute the needs of the group, including qualifications and meaningfully to the committees discussions.
The expertise to guide the strategy of the group.
Before chairman of the committee has the required experience concluding arrangements with any preferred candidate for in accounting and financial management.
The committee appointment to the board, the committee satisfies itself takes regard of the guidance in the Combined Code on that their other commitments are not such that would Audit Commitees.
adversely affect their ability to devote adequate time to the The committee has set parameters so that the position.
The committee reviews the structure, size and independence of the external auditors is not prejudiced composition of the board.
It also makes recommendations when undertaking non-audit work.
Depending on the to the board on the composition of the board committees.
nature of the work it is either prohibited or requires prior No-one other than members of the committee is entitled to approval from the finance director or committee, as be present at its meetings but non-executive directors are appropriate.
Non-audit work includes tax advice and invited to attend.
The committee meets when required.
mergers and acquisitions due diligence.
The company has The committee has access to such information and advice appointed a different firm of accountants from its auditors as it may require both from within the group and externally, as its principal tax advisor.
The cost effectiveness and and at the cost of the company.
This may include the impact on any corporate relationship with the auditors are appointment of external search consultants.
considered when awarding non-audit work.
In turn, the Group Executive Committee external auditors have in place processes to ensure that The group executive committee GEC is the chief their independence is maintained.
For details of fees paid executives committee and is responsible for managing the to the auditors, see note 7 to the financial statements.
Its members are the executive directors together Remuneration committee with the managing directors of the business units, the Members during the year were: Mr D A Thorpe Chairman, group HR director and the company secretary.
It meets Baroness Blackstone, Lord Boyce, Mr A F Given and fortnightly throughout the year.
Members who are not Mr D Barclay.
board directors are invited to make presentations to the The committee is comprised exclusively of non-executive board during the year.
The GEC focuses on operational directors.
The chairman, chief executive and group performance and decision making.
56 VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2007 Accountability and audit The processes used by the board to review the Financial reporting effectiveness of the system of internal controls include The board is required to present a balanced and the following: comprehensive assessment of the groups position annual budgets are prepared for each operating and prospects and is satisfied it has met this obligation.
business and compared with monthly management A summary of the directors responsibilities for the reporting, which focuses on actual performance financial statements is set out on page 66. against these budgets: Organisation management reports, internal and external audit The group has a defined structure in which operational reports on the system of internal controls and any management have detailed responsibilities and levels of material control weaknesses that are identified: authorisation.
The group has a code of business ethics setting out principles to be followed by all employees discussions with management including discussions on in the course of business.
A confidential telephone line the actions taken on problem areas identified by board is available for staff to report concerns with regard to members or in the internal and external audit reports: conduct and all calls are investigated.
policies and procedures for such matters as delegation Ethical trading of authorities, capital expenditure and treasury Further information on the groups ethical trading policies management as well as regular updates: is given in the corporate responsibility report on page 31. review of the adequacy of the level of experienced Internal controls and professional staff throughout the business and Following the publication of guidance for directors the expertise of individual staff members so that they Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the are capable of carrying out their individual delegated Combined Code the Turnbull guidance, the board responsibilities: confirms that the group has established processes and review of major tenders which are specifically approved procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing by the board and contract performance which is the significant risks faced by the group.
The processes regularly reviewed and compared against estimates have been embedded into the fabric of the group and drawn up at the time of original tender: have been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial review of the external and internal audit work plans: and statements.
The processes and procedures are regularly all directors receive a copy of the monthly reviewed by the board.
The board is ultimately responsible for the groups system The groups management operates a risk management of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The process, which identifies the key risks facing each role of management is to implement board policies on risk business.
The process is based on each business unit and control.
The system of internal controls is designed producing a risk register which identifies the potential key to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure of risks to the individual business unit, the impact should the achievement of business objectives.
In pursuing they occur and the action being taken to manage those these objectives, internal controls can only provide risks sufficiently.
Internal audit independently review reasonable and not absolute assurance against material the risk identification procedures and control process misstatement or loss.
implemented by management and report to the audit A process of control self-assessment and hierarchical committee twice per annum.
The audit committee review reporting has been established which provides for a the assurance procedures, ensuring that an appropriate documented and auditable trail of accountability.
These mix of techniques is used to obtain the level of procedures are relevant across all group operations: assurances required by the board.
The audit committee they provide for successive assurances to be given at chairman presents their findings to the board on a six increasingly higher levels of management and, finally, to monthly basis or more frequently as appropriate.
This process is facilitated by internal audit, Going concern which also provides a degree of assurance as to the After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable operation and validity of the system of internal controls.
expectation that the group has adequate resources to Internal audit ensure that corrective action is taken to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable rectify any weaknesses.
During the year, the internal audit future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going function was outsourced to Grant Thornton.
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
