BUsinEss REViEW Nature, strategy and prospects Financial performance Business division operating review Resources, risks and relationships Resources, risks and relationships Resources Management throughout the group uses a common The group aims to safeguard the assets that give it framework to identify and assess the impact of risks competitive advantage, being its reputation for quality to their businesses.
For each risk the likelihood and and reliability, its intellectual capital and its people.
consequence are identified, management controls and frequency of monitoring are confirmed and results Reputation reported.
The corporate governance report on pages 54 Codes of conduct operate across the group to provide to 57 describes more about the groups risk management a framework for responsible innovative and ethical processes.
The board considers that the principle risks yet commercial business practices.
Structures for to achieving its objectives are set out below.
accountability through operating units to managing directors and from them to the group board are Political risk clearly defined.
Given that a large proportion of the groups activities Employees are derived from government authorities, the groups Information about our people is provided in the business is susceptible to changes in government Corporate Responsibility report on pages 34 to 39. policy, budget allocations and the changing political environment, both in the Uk and worldwide.
The group Environmental matters has sought to mitigate this risk in recent years by Environmental matters are discussed in the Corporate diversifying the service offering from a largely Uk Responsibility Report on pages 46 to 49. based defence orientated business to provision of a broader range of services on an international basis.
Principal risks and uncertainties The board is committed to ensuring that high quality risk management systems are in place across the group.
The objective is to safeguard the interests of shareholders, customers and staff through effective management of corporate and operational risk.
Vt gROUP Plc annUal REPORt & accOUnts 2007 contract management going concern The groups largest operational risk remains the After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable management of ongoing long-term contracts to expectation that the group has adequate resources to customer satisfaction.
This is managed via regular continue in operational existence for the foreseeable project appraisals and continued dialogue with the future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going customers as programmes progress.
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The business review and certain other sections of this Major bid pricing annual report contain forward looking statements that Given the long-term nature of contracts that the group are subject to risk factors associated with, amongst enters into, there is a risk that unfavourable terms could other things, the economic and business circumstances be negotiated at inception leading to less than expected occurring from time to time in the countries and returns.
The group manages this risk via a rigorous bid sectors in which the group operates.
It is believed acceptance process, ultimately involving main board that the expectations reflected in these statements are approval for major bids.
reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results to differ Entering new markets materially from those currently anticipated.
The groups expansion encompasses organic growth, acquisitions and potentially entering into new market On behalf of the board opportunities.
Both acquisitions and the entry into new markets bring with them an extra element of risk as these may involve activities not currently carried out by the group.
All such activities require main board approval, Paul lester after having carefully considered the groups ability to ChiefExecutive 14 May 2007 manage and fund any new activities arising.
