CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Chief Executives statement Marketplace Workplace Community Health and safety Environment Governance About this corporate responsibility report The report this year has been expanded to include our its major institutional shareholders, both current and US operations and our joint ventures flagship and fSL.
Regular visits are made to institutions offices We have recently strengthened our US business with the and there are reciprocal visits to thegroups premises.
acquisition of Milcom Systems Corporation.
Milcom is not Comment and opinion from shareholders and their included in this CR report.
representatives is regularly provided to directors.
The chairman is available to visit major shareholders during The period covered by this report is the 12 months the year and the senior independent director is available to March 2007. further development of stakeholder to attend meetings as required.
engagement processes is an integral part of the new Corporate Responsibility Task Group and the needs of The chief executive and finance director communicate our stakeholders will continue to inform our reporting.
with institutional investors through analysts briefings Our internal engagement programmes have informed us and investor meetings as well as making timely stock that our employees should remain a focus of particular exchange announcements.
The framework of the most Private shareholders recently published Guidelines of the Global Reporting The annual general meeting will again be held in the Initiative GRI3 has guided the scope and content, and the Southampton area as this is convenient for a significant report will be self-declared to the GRI.
number of employee and retired employee shareholders, The VT Group Corporate Responsibility report is who are actively encouraged to attend the AGM.
The published as part of the annual report and accounts and company recognises the importance of communicating the auditors scrutinise it to ensure it is not inconsistent with its shareholders including those with and without with the audited sections of the annual report.
is also published on our website at www.
The AGM Understanding the wishes of our stakeholders All directors normally attend the AGM and shareholders In the Marketplace and Workplace sections of this report, are invited to ask questions during the meeting and to we describe our approach to listening to, and partnering meet the directors informally afterwards.
with, our customers, suppliers, and our employees.
The results of votes on all resolutions put to the AGM will Institutional Shareholders be available on the companys website, together with The company is required to have a dialogue with details of proxy votes cast for each resolution, whether or shareholders and it adopts a pro-active approach to not a poll is demanded.
50 VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Investment in new transmitters at VT Communications facility at Wooferton, Shropshire will reduce the sites carbon footprint by 25% Now you tell us How did we do this year?
What do you wish to see in our future Corporate Responsibility reporting?
Write to us: Barbara Harrison, CR Feedback, VT House, Grange Drive, Hedge End, Southampton, SO30 2DQ Call us: 44 0 23 8083 9001 e-mail us: cr@vtplc.
