Corporate Governance Statement The Combined Code A formal process for evaluating the performance of the Board is The Company remains committed to the highest standards of undertaken annually.
This process is conducted internally based corporate governance and manages its affairs in accordance with on a detailed questionnaire completed by each director and the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined individual and collective discussions.
Code issued by the Financial Services Authority in June 2006.
The evaluation examines the balance of skills of the directors, During the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2007, the Company the operation of the Board in practice including its corporate complied with the Combined Code provisions.
This statement governance and the operation and content of board meetings.
describes how the Company has applied the Combined Code.
The findings are used to assist the Board in its consideration of The Board the opportunities for improvement in the performance of the The Board comprises the chairman, chief executive, group finance Board and its directors.
director, legal and commercial director and five non-executive During 2007, the Board also conducted an internal review of directors, all of whom are independent.
The Board meets regularly the effectiveness of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration throughout the year with ad hoc meetings as necessary.
In the Committees incorporating a questionnaire covering such matters year to 28 December 2007, the Board met seven times.
Meetings as the role and organisation of each committee, meeting are held at the head office in Glasgow, London at the time of the arrangements, information provision and effectiveness.
Following Companys annual and interim announcements and at operating completion of these questionnaires by the members of each locations.
The following table identifies the number of board and committee, the chairman met with the respective chairmen of the committee meetings held during the past year and the attendance Audit and Remuneration Committees to discuss the feedback.
The record of individual directors.
results of this evaluation were reported to the Board and, where Committee Meetings areas for improvement had been identified, actions were agreed.
Board Meetings Audit Remuneration Nomination Additionally, a one-to-one appraisal of all board members is No.
of meetings in year 73 45 undertaken annually, including the chairman, whose appraisal is carried out by the senior non-executive director, with input Sir Robert Smith 75 from other board members.
Christopher Clarke 7 3 4 Keith Cochrane 7 There is an agreed procedure for directors, where appropriate, Michael Dearden 7 3 45 to take independent professional advice on any matter at the Stephen King 73 Companys expense.
The company secretary is responsible for Alan Mitchelson 7 ensuring that board procedures are followed and all directors have Professor Ian Percy 745 direct access to the advice and services of the company secretary.
Lord Robertson 64 The company secretary is also responsible for facilitating the Mark Selway 75 induction and professional development of the board members and information flows within the Board, its committees and between the non-executive directors and senior management.
Directors appointed to the Board other than at an annual general There is an agreed list of matters which requires to be authorised meeting of the Company are required to retire at the following by the Board, such as the approval of the Group strategic plan, annual general meeting when they may offer themselves for Group budget and risk management strategy.
One third of the remaining members of the Board and disposals, as well as major capital spend, are authorised by or, where that number is not a whole number, the nearest lower the Board and are subsequently monitored by the Board after whole number are required to retire by rotation, subject to all execution.
The Board also approves the issue of full year and directors submitting themselves for re-election at least once every interim reports.
In line with best practice under the Combined Code, All directors bring their own independent judgement to all major any director who has held office for more than nine years is matters affecting the Group.
Each of the non-executive directors is required to submit himself for re-election annually.
considered by the Company to be independent.
Notwithstanding On joining the Board, directors are provided with documentation his presence on the Board for a period of more than nine years, on the Company and its activities.
New directors are provided the Board considers Professor Percy, who continues to be a member with an appropriate induction programme and, where appropriate, of the Board and the Remuneration and Nomination Committees, site visits are arranged to major business units.
Ongoing training to be independent in character and judgement.
He brings a wealth is provided as necessary.
of experience to the Boards deliberations and is considered to be free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with his independent judgement.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007 29 Corporate Governance Statement Continued The views of executive directors are not limited to those General Administration Committee operational or functional areas for which directors have prime The principal duties of the General Administration Committee are responsibility.
Board and committee papers are sent to directors to allot shares under the various share option schemes and other in sufficient time before meetings and any further back-up papers matters of a routine nature.
This Committee comprises the and information are readily available to all directors on request to executive members of the Board and meets as required.
The chairman ensures that non-executive Other committees directors are properly briefed on any issue arising at board The other board committees are the Audit Committee, meetings and non-executive directors have access to the the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee chairman at any time.
details of which are contained on pages 32 to 39.
The roles of chairman and chief executive are separate.
Principles of business conduct The chairmans primary role is to ensure that the Board is As an international company, the Groups approach to effective in its task of setting and implementing the Companys maintaining high ethical standards is critical to its business direction.
The chief executive is responsible for management success.
The Groups Operating Policies, which provide guidance of the business and developing the appropriate organisational in this area, have been communicated throughout the Group structure for a global organisation.
The chief executive chairs through its intranet.
A copy is available from the Group the Group Operations Executive Committee.
These policies are reviewed on a regular basis.
The non-executive directors are independent of management.
Shareholders None of the non-executive directors has any material business or The Company maintains regular dialogue with its shareholders.
other relationship with the Company.
Each member of the Board The investor relations programme includes formal presentations has considerable experience at senior level in other companies, of full year and interim results.
Feedback from these presentations which allows for well informed and broadly based debate.
is reported to the Board, which gives investors an opportunity to The Board structure ensures that no individual or group comment on the quality of the communications they receive in dominates the decision-making process.
Professor Ian Percy their contact with the chief executive and group finance director.
has been designated the senior non-executive director to Attendees at the results presentations include the chairman, the whom any concerns can be conveyed.
executive directors and the senior non-executive director.
The The executive directors have contracts of service with one years Company also encourages communication with private shareholders notice, whilst non-executive directors are appointed on a throughout the year and welcomes their participation at shareholder rotational basis for periods of up to three years.
In addition to the chairmans statement at the annual general meeting, a trading update to shareholders is given and Board committees details of the Companys trading activities are on display.
The Where appropriate, matters are delegated to board committees, directors attend the annual general meeting when the chairmen all of which have written terms of reference which are available of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are on the Companys website.
The company secretary acts as available to answer questions.
secretary to all these committees.
Notice of the annual general meeting is sent to shareholders at Group Operations Executive Committee least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Company conducts The Group Operations Executive Committee is responsible for the vote at the annual general meeting by electronic poll and the ensuring that each of the Groups businesses is managed effectively result of the votes including proxies is published on the Companys and that the operational objectives of the Group, as approved by website after the annual general meeting.
Its role includes the preparation of the Group budget for approval by the Board, management of business Communications performance to achieve the Group budget, establishing and The Board considers that the annual report and financial statements maintaining reporting systems providing clear and consistent and interim statements present a balanced and understandable information on all aspects of business performance, managing assessment of the Groups performance and prospects.
In addition and minimising corporate risk and ensuring that the necessary to information which any company is under a legal or regulatory mechanisms are in place to achieve effective inter-divisional requirement to publish, the Group frequently publicises other co-ordination in areas such as purchasing, branding and career business developments through the national or specialised development planning.
It also approves major items of capital press or in its own newspapers and bulletins which have expenditure within limits authorised by the Board.
Operations Executive Committee meets each month.
Its The Companys website at www.
co. uk provides additional membership comprises the chief executive, group finance company information, is regularly updated and includes the director, legal and commercial director and the four divisional presentations to shareholders given at the announcements of the managing directors.
In the year to 28 December 2007, full year and interim results.
The website also contains an online the Group Operations Executive Committee met 12 times.
version of the notice of the annual general meeting, the annual report and financial statements and the interim report.
30 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Internal control The Board has monitored the effectiveness of the Groups system In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal control, of internal control during the year.
This is refined as necessary the Board ensures that there is an ongoing process for identifying, to meet changes in the Groups business and associated risks.
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by Group Regular performance reports are provided to the Group Operations companies.
This process has been in place throughout 2007 Executive Committee and or the Audit Committee or the Board.
and up until the date of this report, except that it did not apply Where weaknesses are identified, plans and timetables for to the Groups material joint ventures and associates.
As part addressing them are also reported.
of the integration programme, Weir SPM did not become fully In addition to the Group Risk and Control Framework, other integrated into the Risk and Control Framework and the Group procedures which are fundamental to the Groups system of system of internal control until September 2007.
As part of the internal control are as follows: integration plan, Weir Multiflo will be integrated into the Framework during 2008.
Control environment There is a clearly defined organisational structure within which The directors have overall responsibility for the Groups system individual responsibilities are identified and monitored.
Businesses of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board follow well understood procedures and are required to comply delegates to executive management the responsibility for designing, with them.
operating and monitoring both the system and the maintenance of effective internal control in each of the businesses which comprise Main control procedures the Group.
In addition, each operating company is responsible for The Group has identified a number of key areas which are the operation of key internal controls and to formally assess the subject to regular reporting to the Board.
These controls effectiveness of the internal control environment through the include procedures for seeking and obtaining approval for submission, twice yearly, of the financial scorecard.
An internal audit function is in place to review and challenge the Group-wide standards effectiveness of key internal controls and to suggest relevant actions There are, for application throughout the Group, operating to address potential weaknesses.
The internal audit review programme policies and a standards manual which set out policies and is based on a risk based approach that helps to prioritise resource procedures with which all Group companies are required to upon the areas of perceived greatest risk to the Group.
The manual is communicated to all Group operating is supplemented by a number of peer reviews that seek to further companies through the Group intranet.
monitor and evaluate the process of internal control and share The managing directors are responsible for ensuring that each best practice around the Group.
company observes and implements the policies and procedures Internal audit and peer review reports are provided to the set out in the manual which was reviewed in 2006.
Group Operations Executive Committee as well as to the Audit Information systems Committee which considers and determines relevant action in There is a comprehensive budgeting system in place with an respect of any control issues raised.
annual budget approved by the Board.
Management information As part of the control framework, each Group operating company systems provide directors with relevant and timely reports that and business prepares a Risk and Control Framework for their identify significant deviations from approved plans and include respective business.
As part of this process, the operating companies regular re-forecasts for the year.
prepare a report identifying the relative probability and severity of The Groups internal control procedures described in this section the risks identified, the process for managing and mitigating these have not been extended to cover its interests in joint ventures.
risks and the means by which management might be assured that The Group has board representation on each of its joint venture the processes are effective.
These frameworks are considered and companies where separate systems of internal control have approved by the chief executive, group finance director and the been adopted.
In addition, a Group Risk and Control Framework is prepared, taking account of the significant risks identified by the individual units together with other group-wide risks.
The Group Risk and Control Framework is considered and adopted by the Board which is responsible for the risk management strategy.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007 31
