Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee is charged with responsibility to the Board e the scope of the function and the findings of internal audit for satisfying itself, on behalf of the Board as a whole, that the reviews undertaken by  LLP and the financial affairs of the Group are conducted with openness, integrity Internal Auditor: and accountability and in accordance with such existing statutory f Corporate Governance Reporting: and regulatory provisions and codes as are applicable to the Group and to report on these matters to the Board.
g the fees for Ernst & Young LLP for 2007: Its duties are to: h the audit strategy for year end 2007 audit: consider the appointment, resignation or dismissal of the i the fraud and error guidelines contained in IAS240: and auditors and the level of audit fee: j the Group 'whistleblowing' policy.
discuss with the auditors the nature and scope of the audit: Both the Group internal auditor and  LLP review the draft interim and annual financial statements before undertake their activities in conjunction with the Groups usual submission to the Board for approval: peer group review process.
discuss any problems and reservations arising from the annual The Committee maintains a policy on the appointment and role audit and any matters the auditors may wish to raise: of the auditors.
This includes guidelines on their appointment which is subject to review at least every five years and on their discuss with the auditors the Groups system of internal financial ongoing work to ensure that the independence of the Groups controls and any auditors recommendations for improvement: auditors is not threatened, particularly by the provision of nonconsider the findings of internal investigations and audit services.
Prior approval of the Committee is required where managements response: the expected cost of non-audit services provided by the appointed external auditors is in excess of 75,000. oversee the implementation of systems for financial control and risk management: The day-to-day implementation of the Committees policy is delegated to the group finance director who in turn monitors pre-approve non-audit services provided by the auditor: the business units to ensure that all engagements fall within the review the internal audit programme and its implementation: Committees guidelines.
Fees payable to Ernst & Young LLP in respect of audit and assurance services of 1.6m 2006: 1.0m receive and review internal audit reports: and transaction support services of 0.7m 2006: nil in respect review treasury policy.
of 2007 were approved by the Committee.
The chairman of the Committee is Stephen King.
The other The Group maintains a whistleblowing policy in line with the members of the Committee are Christopher Clarke and Michael Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 to enable employees, on a Dearden.
The secretary to the Committee is Alan Mitchelson.
confidential basis, to raise concerns internally in cases where they In addition the chief executive, group finance director and the believe they have discovered malpractice or impropriety.
This is internal and external auditors also attend each meeting.
The reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Complaints can be made either Board is satisfied that Stephen King has recent and relevant to line managers or directly to the company secretary who will financial experience.
Action will be taken in cases where the complaint is shown to be justified and at all times the The Committee has the ability to call on the Groups staff to assist complainant is informed of progress and outcomes.
In addition, in their work and also has access to independent advice.
The the auditors Ernst & Young LLP can be brought in to review chairman of the Committee receives additional remuneration procedures if appropriate.
The whistleblowing policy is for his duties, details of which are set out on page 36.
The Committee published on the Group intranet.
meets each January, March and August and at other times as appropriate.
During the March meeting the Committee undertakes The Committees terms of reference are available from the a full review of the audit with the Groups auditors.
company secretary on request and can also be found on the Companys website.
There were three meetings in 2007.
In the course of 2007, the Committee discussed the following matters: a operational issues identified by the auditors in both their audit and interim review: Stephen King b the Internal Audit Charter and Strategy: Chairman of the Audit Committee Signed and approved for and on behalf of the Board c the Group Risk and Control Framework: 11 March 2008 d the Group accounting policies: 32 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007
