Nomination Committee Report During 2007, the members of the Nomination Committee were Sir Robert Smith chairman, Michael Dearden, Professor Ian Percy, Lord Robertson and Mark Selway.
Alan Mitchelson acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and at other times when necessary.
The Committee uses external search consultants to assist it in its work.
The Committee primarily monitors the composition and balance of the Board and its committees and identifies and recommends to the Board the appointment of new directors.
The Committees terms of reference establish a framework through which it can operate to ensure the selection process of board candidates is conducted in a formal, disciplined and objective manner.
When considering candidates, the Committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for the particular appointment.
The Committee also reviews the succession planning and leadership needs of the organisation and ensures that, on appointment, all directors receive a formal contract or letter of appointment as appropriate.
The Committees terms of reference are available from the company secretary and can also be found on the Companys website.
Appointments to the Board are approved by the Board as a whole.
However, it is the role of the Committee to make recommendations to the Board in respect of the appointment of new executive or non-executive directors.
The process by which the Committee brings candidates to the Board has been agreed by the Board.
In the case of executive directors, the Committee has recommendations presented to it by the chief executive and thereafter nominates candidates for consideration by the Board.
The procedure for non-executive directors is that the Committee identifies and nominates candidates for consideration by the Board to fill vacancies as and when they arise.
During the year the Committee reviewed: a the Groups current committee structure and procedures including the composition and membership of each of the board committees: b the training for directors: c the board evaluation process: and d the progress on the recruitment of the successor to Christopher Clarke.
Sir Robert Smith Chairman of the Nomination Committee Signed and approved for and on behalf of the Board 11 March 2008 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007 33
