48723 MG Annual Report - Mid 17 4 08 11:42 Page 49 Wellstream Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 | 49 Audit Committee Report Summary of the role of the Audit Committee Overview The Audit Committee arrangements that were in place prior to the IPO were revised in March 2007 to reflect those appropriate for a publicly quoted company.
New Terms of Reference were approved and the executive directors who had been members were replaced by two independent non-executive directors among whom Neil Gaskell was appointed as Chairman.
During the remainder of 2007, the Audit Committee ensured that steps were taken to establish the appropriate arrangements including all those required to meet the requirements of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance except that the composition of the Committee included Nils Stoesser who is a non-independent non-executive director because the Committee wished to benefit from his extensive prior experience on the Companys Audit Committee.
This report describes how the Audit Committee has carried out its work and discharged its responsibilities.
As reported in the Corporate Governance Report in this Annual Report, the Company joined the main List of the London Stock Exchange on 1 May 2007 when the Audit Committee comprised two independent non-executive directors and one non-independent non-executive director.
A further independent non-executive director joined the Committee in July 2007.
The names and qualifications of the members of Committee are given in the Corporate Governance Report on page 46 and in the directors biographies on pages 34 - 35.
The Committee met five times during the year of which three meetings were after Admission and attendance is indicated in the table on page 45.
The Audit Committee invites the Group Finance Director, the Internal Auditor, and senior representatives of the external auditors to attend all of its meetings.
Other senior management are invited to attend as required for the Committee to discharge its duties.
Summary of the role of the Audit Committee The Audit Committees role is to assist the Boards oversight of:  the integrity of the Companys financial statements  the Companys compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements  the external auditors qualifications and independence  the performance of the Companys internal audit function, and of the external auditors  the adequacy of the Companys financial disclosure, and  the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal control systems.
During the year the principal activities of the Committee have been to:  approve new Terms of Reference which are publicly available on the investor relations section of the Companys website www.
com which will be reviewed annually in future  approve the terms of the external auditors appointment, audit plan and remuneration for 2007  authorise and oversee the establishment of an Internal Audit department which started operation in September 2007 with a programme of work approved by the Committee  considered the output from the group-wide process used to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks and agreed with management an enhanced group risk management process  review the unaudited interim report for the first half of 2007, issued in September 2007 and monitored compliance with IFRS reporting standards.
48723 MG Annual Report - Mid 17 4 08 11:42 Page 50 50 | Audit Committee Report continued The Audit Committee evaluates and makes recommendations to the Board about the appropriateness of the accounting policies and practices, areas of judgement, compliance with Accounting Standards, stock exchange and legal requirements and the results of the external audit.
It reviews the unaudited half yearly and the annual financial statements and makes recommendations on specific actions or decisions including formal adoption of the financial statements and reports that the Board should consider in order to maintain the integrity of the financial statements.
From time to time the Committee may also review other statements released to the stock exchange, shareholders and the financial community.
The Audit Committee manages the relationship with external auditors on behalf of the Board.
It proposes to the Board the appointment, compensation and retention of the external auditors and oversees their work, reviews and monitors their independence, objectivity and performance.
The Audit Committee has also established and monitors the implementation of policies related to all non-audit services that the external auditors provide.
The Committee noted that non-audit fees excluding Admission-related fees were 328,000 compared with 172,000 audit and other fees pursuant to legislation.
While this total exceeds that which the Committee would prefer to target, 170,000 of the non-audit fees related to remuneration consultancy advice generated prior to and as a result of the IPO.
In addition, IPOrelated fees amounted to 1,050,000.
The Committee concluded that the independence of the external auditors continues to be maintained.
The Audit Committee reviews and assesses the remit of the internal audit function.
It monitors and discusses whether the risk management and internal control system is effective, including any significant matters arising from the audits which are discussed with, as appropriate, the Internal Auditor, management or the external auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP.
It monitors the qualifications, expertise, resources and independence of the Internal Auditor and will assess each year the Internal Auditors performance and effectiveness.
The Audit Committee reports its findings to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and makes recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring the implementation of the Groups Whistleblowing Policy enabling employees to submit concerns confidentially or anonymously, and to ensure independent investigation with follow-up action where suitable.
A copy of this policy may be viewed on the Companys website www.
The Committee is satisfied with the results of its activities regarding the external audit and recommend to the Board that the external auditors are re-appointed.
The Committee has concluded it has acted in accordance with its Terms of Reference and ensured the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
Neil Gaskell Chairman of the Audit Committee 1 April 2008
