48723 MG Annual Report - Mid 17 4 08 11:42 Page 44 44 | Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Code, for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
Statement of compliance with the Combined Code The Companys shares were admitted to listing on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchange on 1 May 2007 Admission.
The Financial Services Authority requires listed companies to disclose how they have applied, and complied with, the provisions set out in section 1 of the Code.
From Admission until September 2007, when the Company entered the FTSE 250, the Company was a smaller listed Company for the purposes of the Combined Code and so certain provisions of the Combined Code did not apply.
Subject to this since Admission the Company has complied fully with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Code, except that one non-independent non-executive director remains a member of the Audit Committee contrary to C. 3.1 of the Combined Code in order to provide continuity for the Committee after Admission.
This corporate governance statement sets out details of how the Company has applied the provisions of section 1 of the Code since Admission.
The Board will carry out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls on an annual basis but as the Company has only recently listed neither was completed during 2007 contrary to A.
6 and C. 2.1 of the Combined Code.
The Board Board composition and independence At the date of this report, the Board of Wellstream Holdings PLC consists of the executive Chairman, three executive directors and five non-executive directors.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate and each has clearly defined responsibilities.
The Chairmans main role is to lead the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
The Chairman is also responsible for ensuring that the directors receive accurate, timely and clear information: a process that will be reviewed annually.
The Chairman also ensures that the Company maintains clear communication with shareholders, facilitates the effective contribution of non-executive directors in particular and ensures constructive relations between executive and non-executive directors.
The Chairman devotes two days a week to the business of the Company in an executive role, assisting in framing and developing strategy.
Following its review, the Nomination Committee is satisfied that the Chairman is able to dedicate significant time to the business and that there has been no change in the level of his commitments since Admission.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for implementing Group strategy and for managing the Group.
The Board aims to embody an appropriate balance of skills and experience to support the Companys strategy and performance and has consequently appointed experienced non-executive directors who bring to the Company a wealth of skills and knowledge of the oil and gas industry.
The non-executive directors represent the majority of the board.
Of the five non-executive directors, Neil Gaskell, Francisco Gros, Sir Graham Hearne and Pat Murray are considered to be independent non-executive directors.
48723 MG Annual Report - Mid 17 4 08 11:42 Page 45 Wellstream Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 | 45 The Board is satisfied that there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the judgement of these directors.
Nils Stoesser, also a non-executive director, is not considered by the Board to be independent as he represents Candover Investments plc, a significant shareholder of the Company.
Sir Graham Hearne is recognised as the Senior Independent non-executive Director and is available to shareholders should they have concerns that cannot be resolved through normal channels with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Finance Director.
The independent nonexecutive directors will meet annually without the Chairman present to review the performance of the Chairman.
The non-executive directors are entitled to a fee for their services.
They are not entitled to participate in any of the Companys share schemes and are not eligible to join the Companys pension scheme.
Other than their fees, no non-executive director received remuneration from the Company during the year other than Sir Graham Hearne who made a gain of 3,624,616 at Admission upon exercise of options over shares in the Company granted by the Company before Admission in recognition of his contribution to the Company.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting or by any person during normal business hours at the Companys registered office.
The role of the Board The Board approved at its meeting in April 2007 a schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Boards attention.
The types of decisions taken by the Board include the approval of the Companys strategy and annual budget and financial statements, acquisitions or disposals, documents sent to the Companys shareholders, changes in capital structure, dividends and matters relating to its committees.
Operational decisions are delegated to the Companys management.
The Board holds ultimate responsibility for the management and success of the Company, developing strategy, scrutinising performance and maintaining internal controls and corporate governance.
Responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Group is delegated to the Chief Executive Officer.
Further, the Chief Operating Officer is responsible for managing the operating functions of the Group.
All directors are to be appointed via the recommendation of the Nomination Committee chaired by the Senior Independent non-executive Director, Sir Graham Hearne.
Directors must retire and offer themselves for re-election by shareholders every three years in accordance with the Articles of the Company.
All directors joining the Company benefit from a tailored induction process familiarising them with the Company and updating their existing skills based on reports to the Board, factory visits and briefings from advisers.
The Board intends to conduct annual performance appraisals of the effectiveness of the Board.
No evaluation was carried out in the period from Admission to 31 December 2007.
The Board holds meetings on a regular basis, at least five per year and additionally for specific purposes as and when required.
There were eight Board meetings in the period from Admission to 31 December 2007.
Five meetings are scheduled in 2008.
The number of meetings of the Board and of its committees held during the year is given below, together with the attendance details of each director or Committee member: Number of meetings during the Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee year ended 31 December 2007 14 5 5 3 John Kennedy 13 1 1 3 Gordon Chapman 13 1 Chris Braithwaite 12 Andrew Turk 11 1 Sir Graham Hearne 13 4 4 3 Francisco Gros 10 4 3 Neil Gaskell 10 4 Nils Stoesser 13 5 1 Pat Murray 6 2 4 Marek Gumienny 2 1 48723 MG Annual Report - Mid 17 4 08 11:42 Page 46 46 | Corporate Governance Report continued Committees of the Board The Board formally delegates certain of its responsibilities to committees by way of written terms of reference.
The terms of reference for the Boards committees were posted to the Companys website on 10 December 2007.
Details of each committee, its membership and its terms of reference are summarised below.
Audit Committee Prior to 19 March 2007, the Committee comprised John Kennedy, Andrew Turk, Marek Gumienny and Nils Stoesser.
On 19 March 2007 the Board approved new terms of reference for the Committee and appointed Neil Gaskell as chairman together with Sir Graham Hearne in replacement for John Kennedy and Andrew Turk.
Marek Gumienny also resigned on 19 March 2007.
On 10 July 2007, Pat Murray was appointed as an additional member.
The current members of the Committee therefore are Neil Gaskell chairman of the Committee, Sir Graham Hearne, Pat Murray and Nils Stoesser.
All members of the Committee are financially literate non-executive directors and a majority are considered independent.
Neil Gaskell is considered to have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee met five times in the year, principally to review and approve the financial statements, approve its terms of reference, review the appointment of the auditors and review matters relating to risk control.
Further details about the Committee are included in the Audit Committee Report on page 49.
Remuneration Committee From Admission to 10 July 2007, the Committee comprised Francisco Gros chairman of the Committee and Sir Graham Hearne, both independent non-executive directors who were appointed on 19 March 2007.
Pat Murray, an independent non-executive director, was appointed to the Committee on 10 July 2007.
Pre IPO, the Committee members were John Kennedy, Marek Gumienny, Nils Stoesser and Gordon Chapman.
They ceased to be members of the Committee 19 March 2007.
The Committee met five times during the year.
Its principal activity is to review and make recommendations on the remuneration of the executive directors.
During the year the Committee approved its terms of reference and approved the setting up of the Companys share plans and bonus arrangements based on performance targets agreed by the Committee.
Further details about the Committee and details of the remuneration of directors are included in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 51.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is responsible for appointments to the Board and reviewing the Boards evaluation processes.
This includes the re-appointment of non-executive directors at the conclusion of their specified terms of office and the re-election by shareholders of any director under the retirement by rotation provisions of the Companys Articles of Association.
The Committee also considers plans that are in place for succession planning, appointments of senior management and reviews the balance of skills and experience within the Company.
The Committee was appointed by the Board on 19 March 2007 and comprises Sir Graham Hearne chairman of the Committee, John Kennedy and Francisco Gros.
A majority of the Committee are independent non-executive directors.
The Committee met three times during the period from Admission to 31 December 2007.
It reviewed and approved the appointment of Pat Murray and Chris Gill as well as a senior staff appointment.
48723 MG Annual Report - Mid 17 4 08 11:42 Page 47 Wellstream Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 | 47 Accountability and Audit Internal control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
To be in compliance with provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code the Board should perform a specific review of the effectiveness of internal controls for the purpose of the Annual Report.
It has not formally completed this review but will do so in future years.
In so doing, the Board will receive a report from the Audit Committee which addresses the results of its review of the risk assessment process to the Board.
The Board will then evaluate the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The key procedures, which the directors have established with a view to providing effective internal control, are as follows: Indication of business risks Prior to the Companys shares being admitted to listing on the Official List of the UK Listings Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchange, a comprehensive risk review was undertaken.
During the period since the Admission, the Company has supplemented the processes used to identify and manage key risks to the business by establishing an internal audit function and instituting a formal process of recording key business risks.
These activities enhance those that are already an integral part of the business internal control environment such as Strategic Planning, the appointment of Senior Managers, the regular reporting of performance and control over capital expenditure and evaluation of acquisitions.
The process by which key business risks are recorded and reported against was formalised in the fourth quarter of 2007, it will be monitored and maintained by an executive director who is responsible at Board level for these matters.
Regular reviews and periodic updates with senior executives and management are carried out.
This process considers the significant risks facing the Group including those risks arising from social, environmental and ethical issues and undertakes risk audits.
In identifying significant risks to which the Group is exposed, it reviews the results of any relevant internal audit work and agrees mitigating actions, when possible.
Quality and integrity of personnel The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards and subsequent training courses.
High quality personnel are seen as an essential part of the control environment.
Management Structure The Board has overall responsibility for the Group.
Each executive director has been given responsibility for specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
A clearly defined organisation structure exists within which individual responsibilities are identified and can be monitored.
The management of the Group as a whole is delegated to the Chief Executive Officer and the executive directors.
The conduct of individual businesses is delegated to the local executive management teams.
These teams are accountable for the conduct and performance of their businesses within the agreed business strategy.
They have full authority to act subject to the reserved powers and sanctioning limits laid down by the Board and to Group policies and guidelines.
48723 MG Annual Report - Mid 17 4 08 11:42 Page 48 48 | Corporate Governance Report continued Internal Audit The Group established an internal audit function in September 2007.
It has an agreed programme of activities to review compliance with procedures and assess the integrity of the control environment.
Internal audit acts as a service to the business by assisting with the continuous improvement of controls and procedures.
Actions are agreed in response to its recommendations and these are followed up by the Audit Committee to ensure that satisfactory control is maintained.
Budgetary Process A comprehensive budgeting system is in place, with annual budgets for all operating subsidiaries.
The combined budget is subject to consideration and approval by the Board.
Management information systems provide the directors with relevant and timely information required to monitor financial performance.
Investment appraisal Budgetary approval and defined authorisation levels regulate capital expenditure.
As part of the budgetary process the Board considers proposals for research and development programmes.
Whistle Blowing Policy The Company has in place a whistle blowing policy by which concerns may be reported and investigated confidentially.
Through these processes the Board believes it had an appropriate system of internal controls in place throughout the period and that the enhanced control environment established during 2007 will allow compliance with provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code in 2008.
Relations with shareholders Dialogue with institutional shareholders Most shareholder contact is with the Chief Executive Officer and Finance Director, however the Chairman and the Senior Independent non-executive Director and other directors as appropriate maintain contact with major shareholders to understand their issues and concerns and are available for discussion with shareholders.
Constructive use of the AGM The Annual General Meeting is to be held on 19 May 2008, and shareholders are encouraged to attend and to raise areas of interest or concern to directors.
Regular reports are made to the Board concerning shareholders views and market expectations.
Investor road shows have been carried out to brief analysts and shareholders on the Companys activities and information is regularly posted to the website.
