CORPORATE GOvERnAnCE The Board of the Company is committed to achieving the All newly appointed directors receive induction training highest standards of corporate governance.
The principal on joining the Board which is tailored to meet the needs governance rules applying to UK companies listed on the of the individual and the need for director training is London Stock Exchange are contained in the Combined regularly assessed by the Board.
Code on Corporate Governance adopted by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Code.
The Board The Board carried out a formal evaluation of its confirms that the Company has, except as described at performance in September 2007.
Each director the end of this report, applied the principles and complied completed an extensive questionnaire covering Board with the provisions of the Code throughout the financial and Committee procedures and effectiveness and their year ended 31 August 2007. own contribution to discussions and decision making.
The non-executive directors met separately to review the Chairmans performance and provided feedback to him THE BOARd and the Chairman reviewed the contribution of each of On 11 October 2007, the Board comprised the Chairman, two the directors in separate individual sessions.
The results executive directors and four independent non-executive of the evaluation were reported to the Board in October directors.
Short biographies of each of the directors, 2007.
The Board found this to be an open, constructive which illustrate their range of experience, are set out and useful exercise and the review concluded that the on page 24.
There is a clear division of responsibility at Board is effective.
the head of the Company: Robert Walker Chairman being responsible for running the Board and Kate Swann The Companys Articles of Association require that at Group Chief Executive being responsible for implementing the first three annual general meetings following the group strategy.
John Barton has been nominated by the demerger, one third of the directors shall retire from Board as the Senior Independent Director.
The Board office but shall be eligible for re-appointment.
At each structure ensures that no individual or group dominates annual general meeting thereafter, any director then the decision-making process.
in office who has been appointed by the Board since the previous annual general meeting or has held office All of the non-executive directors who served during for three years or more since he was appointed or last the year and up to the date of this report meet the re-appointed by the Company in general meeting, shall independence criteria set out in the Code.
John Barton be eligible for re-appointment.
has served on the Board for more than two three-year terms.
The Chairman conducted a thorough review with John Barton to assess his independence and contribution BOARd COmmiTTEES to the Board and confirmed that he continues to be an Audit Committee effective independent non-executive director.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mike Ellis, who has recent and relevant financial experience, and its other The Board met nine times during the year.
The Board members are John Barton and Luke Mayhew, all of whom manages the Company through a formal schedule of are independent non-executive directors.
At the invitation matters reserved for its decision.
These include overall of the Committee, the Chairman of the Board, the Finance management of the Company: approval of strategic Director, the Internal Audit Director and representatives plans including acquisitions and disposals: approval of the external auditors regularly attend meetings.
The of the Companys commercial strategy and operating Committee has regular private meetings with the external and capital expenditure budgets: approval of the auditors during the year.
The Committees principal financial statements, material agreements and responsibilities cover internal control and risk non-recurring projects: treasury policy: control, audit management, internal audit, external audit including and risk management: remuneration: and, corporate auditor independence and financial reporting.
It also delegates specific responsibilities to the Board Committees detailed below, the role and The Committee met four times during the year and responsibilities of each Committee being set out in its activities included: a review of the preliminary formal terms of reference which are available on the announcement, Annual Report and Financial Statements, Companys website and from the Company Secretary and the interim announcement and the consideration on request.
of reports from the external auditors identifying any accounting or judgemental issues requiring its attention: All directors have access to the advice and services approval of audit plans for the external and internal of the Company Secretary and may take independent auditors: considering reports from the Internal Audit professional advice at the Companys expense in Director on the results of internal audit reviews, the furtherance of their duties.
The Board receives significant findings, management action plans, and appropriate and timely information, Board and timeliness of resolution: reviewing reports on the Committee papers normally being sent out several Companys risk management process: reviewing days before meetings take place.
management of fraud risk and incidences of fraud: reviewing the Companys Business Continuity Plans: and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys whistleblowing process.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 28 The Committees terms of reference are available on Attendance at Board Committee meetings the Companys website and from the Company Secretary The following table shows the number of Board and on request.
Committee meetings held during the year ended 31 August 2007 and the attendance record of individual directors.
nominations Committee Committee meetings The Nominations Committee is chaired by Robert Walker Board and its other members are John Barton, MT Rainey and meetings Audit Nominations Remuneration Kate Swann.
The Committees principal responsibility is No.
of meetings 9 4 1 5 to ensure that appropriate procedures are in place for Robert Walker 9 1 3 the nomination, selection and succession of directors Kate Swann 9 1 and senior executives.
Alan Stewart 9 John Barton 9 4 1 5 The Committee met once during the year as the review Mike Ellis 9 4 of the Companys succession plans was conducted by the Luke Mayhew 8 3 5 full Board in December 2006, rather than the Committee.
MT Rainey 7 1 3 The Committee discussed the ongoing shape and capability of the Board.
Robert Walker was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee on 2 March 2007.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website and from the Company Secretary The Board has met twice since 31 August 2007 and all on request.
the directors attended both meetings.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee has met twice and the Audit Committee and the Nominations Committee have met Remuneration Committee once since 31 August 2007.
These meetings were The Remuneration Committee is chaired by John Barton attended by all committee members.
and its other members are Luke Mayhew, MT Rainey and Robert Walker.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Group HR Director and representatives of Mercer RiSk mAnAGEmEnT And inTERnAL COnTROLS Limited, its external independent adviser, regularly The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys attend meetings.
The Committee met five times during system of internal control and for reviewing its the year.
The Committees principal responsibility effectiveness, whilst the role of management is to is to determine and recommend to the Board the implement the Boards policies on risk and control and remuneration of executive directors and the Chairman.
provide assurance on compliance with these policies.
The Committee monitors the levels and structure of Steps are being taken to embed internal control and risk remuneration for senior management and seeks to management further into the operations of the business ensure that they are designed to attract, retain and and to deal with areas of improvement which come motivate the executive directors to run the Company to managements and the Boards attention.
The remuneration of the non-executive a system is, however, designed to manage rather than directors is determined by the Chairman and the eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, executive directors.
and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 32 to 39 as required by the Directors Remuneration Report i Risk Regulations 2002.
The Committees terms of reference The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for are available on the Companys website and from the identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks Company Secretary on request.
faced by the Company including those risks relating to social, environmental and ethical matters.
This process was in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and meets the requirements of the revised guidance entitled Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued in September 1999 and revised in 2005.
The Audit Committee has kept under review the effectiveness of the system of internal control and has reported regularly to the Board.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 WH Smith PLC 29 CORPORATE GOvERnAnCE COnTinuEd The key features of the risk management process the Board has established an organisational structure are as follows: with clearly defined lines of responsibility and approval controls identifying transactions requiring approval by The business conducts an annual risk assessment the Board or by the Approvals Committee.
The Finance based on identified business objectives which are Director is responsible for the functional leadership reviewed and agreed by the Retail Executive and development of the Companys finance activities: Committee.
Risks are categorised into strategic, operational, financial and compliance and are there is a comprehensive system for budgeting evaluated in respect of their potential impact and and planning and for monitoring and reporting likelihood.
These risk assessments are updated and the performance of the Companys business to reviewed quarterly by the Group and business risk the directors.
Monthly results are reported against committees and are reported to the Retail Executive budget and prior year, and forecasts for the current Committee and the Audit Committee.
financial year are regularly revised in the light of actual performance.
These cover profits, cash flows, A Company risk assessment is also undertaken by the capital expenditure and balance sheets: internal audit function, which considers all areas of potential risk across all systems, functions and key the Company has established a uniform system business processes.
This risk assessment together of investment appraisal: with the business risk assessment forms the basis for determining the internal audit plan.
Audit reports in executive management has defined the financial relation to areas reviewed are discussed and agreed controls and procedures with which each business is with the business risk committees and Audit Committee.
Key controls over major business risks include reviews against performance indicators The internal audit team meets annually with senior and exception reporting and the business is required executives in order to complete a formal certification to prepare monthly management accounts: and of the effectiveness of internal controls.
These reports are submitted to the business risk committees.
routine reports are prepared to cover treasury activities Certificates are also provided by the risk committees and risks, for review by senior executives, and annual to the Audit Committee, to assist the Board in reports are prepared for the Board and Audit Committee conducting its annual review of internal controls covering treasury policies, insurance and pensions.
in compliance with Turnbull guidance.
b Non-financial controls ii internal controls The Company has established a wide range of nonfinancial controls covering areas such as health and a Financial controls safety, environment, ethical trading, employment and The Company has an established framework of internal business continuity, the effectiveness of which is regularly financial control, the effectiveness of which is regularly reviewed by the executive management and the Board.
reviewed by the executive management and the Board.
The key elements are as follows: The key elements of this are as follows: a corporate responsibility strategy was approved by the the Board is responsible for overall Company Board, including objectives and targets to address the strategy, for approving revenue and capital budgets impacts that our activities have on the environment, and plans, for approving major acquisitions and workplace, marketplace and community: disposals and for determining the financial structure of the Company including treasury and dividend policy.
clear accountability for corporate responsibility issues Monthly results, variances from plan and forecasts are has been defined at Board and operational level: reported to the Board: annual updates are submitted to the Board on each the Audit Committee assists the Board in the discharge of aspect of corporate responsibility: its duties regarding the Companys financial statements, accounting policies and the maintenance of proper the Board is committed to maintaining high standards internal business, operational and financial controls.
of health and safety in all its business activities.
These The Committee provides a direct link between the Board standards are set out in the Companys Health and and the external auditors through regular meetings: Safety Policy which is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Risk Management team works with the business to the internal audit function advises and assists business assess health and safety risks and introduce systems management to establish and maintain adequate to mitigate them.
All notified accidents are investigated financial controls and reports to the Audit Committee and targets are set to reduce the level of incidence: on the effectiveness of those controls: WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 30 the Board has approved an Environmental Policy Shareholders vote on each resolution on a show of hands, and sets environmental objectives and specific unless a poll is validly called, and after each such vote the targets which are reviewed annually: number of proxy votes received for, against, and withheld is announced.
The proxy figures are made available in writing the Board is committed to ensuring reasonable at the end of the meeting, announced to the London Stock standards among its suppliers and has approved Exchange and published on the Companys website.
an Ethical Trading Code of Conduct setting out the standards it expects its suppliers to adopt.
This policy The Board as a whole is kept fully informed of the covers health and safety, child labour, working hours, views and concerns of major shareholders.
The Group discrimination and the environment: Chief Executive and Group Finance Director update the Board following meetings with major shareholders and the Company is committed to ensuring that its analysts briefings are circulated to the Board.
When personnel meet good standards of integrity and requested to do so, the Chairman and non-executive competence.
The Companys systems cover the directors attend meetings with major shareholders.
recruitment, training and development of personnel, an appropriate division of responsibilities and the COmPLiAnCE WiTH THE COmBinEd COdE communication of Company policies and procedures Throughout the year ended 31 August 2007 the Company throughout the organisation: and has complied with the Code, except as follows: Business Recovery Plans exist to enable the business A.
7.1 Re-appointment of directors to continue in the event of a disaster with minimum The Articles provide that at the first three annual disruption to customers.
general meetings following the demerger, one third of the directors shall retire from office but shall be eligible AudiTOR indEPEndEnCE for re-appointment.
This provision was included in the The Board is satisfied that Deloitte & Touche LLP has Articles, as a result of the demerger, to provide an even adequate policies and safeguards in place to ensure that spread of director re-appointments.
auditor objectivity and independence is maintained.
The Board has also adopted a formal policy on the Companys relationship with its auditor in respect of non-audit work.
The auditors may only provide such services provided that such advice does not conflict with their statutory responsibilities and ethical guidance.
The Audit Committee Chairmans pre-approval is required before the Company uses non-audit services that exceed financial limits set out in the policy.
The fees paid to the Auditors in respect of non-audit services are shown in Note 3 to the Accounts.
RELATiOnS WiTH SHAREHOLdERS The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders to ensure that its strategy and performance is understood.
This is achieved principally through the annual report and accounts and the AGM.
In addition, a range of corporate information, including all Company announcements and presentations, is available to investors on the Companys website, www.
Formal presentations are made to institutional shareholders following the announcement of the Companys full year and interim results.
The Board recognises that the AGM is the principal forum for dialogue with private shareholders.
All directors normally attend the AGM and are available to answer any questions that shareholders may wish to raise.
The Notice of Meeting is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Those shareholders who have elected to receive electronic communications receive notice of the availability of the annual report on the Companys website.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 WH Smith PLC 31
