Corporate governance report How does the Board operate and what are its key responsibilities?
the Board met 3 times last year.
Before meetings directors are given timely and appropriate information, including monthly financial and trading reports.
The attendance records of individual directors can be found in the table on page 7: The Company is committed to high all members of the Board take collective responsibility for the performance of the Company and all decisions are standards of corporate governance.
taken objectively in the interests of the Company: In this report Simon Barratt, Company a schedule of matters reserved to the Board includes the oversight of key aspects of strategy and management, Secretary, explains how the main and financial reporting and controls, the management of supporting principles of the Combined shareholder communication, as well as the approval of policies and major transactions.
The schedule can be seen Code on Corporate Governance are being in full on the Companys website: www.
co. uk: applied on a daily basis.
the Board oversees and approves the Companys overall strategy and ensures that the necessary resources are in place in order to meet the Companys objectives: Who is on the Companys Board of directors?
the Board has responsibility for ensuring that the The Board currently consists of the Chairman, three executive Companys obligations to its shareholders are met.
directors and five independent non-executive directors, one of whom has been appointed Senior Independent Director.
Is there clarity between the roles of the Profiles of each director can be found on pages 22 to 23 of Chairman and Chief Executive?
There is a clear written division of responsibility between How did the Company arrive at the conclusion the Chairman and Chief Executive.
that five of its directors are independent?
The Chairman is responsible for: The Combined Code lists a number of circumstances that running the Board and setting its agenda: might call the independence of a director into question.
The Board is satisfied that no such circumstances exist for ensuring, through the Company Secretary, that the any of the Companys non-executive directors.
members of the Board receive accurate, timely and clear information and that there is a good flow of information: What are the terms of appointment for independent non-executive directors?
managing the Board to ensure that sufficient time is allowed for the discussion of complex or contentious Independent non-executive directors are initially appointed issues: for a three-year term and may, under normal circumstances, serve up to three such three-year terms.
Their letters of ensuring that the directors continually update their appointment are available for inspection at the Companys knowledge and capabilities: registered office.
ensuring that the members of the Board develop an The Board is satisfied that Charles Gurassas Board understanding of the views of the major investors: membership continues to be appropriate even though the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board he has served for more than six years.
The Board took and its committees and implementing the action required into account the need for progressive refreshing of its following such evaluation.
membership in coming to this conclusion.
The Chief Executive is responsible for: How is the structure and membership of the Board determined?
setting the strategic direction for the Company: Ultimately the Companys shareholders determine Board overseeing the day-to-day management of the Company: membership at the AGM.
All new directors are required to stand for election at the AGM following their appointment the line management of senior executives: and existing directors must stand for re-election by rotation the activities of the Enterprise Leadership Group a Group in accordance with the Articles of Association.
of over 40 of the Companys most senior executives: The Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing ensuring effective communication with shareholders the structure and membership of the Board, making and employees.
recommendations to the Board, which are subsequently considered and ultimately voted on by shareholders.
The Board is of the opinion that it is of an appropriate size for the requirements of the business, it has the appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience and that it has a good balance between executive and independent non-executive directors.
page 5 Whitbread PLC Directors Report and Accounts 2006 7 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued The Chairman made himself available to shareholders How is the Boards performance evaluated?
and attended an Investor Day at which he discussed The performance of the Board, and individual directors governance and strategy with some of the Companys contributions to the Board, are appraised annually by the largest shareholders.
This year: Recent topics of interest to investors have been the each director completed a formal questionnaire on the turnaround in Restaurants and David Lloyd Leisure and the Boards performance: balance sheet review.
the Chairman met each director on a one-to-one basis: and Annual and interim results presentations are webcast live so the results of the review were discussed by the Board and that all shareholders can receive the same information at the an appropriate action plan was agreed.
The Companys website provides comprehensive information for private shareholders.
The performance of the Boards committees was reviewed during the year in line with their terms of reference.
Private shareholders have the opportunity to put questions to the Board at the AGM, and at all other times by emailing The performance of the Chairman was evaluated during the or writing to the Company.
year by Rod Kent, the Senior Independent Director, who held a meeting with the other directors to discuss the Chairmans Any shareholder may contact the Chairman, Chief Executive performance.
The results of the review were given directly to or, if more appropriate, the Senior Independent Director the Chairman by Rod Kent.
to raise any issue, including those relating to strategy and governance.
Alternatively, shareholders may raise any such How does the Company ensure that new directors issue with one or all of the non-executive directors of the are given the tools to do an effective job?
The Company Secretary can facilitate any such communication if requested.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that, on appointment, new directors are given a formal and Where can I find details of the Companys individually tailored induction.
In the case of newly appointed compliance with the Combined Code in relation non-executive directors this would typically include a number to remuneration?
of visits to the Companys outlets to enable a thorough understanding of the businesses.
New directors are available Details of how Whitbread has applied the main and to meet major shareholders if requested.
supporting principles of the Combined Code with regard to remuneration can be found in the remuneration report on Do the directors have access to pages 9 to 7.
In addition, the table on page 7 contains details independent advice?
of the membership, terms of reference and activities of the Remuneration Committee.
All directors have access to independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
In addition, directors have access What board committees does the Company have?
The table on page 7 contains information relating to the Do the directors update their knowledge Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the and skills on a regular basis?
The Board receives a regular investor relations report In addition to these three committees the Board has which includes share price performance, movements delegated authority to the General Purposes Committee in institutional holdings and the response by institutions to deal with business of a routine nature and other specific to the communications programme.
matters delegated to it by the Board.
The Committee is made up of at least two directors designated by the Board and During the year directors attended training courses and meets as required.
seminars on a number of subjects, including the Companies Act 2006, the impact of climate change on business and the The following groups also meet: Transparency Directive.
the Main Board Committee comprises the executive How does the Board interact directors together with the Company Secretary, Simon Barratt, and meets at least monthly in with the Companys shareholders?
preparation for Board meetings: and The Company recognises the importance of dialogue with both institutional and private shareholders.
the Executive Council meets monthly to consider Group-wide policies and issues.
It is attended by Institutional shareholders, fund managers and analysts the executive directors, the managing directors are briefed at regular meetings and presentations.
Regular of each strategic business unit and certain of the meetings were held with institutional shareholders during functional directors.
the year, either one-to-one or as part of a larger grouping, both in the UK and abroad.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director play an active part in these meetings.
Non-executive directors are offered the opportunity to attend the meetings and would attend if required by major shareholders.
page 6 Whitbread PLC Directors Report and Accounts 2006 7 Corporate governance report Attendance at meetings Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings in the year 13 3 2 7 Anthony Habgood 3 2 3 Alan Parker 3 2 Angie Risley 3 Christopher Rogers 3 Philip Clarke 0 6 Margaret Ewing 2 3 2 6 Charles Gurassa 3 3 2 7 Rod Kent 2 6 1 Anthony Habgood was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee on 19 September 2006.
Three Remuneration Committee meetings were held after his appointment.
Board committees Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Chair Margaret Ewing Anthony Habgood Charles Gurassa Members of committee Charles Gurassa Margaret Ewing Philip Clarke Rod Kent Charles Gurassa Margaret Ewing Simon Melliss Rod Kent Anthony Habgood Alan Parker Rod Kent Summary of key issues addressed The Committee dealt with: The Committee discussed: The Committee dealt with: during the year Group and strategic The appointment of remuneration of the business unit internal Simon Melliss: executive directors: controls and risk The appropriate appointment of management: composition of the Board.
Anthony Habgood approval of financial as a member of the statements for the full Committee: and half year: changes to the operation review of the effectiveness of the Long Term of the internal and Incentive Plan.
external audit functions: auditors independence: operational audit plans and outcome of reviews.
The full terms of reference of all three committees were reviewed during the year and can be found on the Companys website.
They are also available by requesting a copy in writing from the Company Secretary.
Simon Melliss will become Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 May 2007.
Margaret Ewing will remain a member of the Audit Committee until she steps down from the Board in July 2007. page 7 Whitbread PLC Directors Report and Accounts 2006 7 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued financial policies, controls and procedures manuals, How does the Company seek to ensure that its which are regularly reviewed and updated: employees behave with honesty and integrity?
The Company takes the view that corporate governance the limits of authority, which are prescribed for employees.
is not a matter for the Board or its committees alone and has Whitbreads organisational structure allows the developed a Code of Business Ethics, which is widely briefed appropriate segregation of tasks: to employees.
This covers: the Code of Business Ethics, which is communicated dealings with customers, suppliers to employees: and government officials: the operational audit function, which reports on safeguarding the Companys assets: the effectiveness of operational and financial controls across the Group: and keeping accurate and reliable records: and the Audit Committee regularly reviews the major findings avoiding conflicts of interest.
from both operational and external audit.
Further details can be found in the table on page 7.
Its principal message is that all employees must observe a code of conduct based on honesty, integrity and fair dealing.
The Board has carried out a specific assessment of the Groups systems of internal control for the purpose of this In addition the Company has a formal whistleblowing Annual Report.
The Audit Committee has assisted the Board policy.
Under the policy employees are able to speak to an in discharging these responsibilities.
independent organisation and any significant financial or control issues would then be brought to the attention of the Do the members of the Audit Committee have Chief Executive and Company Secretary and reported to the recent and relevant financial experience?
The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the Audit What is the Companys financial reporting policy?
Committee has recent and relevant financial experience but The Board always strives to present a balanced and has determined not to identify any individual as having such understandable assessment of the Companys position and experience.
This involves formal reports such as this, other Has the Company formally reviewed its corporate price sensitive public reports, reports to regulators and any other information required by statute.
governance performance during the year?
The Company Secretary produced a review of the Companys Does the Company maintain adequate systems corporate governance procedures, which was considered of internal control?
The aim of the review was to The Board is responsible for the Groups systems of internal consider whether the Company was in compliance with the control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These systems 2003 Code at the date of the review.
The Board agreed that are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of the Company was in compliance with the Code at the date failure to achieve business objectives.
They can only provide of the review, with one exception as outlined below.
reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material Has the Company complied throughout the year misstatement or loss.
with the provisions of the Combined Code?
The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, The Company has complied throughout the year with the evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks.
This provisions set out in Section of the 2003 Combined Code process was in place throughout the 2006 7 financial year with the following exception: and up to the date of this report.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the internal control Anthony Habgood was appointed as a member of the guidance for directors in the Combined Code.
Anthony is not an independent director and, as such, the Committee Key elements of the Groups risk management and internal was not made up of independent directors throughout control system include: the year B2.. the formulation, evaluation and annual approval by The appointment of Anthony Habgood to the Committee the Board of business plans and budgets.
Actual results was the result of the early implementation of changes are reported monthly against budget and the previous made by the new 2006 Combined Code.
Key risks are identified and action plans will be required to comply with the 2006 Code in the 2007 8 prepared accordingly: financial year and is fully compliant with the new Code the production by each business of a risks and at the date of this report.
controls matrix, covering major risks and plans to mitigate those risks.
These matrices are considered by the Audit Committee: a regular review by the Board of changes in the major risks facing the Group and development of the appropriate action plans: the consideration of risks and the appropriate action plans, when appraising and approving all major capital Simon Barratt and revenue projects and change programmes.
A post Company Secretary completion review of each major project is undertaken: 23 April 2007 page 8 Whitbread PLC Directors Report and Accounts 2006 7 Corporate governance report
