Statement on Corporate Governance The directors are committed to high The Board operates within a formal Reviewing and approving the terms of standards of corporate governance and schedule of matters reserved to it.
This reference of the various Board this statement sets out how the Board has schedule was reviewed and updated Committees and receiving reports applied the principles set out in the June during 2007.
Other powers are delegated from committee chairmen on a regular 2006 Financial Reporting Council to the various Board Committees and basis: Combined Code on Corporate senior management.
Details of the Approving changes to the Groups Governance the Code and identifies, and membership of the Board Committees are capital structure: any significant provides an explanation for any nonset out on pages 12 and 13.
Papers for acquisitions and disposals: capital compliance with the Codes provisions Board and committee meetings are investment projects and material during the period.
circulated in advance of the relevant contracts: meeting and where a director is unable to Approval of the Groups annual plan, attend, he continues to be provided with Compliance with the Codes Annual Report and Accounts and a full copy of the papers and has the provisions Interim Statement, and setting the opportunity to comment on the matters During the period, the Company has Groups dividend policy: to be discussed.
complied with the provisions of the Code, Approval of the Groups charitable The Board considers that its primary role with the exception that following the donations and Group-wide corporate is to provide leadership to the Group, to resignation in September 2007 of social responsibility policies: set the Groups long-term strategic Mr Harding, the Chief Executive, the roles objectives and to develop robust of Chairman and Chief Executive were Undertaking reviews of Board, corporate governance and risk committee and individual director combined.
Mr Topping was appointed management practices.
The Schedule of performance at least annually: and Chief Executive on 21 February 2008.
Matters Reserved to the Board and Succession planning for senior delegated authorities are reviewed and The Board management and the Board on the approved by the Board annually.
Matters recommendation of the Nomination The Chairman, the Chief Executive, Senior reserved to the Board include, amongst Committee.
Independent Non Executive Director and other matters: other directors, including those The authority delegated to senior Setting the overall direction, long-term considered by the Board to be objectives and strategy of the Group management provides a practical independent, are listed on pages 12 and and delegating day-to-day framework to executive management, 13.
Details of Board and committee management to the Chief Executive: which seeks to achieve the dual objectives attendance are set out below.
Messrs of maintaining effective financial and Reviewing Group performance: Spearing and Topping were appointed to operational controls whilst providing the Board with effect from 17 May 2007 Reviewing the arrangements in place sufficient flexibility to manage the and Mr Harding resigned on 28 relating to regulatory and industry business.
Examples of areas of such September 2007. issues: delegated authority include the release of capital expenditure against approved Appropriate insurance cover is in place in Approving the appointment and budgets: treasury activity within approved respect of legal action against directors.
removal of any Board member and the Company Secretary: limits: payroll processing: property 2007 Board and Committee meetings Board Audit and Risk Corporate Management Responsibility Nomination Remuneration 1 Scheduled Ad hoc Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 12 4 6 4 4 9 Meetings attended Charles Scott 12 3 N A 4 4 N A David Allvey 12 2 6 N A 4 8 David Edmonds 12 2 6 4 N A 8 Barry Gibson 12 1 5 N A 4 9 David Harding 7 4 N A 2 N A N A Simon Lane 12 4 N A N A N A N A Ian Spearing appointed 17 May 2007 7 1 N A 2 N A N A Ralph Topping appointed 17 May 2007 7 1 N A 2 N A N A Notes: 1 The Board held 12 scheduled meetings including an off-site Strategy Day, with senior managers during the period and 4 ad hoc meetings held to consider specific issues during the year.
With the exception of Mr Harding who left the Company on 28 September 2007 and Messrs Spearing and Topping who were appointed directors with effect from 17 May 2007, all other directors attended all of the 12 scheduled Board meetings.
The figures shown in the table include both attendances in person and by telephone.
24 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Statement on Corporate Governance Stat Statement on C ement of Co o rpor rpor at at e Go e Go vv ee rnanc rnanc ee William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 transactions: LBO development activities: structure, size and composition of the necessary and senior management the setting of bet acceptance limits and Board together with an evaluation of the regularly make presentations to the Board routine transaction processing.
Boards balance of skills, knowledge and on their areas of responsibility.
Regular experience : the membership of the updates are provided on relevant legal, The Board comprises individuals with various Board Committees and the corporate governance and financial wide business experience gained in expected time commitment and policy for reporting developments and directors are various sectors of industry and in the multiple board appointments for encouraged to attend external seminars public sector.
They have access to all executive and non executive directors.
on areas of relevance to their role.
The information relating to the Group, the Board has approved an information and The directors aim is to ensure that the advice and services of the Company professional development policy for balance of the Board reflects the changing Secretary who is responsible for ensuring directors.
needs of the Groups business.
The that Board procedures are followed and is Nomination Committee and the Board also the Companys General Counsel, and, A formal induction programme has been will continue to monitor the Board as required, external advice at the developed by the Company Secretary and balance and skills at least annually.
A range of Board is confident that the appointments both general and company-specific During the period, the Chairman met with of Messrs Spearing and Topping maintains information is provided in hard copy and the non executive directors without the the necessary knowledge and experience this is supplemented by a series of executive directors being present and as of the industry required at board level.
meetings with external advisers and part of the process to appraise the employees.
Induction programmes are in During the period, the Board comprised Chairmans performance, the Senior place for appointment to the Board, the three independent non executive Independent Non Executive Director met Audit and Risk Management Committee, directors.
The number of directors during with Mr Allvey and Mr Edmonds, the the Remuneration Committee and the the period comprised six directors for part other independent non executive Corporate Responsibility Committee.
of the period, eight directors for a further directors.
part of the period and seven directors for All directors have access to the advice and the remainder.
Except between May and services of the Company Secretary.
The Chairman and Chief Executive September, the Company satisfied the removal and appointment of the The Chief Executive, Mr Harding, resigned Code requirements that at least half the Company Secretary is a matter reserved from the company on 28 September Board, excluding the Chairman, should for Board approval.
Up until that date there was a clear comprise non executive directors advice from professional advisers as and division of responsibilities between the determined by the Board to be when required.
Chairman and Chief Executive whereby independent.
the Chairman was responsible for the Appointments to the Board are the running of the Board, and the Chief Performance evaluation responsibility of the full Board, on the Executive was the executive responsible A process of performance evaluation of recommendation of the Nomination for the running of the business.
the Board, its committees and directors is Committee.
On joining the Board, non Subsequent to 28 September 2007 and undertaken on an annual basis and the executive directors receive a formal until 21 February 2008 when a new Chief process undertaken for 2007 involved the appointment letter, which identifies the Executive was appointed, the Chairman following: time commitment expected of them.
A also assumed the role of Chief Executive.
The four Board committees potential director candidate is required to The Senior Independent Non Executive conducting a review of their terms of disclose all significant outside Directors main role is to satisfy the reference and continued to assess commitments prior to appointment and function outlined in the Code of being committee performance: the Board has approved a policy requiring available to shareholders if there are disclosure and approval by the Board of concerns which normal contact has failed One-to-one meetings were held all additional appointments for executive to resolve, to lead the process for between the Chairman and each or non executive directors.
The terms and evaluating the Chairmans performance director to assess individual director conditions of appointment of non and to chair the Nomination Committee performance and to allow any other executive and service contracts of when it is considering succession to the issues to be raised: and executive directors are available to role of chairman.
No one individual has The performance evaluation process shareholders for inspection at the Groups unfettered powers of decision-making.
concluded with an assessment by the registered office during normal business Mr Scott satisfied the independence Board of its own performance, hours and at the Annual General Meeting criteria detailed in provision A.
3.1 of the feedback to the Board from the for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and Code on his appointment as Chairman chairman of each committee and the during the meeting.
and details of his other significant Board, and the approval of action to commitments are set out on page 12. address issues raised.
Information and professional development The Senior Independent Non Executive Board balance, independence The Board receives detailed reports from Director led the process for the evaluation and appointments executive management on the of the Chairmans performance, involving During the period, the Nomination performance of the Group at monthly discussions with each other director, a Committee and the Board reviewed the Board meetings and other information as meeting with the other independent non 25 executive directors and feedback to the concerns that have not, or cannot, be Groups investor relations website Chairman.
addressed through the Chairman or www.
co. uk and are Group Finance Director.
Meetings reviewed at least annually by the relevant between the Chairman, Chief Executive committee and the Board.
All committees Re-election and or the Group Finance Director and have access to independent expert advice.
All directors are subject to election at the shareholders have been held on request Appointments to Board committees are first annual general meeting following to discuss governance and corporate for three-year terms extendable by no their appointment by the Board.
more than two additional three-year Companys Articles of Association state terms.
that each year one third of directors The Group obtains feedback from its should retire by rotation but that if a broker, Citigroup, on the views of Audit and Risk Management director has at the start of the Annual institutional investors on a non-attributed General Meeting been a director for more basis and the Chief Executive and or Committee than three years since his last reGroup Finance Director communicate the The role and operation of the Audit and appointment, he shall retire.
In practice, issues and concerns of major shareholders Risk Management Committee is set out in this means that every director stands for to the Board.
As a matter of routine, the its report on pages 29 to 30. re-election at least once every three years.
Board receives a monthly report from its brokers on issues relating to recent share The Board explains the reasons why it Nomination Committee price performance, trading activity and believes each director should be elected The role and operation of the Nomination institutional investor sentiment.
The Board or re-elected in the Notice of Meeting for Committee is set out in its report on also receives copies of relevant analysts the next Annual General Meeting.
As page 28. reports on an ad hoc basis.
referred to above, those directors who held office during the period have been The Board regards the Annual General Remuneration Committee subject to formal performance evaluation Meeting as an important opportunity to The role and operation of the and the Board believes that their communicate directly with all Remuneration Committee is set out in the performance continues to be effective shareholders.
Board members, including Directors Remuneration Report on pages and to demonstrate commitment to their the chairmen of the Remuneration, 16 to 23. relevant role.
Their re-election is also Nomination, Audit and Risk Management consistent with the Boards evaluation of and Corporate Responsibility Committees, the size, structure and composition of the attended the 2007 meeting and intend to Corporate Responsibility Board.
attend the forthcoming meeting and will Committee be available to answer questions.
In order Details of the membership and areas of that shareholders are aware of the other Remuneration key focus of the Corporate Responsibility shareholders voting intentions, the details The Directors Remuneration Report is set Committee are set out in the Corporate of proxy votes for the meetings held in out on page 16 to 23.
Responsibility Report on pages 31 to 36.
2007 were announced at the relevant general meeting and were made available Relations with shareholders Internal control on the Groups website following the The Board remains committed to meeting.
The website also contains copies The Board has overall responsibility for the maintaining good relationships with both of the Notices of Meeting and explanatory Groups internal control systems and for institutional and private shareholders.
A separate resolution was proposed monitoring their effectiveness.
Executive There continues to be a regular dialogue on each substantially separate issue.
It is directors and senior management are with institutional shareholders, although intended to continue with these practices responsible for the implementation and care is exercised to ensure that any pricefor 2008 and future shareholder meetings.
maintenance of the internal control sensitive information is released at the It is planned to post the Notice of the systems, which are subject to periodic same time to all shareholders, in 2008 Annual General Meeting to review that is documented.
The Internal accordance with the requirements of the shareholders with the Annual Report and Audit department maintains a database UK Listing Authority.
Slide presentations Accounts at least twenty working days recording the system of internal controls provided to institutional shareholders and prior to the date of the meeting.
in every division and department analysts following the publication of the throughout the Group.
Groups preliminary and interim results are Board Committees The Board monitors the ongoing process made available on the Groups investor The Remuneration Committee, the by which critical risks to the business are relations website, www.
co. uk, Nomination Committee, the Audit and identified, evaluated and managed.
This and a recording of the results presentations Risk Management Committee and the process is consistent with both the can be accessed via telephone for a period Corporate Responsibility Committee, are Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control, following the meeting.
standing committees of the Board.
and the revised guidance issued by the The Chairman is available to discuss Financial Reporting Council in October The terms of reference of the Committees, strategy and governance issues with 2005, and has been in place for the period including their objectives and the shareholders and Mr Gibson, as the Senior under review and up to the date of authority delegated to them by the Board, Independent Non Executive Director, is approval of the Annual Report and are available upon request or via the available to shareholders if they have Accounts.
26 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Statement on Corporate Governance Statement of Corporate Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Each year the Board assesses the Assessment of risk Going concern effectiveness of the Groups system of A corporate risk matrix has been The directors have prepared the financial internal controls including financial, developed and has been updated statements on a going concern basis operational and compliance controls and following detailed review by Internal consistent with their view, formed after risk management systems on the basis of: Audit and senior management during the making appropriate enquiries, that the period.
The matrix is approved annually Group is operationally and financially Established procedures, including those already described, which are in by the Audit and Risk Management robust.
place to manage perceived risks: Committee and the Board.
The matrix records the key risks facing the business, Regular reports by management to the assessment of the likelihood of the the Audit and Risk Management risks crystallising and their potential Committee on the adequacy and materiality, and the Groups response to effectiveness of internal control each risk.
Responsibility for management systems and significant control issues: of the risks is attributed typically to senior The continuous Group-wide process management.
for formally identifying, evaluating and The Board uses the control and risk managing the significant risks to the management processes to identify and achievement of the Groups objectives: manage any significant risks arising from and social, environmental and ethical issues.
Reports to the Audit and Risk Further details of the Groups corporate Management Committee on the responsibility practices are described on results of internal audit reviews and pages 31 to 36. work undertaken by other departments.
Internal Audit The Groups internal control systems are The Internal Audit department reviews designed to manage, rather than the extent to which systems of internal eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the control are effective: are adequate to Groups objectives, and can only provide manage the Groups significant risks: reasonable, and not absolute, assurance safeguard the Groups assets: and in against material misstatement or loss.
In conjunction with the Company Secretary assessing what constitutes reasonable who is also the Companys General assurance, the Board considers the Counsel, ensure compliance with legal materiality of financial and non-financial and regulatory requirements.
It provides risks and the relationship between the independent and objective assurance on cost of, and benefit from, internal control risks and controls to the Board and senior systems.
The Board regularly reviews the actual Internal Audits work is focused on areas and forecast performance of the business of greatest risk to the Group, as compared with the annual plan, as well as determined by a structured risk other key performance indicators.
assessment process involving executive directors and senior management.
The Lines of responsibility and delegated output from this process is summarised in authorities are clearly defined.
The Groups an annual audit plan, which is approved policies and procedures are regularly by the Audit and Risk Management updated and distributed throughout the Committee.
The Head of Internal Audit Group.
The Audit and Risk Management reports regularly to the Group Finance Committee receives reports on a regular Director and the Audit and Risk basis on compliance with the Groups Management Committee.
The role of the Internal Audit department No significant failings or weaknesses were and the scope of its work continue to identified as a result of the review of the evolve to take account of changes within effectiveness of the Groups system of the business and emerging best practice.
