Report of the Nomination Committee Membership and meetings Set out below is the current membership of the Nomination Committee Committee together with the year in which membership commenced.
Mr Edmonds was appointed to the Committee on 20 December 2007.
The majority of members of the committee are independent non-executive directors and the Committee is chaired by the Board Chairman.
Director Year of appointment Charles Scott, Chairman 2002 David Allvey 2002 Barry Gibson 2002 David Edmonds 2007 The Company Secretary, or one of the Recommended that David Edmonds, who had previously attended committee members, acts as secretary to nomination committee meetings, be the Committee.
formally included in the Nomination The Committee meets as necessary but at Committee as a member: least three times a year usually before or Reviewed and defined the qualities after regular meetings of the Board and that should be sought in candidates met formally on four occasions during leading up to the appointment of a 2007. new Chief Executive: Reviewed the Terms of Reference of Role of the Nomination the Nomination Committee: Committee Reviewed its previous A full copy of the terms of reference for recommendations regarding the the Committee can be obtained via the time commitment required of non website www.
co. uk or by executive directors and the policy on request to the Company Secretary and its multiple board appointments for principal function is to carry out a formal executive and non executive selection process for executive and nondirectors: executive directors and subsequently to propose to the Board any new Reviewed the role descriptions for the Chairman, Chief Executive and appointments.
Senior Independent Non Executive The Nomination Committee oversees Director: succession planning for directors and Approved the directors who would senior managers below Board level.
offer themselves for re-election at The Chairman of the Nomination the 2007 AGM in accordance with the Committee reports to the Board on the articles of association: and outcome of meetings.
Approved the Report of the Nomination Committee contained in Main activities during 2007 the 2006 Annual Report and During the period, the Committee made Accounts.
recommendations to the Board regarding The Committee undertook a review of its its size, structure and Board and own performance and terms of reference committee composition.
during the period and the Committee During 2007, the Committee also: Chairman reported to the Board on the outcome of the review.
Recommended to the Board that Messrs Spearing and Topping be appointed executive directors of the Company: 28 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Report of the Nomination Committee
