Report of the Audit and Risk Management Committee William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Report of the Audit and Risk Management Committee Membership, meetings and remuneration Main activities during 2007 Set out below is the current membership of the Audit and Risk Management Committee The Committee has discharged its Committee together with the year in which membership commenced.
During the responsibilities during the period by period, all the members of the Committee were independent non executive directors.
Director Year of appointment Financial statements During the period, the Committee David Allvey, Chairman 2002 reviewed and discussed the financial David Edmonds 2005 disclosures made in the preliminary results announcement, Annual Report and Barry Gibson 2002 Accounts and Interim Statement made by the Group together with any related management letters, letters of The Company Secretary acts as secretary announcements relating to financial representation and reports from the performance: to the Committee.
Significant financial attend at the request of the Committee Review the major risks affecting the reporting issues and judgments were Chairman and during the period the Group and assist the Board with considered together with any significant external auditors, Chief Executive, Group reviewing the effectiveness of the accounting policies and changes Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit controls operating over the Groups proposed to them.
and the Head of Financial Planning and financial and non-financial risks: Control would usually attend meetings to Internal control and risk management Review the nature and scope of the report to the Committee and provide The Committee has reviewed the Groups work to be performed by the clarification and explanations where internal control and risk management external and internal auditors, the appropriate.
The Corporate Finance systems and has received reports from a result of that work and Manager, Head of Compliance and Head number of departments, and, where managements response, and their of Security have attended meetings as effectiveness: appropriate, presentations from senior requested.
The Committee also meets management, on the major risks faced by Oversee the relationship with the with the external auditors without the Group and the procedures established external auditors including making executive management present on a to identify, assess, manage, monitor and recommendations to the Board regular basis.
The Committee met on six report on these risks.
The Committee has regarding their appointment or occasions during the period and details of reviewed and approved the statements removal and developing a policy attendance at Committee meetings is set on internal controls on pages 26 and 27. regarding the provision of non-audit out on page 24. services to the Group: External auditors Mr Allvey has recent and relevant financial Meet with the executive directors The Committee has responsibility for experience.
He is a chartered accountant, and management, as well as overseeing the relationship with the a former Group Finance Director of privately with both the external and external auditors and approves the Barclays PLC and BAT Industries PLC and a internal auditors: and external auditors engagement letter, audit former member of the UK Accounting fee and audit and client services plan Standards Board.
Mr Edmonds and Mr Report to shareholders annually on including the planned levels of Gibson are both financially literate and its role and responsibilities.
The external auditors attend have significant general business The Chairman of the Audit and Risk each committee meeting and at least experience of executive roles in both Management Committee reports to the annually meet with the Committee private and public organisations and Board on the outcome of meetings.
The details of each directors significant Chairman of the Committee also meets current and prior appointments are set A formalised whistle-blowing policy and privately with the external auditors.
out on page 13. procedure for staff to raise issues Letters of representation are reviewed regarding possible improprieties in prior to signature by executive matters of financial reporting or other Role of the Audit and Risk management.
matters has been established and was Management Committee reviewed during the year.
It is the During the period, the Committee A full copy of the terms of reference for responsibility of the Committee to received regular reports from the external the Committee can be obtained via the monitor its effectiveness and any auditors including a formal written report website www.
co. uk or by notifications made.
dealing with the audit objectives: the request to the Company Secretary.
The auditors qualifications, expertise and The Committee has access to the services Committees principal responsibilities are resources: effectiveness of the audit of the Internal Audit and Company to: process: procedures and policies for Secretarial departments and is authorised maintaining independence: and Review and advise the Board on the to obtain independent professional advice Groups interim and annual financial compliance with the ethical standards if it considers it necessary.
statements, its accounting policies issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
and to monitor the integrity of the The external auditors management letter financial statements and is reviewed, as is managements response 29 to issues raised.
The Committee monitors Internal Audit departments effectiveness the ethical guidance regarding rotation of using guidance from a self-assessment audit partners and a change in audit questionnaire prepared by Internal Audit, partner was made during 2004 when the feedback from senior management and a audit partner was rotated off the audit in review of the Institute of Internal Auditors accordance with the latest guidance.
The Standards for the Professional Practice of new audit partner was appointed Internal Auditing.
The Committee also following interviews with the Committee assesses annually the resources the Chairman and the Group Finance Director department has to complete its remit.
The and subsequent approval by the Committee reviews the effectiveness of Committee.
the Internal Audit Department on an annual basis.
The Internal Audit During the period, the Committee department has unrestricted access to all reviewed the Groups written policy group documentation, premises, functions regarding the employment by the Group and employees as required to enable it to of former employees of the external perform its functions.
The appointment auditors and the policy on non-audit and removal of the Head of Internal Audit services provided by the external auditors.
is the responsibility of the Committee.
The The Committee approves any non-audit Head of Internal Audit has direct access to work to be undertaken by the external the Board and Committee Chairmen and auditors involving fees in excess of is accountable to the Committee.
Where no committee meeting is Head of Internal Audit meets regularly scheduled within an appropriate time with the Committee Chairman without frame, approval is sought from the executive management.
Committee Chairman and subsequently ratified at the next meeting.
All non-audit Other activities services provided by the external auditors During the period other significant are reported to the Committee at its next activities addressed by the Committee scheduled meeting.
The external auditors were as follows: are excluded from performing any day-toThe introduction of accounting and day accountancy work for the Group.
The reporting changes affecting the 2007 policy also sets out the criteria to be financial statements: followed when considering whether external auditors should be engaged to Identifying that all the relevant undertake non-audit services with the aim systems were in place to ensure that the Company would be compliant of safeguarding the external auditors with the rules and regulations of the objectivity and independence.
Gambling Act: The Committee is satisfied with the Reviewing the Companys policies performance of the external auditors and procedures relating to the during the year, and the policies and appointment of key suppliers: and procedures in place to maintain their objectivity and independence, and has A full review of the risk profile and recommended that they be re-appointed risk management profile of the at the forthcoming Annual General Company was undertaken and both Meeting.
of these were updated and approved.
Internal Audit Regular updates are provided to the The Committee approves the annual audit Committee on developments in financial plan and internal audit methodology for reporting and risk management and the Internal Audit department and related legal and corporate governance monitors progress against the plan during matters.
Audit reports are circulated to the Committee members after each audit and the Committee monitors progress against actions identified in these reports and the external auditors management letter.
The Internal Audit department acts under agreed terms of reference and the Committee has established a number of procedures to monitor and review the 30 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Report of the Audit and Risk Management Committee
