02 Report 2007 16-39. qxp 11 4 07 10:38 am Page 24 24 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2007 Corporate governance report Combined Code The Board has prepared this report with reference to the UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003.
Progress has continued towards establishing good practice principles of governance with the effective operation of the committees of the Board that were established last financial year, and with the appointment of a new Chief Executive CEO.
Throughout 2006 07 the Group has complied with the Combined Code, except in the following areas: Combined code provisions Status Explanation A.
2.1 there is division of responsibilities The duties of Bob Stott, the CEO who As part of the recruitment process for between the Chairman and Chief Executive retired in September 2006 were not Marc Bolland, appointed CEO September 2006, which are clearly established in writing formally defined as he had a long a formal split of duties between the Chairman and agreed by the Board.
working relationship with the Chairman, and CEO has been agreed by the Board.
3.2 at least half the Board, excluding At the beginning and end of the year As reported last year the Board is committed to the Chairman, comprise independent there was one more Executive Director having a majority of independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors.
Details of planned changes are explained below.
6.1 the Board should state in the The assessments were not performed An independent assessment planned for late Annual report how performance evaluation in the current financial year.
2006 07 was carried out in February 2007 and of the Board, its committees and its the results were presented to the Board.
They individual directors has been conducted.
confirmed that Board members felt that good The Non-Executive Directors, led by the progress had been made in the year, and that Senior Independent Director, should be the Board is embracing the right programme responsible for performance evaluation of of work to ensure further improvements in its the Chairman, taking into account the effectiveness.
views of the Executive Directors.
C. 3.1 at least one member of the Audit The current Audit Committee does not This is being addressed as part of overall Board Committee has recent relevant financial have a member with recent relevant composition and the previously reported experience.
arrangements remain in place to ensure the adequate operation of the Audit Committee.
These are commented on below.
C. 3.4 there are arrangements in place Comprehensive whistleblowing Whistleblowing procedures are being introduced for the staff to raise concerns in procedures did not exist during under the guidance of the Head of Risk and confidence.
Internal Audit that include adequate reporting to the Audit Committee.
C. 3.5 the Audit Committee monitors the An independent internal audit function A Head of Risk and Internal Audit was one of overall effectiveness of the internal audit was not in place until September 2006. the positions created in the formation of the new function.
Finance top team, and time was needed to complete the recruitment.
The Board On 4 February 2007 the Board comprised a Chairman, On completion of his period of induction, Marc has worked with five Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
With the the executives in the Group to define the strategy described in planned recruitment of two additional Non-Executive Directors and his operating review.
the previously announced retirement of two Executive Directors The roles and responsibilities agreed by the Board between the David Hutchinson and Sir Kenneth Morrison, the Board will Chairman and the CEO have been defined as follows: ultimately comprise a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Details of appointments and resignations are described Chief Executive below.
Details of Directors roles, backgrounds and other Chair the Morrisons Executive Board and, after a suitable period commitments are set out in the biographies of Directors on page 17. of transition, chair all other operational committees including subsidiary Boards.
On 1 September 2006 Marc Bolland joined the Group as CEO.
Senior roles in Heineken NV, ending with the executive board position of All Executive Directors report to the CEO.
Chief Operating Officer, have given him suitable experience and skills Responsible for all aspects of the Groups overall commercial, to fulfil the CEO role.
With the assistance of the Chairman, he completed a period of Responsible for developing and delivering the Optimisation Plan.
induction where he: Member of the Nominations Committee.
met with the Directors and senior Executives who are responsible for all functions of the Group.
Invited to attend the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
visited many stores and manufacturing operations across the country.
engaged with customers and suppliers to receive feedback.
participated in the Interim Announcement 2006 07 which gave an opportunity to meet analysts and major shareholders.
02 Report 2007 16-39. qxp 11 4 07 10:38 am Page 25 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2007 25 Chairman Approval of any significant changes to accounting policies or Chair the Board.
Responsible for running the Board.
Approval of any material changes to capital structures and issue of equity securities.
Provide advice and assistance to the CEO.
Approval of treasury policy including foreign currency and interest Invited to attend the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
Continue to attend the Morrisons Executive Board meeting Approval of any material changes to the pension scheme rules for a transitional period.
including any changes to funding and management arrangements.
On 30 June 2006 David Jones retired as a Director of the Group.
Making recommendations to the shareholders for the David joined the Board in 2004 and was appointed Deputy Chairman appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external auditors, in 2005.
He also held the position of Senior Independent Director having considered proposals put forward by the Audit Committee.
Following his retirement, Paul Manduca became the SID on 1 July 2006.
The recruitment of a new Deputy Chairman continues.
Oversight of the Groups risk management and internal control This person, when recruited, will eventually succeed Sir Kenneth strategy including consideration of recommendations put forward Morrison who announced his intention to retire as Chairman and by the Audit Committee.
a Director of Morrisons by January 2008. Review of the Groups overall corporate governance strategy and The role of SID is to be available to shareholders as an alternative structure.
contact point to the Chairman, CEO and Group Finance Director.
With the arrival of the new CEO the day-to-day management has The SID ensures that he is available to meet shareholders during been formalised to be delegated to the CEO and an Executive Board the year and has this year met a large number.
He reports any and operational boards.
Subsidiary company board meetings are held relevant findings to the Board or Chairman.
He also chairs the frequently and are attended by at least one Board member.
Nomination Committee when it is considering the recruitment of the Deputy Chairman.
The Board considers all its Non-Executive Directors to be independent in character and judgement.
No Non-Executive Director: David Hutchinson has announced that he will retire on 30 June 2007.
On his retirement, there will not be a direct replacement of his role Has been employed by the Group within the last five years.
Has had a material business relationship with the Group within Marie Melnyk resigned as Managing Director with effect from the last three years.
Temporarily, her Board duties were taken on by Receives remuneration other than directors fees.
Marc Bolland and it was announced on 8 March 2007 that a new Trading Director, Martyn Jones, had been appointed to the Board.
Has close family ties with any of the Groups advisers, directors He assumes the Trading responsibilities previously undertaken by or senior employees.
Marie Melnyk, whilst her Marketing responsibilities will be taken Holds cross-directorships or has significant links with other by a new Marketing and Communications Director, currently being directors through involvement in other companies or bodies.
recruited, who will report to the CEO and will not sit on the Board.
All Directors that resigned submitted their resignation letters to the Chairman, who dealt with any matters arising.
Has served on the Board for more than nine years.
The Board is responsible for setting and approving the strategy and All Non-Executive Directors fulfilled the commitment of their key policies of the Group, and for monitoring the progress towards engagement letters to provide a minimum time commitment based achieving these objectives.
It monitors financial performance, critical on one day per month attendance of meetings, attendance at the operational issues and risks.
The formal schedule of matters reserved AGM, Board away days and site visits, plus adequate preparation for the Board that was adopted last year remains unaltered and is time.
No Non-Executive Directors hold other positions that mean that summarised below: they will not be able to fulfil these commitments nor contribute to the governance and operations of the Group.
Responsibility for setting the strategic direction of the Group.
A number of meetings were organised in early 2007 to consider the Approval of the annual budget.
strategic direction being formulated by the new CEO.
Material changes to the Groups overall management and control structure.
Approval of the Annual Report and Interim Report.
Approval of all circulars, listing particulars, resolutions and correspondence sent to shareholders.
Approval of any material capital projects, investments, acquisitions or disposals.
02 Report 2007 16-39. qxp 16 4 07 2:52 pm Page 26 26 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2007 Corporate governance report continued With the retirement of David Jones the composition of the Boards committees is as follows: Committee membership and role Name Status Nomination Audit Remuneration Sir Kenneth Morrison Chairman X Marc Bolland CEO X Paul Manduca Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director XXX Brian Flanagan Non-Executive Director XXX Susan Murray Non-Executive Director XXX Nigel Robertson Non-Executive Director XXX The Board met 16 times in the year.
The Directors attended the following numbers of Board meetings and committees: Board Nomination Audit Remuneration Number of meetings 16 2 9 12 Sir Kenneth Morrison 16 16 2 2 Marc Bolland 5 5 Brian Flanagan 15 16 2 2 9 9 10 12 Mark Gunter 16 16 David Jones 7 9 2 2 2 4 7 8 David Hutchinson 16 16 Paul Manduca 15 16 2 2 9 9 12 12 Marie Melnyk 13 14 Susan Murray 15 16 2 2 9 9 12 12 Roger Owen 14 16 Richard Pennycook 16 16 Nigel Robertson 15 16 2 2 8 9 11 12 Robert Stott 11 11 The Company Secretary organises the appropriate level of insurance cover for Directors to defend themselves against legal claims and civil actions.
The level of cover is currently 50m in aggregate.
Nomination Committee The current membership of the Remuneration Committee Other than the retirement of David Nomination Committee is shown in the table above detailing Board Jones, the membership of the Remuneration Committee has not and Board committee membership.
On 30th June 2006 David Jones altered during the year and is shown in the table detailing Board and resigned as member of the committee and on 1 September 2006 Board committee membership above.
The terms of reference were Marc Bolland was appointed as a member.
subject to an annual review and are available on request and on the Groups website www.
Marc Bolland was appointed as CEO on 1st September 2006.
During the year this committee continued its progress to put in The activities of this committee are now focused on recruiting a place performance-based structures that will enable the Group to Deputy Chairman and a Non-Executive Director with recent and recruit, retain and motivate high calibre senior executives.
As part relevant financial experience.
The executive search agency Egon of this the recruitment packages for Marc Bolland and Richard Zehnder is employed to identify candidates which the Nomination Pennycook were concluded and relevant details are laid out in the Committee short-lists.
Interviews are conducted by the Nomination Directors remuneration report on pages 30 and 31.
A long term Committee and meetings organised with other Executive Directors incentive plan has been developed to support the delivery of the if appropriate before a recommendation is made to the Board.
The strategic plan by the Executive Directors and senior management.
terms of reference are available on request and on the Groups This LTIP is being presented to the AGM in May 2007 for approval.
The committee also dealt with the termination arrangements for Marie Melnyk and Robert Stott.
During the year, the Committee received advice from its appointed advisers New Bridge Street Consultants LLP NBSC on all remuneration related matters, Jardine Lloyd Thompson in respect of pensions, and Ashurst in respect of Executive Directors contracts.
During the year, NBSC also provided advice on incentive arrangements for staff generally.
02 Report 2007 16-39. qxp 16 4 07 2:54 pm Page 27 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2007 27 Audit Committee The only change in composition of the Audit The independence of the Risk and Internal Audit function is ensured Committee during the year was the retirement of David Jones on through its adoption of professional standards and its reporting 30 June 2006.
The other members and their roles remain unaltered lines to the Group Finance Director and unlimited access to the as shown in the table on page 26.
The Chairman, the CEO, the Group Audit Committee.
Finance Director, the Head of Risk and Internal Audit and various The Audit Committee now regularly reviews the key findings of the Finance department representatives have attended by invitation from programme of work.
The Board is satisfied that all members of the Audit Committee remain independent as defined by the Combined Code.
reviewing the recommendations and actions to implement a whistle-blowing policy that meets the requirements of the The executive search company, Egon Zehnder, were appointed during Combined Code and best practice.
the year to recruit a Non-Executive Director with recent and relevant financial experience.
reviewing the effectiveness and efficiency of the Groups product recall processes.
The Audit Committee regularly considers the professional development needs of its members and whether adequate technical reviewing the effectiveness and independence of the auditors information is being provided.
Where necessary it will seek KPMG Audit Plc.
independent external advice at the Groups expense, with such reviewing the financial disclosure in the Groups Annual Report arrangements made through the Company Secretary.
Whilst the and also the financial disclosures in Safeway Limiteds group Audit Committee remains short of a member with recent and financial statements.
relevant financial experience, the Company Secretary has retained, at the request of the Audit Committee Chairman, the services of Private meetings are held with the external auditors, without  LLP to advise the Audit Committee at management present.
The purpose of these meetings is to understand relevant times during the year.
their views on the control and governance environment and managements effectiveness within it.
The core remit of the Audit Committee remains unaltered, to report and recommend to the Board on matters concerning the integrity of Internal control The Board is responsible for setting a system of the financial position and reports of the Group, the effectiveness of internal control for the Group and reviewing its effectiveness.
the framework of internal control and risk management systems, and The system is designed to report to the Board on a timely basis to the independence and appointment of the auditors.
The full terms of manage rather than eliminate risk that may result in the Group failing reference of the Audit Committee are available on request and on the to meet its objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not Groups web site www.
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
During the year the Audit Committee has discharged its duties by: Building on the direction and standards set by the Optimisation Plan last year there has been continued formalisation of controls and reviewing and recommending treasury and tax management improvement of reporting to the Board and its committees.
The five policies for the Tax and Treasury Department that was formed new senior positions created in Finance last year as part of an at the beginning of the calendar year 2006. initiative by the Group Finance Director to improve the depth and reviewing the various reports prepared by the Groups auditors quality of the Finance function have been successfully filled.
They KPMG Audit Plc as part of their audit of the Group and its form part of the Finance top team that have throughout the year built subsidiaries for both the full year and interim results of the Group.
on the changes introduced from integrating the Safeway business.
These include certain tactical information system implementations, undertaking a review of the effectiveness of the financial control process improvements and the continuation of the development of process for the Groups balance sheet and a detailed review of key business reporting and forecasting processes.
reconciliations including those that involve judgment by management.
In shaping the scope and direction of the work programme for the Risk and Internal Audit function, the Board through the Audit undertaking a review of the process and effectiveness of controls Committee prioritised work to evaluate and report on immediately within the Trading function.
known risk areas that might give rise to financial loss.
To date no ensuring that the new Head of Risk and Internal Audit has the material financial problems have been identified that would affect the resources and appropriate terms of reference to: results reported in these financial statements.
The findings however confirmed that for the Group to move forward, the modernising of provide the Board with independent assurance on the the Groups information technology IT systems is a priority.
Future effectiveness of risk management and the adequacy of the control and information needs have been taken into consideration in control framework.
the development of an IT strategy that the Board has authorised for champion the establishment of a Group wide approach to risk the next three years.
The existing stock and distribution systems as management.
previously reported are also in need of replacement in order to achieve the required level of reporting and control in this area.
develop and coordinate the risk management framework.
Final margin and stock valuations are dependent on the accuracy of an annual stock count and valuation that is conducted at the balance sheet date.
02 Report 2007 16-39. qxp 11 4 07 10:38 am Page 28 28 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2007 Corporate governance report continued The Head of Risk and Internal Audit has introduced a process of The information needs of the shareholder who is an individual with reporting to the Audit Committee with an agreed programme of a limited number of shares has been considered with the further work that appraises the Committee on the status of risk and tests development of the Annual Review that was introduced last year, the effectiveness of internal controls.
The implementation of and the addition of a Corporate social responsibility report that is his recommendations continually improves the risk framework for mailed to every shareholder.
These summarise the key data and have the Group.
information about the Group that is intended to be of interest to the individual.
The full Annual report is available on the Groups web site The CEO in forming the Groups strategy has led a group of senior or by request.
executives to take stock of the operations of the business.
Part of this work has been to identify the threats and risks to the business All Directors, Executive and Non-Executive, attend the AGM.
and these are being captured as part of a formal risk framework.
The Chairs of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration committees The Board has reviewed and where necessary authorised this work.
are available to answer questions.
The Board is satisfied that the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks has been in place for the financial year and up to the date of approval of these financial statements.
Auditors independence KPMG Audit Plc have confirmed to the Audit Committee that they were compliant with the APBs Ethical Standards in relation to the audit engagement throughout the year.
Non-audit services provided in the year that could be perceived to impact independence were: Tax compliance and advisory To ensure independence was maintained for non-audit work the auditors put in place the following safeguards: Use of separate engagement directors and teams Use of senior independent consultation partners No audit reliance on outputs KPMG Audit Plc also follow their own ethical guidelines and continually review their audit team to ensure their independence is not compromised.
Shareholder relations The Investor Relations Director has maintained a programme of work that reports to the Board the requirements and information needs of institutional and major investors.
This is part of the regular contact that the Group maintains with its institutional shareholders.
During the year the Senior Independent Director and other NonExecutive Directors met with major shareholders in order to maintain a balanced understanding of their views and concerns.
These were reported back to the Chairman and the Board.
Additionally, the Groups brokers sought independent feedback from investors following both the annual and interim results in 2006.
This feedback was reported to the Board.
