04 Report 2007 66-80. qxp 17 4 07 1:29 pm Page 80 80 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2007 Investor relations information Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at 11.00am Carbon offset This Annual report and financial statements, the on Thursday 24 May 2007 at the new location of Wm Morrison Annual review and financial statement and the Corporate social Supermarkets PLC Head Office, Gain Lane, Bradford, BD3 7DL.
responsibility report have been assessed with the assistance of A separate notice convening the meeting is sent to shareholders, The Carbon Trust for the amount of carbon emissions that will be which includes an explanation of the items of special business to generated in their preparation, printing and delivery.
To offset these be considered at the meeting.
carbon emissions a donation has been made to PURE, The Clean Planet Trust, the first UK registered charity dedicated to combating Dividend Reinvestment Plan The Company has a Dividend climate change by offsetting, meeting the standards of the proposed Reinvestment Plan which allows shareholders to reinvest their cash UK Government Code of Best Practice.
They contribute to projects dividends in the Companys shares bought in the market through a around the world to improve air quality, assisting in the reduction of specially arranged share dealing service.
Full details of the plan and its the impact of climate change.
More information about PURE can be charges, together with mandate forms, are available from the Registrars.
found on their website www.
Corporate website Shareholders are encouraged to visit our website, www.
co. uk to obtain information on company history, stores and services, latest offers, press information and a local store finder.
There is an Investor Information section which provides our current and historical share price data and other share price tools.
Also included in the Investor Information section is this years and prior years Annual review and Annual report and financial Recycled paper This document has been printed by The Midas Press statements.
on recycled paper that is manufactured in mills with ISO 14001 Environmental matters The effect of our business on the accreditation from 100% recycled fibre.
It is totally chlorine free and environment is something that Morrisons takes very seriously.
In is a NAPM certified recycled product.
the production of the 2007 Annual reports and accounts, we have Further information about other ways in which the Group is helping contributed to the reduction in environmental damage in the with environmental change can be found in the Corporate social following ways: responsibility report 2007 which has been sent to shareholders and Website Morrison shareholders receive a printed copy of the Annual can also be viewed on the website.
review and summary financial statement.
The full Annual report is available for viewing or downloading from the corporate website www.
Shareholders are encouraged to view the report on the website which is exactly the same as the printed version, but using the internet has clear advantages such as lowering costs and reducing the environmental impact.
Photography Apart from the front cover, page 3 and page 11 images, photography was commissioned for use in this document.
Barry Lewis photographed Swadlincote and Holloway stores, Thrapston packing house and farm locations in Cumbria.
All people featured are either customers, colleagues or suppliers no actors or models were used.
Permission to publish these photographs was received from each individual.
Where minors appear, parental approval was granted.
Board photographs were taken by Mike Goldwater.
Financial calendar 2007 08 Financial events Dividends Annual General Meeting 24 05 07 Final dividend record date 27 04 07 Quarterly management statement 24 05 07 Final dividend payment date 29 05 07 Half year end 29 07 07 Interim dividend record date 12 10 07 Interim results announcement 20 09 07 Interim dividend payment date 12 11 07 Quarterly management statement 22 11 07 Financial year end 03 02 08 Preliminary results announcement 13 03 08 00 Report 2007 Cover.
qxp 16 4 07 8:46 pm Page 2 Index We are the 2 Chairmans statement UKs fourth largest 4 Chief Executives operating review 16 Board of Directors food retailer 18 Financial review Shareholder information The number of shareholders at 4 February 2007 were 45,415 29 January 2006: 49,904 and the 21 Directors report with 368 stores and 10.5m square feet of number of shares in issue was 2,676,776,258 29 January 2006: 2,673,290,458 23 Statement of Directors responsiselling space.
Our business is mainly food bilities Number of Balance at and grocery the weekly shop.
Uniquely, Analysis by shareholder holders % holders 4 February 2007 % capital 24 Corporate governance report Private shareholder 40,653 89.52 544,662,803 20.35 we source and process most of the fresh 29 Directors remuneration report Nominee companies 4,061 8.94 2,089,447,114 78.07 food that we sell through our own 36 Corporate social responsibility report summary Limited companies 273 0.60 27,877,644 1.04 manufacturing facilities, giving us close Deceased accounts 235 0.52 1,372,225 0.05 39 Auditors report control over provenance and quality.
Our service promise is recognised, by our industry, as the best in the business.
Company Secretary Solicitors Jonathan Burke Gordons LLP Riverside West, Whitehall Road Registered office Leeds, LS1 4AW Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Hilmore House, Gain Lane Ashurst Bradford, BD3 7DL Broadwalk House, 5 Appold Street Telephone 0845 611 5000 London, EC2A 4DW www.
co. uk Wragge & Co LLP Investor relations 55 Colmore Row Telephone 0845 611 5739 Birmingham, B3 2AS Registrars and Shareholding enquiries Auditors Administrative enquiries about the holding of Morrisons KPMG Audit Plc shares, such as change of address, change of ownership, 1 The Embankment, Neville Street dividend payments and the dividend reinvestment plan, Leeds, LS1 4DW should be directed to: Capita Registrars Stockbrokers Northern House, Hoare Govett Limited Woodsome Park 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield, HD8 0LA Citigroup Smith Barney Telephone 0870 162 3131 Canada Square, Canary Wharf www.
com London, E14 5LB Investment Bankers NM Rothschild & Sons Limited New Court, 1 St. Swithins Lane London, EC4P 4DU Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2007 00 Report 2007 Cover.
qxp 16 4 07 8:46 pm Page 1 Annual report and financial statements 2007 www.
co. uk Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Index We are the 2 Chairmans statement UKs fourth largest 4 Chief Executives operating review 16 Board of Directors food retailer 18 Summary Directors report 19 Summary corporate governance with 368 stores and 10.5m square feet of report selling space.
Our business is mainly food 22 Corporate social responsibility report summary and grocery the weekly shop.
Uniquely, 25 Auditors statement we source and process most of the fresh 26 Summary financial statement food that we sell through our own 30 Seven year summary manufacturing facilities, giving us close 31 Summary Directors remuneration report control over provenance and quality.
36 Investor relations information Some 9m customers a week pass through our doors, and 114,000 colleagues across the business work hard each day to deliver great service to them.
Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 1 Financial summary Group turnover Like for like sales ex.
fuel Profit before property transactions and tax 12.5bn up 5.2% 331m up 3% up 2.4% 2006: 54m 2006: 12.1bn before exceptionals Earnings per share Net debt Total dividend for the year 8.30p 0.8bn 4.0p 2006: loss 9.21p down 0.35bn up 9.8% adjusted diluted to exclude 2006: 1.15bn 2006: 3.7p property transactions Operational summary Business review Optimisation Plan The new positioning for Morrisons: All year one targets achieved.
Health, quality, provenance and freshness of food 450m additional investment over next three years: Increasing focus has resulted in sales of Eat Smart, 180m in-store improvements Organics and The Best up by 47%, 20% and 70m on manufacturing businesses 58% respectively.
90m on distribution network 110m on IT systems Strong performance from smaller stores Smaller stores benefiting from focus on range Customers to see fresh new Morrisons selection, merchandising techniques and A fresh new in-store image and corporate labour efficiency.
identity is to be rolled out through 2007.
2 Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Chairmans statement Sir Kenneth Morrison CBE We remain at the early stages of our profit recovery, but I believe that good foundations have been laid as demonstrated by delivering the first stage of our Optimisation Plan and I am delighted that we welcomed Marc Bolland to the business.
The year under review saw a good demonstration of the On behalf of the Directors I wish to thank all members of sound progress we have made towards our former operating our staff for their skill, dedication and energy throughout standards.
The absorption of the Safeway business was this period.
We have all been extremely busy with numerous completed and we saw solid growth in sales, profit and changes being made in all areas of the business.
be marking the progress made so far in our profit recovery by total payments to staff for profit share and their loyalty Profit before tax and exceptional items was 369m compared of 43m.
A major move to bring all our administration with 62m last year.
This included 39m of property profits, functions into a new head office was completed smoothly compared with 8m last year.
There were no exceptional and on schedule.
items compared with costs of 374m last year when we incurred Safeway integration and conversion costs.
The staff also found energy and enthusiasm to raise a The Board is recommending a final dividend of 3.375p per total of 1.6m for the Breast Cancer Campaign, our chosen share, to bring the total for the year to 4.0p an increase Charity of the Year.
The vote for the charity for the current of 8%.
The dividend is covered 2.3 times by earnings and we year was won by Asthma UK, and I feel sure the joint efforts are pleased to be growing the dividend once again.
of our staff, customers and suppliers will ensure another good year.
It was important during this period to show recovery in profit terms whilst maximising cash generation.
Our net debt It has been a particular personal pleasure to present no fell from 1.15bn to 0.8bn in the year due in no small part to fewer than 128 members of staff with awards to recognise tightening our control in all aspects of the business.
Whilst their 25 years service with the Group.
our future capital investment will increase, I believe this can The Board is very aware of the spotlight that is on food be comfortably accommodated.
retailers with regard to promoting healthy eating and being I was delighted in September to welcome Marc Bolland to environmentally responsible.
We believe that exercising the Group as Chief Executive Officer and I have worked social responsibility is entirely compatible with delivering closely with him since in helping him to learn about our continued profit recovery and we are pleased, this year, unique culture.
He has worked hard, and later in this report to be publishing a corporate social responsibility report he will acquaint you with his reactions and outline his for the first time.
As always, capital investments have been made wherever necessary in order to achieve more efficient operations.
Capital has been invested in stores and our manufacturing Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 3 and distribution facilities.
We are currently running too many distribution miles because of the less than ideal disposition of our depots and this matter is being urgently addressed.
A major investment has been made in modern heavy goods vehicles which is showing good economies in costs per mile on fuel consumption, and reduced carbon emissions.
We will continue to invest in suitable development opportunities and have once again appreciated the great value of our freehold property portfolio.
We are making changes to the management structure to recognise the increased size of the Group and its greater complexity.
In order to motivate management towards improved performance in a highly competitive market, we will be proposing a long-term incentive plan at our AGM in May.
This plan and an associated annual bonus scheme will offer strong incentives for top performances and no rewards for failure.
Board structure is changing as a result of Bob Stott and Marie Melnyk stepping down during the year and the impending departure of David Hutchinson in June.
Jointly the 3 of them have contributed 75 years of really outstanding service to the Group.
I thank them most sincerely for the enormous dedication and effort which they have always demonstrated and say what a pleasure it has been to work Hilmore House is the new home to more than 1,400 headquarters with them.
We were delighted to confirm Martyn Jones staff, who were previously dispersed over a number of locations.
The search for a new A great working environment, it continues the Groups long association with the city of Bradford.
Deputy Chairman continues and good progress is being made.
The Competition Commission enquiry into the Grocery Industry continues and our latest information suggests the outcome is likely to be in October or November.
We have cooperated fully with all the requests for information.
We believe that the final outcome should favour us as we are the smallest of the big companies and as local competition would appear to be the main criterion, we believe we should see opportunities in important locations where we are not currently represented.
The task for the coming years is to modernise certain aspects of our business but equally it is important to remember the many areas of our operations which made us outstandingly successful in our formative years.
We are now firmly on the road to further improvement and I view the future with optimism.
Sir Kenneth Morrison CBE Chairman 4 Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Chief Executives operating review Marc Bolland It is a pleasure to present my first operating review, after being part of Morrisons for eight months.
I am impressed by the business and by our people, who are at the heart of the Group.
Market backdrop 2006 07 was an unusual year for UK The industry remained highly competitive in the year.
It began in similar fashion to the pattern pointed out by the Competition Commission, 80% of the UK of previous years, with price deflation.
This was characterised population has a choice of 3 supermarkets larger than 13,000 by high profile price cuts on certain commodity items, such square feet within a 15 minute drive of home.
Tesco, Asda, as milk, bananas and bacon.
No volume retailer can afford Sainsbury and Morrisons account for approximately 66% of to be out of line with the market on such staple items, but the grocery market.
A further 15% is operated by Marks and equally cutting prices on them will not result in sales uplifts Spencer, Waitrose, Somerfield and the Co-op.
Kwik Save has adequate to compensate for the margin foregone.
This all but disappeared from the market, providing some boost intense pricing activity eased in the second quarter, and the to other operators in the sector.
whole sector benefited from an exceptional summer.
The Overall, TNS estimate that the grocery market grew by 3.4% prolonged period of good weather saw sales move into during our 2006 07 financial year.
Morrisons growth, higher margin fresh, premium and beverage lines.
The good excluding fuel, was 2.0%, due to disposal effects.
weather continued through much of October, when the usual competitive promotional activity ahead of Christmas Operating review of the year 2006 07 was Morrisons got under way.
Trading in the weeks leading to Christmas first year operating as a truly national retailer, under one appeared to be slow for most retailers, with trade coming brand, with common systems and processes.
Whilst, in a late surge in the final week.
inevitably, there was some residual activity dealing with legacy Safeway issues, most of our attention was on An important, and encouraging, feature of the year was the delivering Morrisons best practice through the enlarged increasing focus by consumers, the media and the industry stores estate and on recovering profitability.
Our targets in on health, quality, freshness and the provenance of food.
this regard were laid out in the Optimisation Plan, published This was a shift away from merely focusing on price, the main in March 2006, and all of these were achieved.
area of attention in the previous five years.
A combination of factors has contributed to this, including great consumer We opened 4 new, large stores in the year, in Leyland, interest in food and drink programmes on television and a Swadlincote, Cardiff and Crowborough, and disposed of national debate emerging over obesity concerns.
14 small stores, leaving us with an unchanged 10.5m square feet of retail space.
Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 5 Total turnover of 12.5bn was in line with the previous year, Operating profit before property transactions and before Safeway integration costs although elements changed year on year, as shown in the table.
The reporting period benefited from an extra, 53rd 385m 2007 week, but was disadvantaged by the continuing drag effect 104m 2006 of store disposals in the previous year.
These elements are isolated in the table.
The most important sales measure for 100m 200m 300m 400m us is store like for like sales growth coming from existing Much more to do to build profitability further.
This was strong in the year, at 5.2%, reflecting the See Outcome of business review continued good progress of the stores converted to Morrisons from Safeway.
Original Morrisons stores, which Like for like sales excluding petrol had been showing like for like sales declines, had turned positive week on week by the year end, but were still 9,552m 2007 growing behind the market.
Within the like for like sales figure, we saw growth both in the number of transactions 9,078m 2006 i. e. customers shopping with us and basket size how much 2.5m 5.0m 7.5m 10.0m customers spend with us.
Growth coming from existing stores up 5.2% Our like for like sales growth of 5.2% excluding fuel included some shifts in product mix.
Fresh produce performed particularly well, helped by the good summer and the Sales per labour hour emerging healthy eating trends.
Our fishmongery business Like for like sales was a star performer, reflecting its Retail Industry Award 2007 of Seafood Retailer of the Year, and represents a real point of difference for Morrisons.
Health and beauty began to 2006 respond to our greater focus on this area, with good growth following the rollout of new fixtures and ranges in 146 Store labour productivity year on year improved by 14% stores.
Less strong was our home and leisure business, where it has become clear that our range needs refreshing, and beers, wines and spirits, where volumes remained good Colleague numbers at year end but intense competition saw further deflation in the year.
The healthy eating and premium quality trends were evidenced by sales of our Eat Smart range increasing by 2007 47%, Organics by 20% and The Best, our premium brand, 2006 by 58%.
In each case these were growing from a low base, but the trends are clear.
By contrast, sales of carbonated 32.5 65 97.5 130 drinks, chocolate biscuits and crisps were down year on year.
Number in thousands Stores Manufacturing Distribution Central The strong performance of fresh produce benefited not just our retail business but also our manufacturing operations, which were operating towards full capacity for much of the year.
This provided a welcome boost to profitability.
Like for like 2006 07 2005 06 stores Other 53rd Week Total Total Sales of goods m 10,269 372 200 10,841 10,541 Fuel m 2,603 52 51 2,706 2,516 Total sales inc VAT m 12,872 424 251 13,547 13,056 Turnover exc VAT m 11,844 387 231 12,462 12,115 Sales per square foot 19.57 19.34 17.69 Customer numbers m 464 479 484 Customer spend 22.62 22.53 20.92 6 Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Chief Executives operating review continued For a number of years, food retail prices have been declining, productivity improvements are required in order to keep giving ever greater value to consumers and reflecting the labour ratios to sales on an improving trend.
In the period intense competition in the market.
In 2006 07, there were after the Safeway acquisition, store labour productivity had reports of inflation again entering the market, as producers declined for two years.
It is therefore pleasing to report that and retailers sought to pass on to customers the cumulative in 2006 07 it again began to improve, with sales per labour effect of high energy, commodity and business rates costs.
hour, a key measure for us, improving by 14% year on year.
At some periods in the year, and in some categories, Another significant cost, both in store and throughout the particularly fresh produce, we saw inflation in the business.
Despite our energy efficiency improving, Overall, however, through the whole year, our customers the high cost of gas and electricity in the year had an impact paid less for their average shopping basket than they would on the result of approximately 25m.
have paid the previous year.
Of fundamental importance to a grocery retailer is the Fuel sales in the past two years have been heavily affected by efficiency of the supply chain, and throughout the difficult high oil prices.
These price rises boost sales, but contribute Safeway integration period Morrisons was successful in little to profits, as fuel is a low margin business and we seek maintaining industry leading levels of availability.
However, to remain highly competitive in the marketplace.
The fact this was achieved at a cost, and the business had finished the that we grew underlying fuel volumes, in litres sold, by 5% previous year with significant excess depot capacity.
Good reflects the competitiveness of our offering.
progress was made in addressing this issue in the year, with three large depots closed, and as a result the costs of When the Optimisation Plan was launched in March 2006 distribution fell by over 44m.
The business now does not we noted that the stores we had converted from Safeway have surplus depot capacity, but geographically some of the were not performing at levels of sales density as strong as space is poorly sited to serve our Southern estate.
As a those in the original Morrisons estate.
These stores made result, we continue to drive more miles than we would wish good progress in the year, delivering sales growth ahead of to service our stores.
the average for the market as a whole.
Smaller stores, which we define as having less than 25,000 square feet of selling An important landmark for us in 2006 07 was the opening area and comprise nearly a third of our store sales, performed of our new head office in Bradford, in April.
This purpose particularly well, with sales densities up 12% in the year.
built facility houses some 1,400 colleagues who previously worked in various buildings around the city.
Bringing them These stores are not able to carry the full Morrisons range, all together in one location, with a high quality working but can still offer customers our unique Market Street environment, has improved communication and working experience and a comprehensive range of grocery, frozen efficiency greatly.
As a result of the move, and also the and household items.
Adapting the way we work, to withdrawal from some duplicate Safeway facilities, the cost maximise our opportunities in these stores, was a major of running our central functions fell in the year.
We improved our range selection and merchandising techniques, and found ways of delivering Optimisation Plan delivery The March 2006 labour efficiency whilst maintaining service levels and Optimisation Plan contained a number of ambitions and taking cost out of the back office administration.
Where firm targets were set, these have been achieved, and where ambitions were outlined, we have Our success, so far, with these stores, has given us made progress towards them.
We wanted to see sales confidence that they will be able to deliver acceptable growth across the board, and we did.
However, whilst we levels of profitability, although they are not yet doing so.
were pleased with the performance of the converted stores, Reflecting this confidence, we will open a new, 24,800 and particularly the smaller stores, we remain dissatisfied square foot store, in Erskine in 2007.
This will be the smallest with sales in the original Morrisons stores.
These stores grew new Morrisons store to have opened for over 20 years.
sales during the second half, but have yet to establish a firm After the cost of goods that we sell, our biggest cost is positive trend.
For a number of years, wage inflation has been running ahead of food price inflation, meaning that Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 7 We outlined a gross margin target of 90 basis points for From a stall in a Bradford market came the delivery over three years, with an expectation that this would inspiration to innovate and lead the way in be delivered through better buying, sales mix and improved supermarket retailing.
Progress was very positive, and we were out town-centre shop was opened offering pleased to deliver the whole of the target in the year.
Key to Bradford self-service for the first time, and in this was the positive support of our suppliers, most of whom 1961 the Groups first supermarket, Victoria, have been in partnership with Morrisons for many years.
In 1967 the Group became a We also established cost saving targets totalling 110m in the listed company and in 2004 completed the year, across store wages, distribution costs and central costs.
takeover of Safeways, making it a significant Again, all of these were achieved.
Our staff numbers retail group in the FTSE 100.
With 368 stores decreased in the period, from an average of 93,041 full time across the nation, 278 offering petrol filling equivalents in 2005 06 to 84,653 in 2006 07.
We were stations as well, there is a Morrisons near you.
pleased to achieve most of this through natural staff turnover In 2006 07 new stores with petrol filling as we delivered operational efficiency improvements.
stations were opened in: The combination of good like for like sales growth and Leyland Cardiff Sports Village achievement of our Optimisation Plan for gross margin Swadlincote Crowborough and cost targets led to operating profit before property transactions of 384.7m being achieved in the year, In 2007 08 new stores with petrol filling compared to 104.0m before Safeway integration and stations are planned for: conversion costs in the previous year.
This recovery is pleasing, but at 3.1% of turnover there remains much to do Speke Johnstone to build profitability further.
We aim to do this by acting on Dundee York the results of my business review, conducted over the past Llanelli Bristol Hartcliffe six months, which is the subject of the next section.
Wednesbury Giffnock Outcome of the business review Since joining Your store locator can be found on Morrisons as CEO in September 2006 I have been able, www.
co. uk with colleagues, to have a thorough look at what we stand for, how we perform and what we need to do to ensure our future success.
We found many strengths in the business, but also challenges that we must address if we are to be a winner in the highly competitive UK grocery market.
Earlier 49 in this report, I outlined the real success already achieved in Scotland the past year in establishing Morrisons as a national food retailer, in growing our sales and profits and in generating cash.
Having stabilised and begun to optimise the business, we now have plans to complete the profit recovery and 53 North position ourselves for future growth.
What we did Firstly, we stepped back from the business and asked lots of people to talk to us about their experiences and views of Morrisons.
Some of the feedback came through 62 19 Midlands structured, formal market research, covering over 3,000 Wales 40 East Midlands customers and 8,000 colleagues.
Some came from talking West to people customers, colleagues and suppliers from all 56 over the country and hearing their views.
49 South East South 40 Central South West Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 9 Chief Executives operating review continued A clear picture emerged of the things we should concentrate recycling 72% of the waste packaging that arises in our stores on and the issues we face, and we asked colleagues from but in other cases to recognise that we need to give these across the business to help us get the answers.
We did not things greater prominence.
For example, our Organics range is want large numbers of external consultants doing this work, too narrow and we are behind our competitors on the removal we wanted the solutions to come from within, developed of hydrogenated fats and the reduction of salt in recipes.
by the people who will have to deliver our plans.
Where We found that the business is already in shape to tackle necessary, we did seek outside advice and support in areas many of the challenges that we face day to day.
But we also where real specialism could help, but this was a small part found that some work is required to strengthen the basic of the overall programme.
building blocks of the business, if we are to deliver our potential for the future.
Morrisons is a great business, and the results What we are going to be of this review are about evolution not revolution.
Morrisons is going to be the food specialist for everyone: Reflecting our nationwide presence, and our Food specialist We really understand food many new customers, we will be making We know where it comes from Morrisons the food specialist for everyone.
We pack it and make it in our factories We make it in our stores We employ craft skills in every store What we found We found lots of real strengths in Morrisons.
We deliver fresh to you, every day Our customers appreciate the value we offer, our high standards of availability and our industry leading in-store For everyone Great food which is also great value service.
Customers highly loyal to us also understand some Great food which is for everyday, not of our unique, quality attributes, such as our in-store butchery, just special days fishmongery and bakery skills, our popular cafs and the fact How we will get there the building blocks Delivering that we control key parts of the fresh food supply chain our goal of being the food specialist for everyone will be a through our manufacturing businesses.
Customers who do great team effort from all 114,000 colleagues in the business.
not know us so well often do not appreciate these points, As I have toured our stores and other operations I have and we found that we are not as good at communicating been highly impressed by the enthusiasm, commitment and these strengths as we should be.
dedication to customer service of Morrisons people.
This is We found that customers are very interested, today, in the powerful, and we will build on it.
Colleagues have told me provenance, quality and health aspects of food and in the where we need to improve, in supporting the stores and impact of big businesses on the environment.
We have work in working together more effectively in the centre, and to do here, in some cases, to communicate better the good activities are under way to make these improvements.
things that Morrisons does like having higher standards for In particular, I want to reduce staff turnover in stores, the selection of beef than our competitors, or already WE HAVE MORE PEOPLE PREPARING MORE FOOD IN-STORE THAN ANY OTHER RETAILER Many supermarkets are removing preparation from their stores to reduce costs.
We put food thats freshly prepared in-store right at the heart of what we do.
Morrisons has over 2,200 food products that we freshly prepare in-store, and every store offers at least 850 of these products.
No-one else can offer so much freshly prepared food.
In our stores, there are staff preparing freshly made sandwiches and salads, topping pizzas, baking bread and finishing cakes.
So a Morrisons cheese and tomato sandwich will have been made only a few hours before it is bought the tomatoes freshly washed and sliced by hand in-store, and mature, freshly grated, cheese from the delicatessen.
Because we have more people preparing food in our stores, our customers receive more personal service than can be found elsewhere, in an atmosphere thats lively, friendly and down-to-earth.
10 Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Chief Executives operating review continued which is ahead of industry norms, and to improve the After a quiet period in 2006 07, with only 4 store openings, training, development and performance evaluation of staff we will accelerate our opening programme in the coming in the centre.
I will continue to survey our staff regularly to year to 8 and will also be working on a number of schemes ensure that the promised improvements are taking effect.
to extend sales areas in existing stores.
I am pleased that we will be launching a colleague discount Our manufacturing businesses will be an important part of scheme later in the year the weekly food shop is a key delivering our food specialist credentials.
They comprise two household expense, and we will be offering our colleagues abattoirs, six fruit and vegetable packhouses, three bakeries even better value, through a discount on most items, for the and a food preparation factory.
Collectively, they rank as a first time.
Key to the delivery of change in any organisation top 5 UK food producer.
We reviewed them thoroughly and is the broad leadership group, in our case defined as confirmed that, financially, they are important profit approximately 600 colleagues including our store general contributors to the Group that justify their capital employed.
I will be articulating my plans for the business In the case of the bakeries, we own a majority but not all of to this group regularly, through the Management Forum, and the business, and our strategic review is not yet complete.
they will be included in new long and short term incentive In all other cases, we have confirmed our commitment to programmes designed to align them behind delivering invest and grow the businesses, as they provide vital support financial success for our shareholders.
At the top of the to our aim of being the food specialist for everyone.
Through organisation, I will have a team of eight senior executives the control of the supply chain created by our vertical reporting to me.
Six are already in place, and recruitment integration, we can monitor sourcing quality more closely, is well advanced for an HR Director and a Marketing and and bring product to market more quickly, than competitors.
In order to deliver this everywhere, we need more capacity in meat and in fresh produce.
We have therefore acquired Our manufacturing businesses will be an a new abattoir, in Spalding, which we will commission in important part of delivering our food specialist the fourth quarter of 2007, and we will be extending our maturation and packing facilities at the Colne site.
Collectively, they rank as a top 5 UK food producer.
These two investments will make us self sufficient in beef, pork and lamb, and allow us to deliver more specialist products such as extra matured beef joints.
We identified In a highly competitive market place, we must continually some gaps in our chill chain which have led, in certain strive to be more efficient, provided we can maintain our product categories and at certain times of year, to fresh high levels of service.
In our stores, we have identified a produce not having the shelf life and freshness that our number of initiatives which will improve the way we work.
For example, in some stores, soft We will bring in more products shelf ready so that it does fruits are displayed at ambient temperature rather than not require unpacking in store and we will be installing some refrigerated and this can cause issues in hot weather.
self scanning checkouts in stores later in 2007.
These and Similarly, some potatoes are transported in non-refrigerated other initiatives will contribute real reductions in our staffing lorries.
We intend to invest in refrigeration in store, in costs, and implemented over two years will be attained trailers and at our packhouse at Flaxby to address this issue, through natural staff turnover rather than redundancies.
A UNIQUE RETAIL EXPERIENCE THE MARKET REDISCOVERED Market Street is central to the Morrisons food offer and sets us apart from other supermarkets.
All of our fresh food, much of it prepared in store, is stocked and sold in Market Street.
Market Street contains a number of different areas, each of which has its own sense of personality shops within a shop.
Not only do we have the butcher, fruit & vegetables, the fishmonger and the delicatessen, we also have a bakery where most bread is freshly baked and not just baked off.
Theres also an area selling goods fresh from the oven, a pie shop, and a salad bar.
Morrisons has more qualified staff in each area than any other supermarket, with 1,500 butchers, 800 fishmongers and 2,000 bakers.
Each butcher has the skill to prepare over 150 cuts of meat, and each baker knows how to bake 90 different varieties of bread.
They are happy to give advice to our customers on how to prepare and cook the food we sell.
Market Street recaptures the authenticity and enjoyment of shopping at the market.
Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 13 Chief Executives operating review continued with consequent benefit to the product quality delivered to How we will get there what our customers will see Our our customers.
As our business grows, we will need further loyal and growing customer base likes what we do, and we capacity in fruit and vegetable packing, and we will be have no wish to disappoint them.
In their feedback to us, seeking a new facility to open in 2009. however, they helped point to some things that we can do better.
Equally, those who do not shop with us today gave Our distribution infrastructure, although adequate to deal us useful insights into where we can be more attractive to a with our current volumes, will not satisfy all our future broader range of customers.
Great products are fundamental growth requirements, and is not geographically optimal for to any retailers success, and we have work to do to broaden serving our Southern stores.
We are confident of securing and contemporise our ranges.
Additionally, with our more a facility in the South later in 2007.
Whilst not a full regional diverse estate, we need more sophistication in the way we distribution centre, it will allow us to move some of our tailor our ranges to the needs of the local store catchment grocery supply from the Midlands to a base closer to our area.
So our customers will be seeing new and interesting South West stores.
We will continue to seek further depot products, better focused on their needs.
There will be more capacity in the South to deal with future growth requirements.
healthy options, more products hand prepared in store that Systems are fundamental to the efficient operation of any day and more innovative meal solutions for those who love large retailer, and the Morrisons systems platforms have to cook.
Customers love our promotions, and these will served the business well.
They are now approaching the continue to be a big part of the Morrisons offer.
Customers point of requiring to be changed.
Most of the core systems like the way we package products to ensure freshness and in Morrisons have been developed in house, over many a long shelf life, and particularly like the way we show prices years, and some are up to 30 years old.
We will be pursuing clearly on many more of our fresh products than our a three year programme of moving our trading, store, competitors.
But they are also conscious of environmental warehousing, distribution, payroll and financial systems concerns, and do not want to see over packaging.
We will on to new platforms, wherever possible using best of breed be reducing our packaging wherever we can, and looking package software.
for more sustainable and recyclable sources.
We believe the market for retail systems is well developed, Customers like the atmosphere of the market created in a and that there are relatively few areas where we need to Morrisons, and love to find a bargain in an unexpected place.
continue with home grown applications.
We will not be But they tell us they do not like clutter, and in some of our seeking to implement any leading edge technology, stores, particularly smaller stores, we make it too difficult to as we believe our competitive advantages come in other navigate around.
So we will be fide-cluttering our stores, and areas, such as in-store service.
A new MIS Director has been also freshening up our brand.
This will be signalled by the recruited to lead this programme.
change of our logo for the first time in a number of years, and CLOSER TO SOURCE THAN ANY OTHER FOOD RETAILER Morrisons is the most vertically integrated food retailer.
We develop trusted relationships with the farmers who supply us and we are very involved in the selection of the food that we sell.
We select and pack 80% of the fresh produce sold in store and 90% of all our fresh meat.
All of our British meat comes from Farm Assured sources.
We transport the food using our own logistics network to our own manufacturing businesses.
With our own abattoirs, fruit and vegetable packing plants, bakeries and a meat and cheese processing plant, were now one of the top five food producers in Britain.
Put that together with our focus on fresh preparation in-store and we have a unique level of control over the food that we sell.
The benefit to customers of this unique way of working is that Morrisons can ensure the provenance, quality and freshness of our food.
14 Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Chief Executives operating review continued will also involve new and fresher signage, a brighter Market Outlook Our new financial year began slowly, with like Street, new staff uniforms and, in the Spring, the launch for like sales excluding fuel growing at 3.4%, well below the of a new advertising campaign to replace the more reasons momentum seen last year.
Whilst, partly, this reflects the to shop at Morrisons campaign that served the Group well disruption caused by contaminated fuel supplied to us in for 30 years.
Customers will have more chance to see the South, it also emphasises the need for us to make good Morrisons, as we will be extending our opening hours in progress with our new plans.
I am confident that in the a third of the estate.
coming months our loyal customers will continue to see the best of the Morrisons they know, but with a fresh new twist.
Our customers will be seeing new and It is important for the Group to build on the good, strong interesting products, better focused on their culture of commitment that already exists.
This programme is evolution, not revolution, and is about our people, our needs.
Customers love our promotions, and stores and our brand taking us forward to a fresh future.
these will continue to be a big part of the Morrisons offer.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank the many people that I have met since I arrived in the business, for their help, suggestions and support.
Especially I would like to thank Ken Our overall programme requires investment, which I Morrison, who has been a fantastic support.
I value him as believe will deliver returns.
Over three years, we will invest an entrepreneur and a person who is truly unique.
approximately 450m on top of our normal annual capital requirements, which we estimate to be 400m including our new store programme.
I anticipate that we will deliver 200m of annual profit enhancement by 2010, over and above the first phase of the Optimisation Plan announced last year.
As a result of the investments outlined, our net debt is likely to rise in the current financial year, but in the expectation that it will fall again thereafter we will be exploring ways to return value to our shareholders.
As a first step towards this, we are in discussions which may lead to us entering into a Marc Bolland property partnership for some of our investment properties.
Chief Executive This will only involve approximately 25 of our properties, but if it proceeds it might be an interesting first step towards extracting further value from our property base.
COMPETITIVE PRICES AND HUNDREDS OF OFFERS THAT ALWAYS SAVE OUR CUSTOMERS MONEY Morrisons is proud to save our customers money, every day.
Its something well continue to do even more of in the future, and we do it in two ways.
Firstly, we keep our everyday prices low, so that shopping at Morrisons is always great value for money.
Secondly, we will continue to offer the great promotions and offers that we know our customers love and for which we are famous.
In fact, well be working hard to create even more great promotions in the future in food and non-food.
Everyone appreciates good value, no matter who they are, and by constantly refreshing our offers and promotions, we give our customers fresh surprises every time they visit Morrisons.
16 Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Board of Directors 5 4 12 6 7 9 11 3 8 10 1 Sir Kenneth Morrison CBE, 2 Marc Bolland, 3 Mark Gunter, 4 David Hutchinson, 5 Martyn Jones, 6 Roger Owen, 7 Richard Pennycook, 8 Brian Flanagan, 9 Paul Manduca, 10 Susan Murray, 11 Nigel Robertson 18 Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Summary Directors report Summary financial statement The Summary financial Result and dividend The profit for the period after taxation statement on pages 26 to 29, the Summary Directors remuneration amounted to 247.6m.
The Directors have declared and report on pages 31 to 35, the Summary Directors report on this page, recommended the following dividends: and the Summary corporate governance report on pages 19 to 21 are m summaries of the information contained in the Annual report and Paid interim dividend of 0.625p per share 2006: 0.625p 16.7 financial statements 2007.
Recommended final dividend of 3.375p per share 2006: 3.075p 90.3 The Directors report, the full financial statements, and the Auditors The final dividend, if approved by shareholders at the Annual General report are contained in the Annual report and financial statements Meeting, is to be paid on 29 May 2007 to ordinary shareholders on 2007.
The Auditors report on those financial statements was the register of members at close of business on 27 April 2007.
If the unqualified and did not include a reference to any matters to which final dividend is approved by shareholders, the total ordinary dividend the auditors drew attention by way of emphasis without qualifying for the year will be 4p per share.
their report and did not contain a statement under S237 2 or S237 3 Companies Act 1985.
The aim of the Annual review is to provide Auditors In accordance with Sections 385 and 390A of the shareholders with the key financial information in a clear and concise Companies Act 1985, a resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as manner.
Therefore the Annual review and summary financial auditors and to authorise the Directors to set their remuneration is statement does not contain sufficient information to allow as full an to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
understanding of the results of the Group, its state of affairs or the Annual General Meeting The notice of the 2007 AGM of the policies and arrangements concerning Directors remuneration, as is Company to be held at the Companys headquarters at Gain Lane in provided in the Annual report and financial statements.
Bradford on 24 May 2007 is sent to shareholders with the Annual The Annual report and financial statements are available on the review and summary financial statement with an accompanying corporate website, www.
Alternatively, a printed copy explanatory letter from the Chairman.
The Directors believe each of can be obtained by contacting the Company Secretary at the address the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting is in the given on the inside back cover of this report.
best interests of the Group and recommend shareholders to vote in favour of each of them.
Principal activity The principal activity of the Group is the operation of retail supermarket stores and associated activities.
Directors The current Directors of the Group and their biographies are shown on pages 16 and 17. Business review The principal companies within the Morrisons group the Group for the period under review are Wm Morrison David Jones retired from the Board on 30 June 2006, Robert Stott Supermarkets PLC and its principal subsidiaries.
A fair review of the retired on 29 September 2006 and Marie Melnyk resigned from the business and its position at the period end is required to be laid out Board on 6 December 2006. in the Directors report, as well as a review of the principal risks and Martyn Jones was appointed to the Board on 8 March 2007. uncertainties facing the Group.
The Chief Executives operating review pages 4 to 14 covers the market backdrop, review of the Roger Owen aged 58 retires by rotation and Marc Bolland aged 47 period and delivery of the Optimisation Plan plus the outcome of and Martyn Jones aged 48 retire at the first AGM following their a business review which highlights the plan for profit recovery and appointments.
All of them have service contracts with a rolling 12 positioning for future growth and outlook.
The Directors are satisfied month notice period.
All of them, being eligible, offer themselves for that risks to the business are identified and mitigated appropriately.
Within the Chief Executives operating review and the Summary Substantial shareholdings As at 14 March 2007 the Company financial statement pages 26 to 29, key market and financial risk was aware that the following shareholders excluding Directors had are described.
A formal framework of risk is part of the improving interests in 3% or more of the issued share capital governance framework and is scheduled for completion during of the Company: 2007 08.
The developments in governance during the period are covered in the Summary corporate governance report.
This report Ordinary shares As at 14 March 2007 the Company had been notified is supported by additional commentary in the Chairmans statement of the following notifiable interests in its ordinary shares: pages 2 to 3.
Number % of of shares holding The Directors report is prepared for the members of the Company Brandes Investment Partners LLC 316,176,906 11.8% and should not be relied upon by any other party or for any other Ameriprise Financial Inc 173,736,469 6.5% purpose.
Where the Directors report including all the statements and Walter Scott & Partners Ltd 107,775,155 4.0% reports mentioned above includes forward-looking statements, these Legal & General Group Plc 96,866,199 3.6% are made by the Directors in good faith based on the information Zurich Financial Services 81,286,130 3.0% available to them at the time of their approval of this report.
Consequently such statements should be treated with caution due to In addition, Mr A R Wilson has an interest in 232,186,234 ordinary the inherent uncertainties, including both economic and business risk shares 8.67% of which he has a beneficial interest in 13,893 ordinary factors, underlying such forward-looking statements and information.
His interest in the remaining 232,172,341 ordinary shares is purely as a trustee and includes 11,989,701 ordinary shares shown under the beneficial holding of Sir Kenneth Morrison.
Sir Kenneth Morrison is interested as a trustee in 158,542,368 of the ordinary shares held by Mr A R Wilson as a trustee.
Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 17 DIRECTORS: The current Directors of the Group are: 7.
Richard Pennycook b 26.02.1964 Group Finance Director 1.
Sir Kenneth Morrison CBE b 20.10.1931 Joined the Group in October 2005 after working as Group Finance Chairman Director of RAC Plc, the quoted specialist motoring and vehicle Has been with the Group, which bears the name of his father, since management company.
A qualified accountant and member of finishing national service in 1952 and was Chairman and Managing the Society of Turnaround Professionals.
He has been involved Director from 1956 to 1997 at which time he relinquished the as Finance Director in turnarounds of H P Bulmer Holdings PLC, Managing Directors role.
During his period in charge the Group has Welcome Break Holdings Ltd and Laura Ashley Plc.
Other previous grown from a small market trader to one of the leading superstore roles include Finance Director of J D Wetherspoon plc and various operators in the country.
Sir Kenneth was awarded the CBE in 1990 senior positions in Allders plc.
and knighted in the 2000 New Years honours list for services to the food retailing industry.
He is the Chair of the Nomination Committee.
Brian Flanagan b 03.08.1952 Brian Flanagan joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director in July 2.
He is a member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Chief Executive Committees.
Previously he has worked for the Mars Corporation for Joined the Group on 1 September 2006 from Heineken NV, based 26 years and possesses a broad international business experience.
in the Netherlands, where he was most recently Chief Operating He has held senior management positions in finance, information Officer and executive board member.
He held a number of senior systems, manufacturing, purchasing and was, most recently, the roles at Heineken over the last 20 years, including having global Vice President of Business Transformation for Mars inc. responsibility for the brand and marketing strategies.
He is He is also a Non-Executive Director of The Financial Services also currently a Non-Executive Director of Manpower Inc. Authority and PNSL Ltd. 3.
Paul Manduca b 15.11.1951 Store Operations Director Paul Manduca joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director Joined the Group in 1986 after gaining wide experience in UK food in September 2005.
He is a member of the Audit, Nomination and retailing, including working for Iceland, Fine Fare, Tesco and Argyll Remuneration Committees and became the Chair of the Audit Foods.
He moved into superstore management at Asda before Committee from 20 October 2005.
Most recently he was Deutsche joining Morrisons as a Store General Manager and progressing to Asset Managements European Chief Executive.
He was previously District Manager.
In 1993 he was appointed Regional Director and Chief Executive of Rothschild Asset Management and the founding subsequently Stores Director in 1999.
He was appointed to the Board Chief Executive of Threadneedle Asset Management.
He is Chairman of the Group in 2000 as Store Operations Director with additional of Bridgewell Group plc and a current director of JPMF European responsibility for retail operations, retail fuel, retail projects and Fledgling Investment Trust plc, Development Securities PLC, Aon UK company wide security.
Ltd and JSC KazMunaiGas Exploration Production Plc as well as a 4.
David Hutchinson b 24.12.1948 number of other companies.
Susan Murray b 16.01.1957 Joined the Group in 1986 and spent 7 years helping to build up the Susan Murray joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director produce business at Cutler Heights.
In 1993 he was appointed to the in July 2005.
She is a member of the Audit, Nomination and board of management in charge of all manufacturing and pack house Remuneration Committees and became the Chair of the activities.
He was appointed to the Board of the Group in 2002 Remuneration Committee from 20 October 2005.
Currently she adding warehouse and distribution functions to his responsibilities.
is a Non-Executive Director of SSL International plc, Enterprise Inns 5.
Martyn Jones b 20.04.1958 plc, Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
She was formerly Chief Executive Trading Director of Littlewoods Stores Limited.
Joined the Group in 1990 as Trading Manager for frozen foods 11.
Nigel Robertson b 16.11.1959 before being promoted to Trading Operations Director in 1993.
Nigel Robertson joined the Group as a Non-Executive Director in July He was appointed Grocery Director in 1997 and then Senior Trading 2005.
He is a member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Director in 2002.
He was appointed to the Board of the Group on Committees.
Currently he is the Chief Executive Officer of Chelsea 8 March 2007.
He was previously Managing Director of Ocado, 6.
Roger Owen b 21.10.1948 the online grocery shopping business set up in partnership with Property Director Waitrose.
Prior to this he held senior positions in Marks and Spencer Has been with the Group since 1975 and was appointed Building and Group PLC both in the UK and USA.
He joined the Board in 1987 as Property Director and has full responsibility for site acquisition, construction and estate management.
Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 19 Summary corporate governance report Combined Code Progress has continued towards establishing Chairman good practice principles of governance with the effective operation of Chair the Board.
the committees of the Board that were established last financial year, Responsible for running the Board.
and with the appointment of a new Chief Executive CEO.
Throughout 2006 07 the Group has complied with the Combined Provide advice and assistance to the CEO.
Code, except for a few areas where either the resolution of the nonChair the Nominations Committee.
compliance point was completed part way through the year, or the resolution is scheduled for the coming year.
The statement on Invited to attend the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
Combined Code compliance covers the whole of the financial year Continue to attend the Morrisons Executive Board meeting being reported on.
A full governance report is included in the Annual for a transitional period.
For details how to obtain a copy of the Annual report see the Investor relations section on pages 36 and 37.
On 30 June 2006, David Jones retired as a Director of the Group.
David joined the Board in 2004 and was appointed Deputy Chairman The Board On 4 February 2007 the Board comprised a Chairman, in 2005.
He also held the position of Senior Independent Director five Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
Following his retirement, Paul Manduca became the SID on planned recruitment of two additional Non-Executive Directors and 1 July 2006.
The recruitment of a new Deputy Chairman continues.
the previously announced retirement of two Executive Directors This person, when recruited, will eventually succeed Sir Kenneth David Hutchinson and Sir Ken Morrison, the Board will ultimately Morrison who announced his intention to retire as Chairman and comprise a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Details a Director of Morrisons by January 2008. of appointments and resignations are described below.
Details of Directors roles, backgrounds and other commitments are set out in The role of SID is to be available to shareholders as an alternative the biographies of Directors on pages 17. contact point to the Chairman, CEO and Group Finance Director.
The SID ensures that he is available to meet shareholders during On 1 September 2006 Marc Bolland joined the Group as CEO.
Senior the year and has this year met a large number.
He reports any roles in Heineken NV, ending with the executive board position of relevant findings to the Board or Chairman.
He also chairs the Chief Operating Officer, have given him suitable experience and skills Nomination Committee when it is considering the recruitment to fulfil the CEO role.
With the assistance of the Chairman, he completed a period of David Hutchinson has announced that he will retire on 30 June 2007. induction where he: On his retirement, there will not be a direct replacement of his role met with the Directors and senior Executives who are responsible at Board level.
for all functions of the Group.
Marie Melnyk resigned as Managing Director with effect from visited many stores and manufacturing operations across the 6 December 2006.
Temporarily, her Board duties were taken on by country.
Marc Bolland and it was announced on 8 March 2007 that a new Trading Director, Martyn Jones, had been appointed to the Board.
engaged with customers and suppliers to receive feedback.
He assumes the Trading responsibilities previously undertaken by participated in the Interim Announcement 2006 07 which gave Marie Melnyk, whilst her Marketing responsibilities will be taken an opportunity to meet analysts and major shareholders.
by a new Marketing and Communications Director, currently being recruited, who will report to the CEO and will not sit on the Board.
On completion of his period of induction, Marc has worked with the executives in the Group to define the strategy described in his All Directors that resigned submitted their resignation letters to the operating review.
Chairman, who dealt with any matters arising.
The roles and responsibilities agreed by the Board between the All Non-Executive Directors fulfilled the commitment of their Chairman and the CEO have been defined as follows: engagement letters to provide a minimum time commitment based on one day per month attendance of meetings, attendance at the Chief Executive AGM, Board away days and site visits, plus adequate preparation Chair the Morrisons Executive Board and, after a suitable period time.
No Non-Executive Directors hold other positions that mean that of transition, chair all other operational committees including they will not be able to fulfil these commitments nor contribute to the subsidiary Boards.
governance and operations of the Group.
All Executive Directors report to the CEO.
A number of meetings were organised in early 2007 to consider the Responsible for all aspects of the Groups overall commercial, strategic direction being formulated by the new CEO.
Responsible for developing and delivering the Optimisation Plan.
Member of the Nominations Committee.
Invited to attend the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
20 Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Summary corporate governance report continued With the retirement of David Jones the composition of the Boards committees is as follows: Committee membership and role Name Status Nomination Audit Remuneration Sir Kenneth Morrison Chairman X Marc Bolland CEO X Paul Manduca Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director XXX Brian Flanagan Non-Executive Director XXX Susan Murray Non-Executive Director XXX Nigel Robertson Non-Executive Director XX X Nomination Committee The current membership of the time.
The Board is satisfied that all members of the Audit Committee Nomination Committee is shown in the table above detailing Board remain independent as defined by the Combined Code.
On 30 June 2006 David Jones The executive search company, Egon Zehnder, were appointed during resigned as member of the committee and on 1 September 2006 the year to recruit a Non-Executive Director with recent and relevant Marc Bolland was appointed as a member.
Marc Bolland was appointed as CEO on 1 September 2006.
The Audit Committee regularly considers the professional The activities of this committee are now focused on recruiting a development needs of its members and whether adequate technical Deputy Chairman and a Non-Executive Director with recent and information is being provided.
Where necessary it will seek relevant financial experience.
The executive search agency Egon independent external advice at the Groups expense, with such Zehnder is employed to identify candidates which the Nomination arrangements made through the Company Secretary.
Whilst the Audit Committee short-lists.
Interviews are conducted by the Nomination Committee remains short of a member with recent and relevant Committee and meetings organised with other Executive Directors financial experience, the Company Secretary has retained, at the if appropriate before a recommendation is made to the Board.
The request of the Audit Committee Chairman, the services of terms of reference are available on request and on the Groups  LLP to advise the Audit Committee at website www.
relevant times during the year.
Remuneration Committee Other than the retirement of David The core remit of the Audit Committee remains unaltered, to report Jones, the membership of the Remuneration Committee has not and recommend to the Board on matters concerning the integrity of altered during the year and is shown in the table detailing Board and the financial position and reports of the Group, the effectiveness of Board committee membership above.
The terms of reference were the framework of internal control and risk management systems, and subject to an annual review and are available on the Groups website the independence and appointment of the auditors.
reference of the Audit Committee are available on request and on the Groups website www.
During the year this committee continued its progress to put in place performance-based structures that will enable the Group to During the year the Audit Committee has discharged its duties by: recruit, retain and motivate high calibre senior executives.
As part reviewing and recommending treasury and tax management of this the recruitment packages for Marc Bolland and Richard policies for the Tax and Treasury Department that was formed at Pennycook were concluded and relevant details are laid out in the the beginning of the calendar year 2006.
Summary Directors remuneration report on page 32.
A long term incentive plan has been developed to support the delivery of the reviewing the various reports prepared by the Groups auditors strategic plan by the Executive Directors and senior management.
KPMG Audit Plc as part of their audit of the Group and its This LTIP is being presented to the Annual General Meeting in subsidiaries for both the full year and interim results of the Group.
undertaking a review of the effectiveness of the financial control The committee also dealt with the termination arrangements for process for the Groups balance sheet and a detailed review of key Marie Melnyk and Robert Stott.
reconciliations including those that involve judgment by management.
During the year, the Committee received advice from its appointed advisers New Bridge Street Consultants LLP NBSC on all undertaking a review of the process and effectiveness of controls remuneration related matters, Jardine Lloyd Thompson in respect within the Trading function.
of pensions, and Ashurst in respect of Executive Directors contracts.
ensuring that the new Head of Risk and Internal Audit has the During the year, NBSC also provided advice on incentive resources and appropriate terms of reference to: arrangements for staff generally.
provide the Board with independent assurance on the Audit Committee The only change in composition of the Audit effectiveness of risk management and the adequacy of the Committee during the year was the retirement of David Jones on control framework.
The other members and their roles remain unaltered as shown in the table above.
The Chairman, the CEO, the Group Finance champion the establishment of a Group wide approach to risk Director, the Head of Risk and Internal Audit and various Finance management.
department representatives have attended by invitation from time-todevelop and coordinate the risk management framework.
Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 21 The independence of the Risk and Internal Audit function is ensured The Head of Risk and Internal Audit has introduced a process of through its adoption of professional standards and its reporting lines reporting to the Audit Committee with an agreed programme of to the Group Finance Director and unlimited access to the Audit work that appraises the Committee on the status of risk and tests Committee.
the effectiveness of internal controls.
The implementation of his recommendations continually improves the risk framework for The Audit Committee now regularly reviews the key findings of the the Group.
The CEO in forming the Groups strategy has led a group of senior reviewing the recommendations and actions to implement a executives to take stock of the operations of the business.
Part of whistle-blowing policy that meets the requirements of the this work has been to identify the threats and risks to the business Combined Code and best practice.
and these are being captured as part of a formal risk framework.
reviewing the effectiveness and efficiency of the Groups product The Board has reviewed and where necessary authorised this work.
The Board is satisfied that the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks has been in place for reviewing the effectiveness and independence of the auditors the financial year and up to the date of approval of these KPMG Audit Plc.
reviewing the financial disclosure in the Groups Annual Report Auditors independence KPMG Audit Plc have confirmed to the Audit and also the financial disclosures in Safeway Limiteds group Committee that they were compliant with the APBs Ethical Standards financial statements.
in relation to the audit engagement throughout the year.
Non-audit Private meetings are held with the external auditors, without services provided in the year that could be perceived to impact management present.
The purpose of these meetings is to understand independence were: their views on the control and governance environment and Tax compliance and advisory managements effectiveness within it.
To ensure independence was maintained for non-audit work the Internal control The Board is responsible for setting a system of auditors put in place the following safeguards: internal control for the Group and reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed to report to the Board on a timely basis to Use of separate engagement directors and teams manage rather than eliminate risk that may result in the Group failing Use of senior independent consultation partners to meet its objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
No audit reliance on outputs Building on the direction and standards set by the Optimisation Plan KPMG Audit Plc also follow their own ethical guidelines and last year there has been continued formalisation of controls and continually review their audit team to ensure their independence improvement of reporting to the Board and its committees.
The five is not compromised.
new senior positions created in Finance last year as part of an Shareholder relations The Investor Relations Director has maintained initiative by the Group Finance Director to improve the depth and a programme of work that reports to the Board the requirements and quality of the Finance function have been successfully filled.
They information needs of institutional and major investors.
This is part of form part of the Finance top team that have throughout the year built the regular contact that the Group maintains with its institutional on the changes introduced from integrating the Safeway business.
These include certain tactical information system implementations, process improvements and the continuation of the development of During the year the Senior Independent Director and other Nonbusiness reporting and forecasting processes.
Executive Directors met with major shareholders in order to maintain a balanced understanding of their views and concerns.
These were In shaping the scope and direction of the work programme for the reported back to the Chairman and the Board.
Additionally, the Risk and Internal Audit function, the Board through the Audit Groups brokers sought independent feedback from investors Committee prioritised work to evaluate and report on immediately following both the annual and interim results in 2006.
This feedback known risk areas that might give rise to financial loss.
To date no was reported to the Board.
material financial problems have been identified that would affect the results reported in these financial statements.
The findings however The information needs of the shareholder who is an individual with confirmed that for the Group to move forward, the modernising of a limited number of shares has been considered with the further the Groups information technology IT systems is a priority.
Future development of the Annual Review that was introduced last year, control and information needs have been taken into consideration in and the addition of a Corporate and Social Responsibility report that the development of an IT strategy that the Board has authorised for is mailed to every shareholder.
These summarise the key data and the next three years.
The existing stock and distribution systems as have information about the Group that is intended to be of interest previously reported are also in need of replacement in order to to the individual.
The full Annual Report is available on the Groups achieve the required level of reporting and control in this area.
Final margin and stock valuations are dependent on the accuracy All Directors, Executive and Non-Executive, attend the AGM.
of an annual stock count and valuation that is conducted at the The Chairs of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration committees balance sheet date.
are available to answer questions.
22 Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Corporate social responsibility report summary Taking Good Care Progress and highlights We are committed to taking good care environmentally, socially and ENVIRONMENT in our business.
We have a clear vision to be the food specialist for Reducing our carbon footprint We have determined the everyone and our goal is to be recognised for building a sustainable Groups carbon footprint, which covers our stores, all transport and business based on trust, loyalty and shared-value attributes.
also our in-house supply chain of manufacturing, processing and In line with our commercial objectives and our vision for the future, packing facilities.
This is being used as a measure of our carbon we have laid out our roadmap for corporate social responsibility emissions for the Group.
Taking 2005 as the baseline, we aim to CSR.
We are reducing our carbon footprint, saving energy and reduce our carbon footprint cumulatively by 36% by 2010.
In the past increasing our transport efficiency: preventing waste, and recycling 12 months we have achieved a 6.6% reduction in our total carbon more.
We are also continuing to invest in more local and sustainable footprint of 90,874 tonnes.
sourcing and enabling our customers to eat healthily, whilst Morrisons carbon footprint continuing to ensure a wide choice of quality, fresh, affordable foods.
A summary of our approach and activities follows.
For more detail, 1,283,050 2006 our CSR Report can be found at www.
1,373,924 2005 Managing corporate social responsibility Responsibility for CSR starts with our Board.
Reporting into the Board is a cross- 0.35m 0.70m 1.05m 1.4m functional Steering Group of senior executives which provides Tonnes of CO emissions 2 leadership and puts ownership of CSR strategy with management at Calculated by the Carbon Trust an operational level.
On-going work is co-ordinated through our CSR programme team, with delivery of activities driven through various To achieve reductions in our emissions, we are continuing to multi-stakeholder Working Groups.
implement a carbon and energy strategy for the business based on: Our CSR strategy Following a review, we have established a CSR measuring and monitoring energy consumption programme that is integrated with our Groups vision to be the food specialist for everyone and aligned to delivering our brand values of implementing good housekeeping policies freshness, service and value.
Our approach is structured around three introducing additional energy saving technologies principal areas, each with defined commitments.
sourcing and generating renewable energy Environment Taking good care of our planet Reduce our carbon footprint Our target is to reduce Group energy use by 8% per square metre Prevent waste sqm by 2010, based on 2005 emissions.
We have achieved a Source responsibly reduction in Carbon Dioxide CO equivalent emissions from energy 2 electricity and gas of 9% over the past year.
Society 1 2005 06 2006 Taking good care of our Be an employer of choice shoppers, our colleagues Be neighbourly tonnes CO m tonnes CO m 2 2 and their communities Encourage a better standard Total CO equivalent 2 of living emissions from energy Business electricity & gas used Taking good care as we go Product stewardship by the Group 764,221 63.1 718,318 57.4 about our business Supply chain integrity Satisfaction for all our stakeholders Calculated using Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA reporting guidelines.
Full details about this programme, together with Key Performance 1 Our reporting method was changed in 2006 to start from the beginning of the Indicators and the targets we are aiming to achieve, can be found in calendar year.
We are accredited for energy efficiency under the Carbon Trusts Energy Efficiency Accreditation Scheme, which is managed by the Energy Institute and recognises good practice in energy management.
Energy saving technology We specify that contractors for any of our new-build projects must purchase equipment from a government approved energy technology product list.
Everything on this list, from heating and refrigeration equipment to lighting, is designed to significantly reduce or eliminate the production of carbon dioxide.
In 2006 we invested 10m in energy-saving technology.
Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 23 Renewable energy We are trialling a micro wind turbine for Reducing packaging Our target is to cut own brand packaging by generating electricity at our Leominster store.
Our objectives are to use less packaging and to avoid of the store, it is being used to run part of the refrigeration plant.
packaging waste being sent to landfill, wherever possible.
We are actively addressing packaging waste by aiming to ensure that we The test was highly commended in the Cooling Industry Awards 2006 use no more packaging material than is necessary to protect and and we are planning to install the same technology at a number of transport the products safely, whilst maintaining the necessary other sites.
Feasibility trials for a larger wind-generated electricity levels of safety, hygiene, quality and consumer acceptance of the system are also underway at our Regional Distribution Centres.
Other initiatives for low carbon energy being explored include Packaging reduction projects such as changes to meat packaging Combined Heat and Power CHP for generating electricity in and sandwich and salad packs and a re-design of our wine carriers, supermarkets, and re-using more heat including that from the together with the introduction of compostable packaging to organic refrigeration system in stores.
Further projects for renewable energy produce lines, are already saving over 30 tonnes of packaging waste are being investigated in conjunction with the Carbon Trust.
Transport efficiency We aim to save 8% of our haulage CO 2 Carrier bags Our target is to reduce the environmental impact emissions by 2010 based on 2005 emissions through mileage of standard plastic carrier bag use by 25% by the end of 2008. reductions and increased efficiencies: and to reduce road miles To date we have achieved a 5% reduction in use through an active travelled per pallet of stock by 6% by 2010.
We will also be management policy at our checkouts.
The proportion of recycled improving the space utilisation of our vehicles and increasing plastic used in their production will increase to 25% by 2010. back-haul pallet volumes.
All of our stores have carrier bag recycling units for our customers We are introducing vehicles with cleaner Euro5 engines into our fleet, use, situated in prominent positions in main entrance areas.
rather than the currently required Euro4 and well ahead of these engines becoming a requirement in 2009.
More efficient and cleaner, Sourcing responsibly We seek to ensure that own brand these will help to reduce emissions.
products and the ingredients that go into them are produced as responsibly as possible.
This means applying responsible sourcing Rigorous maintenance schedules, new engineering developments and policies to cover specific raw materials such as timber, palm oil and fuel efficiency programmes, as well as driver training, are also aimed soya: and addressing issues such as sustainable seafood sourcing at helping to reduce the environmental impact of our transport fleet.
Policy information can be found at For example, our new fleet vehicles will have long-drain oils giving www.
co. uk, in the Corporate Social Responsibility section.
100,000km between drain intervals, which will save around 14,000 litres of oil per year.
In addition, we remould 9,000 tyres per year Buying British and local We are committed to providing our saving over 675 tonnes of rubber.
customers with the freshest produce possible throughout the year.
We process 80% of fresh produce and 90% of all the fresh meat we Preventing waste We aim to prevent waste through a sustainable sell through our own facilities.
waste management strategy that focuses on optimisation, reduction, reuse and recycling.
Where disposal is the only practical option We have consistently sought to work with the British farming industry available, we use appropriately licensed waste management facilities to source as much produce as possible from UK farmers and growers.
We buy a large amount of primary produce directly and have many long-standing relationships with farmers and growers, with some All of our stores have the capability to recover cardboard and dating back over 30 years.
We work in collaboration to develop the polythene, which are the largest contributors to waste produced in quality, safety and marketing of fresh foods and to shorten the food store.
Currently 72% of all store generated waste is recovered for chain, by working closely together.
Management initiatives in our stores have seen the recovered tonnage for recycling increase by some 27% this year.
We are also keen supporters of regional producers and have many small and local suppliers, enabling us to tailor local products to By 2010, we aim through a number of initiatives to recycle, recover local stores.
or re-direct 50% of the current waste stream away from landfill, against the 2005 6 baseline.
Recycling Wherever possible, we aim to offer our customers the chance to recycle materials including paper, aluminium, glass, clothing, shoes, books, CDs and plastics.
Other initiatives have included mobile phone recycling in aid of our Charity of the Year last year Breast Cancer Campaign, this year Asthma UK, Christmas card recycling in partnership with the Salvation Army and offering inkjet cartridge recycling through the Woodland Trust, which has so far enabled 900 trees to be planted.
24 Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Corporate social responsibility report summary continued SOCIETY Extending the Eat Smart range of healthier foods and aiming for an increase of 70% by the end of 2007.
Being an employer of choice Our comprehensive employment policies cover recruitment, selection, remuneration, training, Introducing over 400 new Organic lines including breakfast education, development, retention, performance appraisal and cereals, fruit juices, breads and meats.
We plan to further equality and diversity.
Equal opportunities are open to all.
increase the range by 40% by the end of 2007.
We keep colleagues as fully informed as possible about the activities Introducing a new own brand Free From range for consumers of the business through internal publications, communications with allergies or intolerances, aiming to increase the range by programmes, notice boards, briefings and local, regional and national 30% by the end of 2007. consultative committees and forums.
Putting 5-a-day labelling on a range of fresh produce and foods.
A regular colleague survey is being used to better understand views Supporting and promoting sensible drinking consumer messages, about working for Morrisons, to highlight what needs to be done to in line with Government and medical advice and introducing the make the Group an even better place to work and set a benchmark Task 21 policy.
against which to monitor and measure improvement.
Voluntarily raising the minimum age for the purchase of tobacco We recognise a number of trade unions and have a partnership and knives to 18. agreement with USDAW.
We encourage involvement in the financial performance of the business through profit share and savings-related BUSINESS share option schemes.
Product stewardship We really understand food and know For employee health and well-being, we have our own Occupational where it comes from.
We make it and pack it in our factories and we Health nursing team and employ a full time Medical Advisor.
also make it in our stores.
In addition, we have over 1,800 suppliers Being neighbourly We support communities by giving to good who each also have their own supply chains.
We encourage all our causes that reflect local need.
Every year since 1991 our employees suppliers to follow best practice and to maintain consistently high have voted to choose a Charity of the Year to be the focus of our standards.
This year we are raising money for We ensure that all own brand products meet the highest standards of Asthma UK, following a record-breaking campaign with Breast safety and quality.
From assessing the safety of products prior to sale Cancer Campaign, which raised 1.6 million.
In 2006 07 we also through to auditing our suppliers and checking that finished products raised 274,000 for Children in Need and donated 150,000 to the on our shelves are of great quality, our safety management and Farepak Fund.
quality assurance processes are designed to give our customers Donations to local and national causes, including through Morrisons confidence in all that they buy from us.
Charitable Trust and excluding gifts in kind, totalled 1.2 million.
Supply chain integrity We are committed to working in Encouraging a better standard of living Earning and partnership with our suppliers to ensure an outstanding offer to our maintaining our customers trust in the quality, safety and integrity customers in terms of quality, value, freshness and service.
A good, of the products we sell is our top priority.
Informative food labelling positive relationship with our suppliers is vital to our success and we allows our customers to make choices that are right for them and we aim to be a loyal customer to our suppliers.
Our policy is to be fair pride ourselves on delivering industry-leading standards of customer and honest, being accessible and straightforward in our dealings: and service.
to always deliver what we promise.
We ensure we operate in accordance with the Supermarket Code of Practice and our trading In June 2006 we began introducing new front of pack nutritional teams observe the Morrisons Buyers Charter for fair dealings.
We signposting, based on Guideline Daily Amounts GDAs.
This now expect our suppliers to conform to recognised standards of ethical features on over 2,500 own brand foods and we are aiming for trading and we are extending our site assessments and independent completion across all ranges by March 2008.
Other initiatives third party audits to monitor compliance with our requirements.
have included: Satisfaction for all our stakeholders We aim to engage Reducing salt in hundreds of our own brand products including positively with all stakeholders, responding to them swiftly and cooked meats, poultry, canned and fresh soups, pizzas, sausages efficiently and will be continuing to listen to and talk with our and ready meals.
We aim to meet the Food Standards Agency many stakeholder representatives.
If you would like to find our FSA 2010 targets by 2008. more about our CSR programme and our policies, please visit Removing hydrogenated fats from over 95% of the own brand www.
co. uk or telephone 0845 611 5000 and ask to products where they are present, targeting to achieve 100% speak to our CSR team in the Public Relations Department.
Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 25 Independent auditors statement to the members of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC We have examined the summary financial statement which comprises Opinion In our opinion the Annual review and summary financial the Summary consolidated income statement, Summary consolidated statement is consistent with the full annual financial statements, the balance sheet, Summary consolidated cash flow statement, notes to Directors report and the Directors remuneration report of Wm the summary financial statement and the Summary Directors Morrison Supermarkets PLC for the 53 week period ended 4 February remuneration report set out on pages 31 to 35.
2007 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
This statement is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our work We have not considered the effects of any events between the date has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys on which we signed our report on the full annual financial statements members those matters we are required to state to them in such a 14 March 2007 and the date of this statement.
statement and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our KPMG Audit Plc work, for this statement, or for the opinions we have formed.
Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Leeds The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual review and summary financial statement in accordance with applicable United 12 April 2007 Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement within the Annual review with the full annual financial statements, the Directors report and the Directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual review and summary financial statement and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our report on the Groups full annual financial statements describes the basis of our audit opinion on those financial statements and the Directors remuneration report.
26 Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Summary financial statement 53 weeks ended 4 February 2007 Summary consolidated income statement Restated see note 2 Note 2007 2006 m m Turnover 1 12,461.
5 12,114.8 Cost of sales 11,825.5 11,793.0 Gross profit 636.0 321.8 Other operating income 20.5 18.5 Administrative expenses 271.8 236.3 Profits arising on property transactions 3 38.5 7.5 Operating profit 423.2 111.5 Net finance costs 4 54.2 52.2 Safeway integration and conversion costs 374.4 Share of post-tax profits from BP joint venture 2.2 Profit loss before taxation 369.0 312.9 Taxation 5 121.4 62.6 Profit loss for the financial period 247.6 250.3 Earnings loss per share pence 6 basic 9.32 9.46 diluted 9.31 9.46 diluted excluding property transactions 8.30 9.21 Ordinary dividend pence per share 8 Interim paid 0.625 0.625 Final proposed 3.375 paid 3.075 Total dividend 4.000 3.700 2007 2006 1 Turnover m m Sale of goods in-stores 10,086.8 9,884.9 Fuel 2,300.7 2,147.9 Total store based sales 12,387.5 12,032.8 Direct manufacturing sales 27.7 33.1 Income from concessions and commission 46.3 48.9 Total turnover 12,461.5 12,114.8 2 Restatement of the Consolidated income statement The format of the income statement has been changed to that of a functional style that is consistent with the key competitors in the Food and Drug Retail sector.
The practice in the retail sector is to show Cost of sales and a subtotal of Gross profit.
The cost of operating Morrisons integrated manufacturing businesses are considered as part of the Cost of sales of the retail business and have been incorporated within the Cost of sales in this new format.
The impact of this change is that: Operating profit remains unchanged.
raw materials are subsumed into Cost of sales.
staff costs, impairment and depreciation are split between Cost of sales and Administrative expenses as appropriate.
3 Property transactions A profit of 22.0m was made on the sale of 6 stores and 1 depot to Waitrose.
The sale of other items of plant, property and equipment during the year accounted for a further 16.5m of profit.
Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 27 4 Net finance costs Interest payable on bonds is the largest component of net finance costs.
The reduction in net debt more than offset the rise in floating interest rates.
The notional interest on the pension liability decreased by 10.2m to become a net interest receivable.
This reflects the increase in the schemes assets over the past two years driven by improvements in the equity market and additional funding from the Group.
Whilst interest rates increased during the year, interest receivable reduced by 2.1m overall.
This was due to improved cash management reducing the amount of surplus cash balances available for deposit.
5 Taxation Tax of 121.4m has been charged at an effective rate of 32.9%.
The underlying current period tax rate of 30.2% is close to the prevailing UK Corporation Tax rate of 30%.
This underlying rate increased to the effective rate because of several prior year tax adjustments.
An internal Tax Department was established in the year, removing the need to rely solely on external advisors to undertake the compliance work necessary to calculate the Groups tax charge and provisions.
The principal objective of the department is to pay the right amount of tax at the right time, while minimising the risk of mistakes which might give rise to penalties being levied against the Group.
The Group is almost exclusively UK based, with a simple business model and does not engage in sophisticated tax planning structures.
6 Earnings per share Earnings per share were 9.32p 2006: loss per share 9.46p.
On a diluted basis, and eliminating the profits arising on property transactions, earnings per share were 8.30p 2006: loss per share 9.21p.
At this level, earnings remain below the levels achieved immediately prior to the acquisition of Safeway, underlining the need for the business to continue the profit recovery begun in 2006 07.
7 Share performance At 4 February 2007 the ordinary share price was 3.01, an increase of 59% compared to the last financial year end, giving a market capitalisation for the Group of 8bn.
Over the same period, the FTSE 100 index rose by 9.1% and the Food and Drug Retail Sector by 38.7%.
From 8 March 2004, the date of the Safeway acquisition, to 4 February 2007, the Groups share price rose by 20.8%.
Over the same period, the FTSE 100 index rose by 38.6% and the Food and Drug Retail Sector by 55.3%.
8 Dividends A final dividend of 3.375p has been proposed, taking the total for the year to 4.0p.
4.0p 2007 This delivers total dividend growth of 8.1% on 2005 06, following two years when 3.7p 2006 the dividend was held at 3.7p.
3.7p 2005 Subject to approval at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 29 May 2007 3.25p to shareholders who are on the register of members on 27 April 2007.
2004 1.0p 2.0p 3.0p 4.0p Summary consolidated balance sheet 2007 2006 Note m m Non-current assets 9 6,621.3 6,752.0 Current assets 749.6 692.1 Current liabilities 1,854.9 1,806.8 Bonds and other non-current financial liabilities 15 768.6 1,022.7 Deferred tax, pension liabilities and provisions 10, 11 820.4 966.0 Net assets 3,927.0 3,648.6 Called up share capital and share premium 309.2 304.2 Merger reserve 2,578.3 2,578.3 Retained earnings and other reserves 1,039.5 766.1 Total equity 3,927.0 3,648.6 2007 2006 9 Non-current assets m m Property, plant and equipment 6,117.4 6,143.9 Lease prepayments 227.9 217.8 Investment property 240.5 225.3 Financial assets 19.1 36.4 Non-current assets held for sale 16.4 128.6 Total 6,621.3 6,752.0 28 Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Summary financial statement continued 53 weeks ended 4 February 2007 10 Pension liabilities The pension liability before deferred tax of 197.9m has fallen by 218.3m from 416.2m.
Two significant changes in assumptions were made, in line with 1.97bn 2007 current market expectations the discount rate applied to scheme liabilities 1.77bn which moved from 4.75% to 5% and the inflation assumption which moved 1.95bn 2006 from 3.0% to 3.2%.
In addition, 41.6m was paid into the two pension funds 1.54bn in excess of the service cost charged in the income statement.
Assets held within the pensions schemes totalled 1,774m at 4 February 2007.
0.5bn 1.0bn 1.5bn 2.0bn 68.1% of the total was held in equities, 12.5% in bonds and 19.4% in commercial Liabilities Assets property investments, currencies and other investments.
In the light of the satisfactory reduction in the scheme deficits, the Group intends to discuss with the Pension Trustees ways in which the prudence underpinning the investment principles operating in the schemes can be further strengthened.
11 Provisions Restructuring provision A restructuring provision of 49.6m includes costs in the period of 35.5m that are associated with the branding exercise noted in the Chief Executives operating review.
The restructuring has involved reviewing the corporate identity resulting in a change to the corporate logo including changing all store and distribution fleet signage.
Property provisions Property provisions of 95.3m comprise petrol filling station decommissioning reserve, onerous lease provision and provision for dilapidations on leased buildings.
65.1m is included for onerous leases relating to sublet properties to cover the shortfall between expected rent receivable and the rent payable, taking into account vacant tenancy periods during the term of the leases.
A charge of 33.5m in the year is in line with the normal review each year to establish the best estimate of liability, and compares to an equivalent amount of 18.3m in the prior year.
Summary consolidated cash flow statement 2007 2006 Note m m Cash flows from operations Cash generated from operations 12 704.3 311.0 Interest paid 68.0 74.9 Taxation paid received 53.6 33.3 Net cash inflow from operating activities 582.7 269.4 Disposal proceeds and interest receivable 13 170.8 483.4 Purchase of property, plant and equipment and acquisitions 14 257.2 651.0 New borrowings and other changes in financing 5.0 118.3 Repayment of borrowings 263.0 2.6 Dividends 98.3 97.8 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 140.0 119.7 Loan movements 263.0 97.4 Other non-cash movements 27.6 9.0 Movements in net debt 375.4 13.3 Opening net debt 1,147.6 1,160.9 Closing net debt 15 772.2 1,147.6 12 Operating cash flow The Group generated cash from operations of 704.3m compared to 311.0m in the prior year.
The improvement was primarily due to the growth in Operating profit, but also benefited from better working capital management, particularly stock reduction, which contributed 76.4m.
13 Disposal proceeds Proceeds of 158.3m on disposal of properties include 88m on the disposal of 6 stores and 1 depot to Waitrose.
The remaining 70.3m relate to another 7 properties.
Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 29 14 Capital expenditure The capital expenditure programme in the year has been fully funded from cash flow.
It was planned to restrict capital expenditure to no more than depreciation 284m 2007 in the first year of the Optimisation Plan and that was substantially achieved.
It is 282m expected that capital expenditure will rise to a level in excess of depreciation in 658m 2006 2007 08 as the impact of the business review takes effect.
257m The principal additions in the year were 4 large new stores and the Groups new head office, with a combined investment of 137.6m.
Additionally, stage payments 200m 400m 600m 800m had been made associated with the planned opening, in the coming year, of a Capital Depreciation further 8 new stores.
2007 2006 15 Analysis of net debt m m Cash and cash equivalents 231.1 91.1 Interest and cross-currency swaps 19.1 36.4 Loans, bonds and other current financial liabilities 253.8 252.4 Bonds and other non-current financial liabilities 768.6 1,022.7 Total 772.2 1,147.6 Net debt fell by 375.4m to 772.2m despite lower store disposal proceeds, as a 2007 result of improved profitability and reduced capital expenditure.
This resulted in 2006 the repayment of borrowings totalling 260.5m.
The prime components of net debt are the bonds acquired with the Safeway 0.3m 0.6m 0.9m 1.2m acquisition.
The next bond repayment is due in August 2007 and the Group 2007 2006 Current 23m 161m intends to repay this 250m instalment through existing bank facilities.
Non-current 749m 987m 16 Covenants The financial covenants in relation to the syndicated revolving credit facility are in respect of the level of net debt to EBITDA and interest cover.
The Group continues to comply with all borrowing and financial obligations at all times.
17 Treasury and finance risk The newly created treasury management function is now operating within clearly defined policies and procedures that have been authorised by the Board and monitored by the Audit Committee.
There is an amount of delegated authority to the Treasury Committee, but all activities are summarised in a half yearly treasury report which is presented to the Audit Committee.
In establishing policies for the treasury function, a review of the Groups financial risk was conducted.
The risks identified can be summarised as follows: Foreign Currency Risk Management The Group objective is to have low risk to short term profits from exchange rate fluctuations.
Exposures on debt denominated in a foreign currency are hedged using cross currency interest rate swaps.
It is Group policy that any transactional currency exposures recognised to have a material impact on short term profits will be hedged.
There were no such outstanding instruments at the year end.
Interest Risk Management The Group objective is to have low risk potential for volatility in interest charges.
The Groups policy is to protect itself against adverse movements in interest rates by hedging up to 60% of total net debt over a four year horizon.
Funding and Liquidity Risk Management The Group policy is to maintain a balance of funding with a range of maturities and a sufficient level of undrawn committed borrowing facilities to meet any unforeseen obligations and opportunities.
Short term cash balances, together with undrawn committed facilities, enable the Group to manage its liquidity risk.
The Group finances its operations with a combination of bank credit facilities and bonds.
Credit rating The Groups bonds, issued by Safeway Limited, are publicly traded and rated by Moodys as Baa2.
They maintain a watch on this rating.
Further information Further information on all aspects of our financial performance can be found in the Annual report and financial statements 2007.
Details of how to obtain a copy of the Annual report are explained in the Investor relations section in the back of this report.
The Annual review and summary financial statement 2007 were approved by the Board on 12 April 2007.
M Bolland and R Pennycook signed the Summary financial statement on behalf of the Board.
2 The results for 2005 include the acquired results of Safeway Limited.
3 Restated for FRS 20 Share-based payment for share options, FRS 21 Events after balance sheet date for dividends, and FRS 25 Financial instruments disclosure and measurement for preference shares and minority interests.
4 Excluding amounts payable on newly issued shares relating to Safeway acquisition.
Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 31 Summary Directors remuneration report A resolution to approve the full Directors remuneration report will be Martyn Jones has very recently been appointed to the Board and his proposed at the AGM of the Company to be held on 24 May 2007. base salary will be 400,000.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Susan Murray, with its Annual bonus The Remuneration Committee developed a bonus other members comprising Brian Flanagan, Paul Manduca and Nigel plan for the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director for the Robertson, who all served throughout the year.
David Jones was a 2006 07 financial year to underpin their recruitment and to reinforce member of the Committee until his retirement from the Board in June the delivery of the strategy identified in the Optimisation Plan.
All members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
For 2006 07 the maximum bonus was 100% of salary pro-rated for Remuneration policy The Groups policies on remuneration have the Chief Executive from appointment on 1 September 2006 with changed substantially over the last few years, reflecting changes in measurement based upon profit before taxation and personal business conditions, the senior management team and market objectives, as set out below: practice.
Measures % of Bonus Potential Profit before tax, excluding In October 2005, after the Remuneration Committee had been exceptionals 80% 70% for Marc Bolland reconstructed and became fully independent, it reconsidered the Personal objectives set by the remuneration policy and commissioned a comprehensive and Committee 20% 30% for Marc Bolland independent review of the Executive Directors individual remuneration packages with comparisons made against listed The higher weighting on personal objectives for Marc Bolland retailers and other PLCs of broadly similar size.
The review identified reflected the need to ensure that the bonus targets were sufficiently that most Executive Directors had above mid-market base salaries, challenging, given the increased clarity with respect to the likely but total remuneration was below mid-market, due to the absence financial result at the time of his appointment and his responsibility of an annual bonus plan and a long-term incentive plan.
As a result, for developing the future strategy and structure of the business.
the Remuneration Committee decided that going forward, it wished In addition, no bonus was payable for the achievement of personal to put in place remuneration structures which would enable the objectives unless the minimum profit targets were achieved.
Group to recruit, retain and motivate high calibre senior executives and that those structures would be more performance-related.
This The Committee also decided that the other Executive Directors, will be achieved by moving progressively over time to: excluding the Chairman, should be eligible to receive a bonus for their contribution towards the business profit recovery during the year.
base salaries around the mid-market: Details of the actual amounts paid for 2006 07 and profit share the introduction of a competitive suite of annual and long-term payments where relevant are set out in the Directors emoluments incentives, so that a substantial proportion of remuneration is table on page 29. subject to performance and so that total remuneration packages are competitive: The 2007 08 bonus plan for the Executive Directors will be similar in design to the plan for 2006 07.
It will be based upon a combination of the removal of the two times annual compensation entitlement in profit before exceptionals and tax and personal objectives in the ratio the remaining contracts with those provisions from 1 July 2007 of 80:20.
The maximum bonus for Executive Directors will remain at and replacement with new one-year service agreements: and 100% of base salary.
The plan will be operated for less senior limiting pensionable pay to base salary only.
Currently, profitmanagers at reduced levels.
Specific targets have not been disclosed sharing payments made to employees in the Group, including as they are considered to be commercially confidential but they will certain Directors, are pensionable and, typically, no more than be demanding and require performance significantly better than plan 5% of salary is payable under this arrangement.
Going forward, for full payout.
Executive Directors will not be eligible to participate in profitLong-term incentive plan Following consultation with several sharing arrangements and payments under other bonus plans are of the Groups major shareholders and the Association of British not pensionable.
Insurers and the RREV, a Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP has been Base salary and benefits The policy is to move towards setting designed to reward management appropriately for achieving the mid-market salaries in the context of fully competitive total packages Groups strategic objectives and to provide an appropriate level of with a substantial proportion being subject to the performance of the long-term performance pay.
A resolution to approve the LTIP is being business and individuals.
Base salary levels with effect from 1 February 2007 are as follows: Under the LTIP, each year individuals will receive conditional awards of shares in the Group which will normally vest three years after they Sir Kenneth Morrison 675,000 are awarded, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions Marc Bolland 721,000 measured over a three-year period and continued service.
It is Mark Gunter 515,000 intended that the initial awards will be made shortly after the AGM to David Hutchinson 480,000 certain Executive Directors, their direct reports and management tiers Roger Owen 494,400 below, including supermarket store managers around 600 in total.
Richard Pennycook 494,400 Benefits include health insurance, vehicle running costs, telephone expenses and relocation expenses in connection with Executive Directors relocating to the Yorkshire area.
32 Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Summary Directors remuneration report continued The plans individual annual limit will be 300% of salary face value Further details are set out in the Chairmans letter accompanying the of shares.
Initially, an award of shares worth 250% of salary will be notice of AGM.
made to the Chief Executive, with 200% of salary for the other To fulfil promises made to Richard Pennycook at the time of his Executive Directors who participate.
Below Board level, awards will recruitment, as reported in last years Remuneration report, the be made, up to a maximum of 100% of salary, depending on seniority.
annual bonus award which will be made to him for 2006 07 will Performance will be measured over three years.
Therefore, for the include, in addition to the cash element, a deferred share award first awards to be made in May June 2007, performance will relate to given the fact that no new LTIP was adopted by shareholders in the the three-year period ending at the end of 2009 10.
That award will be in shares of the Group with a value equal to 950,400, which is two times the amount of Performance measures for the initial awards will be 75% based on the cash bonus earned for the 2006 07 financial year, with the EPS and 25% based on like for like non-fuel sales growth.
No awards number of shares calculated by reference to the average share price can vest under the sales targets unless threshold EPS targets have over the five dealing days prior to the deemed date of the award been met.
The deferred share award will normally vest on 1 April For the awards which will be made shortly after the AGM, the 2009, provided Richard Pennycook is then still an employee of the following targets will apply.
25% of the EPS related component of the Group.
Upon vesting, a payment will also be made in cash or shares, award will vest if the Groups EPS in 2009 10 is 15.8p per share, rising as determined by the Remuneration Committee, equivalent to the on a pro rata basis until 100% vests for an EPS of 19p per share.
25% dividends which would have been payable on the shares over the of the sales growth related component will vest if the Groups like for two-year deferral period or such shorter period if awards vest earlier.
like non-fuel sales grow by 3% p. a. compound, rising on a pro rata Share ownership guidelines In conjunction with the basis until there is 100 % vesting for growth of 5% p. a. compound.
introduction of the LTIP, the Group will introduce share ownership The Remuneration Committee considers that the targets set out guidelines for Executive Directors.
Under the guidelines, Directors are above are demanding in the context of the Groups circumstances and expected to retain 50% of vested LTIP awards net of tax until such take into account the prospects for recovery.
Further details are set time as they own shares worth 100% of their salary after which point out in the Chairmans letter accompanying the Notice of the AGM.
they are expected to retain, as a minimum, this level of holding.
One-off recruitment arrangements for Marc Bolland Pension arrangements The Executive Directors, with the and Richard Pennycook Shareholder consent is also being exception of Marc Bolland, participate in the Groups defined benefit sought for a one-off award to the Chief Executive relating to the five pension scheme.
Pension entitlements accrue at the rate of 1 30th months he worked for the Group during the 2006 07 financial year.
for each year, with a maximum pension of 2 3rds pensionable salary On recruitment, Marc Bolland was promised a LTIP award equal to at age 62.
Pensionable pay is the Directors annual salary as at 6 April 5 12ths, reflecting the five months Marc Bolland worked from each year plus the amount of profit share earned in the tax year just appointment in 2006 07, of his normal LTIP award 250% of salary ended but excluding any bonuses earned under the annual bonus plan in the event that no LTIP award was made to him by the end of the for Executive Directors.
Going forward, Executive Directors will not 2006 07 financial year.
be eligible to participate in profit-sharing arrangements.
Since the Group had been finalising its strategy during 2006 07, The pension arrangements include life assurance cover whilst in it was not practicable to set performance targets and implement employment, an entitlement to a pension in the event of ill health an LTIP in 2006 07.
Therefore, Marc Bolland is entitled to this or disability and a pension for the spouse and any dependant children additional award.
This award will be treated as having been made on death.
on 1 September 2006, when Marc Bolland joined the Group and Richard Pennycook, Mark Gunter and Martyn Jones were subject to it will vest, subject to performance and continued employment the earnings cap in place before April 2006 and this cap has been on 1 September 2009, three years after it was deemed to have retained for benefits accruing thereafter.
Richard Pennycook and been awarded.
Mark Gunter receive a supplement of 10% of salary in excess of the The value of shares will be equal to 5 12ths of 250% of Marc Bollands cap and it is intended that the same policy will be adopted for salary of 700,000 his salary on 1 September 2006.
The number of Martyn Jones.
Marc Bolland is not in the pension scheme but instead shares will be calculated using the average closing share prices on the receives a salary supplement of 30% of salary.
day of the announcement of the interim results for 2006 07 declared The Group is in the process of carrying out a review of its defined on 21 September 2006 and the following four business days.
Vesting benefit pension scheme and any changes which are ultimately of the award on the third anniversary of the deemed grant date of agreed will be disclosed in next years remuneration report.
The 1 September 2006 will be based on performance over the period Remuneration Committee is committed to following a policy of no ending 2008 09, to reflect the position which would have applied had greater cost to the Group of operating its pension arrangements for he received an award during the 2006 07 financial year.
Executive Directors as a result of any changes felt to be necessary 25% of the EPS related part of the award will vest if the Groups EPS is to deal with changes in pensions legislation.
13.3p per share in 2008 09, rising on a pro rata basis until full vesting is achieved at 16p per share.
25% of the sales growth related part of the award will vest if the Groups like for like non-fuel sales grow at 3% p. a. compound over 2007 08 and 2008 09, rising on a pro rata basis until full vesting is achieved for growth of 5% p. a. compound.
Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 33 Performance graph The graph shows the Groups performance Subject to Board approval, Executive Directors are permitted to measured by total shareholder return, compared with the accept outside appointments on external boards or committees as performance of the FTSE 100 and FTSE Food & Drug Retailers indices, long as these are not deemed to interfere with the business of the also measured by total shareholder return TSR.
Any fees received in respect of these appointments are been selected as being appropriate in giving a broad equity view and retained by the Executive Directors concerned.
the Group is a constituent of both indices.
Notice period Name of Director Date of contract from Group months M Bolland 07.06.06 12 Group performance TSR 200 M Gunter 05.04.07 12 1 2 D Hutchinson 01.09.05 12 180 M Jones 05.04.07 12 160 1 2 K Morrison 01.09.05 12 140 R Owen 05.04.07 12 2 120 R Pennycook 23.05.06 12 100 1 The dates of the contracts were collectively based on letters of appointment dated 80 23 January 2003, 23 June 2005 and 1 September 2005 the latter of these dates is displayed above.
60 2 If the contract is terminated before 30 June 2007, otherwise than for gross misconduct, 40 retirement, or by the Executive voluntarily, then the Executive will receive a liquidated damages payment of two times the annual value of his remuneration package.
20 The date of contract for M Melnyk, who resigned from the Board with effect from 0 6 December 2006 was collectively based on letters of appointment dated 23 January 3 Feb 02 2 Feb 03 1 Feb 04 30 Jan 05 29 Jan 06 4 Feb 07 2003, 23 June 2005 and 1 September 2005.
Wm Morrison FTSE 100 FTSE Food & Drug Retail The date of contract for R Stott, who resigned from the Board on 29 September 2006, was collectively based on letters of appointment dated 23 January 2003, 23 June 2005 and 1 September 2005.
Directors contracts Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors have been Executive Directors As part of a package of measures approved appointed for a three year period from their dates of appointment, by the Committee in June 2005, liquidated damages provisions in unless otherwise terminated earlier by, and at the discretion of, either Executive Directors contracts were extended to two times the annual party upon one months written notice.
value of certain elements of their remuneration and benefits for The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is a matter for the terminations in lieu of notice before 1 July 2007.
This change, and the Chairman and Executive members of the Board and is reviewed from increased salaries was felt necessary to protect the Group at a time of time to time and has regard to the time commitment required and the great uncertainty and in the face of attempts by other companies to level of fees paid in comparable companies.
recruit key members of the Executive Team.
It also reflected the extra contractual protection the Group had felt it necessary to give to The current levels are as follows: recruit the incoming Group Finance Director, Richard Pennycook.
Senior From 1 July 2007, the compensation reduces to one times pay.
Committee Independent Base Chairmanship Director Total Subsequently, the Remuneration Committee reviewed service Name 000 000 000 000 contracts for Executive Directors and adopted a new model contract B Flanagan 45 45 which provides that any compensation provisions for termination P Manduca 45 10 10 65 without notice will only extend to twelve months of salary, benefits S Murray 45 10 55 and pension which may be payable in instalments and subject to N Robertson 45 45 mitigation and that, going forward, all new Director contracts would Total 180 20 10 210 be on that basis.
The model contract does not contain change of control provisions.
This policy was applied to Marc Bolland at the time of his recruitment and was applied to Mark Gunter, Martyn Jones and Roger Owen on 5 April 2007.
David Hutchinson will be leaving the business on 30 June 2007.
His current employment contract contains historic change of control provisions.
Richard Pennycooks contract provides that he should mitigate his loss in the event of a termination.
34 Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Summary Directors remuneration report continued Directors emoluments and pension entitlements The emoluments of the Directors were as follows: Directors Compensation Total year Total year salaries Benefits Pension Profit Annual for loss of to 4 Feb to 29 Jan fees in kind supplement share bonus office 2007 2006 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors 1 M Bolland 292 211 87 281 871 5 M Gunter 500 39 33 18 400 990 553 5 D Hutchinson 480 29 17 384 910 518 2 M Melnyk 663 24 2,927 3,614 700 K Morrison 675 36 25 736 738 5 R Owen 480 33 17 384 914 532 R Pennycook 480 464 47 17 475 1,483 141 3 R Stott 514 32 1,603 2,149 698 Non-Executive Directors 6 B Flanagan 43 15 58 23 4 D Jones 29 29 282 P Manduca 56 56 19 S Murray 53 53 26 N Robertson 43 43 23 Former Directors 654 Total 4,308 883 167 94 1,924 4,530 11,906 4,907 1 Appointed to the Board with effect from 1 September 2006.
Resigned from the Board with effect from 2 6 December 2006.
5 At the date the audited section of this report was approved by the Board, these bonuses were subject, in the cases of Mark Gunter and Roger Owen, to agreeing to sign new format service contracts and, in the case of David Hutchinson, to agreeing to satisfactory terms to ceasing employment.
6 Non-recurring fee considered not to be material for the role of Non-Executive Director.
In addition to the emoluments detailed above, a charge of 1.7m has been made to the income statement in respect of Directors share-based payments.
Benefits in kind comprise relocation costs and disturbance allowances Chief Executive.
Robert Stott agreed to stay with the Group until for Marc Bolland and Richard Pennycook negotiated at the time of a handover had been achieved following the appointment of a their recruitment, vehicle running costs, health insurance and new Chief Executive and it was agreed that, in accordance with his telephone expenses.
Brian Flanagans benefits relate to consultancy contract, he would receive on 14 April 2006 a payment worth two work carried out for the Group with regards to product availability times his salary, profit share and certain benefits, and an amount in a number of stores.
in lieu of pensions since age 62.
None of the Directors has a material interest in any contract Following cessation of employment on 29 September 2006, he agreed significant to the Groups business.
to work on a consultancy basis for the Group from 1 November 2006 for a minimum of 156 days over the following 12 month period.
Marc Bolland received 100% of the potential bonus payable in respect During this period, he is responsible for co-ordinating the Groups of profit before tax and 83% of the potential bonus payable in respect response to the Competition Commission inquiry into the Grocery of his personal element.
Richard Pennycook received 100% of the sector.
Having led the Groups response to the previous sector profit-related element and 95% of the personal element.
inquiries in 2000 and 2003, it is considered that he has the appropriate The bonuses for the other Executive Directors reflected their level of skills and experience to fulfil this role.
Consultancy fees paid contribution to the Groups profit performance.
to Robert Stott amounted to 145,000 including VAT for the period from 1 November 2006 to 4 February 2007.
From 1 September 2006 to 4 February 2007 Marc Bolland received fees from Manpower Inc. to a sterling equivalent of 16,100, and Marie Melnyk resigned from the Board by reason of ill health on deferred and restricted stock worth a sterling equivalent of 28,300 6 December 2006 and left the Groups employment on 22 December for his role as Non-Executive Director at Manpower Inc. 2006.
On 22 December 2006, she received a payment worth two times her salary, profit share and certain other benefits, including In October 2005, the departure of Robert Stott was announced as pension contributions and bonus, within the parameters of the part of the restructuring of the Board and the implementation of express and implied terms of her contract.
a succession planning strategy leading to the recruitment of a new Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 35 The following Directors had accrued entitlements under defined benefit schemes as follows: Increase Transfer in accrued value of the pension increase in Transfer Transfer excluding accrued value of value of Movement Accrued inflation in pension Accrued accrued accrued in transfer pension at year ended during pension at pension at pension at value during 29 Jan 2006 4 Feb 2007 the year 4 Feb 2007 29 Jan 2006 4 Feb 2007 the year Executive Directors 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 M Gunter 37 3 40 42 337 505 168 D Hutchinson 136 39 633 180 2,080 2,918 838 1 2 2 1 M Melnyk 221 47 597 276 2,165 3,527 1,362 R Owen 255 32 528 296 3,923 4,856 933 R Pennycook 14 37 5 6 46 40 Total 650 125 1,835 799 8,511 11,852 3,341 1 The figures at 29 January 2006 for Marie Melnyk have been restated following clarification on the basis of calculation of this members benefits when she left service.
This has not affected the cost to the Group.
2 As at 22 December 2006 MORE INFORMATION This is a summary of the Directors remuneration report which appears in the Annual report and financial statements 2007.
36 Morrisons annual review and summary financial statement 2007 Investor relations information Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at 11.00am Carbon offset This Annual review and financial statement 2007, the on Thursday 24 May 2007 at the new location of Wm Morrison Annual report and financial statements 2007 and the Corporate social Supermarkets PLC Head Office, Gain Lane, Bradford, BD3 7DL.
responsibility report have been assessed with the assistance of The A separate notice convening the meeting is sent to shareholders, Carbon Trust for the amount of carbon emissions that will be which includes an explanation of the items of special business to generated in their preparation, printing and delivery.
on recycled paper that is manufactured in mills with ISO 14001 Annual report This Annual review contains summarised financial accreditation from 100% recycled fibre.
It is totally chlorine free and information which does not contain sufficient information is a NAPM certified recycled product.
to allow as full an understanding of the results of the Group, its state Further information about other ways in which the Group is helping of affairs or of the policies and arrangements concerning Directors with environmental change can be found in the Corporate social Remuneration as is provided in the Annual Report.
The Annual reports responsibility report 2007 which has been sent to shareholders and are available to view or download from the the corporate website.
can also be viewed on the website.
Alternatively, a printed copy can be obtained free of charge by contacting the Company Secretary, indicating future mailing list requirements for the Annual report.
Environmental matters The effect of our business on the environment is something that Morrisons takes very seriously.
In the production of the 2007 Annual reports and accounts, we have Photography Apart from the front cover, page 3 and page 11 contributed to the reduction in environmental damage in the images, photography was commissioned for use in this document.
following ways: Barry Lewis photographed Swadlincote and Holloway stores, Thrapston packing house and farm locations in Cumbria.
All people Website Morrison shareholders receive a printed copy of the Annual featured are either customers, colleagues or suppliers no actors or review and summary financial statement.
The full Annual report is models were used.
Permission to publish these photographs was available for viewing or downloading from the corporate website received from each individual.
Where minors appear, parental www.
Shareholders are encouraged to view the approval was granted.
report on the website which is exactly the same as the printed version, but using the internet has clear advantages such as lowering Board photographs were taken by Mike Goldwater.
costs and reducing the environmental impact.
Financial calendar 2007 08 Financial events Dividends Annual General Meeting 24 05 07 Final dividend record date 27 04 07 Quarterly management statement 24 05 07 Final dividend payment date 29 05 07 Half year end 29 07 07 Interim dividend record date 12 10 07 Interim results announcement 20 09 07 Interim dividend payment date 12 11 07 Quarterly management statement 22 11 07 Financial year end 03 02 08 Preliminary results announcement 13 03 08 Shareholder information The number of shareholders at 4 February 2007 were 45,415 29 January 2006: 49,904 and the number of shares in issue was 2,676,776,258 29 January 2006: 2,673,290,458 Number of Balance at Analysis by shareholder holders % holders 4 February 2007 % capital Private shareholder 40,653 89.52 544,662,803 20.35 Nominee companies 4,061 8.94 2,089,447,114 78.07 Limited companies 273 0.60 27,877,644 1.04 Deceased accounts 235 0.52 1,372,225 0.05 Other institutions 93 0.20 4,909,875 0.18 Pension funds 46 0.10 5,459,895 0.20 Investment trusts 31 0.07 329,125 0.01 Bank and bank nominees 17 0.04 2,643,031 0.01 Insurance companies 6 0.01 74,546 0.00 Analysis of size by shareholder 1 1,000 23,962 52.76 10,648,102 0.40 1,001 10,000 18,541 40,83 53,732,550 2.01 10,001 1,000,000 2,652 5.84 227,055,294 8.48 Above 1,000,001 260 0.57 2,385,340,312 89.11 Company Secretary Solicitors Jonathan Burke Gordons LLP Riverside West, Whitehall Road Registered office Leeds, LS1 4AW Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Hilmore House, Gain Lane Ashurst Bradford, BD3 7DL Broadwalk House, 5 Appold Street Telephone 0845 611 5000 London, EC2A 4DW www.
co. uk Wragge & Co LLP Investor relations 55 Colmore Row Telephone 0845 611 5739 Birmingham, B3 2AS Registrars and Shareholding enquiries Auditors Administrative enquiries about the holding of Morrisons KPMG Audit Plc shares, such as change of address, change of ownership, 1 The Embankment, Neville Street dividend payments and the dividend reinvestment plan, should be directed to: Leeds, LS1 4DW Stockbrokers Capita Registrars Hoare Govett Limited Northern House, 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA Woodsome Park Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield, HD8 0LA Citigroup Smith Barney Telephone 0870 162 3131 Canada Square, Canary Wharf www.
com London, E14 5LB Investment Bankers NM Rothschild & Sons Limited New Court, 1 St. Swithins Lane London, EC4P 4DU www.
co. uk Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC
