Corporate governance Including the report of the Audit Committee has also arranged appropriate insurance coverage in respect of Compliance with the Combined Code legal action against its Directors and Officers.
The distinct roles of The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate Chairman and Group Chief Executive are acknowledged and set governance as set out in the Combined Code on corporate out in writing.
The Chairman has confirmed that he would not chair governance published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC any other major companys board of directors.
Gareth Davis is in July 2003 the Code.
The Board has also applied the principles the Companys Senior Independent Director and is available to and provisions in the form set out in the revised Combined Code shareholders where communication through the Chairman or published by the FRC in June 2006 the Revised Code.
The Board Executive Directors would not be appropriate.
The Chairman is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good governance ensures that the Board maintains an appropriate dialogue with and this report describes how the Board applied the principles of shareholders and, although the Non Executive Directors are not good governance as set out in the Code and the Revised Code formally asked, at present, to meet the Companys shareholders, during the year under review.
their attendance at presentations of the annual and interim results is encouraged.
The Board As at 31 July 2007, the Board of Directors was made up of The Chairman reviewed the developmental needs of the Board as 11 members comprising the Chairman, five Executive Directors a whole, including the skills and contributions each Director brought and five Non Executive Directors.
The Non Executive Directors are to it and confirmed that there were no outstanding items from the considered by the Board to be independent of management and performance evaluations which had been carried out during 2006. free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the It is proposed that a further detailed review be carried out during exercise of their independent judgement.
The Chairman confirmed that should any Director have any each of the Non Executive Directors brings his own senior level of concerns or observations which they wished to raise, these could experience and expertise.
Fenton Hord retired from the Board as be notified to him directly or to the Company Secretary, to be an Executive Director on 31 July 2007 and Robert Walker will step addressed appropriately.
down from the Board as a Non Executive Director with effect from 31 October 2007.
Accordingly, at the date of this report, Meetings between the Non Executive Directors, both with and there are 10 members of the Board, comprising the Chairman, without the presence of the Chairman and the Group Chief four Executive Directors and five Non Executive Directors.
Executive, are scheduled in the Boards annual timetable.
The Board has also arranged to hold at least two Board meetings each Biographical details of the Directors currently in office are shown year at divisional locations to help all Board members gain a deeper on pages 42 and 43.
The Companys policy relating to the terms understanding of the business.
This also provides senior managers of appointment and the remuneration of both the Executive and from across the Group the opportunity to present to the Board as Non Executive Directors is detailed in the Remuneration report well as to meet the Directors on more informal occasions.
As part of their ongoing development, the Executive Directors are The Board meets regularly during the year, as well as on an ad hoc encouraged to take up an external non executive position on the basis, as required by time critical business needs.
The Board has board of a non competitor company, for which they may retain a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for its decision, although payments received in respect of such appointment.
In order to avoid its primary role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership and to any conflict of interest, all appointments are subject to the Boards review the overall strategic development of the Group as a whole.
approval and, generally, outside appointments for Executive Directors Day-to-day operational decisions are managed by the Executive are limited to one company board.
The Board monitors the extent Committee and the Executive Committee Advisory Group, referred of Directors other interests to ensure that the effectiveness of the to on page 57.
The Board met eight times during the year and Board is not compromised.
Overall responsibility for succession Director attendance for each meeting is shown in the table on planning is considered to be a matter for the whole Board rather page 58.
The Board has established a procedure for Directors, than for a committee.
if deemed necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that one-third of This is in addition to the direct access that every Director has to the Directors retire by rotation each year and that each Director will the Company Secretary, who is charged with ensuring that Board seek re-election by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting procedures are followed and that good corporate governance at least once every three years.
Additionally, new Directors are and compliance is implemented throughout the Group.
Following subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment, formal comprehensive and tailored induction their appointment.
It is Board policy that Non Executive Directors is offered to all Directors, which is supplemented by visits to key are normally appointed for an initial term of three years, which is locations within the Group and meetings with members of the then reviewed and extended for up to a further two three-year Executive Committee, the Executive Committee Advisory Group periods.
It is also Board policy that Non Executive Directors should and other key senior executives.
not generally serve on the Board for more than nine years and that, in cases where it is proposed to exceed this period, the Director Together with the Group Chief Executive and the Company concerned will retire annually and offer himself for re-election.
Secretary, the Chairman ensures that the Board is kept properly Details of the Directors seeking re-election at the 2007 AGM informed and is consulted on all issues reserved to it.
Board papers are given in the Notice of Meeting on page 130. and other information are delivered at times to allow Directors to be properly briefed in advance of meetings.
In accordance with The formal terms of reference for the Board committees, approved the Companys Articles of Association, Directors are granted an by the Board and complying with the Code to assist in the discharge indemnity from the Company to the extent permitted by law in of its duties, are available from the Company Secretary and can respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
The indemnity also be found on the Companys website at www.
would not provide any coverage to the extent that a Director is Membership of the various committees is shown on page 127. proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Company The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all Board committees.
Corporate governance 55 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate governance Including the report of the Audit Committee external auditors without the presence of executive management.
Nominations committee The Chairman of the Audit Committee attends the Annual General The Nominations Committee meets on an as needed basis and Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be was not required to meet during the year ending 31 July 2007.
At the raised on the committees activities.
date of this report, it comprises Messrs Whybrow Chairman, Davis, Duff, Hornsby and Walker.
Mr Walker will be stepping down on The committee is required to assist the Board to fulfil its 31 October 2007 and Messrs Murray and Stein will be appointed responsibilities related to external financial reporting and to the committee with effect from that date.
Mr Whybrow would not associated announcements.
During the year, the committee chair the committee when it considers the appointment of a successor reviewed, either as a committee or as part of the Board: chairman.
The committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and its committees and makes recommendations with the interim and annual financial statements, including the regard to any changes that are considered necessary, both in the requirements for financial reporting: identification and nomination of new Directors and the continuation the interim and preliminary announcements made to the London of existing Directors in office.
The committee retains external search and New York Stock Exchanges: consultants as appropriate.
The committee also advises the Board on the Companys trading statements and, where practicable, succession planning for board appointments although the Board itself all proposed announcements to be made by the Company has overall responsibility for succession generally.
to the extent that they contain material financial information: the Form 20-F, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission Audit committee in the USA, having received the appropriate information on The Audit Committee comprises Messrs Davis, Stein and Murray, the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in who chairs the committee.
The committees membership is the preparation of the accounts: reviewed by the Nominations Committee and by Mr Murray at changes proposed to the Companys policies and practices: regular intervals.
Members of the committee are appointed by the significant accounting issues: Board following recommendations by the Nominations Committee.
operation of the Companys whistleblowing policy: The committee is normally comprised of three independent litigation and contingent liabilities and tax matters, including Non Executive Directors.
contingencies against tax liabilities together with compliance with statutory tax obligations: Each member of the committee brings relevant financial experience fraud reports: and at a senior executive level and the expertise and experience of the the Companys risk management process.
members of the committee are summarised on page 43.
The Board considers that each member of the committee is independent within The committee is also responsible for the development, the definition set out in the Code.
Mr Stein is considered by the implementation and monitoring of the Companys policy on Board to have significant, recent and relevant financial experience, external audit and the committee reserves oversight responsibility having been, until September 2007, Finance Director of GKN plc.
for monitoring independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical and regulatory requirements.
The committee recommends All members of the committee receive appropriate induction, which the appointment and reappointment of the Companys external is in addition to the induction which all new Directors receive and auditors and annually reviews a formal letter provided by the includes an overview of the business, its financial dynamics and external auditors confirming their independence and objectivity risks.
Members of the committee undertake ongoing training as within the context of applicable regulatory requirements and required.
Audit Committee members are expected to have an professional standards.
The committee also reviews the terms, understanding of the following areas: areas of responsibility and scope of the audit including schedules of unadjusted errors and representation letters as set out in the the principles of, contents of and developments in, financial external auditors engagement letter: the overall work plan for reporting, including the applicable accounting standards the forthcoming year, together with the cost-effectiveness of the and statements of recommended practice and in particular, audit as well as the auditors remuneration and performance: the appropriateness of the Companys accounting policies: any major issues which arose during the course of the audit and the Companys wider corporate policies and its financing: and their resolution: key accounting and audit judgements: the level the Companys systems of internal control and matters that require of errors identified during the audit: and the recommendations the use of judgement in the presentation of accounts and key made to management by the auditors and managements response.
figures as well as the role of internal and external auditors.
During the year, a review was carried out to provide assurance that The committee meets regularly throughout the year and its agenda the Group was receiving value for money for the service provided is linked to events in the Companys financial calendar.
The agenda by the external auditors.
The committee monitors the rotation is mostly cyclical although each member of the committee may of key partners within the external auditors from time to time in require reports on matters of interest in addition to the regular accordance with UK and US rules.
The committee also monitors items.
Members attendance at the meetings held during the year the extent of non-audit work which the external auditors can is set out in the table on page 58. perform, to ensure that the provision of those non-audit services that can be undertaken by the external auditors falls within the The committee invites the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, agreed policy and does not impair their objectivity or independence.
the Chief Financial Officer, the Director of Financial Reporting and Under the policy, the external auditors cannot be engaged to perform Strategic Planning and the Head of Internal Audit together with any of the following services: senior representatives of the external auditors to attend each meeting and receive its papers, although it reserves part of each bookkeeping services related to accounting records or financial meeting for discussions without the invitees being present.
Other statements: senior executives are invited to present such reports as are required financial information systems design and implementation: for the committee to discharge its duties.
The Audit Committee appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions and members regularly meet the Head of Internal Audit and the contributions in kind reports: 56 Corporate governance Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 actuarial services: management of business risk.
During the year, the committee also internal audit outsourcing services: reviewed the processes which have been embedded throughout management functions including human resources: the Group in compliance with IFRS reporting requirements.
broker or dealer, investment adviser or investment banking services: or The Companys whistleblowing policy, which is an extension of legal and other services unrelated to the audit.
the Groupwide Code of Ethics, gives details of the international whistleblowing hotline operated on behalf of the Company by The policy requires pre-confirmation by the committee of any an independent third party and sets out the arrangements for non-audit work subject to fide minimis levels.
The external auditors the Company Secretary to receive, in confidence, disclosures provide audit related services such as regulatory and statutory on accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and reporting as well as formalities relating to shareholder or other related matters which would, as appropriate, be reported to the circulars.
The external auditors report any material departures committee.
A copy of the Groups Code of Ethics is available on from Group accounting policies and procedures that they identify the Companys website at www.
during the course of their audit work to the committee.
Within the constraints of applicable UK and US rules, the external auditors Each year the committee critically reviews its own performance undertake due diligence reviews and provide assistance on tax and considers where improvements can be made.
The committees matters given their in-depth knowledge of the Groups business.
terms of reference were reviewed and updated during the year The provision of non-audit services within such constraints and and copies are available from the Company Secretary or on the the agreed policy is assessed on a case-by-case basis so that Companys website at www.
the best-placed adviser is retained.
During the year, the committee carried out an extensive review of the effectiveness of the external Remuneration committee auditors, which included receiving responses from each of the The committee comprises Messrs Davis, Walker and Duff, who Groups operating companies and considered whether the agreed chairs the committee, all of whom are independent within the audit plan had been fulfilled and the reasons for any variation from definition set out in the Code.
Mr Walker will step down from the the plan.
The committee also considered the external auditors committee on 31 October 2007 and Messrs Stein and Whybrow robustness and the degree to which the external auditors were able will be appointed to the committee with effect from that date.
The to assess key accounting and audit judgements and the context of committee met four times during the year and Director attendance the management letter.
for each meeting is shown in the table on page 58.
The committee has delegated authority to deal with remuneration matters on behalf The total fees paid to  in the year ended of the Board and the Boards Remuneration report is set out 31 July 2007 were 10.5 million 2006: 9.6 million, of which on pages 61 to 68.
During the year, the committee reviewed 4.2 million 2006: 4.2 million related to non-audit work.
Further and updated its terms of reference, copies of which are available disclosure of the non-audit fees paid during the year ended from the Company Secretary or on the Companys website at 31 July 2007 can be found in note 3 to the accounts on page 84. www.
The chairman of the committee attends the Annual General Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions The committee also reviews the effectiveness of the Groups that might be raised on the committees activities.
internal audit function, including its terms of reference, audit plans, general performance and its relationship with the external auditors.
Treasury committee Throughout the year, the committee reviewed the internal audit The committee comprises the Group Chief Executive, the Chief functions plans and its achievements against such plans.
The Financial Officer, who acts as its Chairman, and the Group Treasurer.
committee considered the results of the audits undertaken by The committees role is to consider treasury policy, tax matters and the internal audit function and considered the adequacy of certain transactions on behalf of the Group within a framework managements response to matters raised, including the time taken delegated by the Board.
to resolve any such matters.
The committee carried out its annual review to consider the effectiveness of the internal audit function Executive committee using guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in The Executive Directors of the Company together with the England & Wales and the Institute of Internal Auditors UK.
During Chief Business Development Officer, the Chief Operations Officer the year, two continental audit committees were established by the and the Group Company Secretary and General Counsel, meet at continental CEOs for Europe and North America, at the suggestion least eight times each year, often on the day before formal Board of the committee.
The minutes of the continental audit committee meetings.
The committee addresses operational business issues meetings will be provided to the Audit Committee.
and shares best practice, thereby allowing the Directors more time at Board meetings to focus on strategy.
The committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, accounting policies and practices, Executive committee advisory group standards of risk management and risk management procedures The Executive Committee Advisory Group comprises the Group and compliance controls as well as the Companys statements on Chief Information Officer, the Group Senior Vice President Supply internal controls before they are agreed by the Board for each Chain, the Group Senior Vice President Sourcing, the Director of years annual report.
The committee has also monitored the Financial Reporting and Strategic Planning and the Group HR Companys response to the requirements of the US SarbanesDirector.
The members of this group, who each have key roles Oxley Act as they apply to foreign private issuers with particular in their own right, act as advisers to the Executive Committee.
focus on the progress made in evaluating internal controls as required by Section 404 of that Act and the disclosures to be made by the Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer as part of the Form 20-F certification process.
The Board retains overall responsibility for internal control and for the identification and Corporate governance 57 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate governance Including the report of the Audit Committee Meetings attendance The following table shows the attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board, Audit and Remuneration Committees held during the year: Board Audit Remuneration Number of meetings held during the year to 31 July 2007 8 5 4 G Davis 734 A J Duff 8 4 F N Hord 6 C A S Hornsby 8 R H Marchbank 8 J I K Murray 85 F W Roach 8 N M Stein 85 R M Walker 7 3 S P Webster 8 J W Whybrow 8 Chairman Internal audit of the Groups systems of internal control.
As part of this review, The internal audit function is fully independent of the day-to-day each business area and function has been required to identify and operations of the Group.
It is involved in the assessment of the document each significant risk, together with the mitigating actions quality of risk management and internal control and helps to implemented to manage, monitor and report to management on promote and further develop effective risk management within the effectiveness of these controls.
Certain internal audit assignments such as those requiring specialist expertise continue to be outsourced by the Group companies also submit risk management and internal Head of Internal Audit to KPMG LLP as required.
A policy has been control representation letters bi-annually to the Chief Financial established regarding the recruitment of staff from both KPMG LLP Officer, with comments on the control environment within their and  LLP.
The Head of Internal Audit operations.
The Chief Financial Officer summarises these submissions attends all Audit Committee meetings as well as having regular for the Audit Committee and the Executive Committee.
The meetings with the chairman of that committee.
The Audit chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board on any Committee reviews key performance indicators relating to the matters which have arisen from the committees review of the activity of the department.
way in which the risk management and internal control processes have been applied or any breakdowns in, or exceptions to, these Internal control procedures.
Group companies are also required to support the In a decentralised Group, where local management has considerable disclosures and attestations that the Group Chief Executive and autonomy to run and develop their businesses, a well designed Chief Financial Officer are required to give under the Sarbanessystem of internal control is necessary to safeguard shareholders Oxley Act.
These processes have been in place throughout the investment and the Companys assets.
The Directors have overall year ended 31 July 2007 and have continued to the date of this responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and for report.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups reviewing their effectiveness.
In accordance with the guidance set system of internal control for the year under review and a summary out in the Turnbull Report Internal Control: Guidance for Directors of the principal control structures and processes in place across on the Combined Code, an ongoing process has been established the Group is set out below.
for identifying, managing and evaluating the risks faced by the Group and has been in place for the full financial year and up Control structures to the date on which the financial statements were approved.
Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, it has delegated The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate responsibility for the risk management and internal control programme business risk, safeguard the Groups assets against material loss, to the Chief Financial Officer.
The detailed review of risk management fairly report the Groups performance and position and to ensure and internal control has been delegated to the Audit Committee.
compliance with relevant legislation, regulation and best practice The management of each Group company is responsible for risk including that related to social, environmental and ethical matters.
management and internal control within its own business and for The systems provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against ensuring compliance with the Groups policies and procedures.
material misstatement or loss and are regularly reviewed by the Each Group company has appointed a risk director whose primary Board to deal with changing circumstances.
role in such capacity is to ensure compliance by local management with the Groups risk management and internal control programme.
A summary of the key financial risks inherent in the Groups Both the internal and external auditors have reviewed the overall business is given on pages 40 to 41.
Risk assessment and approach adopted by the Group towards its risk management evaluation is an integral part of the annual planning cycle.
Each activities so as to reinforce these internal control requirements.
business documents the strategic objectives and the effectiveness 58 Corporate governance Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 of corporate governance principles for the company.
The Company Control processes has a Nominations Committee, details of which are set out on page The Board reviews its strategic plans and objectives on an annual 56 and a majority of the members of the Nominations Committee basis and approves Group company budgets and strategies in light are independent Non Executive Directors and all such Directors of these.
Control is exercised at Group, continental, cluster and sit on the Board.
The Board itself, rather than the Nominations subsidiary board level through monthly monitoring of performance Committee, develops the corporate governance principles for by comparison to budgets, forecasts and cash targets and by the Company and approves the Groups overall system of internal regular visits to Group companies by the Group Chief Executive, controls, governance and authority limits.
The Companys practice, Chief Financial Officer and continental CEOs.
in accordance with the UK Companies Act and the Code in relation to the appointment and termination of the external auditors, is that The Board has formal procedures in place for the approval of a recommendation is made by the Audit Committee to the Board, investment and acquisition projects, with designated levels of which will then make a recommendation to shareholders in general authority, supported by post investment review processes for major meeting.
This differs from the procedure in the USA, where the acquisitions and capital expenditure.
The Board takes account external auditors are accountable to the audit committee, which of social, environmental and ethical matters in relation to the has the authority to appoint or dismiss the external auditors without Groups businesses when reviewing the risks faced by the Group.
The Board is conscious of the effect such matters may have on the short and long-term value of the Company.
In July 2005, rules were introduced by the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock As noted on page 52, the Company has entered into a Level II Exchange which require the Company to comply with certain American Depository Receipt programme with the Bank of New provisions relating to audit committees.
These include a requirement York Mellon and has securities registered with the Securities and related to the independence of audit committee members and Exchange Commission in the USA.
As a result, the Company is procedures for the treatment of complaints regarding accounting required to comply with applicable US regulations including the or auditing matters.
The Company is fully compliant with these Sarbanes-Oxley Act, insofar as it applies to foreign private issuers.
In accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commissions recommendations, the Company has established a disclosure Communications with shareholders committee comprising the Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial The Company places considerable importance on communication Officer, the Group Company Secretary and General Counsel and with its shareholders, including its employee shareholders.
The Group the Director of Financial Reporting and Strategic Planning.
Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer are closely involved in investor relations and a senior executive has day-to-day responsibility The Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer will also for such matters.
The views of our major shareholders are reported provide the certificates required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act when to the Board by the Chief Financial Officer and by the Chairman and the Form 20-F for 2007 is filed.
There were no changes to the discussed at its meetings.
The Annual Report and Accounts are Companys internal control over financial reporting occurring available to all shareholders either in paper form or electronically and during the year ended 31 July 2007 which have materially affected, can be accessed via the Companys website www.
com or or are reasonably likely to materially affect, that internal control.
via Shareview, an internet service offered by the Companys Registrars, Procedures relating to the internal controls, as required by Section as detailed on page 128.
404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, were in place throughout the year ended 31 July 2007 and continue to the date of this report.
The Company has regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and meetings with shareholder representatives, as required, and Compliance statement promotes communications with private shareholders through The Company applied all of the principles set out in section 1 of the attendance at the Annual General Meeting.
Contact with institutional Code and the Revised Code for the period under review and has, shareholders and with financial analysts, brokers and the media throughout the year, complied with the detailed provisions set out is controlled by written guidelines to ensure the protection of therein, save that, until 31 July 2007, the pensionable salary of one sensitive information which could affect the Companys share Executive Director included his bonus capped at a fixed amount as price and which has not already been made generally available detailed on page 67.
From 1 August 2007, all Executive Director to the Companys shareholders.
Contact is also maintained, when service contracts comply with the Code and the Revised Code.
appropriate, with shareholders to discuss overall remuneration plans and policies.
The Groups preliminary and interim results, The Companys auditors,  LLP, are required as well as all announcements issued to the London and New York to review whether the above statement reflects the Companys Stock Exchanges, are published on the Companys website, compliance with the nine provisions of the Code specified for its www.
The Company issues regular trading updates review by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report if to the market and these, together with copies of presentations it does not reflect such compliance.
No such report has been made.
to analysts and interviews with the Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, are also posted on the Companys website.
New York Stock Exchange corporate The Notice of the Annual General Meeting is circulated to all governance requirements shareholders at least 20 working days before such meeting and it Although not required to do so as a foreign private issuer, is Company policy not to combine resolutions to be proposed at the Company complies in all material respects with the corporate general meetings.
All shareholders are invited to the Companys governance measures set out by the board of the New York Stock Annual General Meeting at which they have the opportunity to put Exchange, Inc for US issuers.
Those standards state that companies questions to the Board and it is standard practice to have the should have a nominating corporate governance committee chairmen of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees composed entirely of independent directors with written terms available to answer questions.
The proxy votes for and against of reference, which develops and recommends to the board a set Corporate governance 59 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate governance Including the report of the Audit Committee each resolution, as well as abstentions which may be recorded Annual General Meeting resolutions on the proxy form accompanying the Notice of Meeting, are The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to counted before the Annual General Meeting and the results are be held on 28 November 2007, together with explanatory notes, made available at the meeting after shareholders have voted on appear in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 129 to each resolution on a show of hands.
The results are also announced 132.
This is also available on the Companys website at to the London and New York Stock Exchanges and are published www.
on the Companys website shortly after the meeting.
Awards under employee share schemes Options were granted under the Employee Share Purchase Plan in April 2007 to 6,362 US-based employees 2006: 8,151 and 304 Canadian-based employees 2006: 442 in respect of a On behalf of the Board maximum of 668,431 ordinary shares 2006: 817,439 exercisable Charles P Watters at 1038 pence per share.
In April 2007, options were granted for Group Company Secretary and General Counsel Interim the first time under the Wolseley European Sharesave Plan to 1,757 Wolseley plc, Registered No.
29846 employees across 12 countries in Europe in respect of a maximum Theale, Reading of 557,612 ordinary shares exercisable at 1038 pence per share.
24 September 2007 Options were granted under the UK Employees Savings Related Share Option Scheme in April 2007 to 2,662 employees 2006: 2,649 in respect of a maximum of 748,744 ordinary shares Directors responsibility statement 2006: 621,422 exercisable at 977 pence per share.
Options The Directors are required by UK company law as adopted by the were granted under the Irish Sharesave Scheme in April 2007 to European Union to prepare financial statements for each financial 159 employees 2006: 229 in respect of a maximum of 65,606 period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the ordinary shares 2006: 86,100 exercisable at 977 pence per share.
Company and the Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
In November 2006 options were granted under the Wolseley Share Option Plan 2003 over 5,432,414 ordinary shares 2006: 4,473,070 The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts, appropriate to senior employees of the Group at an option price of 1201 pence accounting policies have been used and applied consistently, per share.
In January 2007, awards under the Companys Restricted supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates: Share Scheme were granted for the first time over 192,404 ordinary and the accounts have been prepared in accordance with shares to 45 employees below Board level across the Group.
Details International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by of the total options outstanding at 31 July 2007 are set out in note the European Union and on the going concern basis.
Applicable 29 to the accounts on page 103.
Awards under the Wolseley plc UK accounting standards have also been applied for the parent 2002 Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS were made in October company accounts.
Details relating to the awards made to Executive Directors under the LTIS are set out on page 63.
The Directors are also responsible for maintaining adequate accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the Shareholder services financial position of the Company and the Group, which enable Shareview is a service offered by our Registrars, which allows them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the shareholders online access to a range of shareholder information.
UK Companies Act and Article 4 of the International Auditing Shareview provides access to details of shareholdings in the Standards Regulation.
Company and practical help on transferring shares or updating personal details.
It also allows shareholders to choose to receive The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity shareholder communications electronically, rather than by post.
To of the corporate and financial information included on the register, shareholders simply need to log on to www.
The work carried out by the auditors with their shareholder reference number, which is shown on the does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, form of proxy sent to all shareholders with this report.
First time the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may users will need to enter certain information and choose a Personal have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially Identification Number before they are able to access their presented on the website.
Legislation in the UK governing the shareholding details.
preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Shareview dealing is also available to UK-based shareholders.
This is a simple and convenient telephone and internet share The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps purchase and sale service offered by the Registrars.
For telephone as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the purchases and sales call 0870 850 0852 between 8.30am and Company and the Group and to prevent and detect fraud or 4.30pm, Monday to Friday.
For internet purchases and sales, log other irregularities.
The Directors, having prepared the financial on to www.
A postal dealing service is also statements, have permitted the auditors to take whatever steps available from our Registrars and a form, together with terms and and undertake whatever inspections they consider to be appropriate conditions, can be obtained by calling 0870 241 3934. for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit opinion.
60 Corporate governance Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
