CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Corporate governance report This report sets out our commitment to corporate governance, The Group Executive is the chief executives executive team how we have applied the principles contained in the new Combined through which the operational management of the business is Code on Corporate Governance adopted by the Financial Reporting discharged.
Its members currently comprise the group finance Council in June 2003 the Code and the extent of our director, the managing directors of our principal business compliance with the Code.
segments, the group HR director, the group communications director and the general counsel and company secretary.
DIRECTORS regularly during the year.
Those members of the Group Executive A.
1 The Board who are not directors of the Company are invited to attend four The Board of directors is the body responsible for corporate Board meetings each year and also meet periodically with the governance, for establishing policies and objectives and for the non-executive directors without the executive directors present.
Whilst the Board has delegated the The respective roles of the Board and Group Executive are normal operational management of the Group to Keith Clarke as discussed further under internal control on page 42. chief executive it has agreed a formal schedule of matters reserved specifically for its decision.
This schedule includes strategy, the A.
2 Chairman and Chief Executive approval of financial statements and shareholder circulars, treasury It is the Groups policy that the roles of chairman and chief policy, major capital investments, risk management strategy and executive are separate, with their roles and responsibilities clearly acquisitions and disposals.
Currently the Board is made up of the chairman, three executive Ed Wallis, our chairman, normally spends two days per week directors and four non-executive directors.
James Morley is the on the business of the Group.
His other significant commitments senior independent director.
The biographies of the directors as are disclosed in his biography on page 36.
The Board considers at the date of this report are given on pages 36 and 37. that these commitments do not hinder his ability to discharge his The Board has a regular schedule of meetings and holds further responsibilities to the Company effectively.
In addition, directors meet as members Keith Clarke, our chief executive, is responsible for the executive of relevant committees.
The attendance of directors at meetings of management of the business.
This includes responsibility for the Board and of Board committees of which they were members formulating and recommending the Groups strategy for the during the year ended 31 March 2007 is shown in Table 1 below.
creation of long-term shareholder value.
The chairman and the non-executive directors also meet without A.
3 Board balance and independence the executive directors present at least annually.
It is the opinion of the Board that the non-executive directors The Boards committees meet regularly to enable them to are independent of management and have no business or other discharge their responsibilities.
Each committee has terms of relationship which could interfere materially with the exercise reference which are reviewed annually by the Board.
Copies are of their judgement.
available on request from the company secretary or on the Groups website www.
Following formal decision-making the Board may, on occasion, delegate authority to a standing committee consisting of any two directors to facilitate final sign-off for an agreed course of action within defined parameters.
Table 1 DIRECTOR BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE NOMINATION COMMITTEE LORD BOYCE 9 9 4 4 2 2 KEITH CLARKE 9 9 2 2 FIONA CLUTTERBUCK 1 1 ALUN GRIFFITHS 1 1 1 CHRISTOPHER KEMBALL 7 7 2 3 1 1 ROBERT MACLEOD 9 9 JAMES MORLEY 9 9 4 4 4 4 2 2 ED WALLIS 9 9 1 1 2 2 SIR PETER WILLIAMS 9 9 4 4 4 4 2 2 1.
One meeting coincided with an engagement made prior to Christopher Kemballs appointment on 6 October 2005.
WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE FORTY-ONE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Corporate governance report Continued A.
4 Appointments to the Board by key employees at Board dinners, ensures non-executive The Nomination Committee is responsible for nominating directors gain first hand experience of developments within candidates for appointment to the Board.
The committee makes the Group.
External training is provided when appropriate.
appraisals of the processes in place for succession planning in This includes briefings from the Companys advisers at Board respect of both Board and senior appointments.
meetings and presentations on relevant subjects from guest The committee currently comprises Ed Wallis, Lord Boyce, speakers at Board dinners.
Keith Clarke, Fiona Clutterbuck, James Morley and Sir Peter All our directors have access to the advice and services of the Williams.
The Committee is chaired by Ed Wallis.
Christopher company secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board Kemball was a member of the committee until his retirement procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed.
Fiona Clutterbuck was appointed as There is an agreed procedure for directors to obtain independent a member of the committee on 25 June 2007. professional advice, paid for by the Group.
During the year the committee recommended the appointment A.
6 Performance evaluation of two new directors.
Fiona Clutterbuck as a non-executive The Board, as part of its commitment to ensure its effectiveness director and Alun Griffiths as an executive director.
Both were and evaluate its ongoing performance, completed an evaluation appointed on 13 March 2007. of its performance during the year.
This evaluation consisted of Fiona brings a proven track record in advising Boards on private discussions between the chairman and each director with strategic issues which, coupled with her significant corporate the recommendations arising from these discussions distilled into finance experience, will be a considerable asset to the Group as a report considered by the Board.
In addition, the Audit we continue to drive development and grow the business.
The Committee completed a detailed formal assessment of its committee used an external search consultancy to assist in making performance and processes: and the Remuneration Committee the recommendation for her appointment.
has scheduled a similar exercise for the current financial year.
Aluns appointment to the Board follows many years experience The non-executive directors have met alone to appraise the in Atkins, latterly as Group HR director.
He has an exceptional chairmans performance.
understanding of our business and his counsel has already been valued by the Board on many occasions.
7 Re-election All non-executive directors are advised of the time commitment In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, considered necessary to enable them to fulfil their responsibilities one-third of the Board is required to retire by rotation each year.
In addition, any director appointed during the year will stand for election at the next general meeting, ensuring that each Board A.
5 Information and professional development member faces re-election at regular intervals.
A rolling schedule of matters for Board consideration is maintained to ensure timely provision of information.
During the year the B. REMUNERATION Boards discussions have included: Details of the directors remuneration and the work of the The Groups strategic plan remuneration committee, as required by the Code and the The approval of the Group budget, including financial and Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, are set non-financial targets out in the Remuneration report on pages 45 to 49.
Our health, safety and corporate responsibility performance C. ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT The development of our business segments C. 1 Financial reporting including acquisitions All shareholder communications are designed to present a balanced The Groups financial results and dividend and understandable view of the Groups activities and prospects.
Our people Details of directors responsibilities and the going concern The Groups pension plan arrangements statement are given in the directors report on page 39 and 40.
Metronet Our corporate governance arrangements.
C. 2 Internal control We have a continuing professional development framework The Board has accountability for reviewing and approving the to assist the chairman, executive directors and non-executive adequacy and effectiveness of our internal controls, including directors in discharging their responsibilities effectively.
Nonfinancial, operational and compliance controls and risk executive directors meet regularly with members of the Group management.
It is the role of management to implement the Executive and receive regular business updates via scheduled agreed policies on risk and control.
This, coupled with site visits and the attendance Our system of internal financial and operational controls is WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE FORTY-TWO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED designed to meet the Groups particular needs and aims to Financial reporting facilitate effective and efficient operations, to safeguard the The Board approves a strategic plan and annual budgets for the Groups assets, ensure proper accounting records are maintained Group.
The financial performance of individual business segments and ensure that the financial information used within the is reported regularly and compared to annual budgets.
We report business and for publication is reliable.
Our risk management to our shareholders on a half-yearly basis.
Forecasts for the Group process identifies the key risks facing each business and reports are updated and reviewed by the Board regularly.
to the Board on how those risks are being managed.
Project and contract control Such a system of internal control can only be designed to Procedures seek to ensure that risks are identied through the project manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business lifecycle from bidding to completion.
Regular review procedures are objectives and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, in place to ensure that issues are appropriately reported to the Board.
assurance against material misstatement and loss.
A commercial risk and audit framework is in place which requires The Board has a continuing process for identifying, evaluating peer review to be carried out for all significant bids and opportunities and managing the risks we face and that process has been in or where significant investment decisions have to be taken.
place for the year under review and remains current.
This process covers subsidiaries in which the Group has an interest of 50% or Individual business controls more.
Joint Ventures in which we do not have overall control are Individual businesses and central corporate functions complete not treated, for these purposes, as part of the Group.
For these an annual self-certification statement.
Responsible managers Joint Ventures, systems of internal control are applied as agreed personally confirm the review of their systems of internal control between the parties to the venture.
For the Metronet Joint and their compliance with Group policies.
The statement also Venture the Board has reviewed the risks faced by the requires the reporting of any significant control issues that have Group separately.
emerged so that areas of Group concern may be identified, The Audit Committee has reviewed the operation and addressed and experience shared.
The results of the process are effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, which operated reviewed by the Audit Committee and reported to the Board.
during the period covered by the Directors report and financial Functional speciality reporting statements, up to and including the date of approval by the Board.
The Board assesses the risks facing the business on an ongoing Key features of our system of internal control are as follows: basis and has identified a number of other key areas which are Group organisation and culture subject to regular reporting to the Board such as human resources, By its statements and actions the Board emphasises a culture health and safety, environment, tax and treasury.
of integrity, competence, fairness and responsibility.
Risk management review The Board focuses mainly on strategic issues, senior The Board assesses risk management throughout the Group, aided management performance and financial performance.
Our by the Group Risk Committee and detailed reviews of internal chief executive and the Group Executive, as his senior executive controls and risk management.
The Group risk management team, concentrate on operational performance, operational framework requires businesses to record formally all significant decision-making and the formulation of strategic proposals to the risks facing their business and detail the steps being taken to avoid Board.
The Groups managing directors manage their businesses or mitigate those risks.
A summary of the key risks facing the with the support of senior managers.
The Board determines how Group is placed on risk registers which are reviewed regularly the chief executive operates within a framework of delegated by the Audit Committee and the Board.
authorities and reserved powers which seek to ensure that The Group maintains insurance policies to provide protection certain transactions, significant in terms of their size or type, from losses arising through claims from clients.
The adequacy of are undertaken only after high-level review.
the Groups insurance cover, including arrangements within the Control environment captive insurance company, is reviewed by the Board annually.
Our operational structure has clearly documented and Internal audit communicated principles of delegation of authority and segregation The internal audit function undertakes a programme to address of duties.
The Groups management systems include financial internal control and risk management processes with particular policies and procedures, corporate and business quality assurance reference to the Turnbull report.
Its conclusions are communicated manuals, health and safety procedures and environmental to the relevant level of management and the function has a direct management procedures.
These procedures are subject to review reporting responsibility to the Audit Committee.
to ensure that improvements to enhance controls can be made.
WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE FORTY-THREE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Corporate governance report Continued A detailed review of the internal audit plan Metronet Analysis of audit and non-audit fees and of the auditors Metronet is the Groups most significant Joint Venture.
Given independence, including the rotation of the audit partner during its importance to the Group, an experienced senior manager the year is responsible for representing the Groups interest as a nonAn appraisal of its own effectiveness and that of the executive director on the Board of Metronet and is responsible for monitoring the progress of Metronet on behalf of the Group.
independent auditors and the internal auditors.
Metronet has regular meetings of its Board of directors.
It also has D. RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS its own Audit and Remuneration Committees, at which a Group D. 1 Dialogue with institutional shareholders representative is also present.
The Board gives communication with all shareholders a high C. 3 Audit Committee and auditors priority.
The Groups website contains information on current The Audit Committee comprises James Morley, Fiona Clutterbuck activities including our annual and interim results presentations and Sir Peter Williams, all independent non-executive directors.
to City analysts and institutional investors.
James Morley, a chartered accountant, is chairman of the Our chairman maintains contact with institutional shareholders committee.
Fiona Clutterbuck was appointed as a member of writing to them annually to set out our commitment to open, the committee on 1 April 2007.
Christopher Kemball served as ongoing dialogue.
Both he and the senior independent director a member of the committee until his retirement on 31 December make themselves available for the regular investor meetings held 2006.
The Board considers all members to have recent and by the chief executive and Group finance director if they are relevant financial experience.
A wide range of relevant issues are discussed The independent auditors and head of internal audit have at investor meetings including strategy, performance, management unrestricted access to the Audit Committee and, in accordance and corporate governance.
Non-executive directors are kept with usual practice, meet privately with the committee at each informed of the views of shareholders and the executive directors scheduled meeting.
provide reports to them on investor meetings.
The Groups brokers The Audit Committees terms of reference address the provisions provide briefings to the Board on shareholder opinion and compile in the Code in relation to audit committees and auditors.
The independent feedback from investor meetings.
Board and the Audit Committee monitor the cost-effectiveness of D. 2 Constructive use of the AGM audit and non-audit work performed by the independent auditors All our shareholders are invited to attend the Companys AGM, at and also consider the potential impact, if any, on the corporate which all directors are present.
We seek to encourage shareholder relationship with the auditors before awarding any non-audit participation by enabling proxy votes to be lodged online via our work.
For details regarding fees paid to the independent auditors, shareholder services portal at www.
see note 4 to the financial statements.
The independent auditors continue to operate procedures to STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE COMBINED CODE safeguard against the possibility that their objectivity and We complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the independence could be compromised.
These include the use of Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2007 except for the independent concurring partners, use of a technical review panel short period following the retirement of Christopher Kemball where appropriate and annual independence confirmations by all on 31 December 2006 and the appointment of Fiona Clutterbuck staff.
The independent auditors report to the Audit Committee on as a member of the Audit Committee on 1 April 2007.
During matters including independence and non-audit fees on an annual this period the Committee temporarily comprised of two basis.
In addition, the role of the audit partner is rotated on a non-executive directors.
Due to our early adoption of the June periodic basis.
2006 Combined Code on Corporate Governance, as encouraged During the year the committees activities have included: by the Financial Reporting Council, there was a technical non-compliance from 1 January 2007 to the year-end following A formal review of the draft annual report, interim statement the appointment of Ed Wallis as a member of the and associated announcements focusing on key judgemental Remuneration Committee.
areas and accounting policies A review of the independent auditors strategy and their findings Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by in respect of the annual report and interim statement Regular examination of the reports in respect of work Philip Davis, company secretary undertaken by the internal audit function 26 June 2007 An assessment of the effectiveness of the system of internal control, risk management process and the Companys employee disclosure policy WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE FORTY-FOUR
