Report of the Audit Committee Report of the Audit Committee The audit committee advises and makes recommendations to the Board on matters including financial reporting, internal controls, risk management, and the appointment of auditors.
The role of the committee is set out in its written terms of reference.
The audit committee, which met four times during 2007, comprised Marisa Cassoni Chairperson, Mark Rollins and Christopher Stephens who are all independent non-executive directors.
Both Marisa Cassoni, and Mark Rollins are finance professionals with current and relevant financial experience.
Where appropriate, the committee consulted with the chairman of the Board, the chief executive and the Group finance director in its deliberations and in developing its recommendations.
The chairman, executive directors and group financial risk manager are invited to meetings of the committee for parts of the agenda.
The external auditors are also invited to attend meetings, and meet in private with the audit committee at least annually.
Responsibilities include monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance.
The Committee has reviewed the Groups financial statements and formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance before their presentation to the Board.
In so doing, it considered accounting policies, areas of judgement or estimate, and reporting requirements, as well as matters brought to their attention by the external auditors.
The committee is responsible for assessing the requirement for a separate internal audit function and, with the continued strong growth and increased diversity of the Group, it has been determined that the Group is now of a scale that means an internal audit function will add value and deliver enhanced assurance as regards the effectiveness of risk management and internal control throughout the Group.
Consequently, in December 2007 the Company commenced the development of an internal audit function to be overseen by and report to the audit committee.
The internal audit function will initially supplement the continuing work of the Group financial risk manager together with the ongoing culture of embedded controls and continual peer review that has throughout the period under review been effective in monitoring established systems of internal control.
The committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups systems of internal control and risk management, and determines the scope of work undertaken by the Group financial risk manager.
It receives reports from the Group financial risk manager, with whom the results are discussed on a regular basis.
The committee concluded its annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of risk management and internal control at its December meeting.
As required by the Combined Code, the committee has reviewed arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties.
The committee considers that these arrangements are appropriate given the nature of the risks involved.
The committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of external auditors.
It is responsible for monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, and for agreeing the level of remuneration and the extent of non-audit services.
During the year,  PwC reported to the committee on its audit strategy and the scope of audit work.
The Committee has reviewed the performance of PwC and the level of non-audit fees paid to PwC during the year.
These are set out in note 4 on page 63.
The provision of non-audit services other than tax compliance and routine taxation advice must be referred to the committee in the event that it is likely to exceed a pre-determined threshold of 50,000.
Any work that falls below the threshold must be pre-approved by the Group finance director.
By monitoring and restricting both the nature and quantum of non-audit services provided by the external auditors, the committee seeks to safeguard auditor objectivity and independence.
Marisa Cassoni Chairperson of the Audit Committee 7 March 2008 WSP Annual Report 2007 43
