Corporate Governance Report Compliance with the Combined Code The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance by applying and maintaining the main and supporting principles of the Combined Code on corporate governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006.
Throughout the year under review, the Group has complied with all the provisions of the 2006 FRC Combined Code on corporate governance as laid down in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
This report describes how the Board applied the principles of good governance set out in the Combined Code during the year ended 31 December 2007.
The Board The Board of WSP Group plc is collectively responsible for the success of the Group and for its corporate governance and aims to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls that enable risk to be assessed and managed.
As outlined on pages 32 and 33, the Board comprises the non-executive chairman, three executive directors together with four independent non-executive directors.
The Combined Code identifies the fundamental significance of independent non-executive directors in ensuring the objective balance of the Board, and sets out criteria to be considered in determining the independence of non-executive directors.
In accordance with Provision A3.1 of the Combined Code, the Board considers Christopher Stephens, Marisa Cassoni, Ernest Sheavills and Mark Rollins to be independent non-executive directors.
Christopher Stephens is the senior independent non-executive director.
To ensure its effectiveness, the Boards composition brings together a balance of skills and experience appropriate to the requirements of the business.
Board composition and recommendations for the appointment of directors are delegated to the nomination committee.
The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the Groups overall strategy and direction and usually meets on a monthly basis throughout the year.
A formal schedule sets out those matters specifically reserved to the Board and its committees.
Those matters include decisions on Group strategy and direction, acquisitions and disposals, capital structure, material contracts, corporate governance and Group policies.
The number of Board and committee meetings attended by each of the directors during the year is shown in the table below.
Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings Full Audit Remuneration Nomination Name Board 11 Committee 4 Committee 4 Committee 2 David Turner 11 2 Christopher Cole 11 2 Malcolm Paul 11 Stuart McLachlan 11 Christopher Stephens 10 4 4 2 Marisa Cassoni 11 4 4 2 Mark Rollins 11 4 2 Ernest Sheavills 11 4 2 The Board has a standing agenda, including receiving and considering reports from the chief executive and the Group finance director on the Groups operational performance, finances, ongoing strategy and risk profile, all of which are considered at the monthly meetings.
The Board has regard to social, environmental and ethical matters in relation to the Groups business and assesses these when considering the risks faced by the Group.
Where appropriate, matters are delegated to the nomination, audit and remuneration committees, and reports on their activities are included on pages 41, 43 and 44 respectively.
The committees terms of reference, together with directors service contracts, are available on the Groups website and may be inspected at the companys registered office during normal office hours.
The roles of the chairman and chief executive have been established in writing to ensure the clear division of responsibilities, and have been reviewed and agreed by the Board.
During the year, the chairman held regular meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive directors present.
The chairman, who is non-executive, is responsible for leadership of the Board: setting its agenda and taking full account of the issues and concerns of all board members: ensuring effective communication with shareholders: taking the lead on director induction and development: encouraging active engagement by all directors, and ensuring that the performance of individuals and of the board as a whole, and its committees, is evaluated at least once a year.
40 WSP Annual Report 2007 The chairman ensures that the Board is supplied with accurate, timely and clear information.
Directors are encouraged to update their knowledge and familiarity with the Group through office visits, briefings and meetings with senior management.
As part of the induction process, an induction pack is provided to non-executive directors.
All directors have access to the company secretary who is responsible for ensuring good information flows within the Board and its committees and between senior management and nonexecutive directors.
The company secretary is appointed by the Board and is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and for advising the Board, through the chairman, on all corporate governance matters.
Directors are encouraged to seek independent or specialist advice or training at the Companys expense where this will add to their understanding of the Group in the furtherance of their duties.
The performance evaluations of Board members has been structured in such a way as to ensure balanced and objective review of directors performance by using a system of questionnaires intended to stimulate discussion of factors including individual performance and commitment.
The individual performances of the chairman, the chief executive, the other executive directors and the independent non-executive directors have all been reviewed during the year taking account of the views of the other Board directors.
In particular, the senior non-executive director led the non-executive directors in a particularly rigorous review of the chairmans performance.
Following these performance reviews, the chairman is responsible for ensuring that the appropriate actions are taken.
The evaluations provide a feedback mechanism and have helped in identifying Board performance objectives and development activities such as training.
In accordance with the Companys articles of association, directors are required to retire by rotation on the third anniversary of their appointment or re-appointment to the Board.
Directors appointed during the year are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment.
The names of those directors who are submitting themselves for re-election are detailed in the Directors Report on page 35.
Biographies of each of the directors are set out on page 32.
As required by the articles of association and as recommended by the Combined Code, David Turner, who will be seventy one at the time of the Annual General Meeting and has served on the Board for ten years, will retire at the Annual General Meeting and will offer himself for re-election.
Nomination Committee Report The nomination committee leads the process for board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board thereon.
The Committee met twice during the year and comprises the chairman of the Board, David Turner, who chairs the committee together with the four independent non-executive directors and the chief executive.
During the year, the nomination committee has considered the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board.
As part of the non-executive director performance evaluations, it has also reviewed the time commitment required and given by non-executive directors to fulfil their duties, and has considered the succession of executive and non-executive directors.
The Board has developed succession plans in which it has evaluated the risks associated with planned and unplanned changes of directors and identified arrangements intended to refresh the Board and reduce the potential impact of such events.
Remuneration Committee Report A report on executive directors remuneration and the activities of the remuneration committee is set out on pages 44 to 49.
Audit Committee Report The Report of the Audit Committee on page 43 sets out in more detail its delegated role in advising and making recommendations to the Board on matters including financial reporting, internal controls, risk management, and the appointment of auditors.
Internal Control In a decentralised group, where local management have considerable autonomy to manage and develop their businesses, an effective system of internal controls is necessary to ensure shareholder value.
The directors have ultimate responsibility for the system of internal control and also for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
In pursuing these objectives, internal control can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The operational and strategic direction of the Group is monitored through the following committees which provide direction and control throughout the Group: The Performance Committee has written terms of reference and meets on a monthly basis to review and consider the operational and financial performance of the Group.
Each meeting has a formal agenda that includes risk management issues.
The Committee consists of the executive directors and the chairmen of the executive committees and is regularly attended by the managing directors of the Groups other principal businesses.
The discussions of the committee are reported to the Board by the executive directors.
Three Executive Committees meet monthly and embrace the regional businesses in the UK and Europe, while the Global Environment and Energy executive committee is formed from the environment and energy businesses in its key regions.
The WSP Annual Report 2007 41 Corporate Governance Report continued committees comprise the managing directors of the principal operating businesses.
The chief executive and Group finance director together with other Group management regularly visit and attend Board meetings of key operations, including those in the USA, Australia, Middle East, Asia and Africa.
The Strategy Committee, met twice during the year, and has written terms of reference to develop the strategic direction of the Group and consider strategic proposals.
The committee consists of the executive directors and the chairmen of the executive committees together with such other senior executives as are deemed appropriate.
The committees conclusions and recommendations are reported to the Board.
The members of the executive committees and subsidiary directors are responsible for the management and operation of their businesses and clearly defined levels of authority have been established between the Groups executive directors, the executive committees and subsidiary Boards.
Subsidiaries subscribe to the Groups vision and values but have autonomy to develop appropriate and effective ways of working, while operating a control environment that recognises specific business risks and is established in accordance with Group policies and systems of reporting and internal control.
Management are responsible for reviewing risks, and identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks applicable to their areas of business.
Risks are reviewed and assessed on a regular basis by the performance committee, the Group financial risk manager, the audit committee and the Board.
A summary of key risks that are inherent in the Groups business is provided on page 9 of the Operating and Financial Review.
On an annual basis, individual businesses complete internal control questionnaires from which an assessment of compliance with the Groups systems of internal control is prepared.
The effectiveness of controls is considered in conjunction with the range of risks and their significance to the operating circumstances of individual businesses.
Working throughout the Group, the role of the group financial risk manager is to identify, monitor and report to the audit committee on the significant financial and operating risks faced by the Group in order to provide assurance that WSP meets the highest standards of corporate governance expected by its stakeholders.
The audit committee assists the Board in its review of the effectiveness of internal controls and is responsible for setting the strategy for the internal control review.
In doing so, it takes account of the organisational framework and reporting mechanisms embedded within the Group, and the work of the Group financial risk manager.
Where concerns have been raised about the effectiveness of controls, the committee has considered the appropriateness of remedial actions.
During the course of the year the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls together with any significant remedial action that may be required.
In its deliberations, the Board has taken account of the advice of the audit committee and any other related factors which have come to its attention.
The Board is satisfied that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, that it has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts, that it is regularly reviewed by the Board, and that it accords with the revised guidance on internal control published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005.
The process does not extend to include associate companies or joint ventures where the Group does not have a controlling interest.
In joint ventures, systems of internal control are agreed in conjunction with joint venture partners.
Details of associate companies and joint ventures are provided in note 12 to the Financial Statements.
Relations with Shareholders In the interests of developing a mutual understanding of objectives, the executive directors have met regularly with institutional investors to discuss the performance of the Group and its future strategy.
Where it has been considered appropriate, the Board has consulted with institutional shareholders on matters such as directors remuneration.
Corporate and financial presentations are regularly made to fund managers, brokers and the media, particularly at the time when interim and final results are announced.
Regulatory announcements are published on the Market News section of the London Stock Exchange website, and also on the WSP Group website.
All shareholders are welcome to attend the Annual General Meeting in May where they have the opportunity to put questions to the directors, including the chairpersons of the Board committees.
The non-executive directors are provided with regular updates as to the views of institutional shareholders.
The Chairman and senior independent director are available to meet with institutional shareholders should there be unresolved matters that such shareholders believe ought to be brought to their attention.
The non-executive directors meet with shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and may attend analyst presentations following the final and interim results announcements.
A report on investor views and comments about the Company is prepared by a third party researcher after investor meetings and a summary report is presented to the Board.
Notices of annual general meetings and related papers are sent to shareholders at least twenty working days in advance of the meetings.
At annual general meetings separate resolutions are proposed for each substantially different issue to enable each one to receive proper consideration.
Proxy votes are disclosed after each resolution has been dealt with by a poll.
Following an annual general meeting the results, including proxy voting, are published on the WSP Group website where further information on the activities of the Group, together with shareholder information can be accessed.
