XCHANGING PLC Corporate governance Xchanging plc is committed to ensuring high standards of corporate governance.
Throughout the period under review, the Group Board has applied the provisions set out in the Combined Code 2006 in all respects except provisions A.
3.2 Board balance and independence and B.
2.1 Composition of the remuneration committee as set out below.
Corporate governance is The Board and committees Directors during 2007, retired from the Board linked to every step of the Xchanging plcs Board is collectively responsible on 20 December 2007. management process.
to shareholders for creating and sustaining shareholder value through the management As noted in the Chairmans statement, John Gary Whitaker of the Groups businesses.
It sets the Groups Robins will retire at the May 2008 AGM and Company Secretary, strategic plan and budgets, monitors their will be replaced by Nigel Rich.
Xchanging implementation and, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, ensures that executive The roles of the Chairman and the Chief management maintain a system of internal Executive Officer are segregated and the operational, financial and regulatory controls division of responsibilities between the two that identify and manage appropriately the roles has been set out in writing and approved risks set out on page 29.
The Board has a by the Board.
formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision, including the approval of half year As well as the three Executive Directors, the and annual financial statements, significant following Non-Executive Directors are deemed changes in accounting policy and practice, by the Board not to be independent under the the appointment or removal of Directors or terms of the Code and consequently the Group the Company Secretary, changes to the Board is not compliant with the Code as Groups capital structure, investments, disclosed in the April 2007 listing Prospectus : contracts, acquisitions, mergers and disposals.
Tom Tinsley and David Hodgson due to their being appointees of General Atlantic Other specific responsibilities are delegated to Partners, a founder shareholder in Xchanging plc Board Committees which operate Xchanging and still holding approximately within clearly defined terms of reference.
18.2% of Xchanging plc shares Johannes Maret due to his being a Details of the schedule of matters reserved for consultant to Xchanging GmbH, a Group the Board and the responsibilities delegated to company, since June 2003. the Board Committees can be found on the Companys website, www.
The remaining four Non-Executive Directors have been deemed to be independent by The operational management of Xchanging the Board.
is delegated to the Xchanging Management Board XMB.
The composition of the XMB The planned changes in 2008 are for David is set out on pages 30 and 31.
Hodgson one of the non-independent NonExecutive Directors and John Bramley one of Board composition and structure the independent Non-Executive Directors to The Board currently comprises an independent retire at the May 2008 AGM.
The search for Non-Executive Chairman, John Robins: two additional independent Non-Executive the Chief Executive Officer, David Andrews: Directors to join the Board in 2008 has two other Executive Directors, Richard commenced.
The expectation is that one will Houghton and Adele Browne: and six other have experience in the insurance and or Non-Executive Directors: the Deputy Chairman financial services industry with a good City and Senior Non-Executive Director, Nigel Rich: of London reputation: while the other is David Hodgson and Tom Tinsley both expected to be a European non British, appointees of General Atlantic : Stephen with international business experience and Brenninkmeijer: Dennis Millard: John Bramley knowledge of the German and possibly French and Johannes Maret.
Friedrich Carl Janssen, or Italian services industries.
one of the non-independent Non-Executive 38 Corporate governance ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 The Board believe that Johannes Maret provides essential insight and advice on the German financial services industry a key market for Xchanging.
Therefore, Johannes Maret will remain on the Board until a suitable replacement independent Non-Executive Director can be identified.
Attendance at Board and committee meetings The attendance of Directors at Group Board meetings and at meetings of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees during the year 2007 is shown in the table below: Audit Nominations Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Board meetings meetings meetings meetings Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible David Andrews 15 15 n a n a 1 1 n a n a Richard Houghton 15 15 n a n a n a n a n a n a Adele Browne 15 15 n a n a n a n a n a n a John Robins 15 15 4 4 1 1 5 5 Nigel Rich 14 153 31 15 5 John Bramley 9 9 4 4 1 1 5 5 Stephen Brenninkmeijer 14 15 2 4 1 1 4 5 David Hodgson 13 15 n a n a 0 1 n a n a Friedrich Carl Janssen 4 15 n a n a n a n a n a n a Johannes Maret 14 15 n a n a n a n a n a n a Dennis Millard 14 154 41 13 3 Tom Tinsley 13 15 n a n a n a n a 5 5 Directors induction, training and Board performance evaluation information Formal evaluation of the performance of the The Board has a full induction programme Executive Directors is appraised annually by for all new Directors.
The Directors receive the Chief Executive Officer.
The evaluation of ongoing updates to improve their knowledge the Board and its Committees was conducted and enable them to discharge their duties.
For during 2007 under the leadership of the example, during 2007 Board members received Chairman.
Each Director completed a detailed presentations on the Listing Rules, their questionnaire covering their assessment of the responsibilities as directors of a listed company Board structure, the content and functionality and the impact of the Companies Act 2006. of meetings, corporate governance and inter-action with management.
Committee Directors receive written reports prior to each members also reviewed the activities of each Board meeting which enable them to make Committee against the actions required by an informed decision on the issues under their terms of reference.
In addition to formal Board Directors met separately to evaluate the meetings, the Chairman maintains regular performance of the Chairman, who then contact with the Chief Executive Officer and joined them to evaluate the performance Executive Directors to discuss specific issues.
of the Chief Executive Officer.
The Company Secretary acts as an adviser to the Board on matters concerning governance Following the 2007 Board assessment, and ensures Board procedures are complied a report was prepared by the Company with.
All Directors have access to his advice Secretary in conjunction with the Chairman and during 2007 this was sought in relation and presented to the December Board.
Directors may also take on this assessment it is considered that the independent professional advice at the Board is operating effectively, but that it must Companys expense.
be moved to full compliance with the Code.
Corporate governance 39 XCHANGING PLC Corporate governance continued Election and re-appointment of Directors considered during 2007 include the review of All Directors are subject to re-election at key accounting policies: material judgements: Annual General Meeting at intervals of no quality of earnings and accounting estimates: more than three years.
At the next AGM May internal and external audits 2007 and 2008 2008, Stephen Brenninkmeijer will retire by scope of work and their findings: half year rotation and seek re-appointment see Notice and full year financial statements: IT security: of AGM.
In addition, as described above, regulatory framework: risk register process: John Robins, John Bramley and David whistle-blowing arrangements: results from Hodgson will retire and will not offer Enterprise Partnership Audit Committee themselves for re-election.
meetings: and the effectiveness of internal control and risk management systems.
Board committees The Group Board has established Audit, The Group Audit Committee reviews the Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Companys Annual Report and Accounts, as The Committees have all reviewed their terms well as reports from the external auditors.
for the 2007 year end, and the changes At its July 2007 and February 2008 meetings, recommended to the Board have been the Committee approved the half year and accepted.
The minutes of Committee meetings full year financial statements respectively.
are sent to all Directors and oral updates are given at Board meetings.
Reports summarising internal audit activities and key matters of control are presented at The Audit Committee each meeting by the Head of Group Internal The Group Audit Committee comprised four Audit.
In 2007, the Committee reviewed independent Non-Executive Directors: Dennis managements progress against actions Millard Committee Chairman, Nigel Rich, throughout the year, agreeing the Stephen Brenninkmeijer and John Bramley appropriateness of key recommendations all of whom served throughout the year made.
In addition, the Committee reviews and under review other than Nigel Rich who was approves both internal and external audits appointed in April 2007.
Dennis Millard, a plans for the coming year.
The plan for external chartered accountant, was Group Finance audits 2007 year end audit was approved in Director of Cookson Group plc from 1996 September 2007 and internal audits plan for to 2005, held further previous executive roles 2008 was approved in December 2007. as Finance Director and is currently also Chairman of the Group Audit Committee of The Committee receives updates from the Debenhams plc and thus the Board considers Head of Group Internal Audit and Executive him to have recent and relevant financial Directors on the subject of risk and the experience.
The Company also considers that processes employed to both identify and the Audit Committee complies fully with the mitigate the risks.
The Committee reviews Code recommendations.
changes to the Groups risk register and receives other reports on individual risk areas, The Group Audit Committee met four times such as Information Security.
Also in attendance, by invitation, reviews the risks identified by this process.
In were the Group Chairman, the Chief Financial December 2007, the Committee reviewed the Officer, the Head of Group Internal Audit, the changes to the latest Group risk register and external auditors and other executives for concluded that the process undertaken to specific specialised subjects.
Both the Head of identify and mitigate risks was effective.
Group Internal Audit and the external auditors have access to the Audit Committee Chairman In December 2007, the Committee conducted outside of formal Committee meetings.
its annual assessment of the suitability and performance of the external auditors in The Committee maintains a formal calendar making its recommendation to the Board for of items to be considered at each meeting their re-appointment.
In addition, to ensure to ensure that its work is in line with the that the objectivity and independence of requirements of the Code.
Key items the audit is not compromised, a review is 40 Corporate governance ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 undertaken of the level of non-audit services The Committees broader role is to assist the provided by the external auditors and Board in discharging its responsibilities relating safeguards are put in place such as: to the structure, composition and size of the seeking confirmation that the auditors Board and has approved plans for the orderly are, in their professional judgement, succession of changes to the Board to move it independent of the Company towards full compliance with the Code as obtaining from the external auditors an outlined above.
account of all relationships with the Company and considering whether, taken Remuneration Committee as a whole, the various relationships Details of the Group Remuneration Committee between the Company and the external and its activities are given in the Directors auditors impair, or appear to impair, the Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 52. auditors judgement or independence.
The Remuneration Committee believes that In addition to the Group Audit Committee, Tom Tinsley provides valuable knowledge and each UK Enterprise Partnership EP has its experience to proceedings and so at present own Audit Committee whose members and will remain a member.
As he is not considered chairman are independent of the EP.
Such to be an independent Non-Executive Director, committees are attended by Xchangings the Company does not comply with the Code partners, nominated Xchanging senior recommendation that all members of the management and senior EP management.
Committee are independent Non-Executive The Head of Group Internal Audit attends EP Directors.
Audit Committees on a regular basis.
EP Audit Committees have similar terms of reference Communication with shareholders to the Group Audit Committee.
In Germany, The Board places importance on Xchanging transaction bank Xtb has a communication with shareholders and in the Shareholder Committee attended by coming 12 months major shareholders will be representatives from Xchangings partner given the opportunity to meet the Chairman and nominated Xchanging senior management.
The Companys Key issues and the minutes of each EP Investor Relations team organises an ongoing meeting are reported to the Group Audit programme of dialogue and meetings Committee.
The Chairman of the Group Audit between the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Committee meets with the Chairmen of the Financial Officer and institutional investors, EP Audit Committees once a year.
Nominations Committee Brokers reports and analysts briefings are The Group Nominations Committee comprised circulated to the Board, who discuss any seven Board members.
The majority are key matters raised by large investors with independent Non-Executive Directors.
The members are John Robins Committee Chairman, David Andrews, Nigel Rich, Dennis The Companys Annual General Meeting in Millard, John Bramley, Stephen Brenninkmeijer May 2008 will provide a valuable opportunity and David Hodgson.
The Committee meets as for the Board to communicate with private and when required.
We encourage shareholders to period, it met once, in December, where the attend the meeting and to ask questions of planned Board changes outlined above were the Directors following the conclusion of the agreed, the experience required of formal part of the meeting.
Details of proxy replacement independent Non-Executive voting by shareholders, including votes Directors was discussed and the authority to withheld, will be made available on request appoint head hunters to implement the and will be placed on the Companys website search was delegated to a sub-committee, following the meeting.
Corporate governance 41 XCHANGING PLC Corporate governance continued Corporate responsibility and whistleactions are in place to remedy any findings.
blowing The Groups key internal control and risk The Group Board is responsible for how the management procedures include the Group manages its corporate, social and following: environmental responsibilities.
Details are set reviews of the Groups strategy and out on pages 34 and 35. the performance of principal subsidiaries and Enterprise Partnerships through a The Group is committed to the highest comprehensive system of reporting based standards of openness, probity and on variances to annual budgets, key accountability.
A Group-wide whistle-blowing performance indicators and regular mechanism has been established to enable forecasting employees to voice concerns in a responsible well defined Group policies and processes, and effective manner, without fear of reprisal.
communicated through the Group Employees can communicate concerns in Financial Reporting Procedures Manual confidence about any possible improprieties and intranet portal and a strict process or other matters, through a dedicated email governing the approval of sales address, to which only the Head of Group opportunities and capital expenditure Internal Audit and the Group Company a defined organisational structure with Secretary have access.
appropriate delegation of authority the monthly review by the Xchanging Reported concerns are investigated at the Performance Committee XPC, a subearliest opportunity by the Head of Group committee of the XMB, of performance Internal Audit, the Group Company Secretary reports for each business sector.
This and, if appropriate, by management of the covers financial performance and a respective business.
The Head of Internal Audit detailed range of qualitative information reports to the Group Audit Committee on the such as customer satisfaction, service levels concerns raised and any action taken.
and the quality of processes.
This identifies the key operational issues and actions Internal control and risk management required to address any deficiencies The Group Board is responsible for regularly the maintenance of risk registers for each reviewing the operation and effectiveness of business sector and for other key parts of the Groups internal controls.
The internal the Group, assessing the probability of control system is designed to manage rather those risks occurring, the consequence than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve should those risks crystallise and the business objectives and can only provide controls in place to mitigate them.
The reasonable, and not absolute, assurance registers and mitigating actions are against material errors, losses or fraud.
monitored on an ongoing basis within the respective sectors or business units The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of management team.
The Group risk register the Groups internal control systems for 2007 incorporates risks pervasive or material to and the period prior to approval of the Annual the whole Group and is reviewed at least Report.
The review was undertaken by the annually by the XMB, the Board and the Audit Committee and its findings were Audit Committee reported to the Board by the Audit Committee the Audit Committee routinely monitors Chairman on 12 December 2007 and the internal control environment through 21 February 2008.
It considered all material its review of control matters from both controls in accordance with the Turnbull internal audit and external audit and other Guidance 2005.
No significant failings or related reports from management weaknesses were identified during this review the work performed by the Groups and the Board confirms that the necessary internal audit department is focused on 42 Corporate governance ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 areas of greatest risk to the Group as The internal control environment will continue identified through the risk management to be monitored and reviewed by the Board process outlined above, as well as issues which will, where necessary, ensure identified by monthly performance improvements are implemented.
Internal audits objective is to provide independent assurance to the Going concern Board and Audit Committee over After making enquiries, the Directors consider operational and financial controls and to that the Group and the Company have assist the Board in its assessment of the adequate resources and committed borrowing effectiveness of internal controls.
The Head facilities to continue in operational existence of Group internal audit reports directly to for the foreseeable future.
Consequently, they the Chief Financial Officer, but has the continue to adopt the going concern basis in right to report to the Audit Committee preparing the accounts.
Chairman independently of executive management.
All internal audit reports are The attention of shareholders is drawn to reviewed by the Audit Committee and the independent auditors reports on pages made available to the external auditors 104 and 111. each business sector has a Head of Quality, responsible for the quality of controls and By Order of the Board processes within that sector as well as for ensuring compliance with policies and procedures, legislation and the operation of Gary Whitaker risk management procedures.
Each sector Company Secretary Head of Quality reports to their respective 25 February 2008 Sector Director and attends, by invitation, the EP Audit Committees relevant to their business sector.
