Babcock International Group PLC 28 Annual report and accounts 2007 Statement on Corporate Governance Statement of compliance with the Combined Code During the year ended 31 March 2007 the company complied with the provisions of section 1 of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2003 the Combined Code.
This statement sets out how the principles of good governance in the Combined Code have been implemented.
Board, Directors and independence Chairman and Chief Executive Functions: Senior Independent Director There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Group Chief Executive which is set out in a statement of their respective roles and responsibilities approved by the Board.
The Board and Board balance It is a main principle of the Combined Code that Boards should be balanced between executives and non-executives and, in particular, independent non-executives such that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the Boards decision taking, and also that there should be progressive refreshing of the Board.
The Board considers that it complies with both principles, having two full time executive Directors, one non-independent non-executive Director and a Chairman, who having formerly been Chief Executive officer of the company is not regarded as independent for Code purposes balanced by four independent non-executive Directors.
Refreshing of the Board Three new independent non-executive Directors have been appointed in the past five years, one in 2002, one in 2003 and the other in 2005.
In that time two long-standing non-executive Directors left.
None of the executive Directors was in post before 2000.
With the exception of Mr Campbell, who will offer himself for reappointment at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in July 2007, all Directors have been reappointed to ofce within the past three years.
The companys Articles of Association require each Director to be reappointed by the Annual General Meeting if appointed by the Board during the year, and thereafter to offer himself for reappointment at least every three years.
The Board explains, in notes accompanying the notice of meeting, why it recommends reappointment of non-executive Directors proposed for re-election and the Chairman confirms in those notes, as required by the Combined Code, that, having formally evaluated their performance, the Board is of the view that they continue to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to their roles, including commitment of time for Board and, where applicable, committee meetings and other duties.
Independent non-executives Mr Shah, Sir Nigel Essenhigh, Mr Rennocks and Mr Crookenden are considered by the Board to be independent.
It is the companys policy to review vigorously the reappointment of non-executive Directors who have served more than six years on the Board.
Board procedures There were nine scheduled Board meetings in the financial year under review, each was attended by all the Directors.
Apart from scheduled formal Board meetings, the Board has authorised the holding of ad hoc meetings of two or more Directors either for particular matters or to deal with matters in accordance with delegated authorities approved by the Board, including a Finance Committee.
The Chairman regularly holds meetings at which only he and the non-executive Directors are present so as to be able to discuss matters without executive management present.
An evaluation of the performance of the Board as a whole, its committees and individual Directors for the year under review has been undertaken using an independent facilitator who carried out individual condential interviews with each of the Board members, the Company Secretary and certain senior group employees eliciting their views.
The results of those interviews is reported to the Chairman who shares them with Board members.
No serious concerns were raised in the interviews, although suggestions as to areas needing greater focus by the Board were made and are being acted upon.
The performance of the Chairman was evaluated during the year by the Remuneration Committee.
All Directors have full and timely access to information.
Change in Chairmans significant external commitments During the year there were no changes to the Chairmans significant external commitments.
Babcock International Group PLC 29 Annual report and accounts 2007 Board Committees the Audit and Risk Committee Those Directors who served on the Committee did so for the entire year under review, and were: J Rennocks Committee Chairman D Shah Sir Nigel Essenhigh J Crookenden Biographical details of the members of the Committee are set out on page 24.
The Committee Chairman, Mr Rennocks, is a former Finance Director of Corus Group PLC, and is considered by the Board to have the necessary recent and relevant financial experience for the role.
The Committee has formal terms of reference that are available on the companys website.
Committee meetings are attended, at the invitation of the Committee, by the Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive officer and the Group Finance Director and also by staff from the Group Finance department.
Non-executive Directors not sitting on the Committee are also welcome to attend.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Group Risk Manager is invited to attend meetings for discussion of group risk reports and related items.
Ernst & Young LLP, who provide internal audit services to the company, and  LLP, the groups external auditors, usually attend the meetings.
Committee members have the opportunity to meet the auditors internal and external in the absence of executive Directors and group employees, and the Committee Chairman has during the year met  and Ernst & Young in the absence of executive management.
The Committee met formally five times in the year under review.
All Committee members attended the meetings.
At its meetings for the year ended 31 March 2007, the Committee: reviewed preliminary and interim statements of results and the proposed announcements relating to them: reviewed the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2006 and the half-year ended 30 September 2006 and internal and external auditors comments in connection with them: evaluated the effectiveness of internal controls: considered reports specically evaluating the scope for fraud in the groups operations and the misreporting of results by business units: reviewed internal audit reports from Ernst & Young LLP and external audit review reports from  LLP: considered the levels of audit fees and non-audit fees paid to auditors: agreed internal and external audit plans: reviewed the requirements for the Operating and financial review including consideration of key performance indicators: reviewed the arrangements for condential whistle-blowing: reviewed the group risk standard and its implementation, together with group risk reports: conducted a going concern review.
Whistle-blowing arrangements These arrangements are dealt with in the Corporate and social responsibility section on page 22.
Non-audit fees In order to safeguard the objectivity and independence of the companys external auditors, the Audit and Risk Committee Chairman must expressly authorise any engagement of those auditors on non-audit work that would entail their being paid fees in excess of 20% of the audit fee in any year.
Careful consideration is given on each occasion as to potential conicts and the possibility of actual or perceived threats to the independence of the external auditors before instructing them in connection with non-audit work.
Instructions are given only when the company considers it to be in its best interests to use the external auditors other than in connection with pure audit services.
Babcock International Group PLC 30 Annual report and accounts 2007 Statement on Corporate Governance continued Board Committees the Remuneration Committee Full details of the membership of the Remuneration Committee and its report for the year under review are set out in the Remuneration report on pages 32 to 38.
The Committee met formally three times in the year.
Each Committee member attended all the meetings.
Board Committees Nominations Committee For the year under review, the Nominations Committee consisted of: G Campbell Committee Chairman D Shah J Rennocks Sir Nigel Essenhigh The Rt.
Hon Lord Hesketh J Crookenden Membership of this Committee is open to all the non-executive Directors provided there is a majority of independent non-executive Directors.
The Group Chairman chairs the Committee.
Its terms of reference are available on the companys website.
During the year, the Committee did not need to meet formally, with discussions on succession planning being held in the course of Board Meetings.
Contact with shareholders The company has regular contact with its shareholders, both institutional and individual, typically involving the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive officer and or the Group Finance Director.
Reports of these meetings and general feedback from investors and market perceptions are made to the Board, and non-executive Directors are provided with copies of analysts and brokers reports.
The Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity for communication with shareholders.
All of the companys Directors attended the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
The companys website is also available for shareholders to keep themselves advised of developments.
It is regularly updated with press releases and analyst presentations.
Shareholders can register on the website to be sent news releases automatically.
Information and training for Directors It is the companys practice to arrange for new non-executive Directors to make induction visits to the groups principal operations and to be provided with full information about them.
Non-executive Directors may at any time make visits to group businesses or operational sites.
Presentations on the groups businesses and specialist functions are made to the Group Board from time to time, and non-executive Directors receive copies of minutes of meetings of the Group Executive Committee and monthly operating reports sent to the group head ofce by the business operations.
General Director training can be arranged on request and non-executive Directors are from time to time advised of seminars or briengs run by external providers that are considered to be of potential interest or relevance, for which the company is willing to pay.
Non-executive Directors who serve or who have served on boards of other public companies are also exposed to a broad range of experience of the performance of the duties of a non-executive Director.
Accountability and audit Going concern The Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as the Directors have, after making enquiries, a reasonable expectation that the group will have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Internal controls The Board of Directors acknowledges its overall responsibility for the groups system of internal controls, and for monitoring its effectiveness.
There are written statements as to matters that have been delegated by the Board to committees or one or more Directors, which were reviewed in March 2007.
Whilst delegating certain of its day-to-day powers to executive management including powers, within prescribed limits, to authorise borrowings and give guarantees, the Board retains responsibility for major matters such as setting overall strategy, approving annual budgets, equity investments, business acquisitions and disposals, significant contracts outside the ordinary course of business and treasury policy.
The Board retains these powers with a view to ensuring that the Board and or its Committees maintains effective control over appropriate strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues.
There has been a process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks throughout the period under review and up to the date of the approval of the Financial Statements for that year.
This process is described on pages 20 and 21 and below.
The Board and Audit and Risk Committee has regularly reviewed the effectiveness of this process formally at least once per year and informally on an ongoing basis by identifying its various elements, seeking the views of executive management and of internal and external auditors upon it and as to how it compares with processes in other companies, and considering it against operational outcomes.
This process is considered to be in accordance with Internal Controls: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance.
The groups systems are designed to manage, rather than to eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, recognising that any system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key features of this system are described below.
There are no material joint ventures or associates that are not dealt with as part of the group for the purposes of applying the Turnbull Guidance.
Babcock International Group PLC 31 Annual report and accounts 2007 Control environment and procedures The group has an established system of internal control comprising principally of: a risk identication, evaluation and management process: clear delegations and limits of authority: clear authorisation and review procedures: independent internal audits: regular review by the Audit Committee of risk registers and internal and external audit reports: regular divisional operating reviews attended by group executive management: regular contract review meetings: monthly reporting of results against budget and forecast, with variances explained: an annual presentation on tax matters to the Board: annual Board review of the insurance programme: annual review of pensions exposures and risks: monthly reports on disputes and litigation: a formal succession plan: monthly reports on health and safety matters.
Identication and evaluation of risks and control objectives The identication and evaluation of risks and control objectives is also addressed on pages 20 and 21.
Information and communication Comprehensive budgeting systems are in place to develop annual budgets and medium-term financial plans.
The budgets are subject to review by central management prior to submission to the Board for approval.
Updated forecasts for the year are prepared on a regular basis.
Actual performance is compared each month with budgets, forecasts and the prior year, with written commentary on significant variances from approved plans.
Monitoring For the year under review, the internal control system was monitored by means of review visits from an internal audit service provided by Ernst & Young LLP, acting under the overall control of the Audit and Risk Committee which determines areas of focus for internal audit, and by group management.
The Board of Directors has reviewed the system of internal controls in place and considers it to be effective.
Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report, the Directors Remuneration report and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and for preparing the parent company financial statements and the Directors Remuneration report in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Directors are responsible for preparing financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of affairs of the group and of the profit or loss of the group and a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of affairs of the company for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether the group financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the parent company financial statements whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the group and to enable them to ensure that the group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the parent company financial statements and the Directors Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
