Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 | 17 strong suite of internal growth projects.
In addition, Xstrata has developed an industry-leading reputation in the area of operational excellence, specifically in the business unit teams abilities to contain costs, dramatically improve safety and environmental performance and deliver year-on-year increases in the NPV net present value of the asset base through ongoing cost reductions, mine-life extensions and reconfiguring mine plans.
Resources and relationships Xstrata benefits from a number of key resources and relationships considered to be material to the successful execution of its strategic aims.
Diversified portfolio with significant industry positions Xstratas portfolio is diversified both by commodity and by geography, balancing the risks associated with specific commodity price cycles and operating locations and providing investors with more reliable and stable cash flows.
Diversification also engenders healthy competition for capital between Xstratas commodity businesses, ensuring only the most attractive projects or acquisitions are approved.
The Group maintains industry-leading positions amongst the top five producers globally in each of its key commodity markets.
Top five ferrochrome producers kt Top five thermal coal exporters mt Top five coking coal producers mt Xstrata Xstrata BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance ENRC PT Bumi Teck Cominco Samancor BHP Billiton Xstrata Hernic Ferrochrome Anglo American Anglo American Assmang Drummond Co. Peabody Energy Top five copper producers mined kt Top five nickel producers mined kt Top five zinc producers mined kt Codelco MMC Norilsk Xstrata Freeport-McMoRan Vale Inco Teck Cominco BHP Billiton BHP Billiton Glencore International Xstrata Xstrata Zinifex Rio Tinto PT Aneka Tambang Hindustan Zinc Based on 2007 2008 production estimates on a consolidated basis.
18 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review | Resources and Relationships Revenue by origin Revenue by destination EBIT by origin EBIT by commodity Africa Africa Africa North 8% 2% 5% North Alloys 4% North Europe Europe 5% Zinc 17% America 24% America 27% America 37% Coal 8% 9% Europe Australasia South Australasia 34% America 6% 21% Nickel 24% 19% South Copper America South 47% Asia 30% Australia 4% 42% America 27% Extensive organic growth pipeline Xstrata benefits from a very significant growth pipeline across a number of commodities, allowing the strategic sequencing of projects and deployment of capital from which significant volume growth and superior returns can be achieved.
This pipeline represents over $30 billion of capital projects, including $12 billion of approved projects, representing more than 15% of Xstratas enterprise value.
The realisation of these projects will deliver in excess of 12% per annum compound volume growth over the next five years.
Around half of the projects in Xstratas pipeline represent lower risk brownfield expansions to existing operations.
A number of the brownfield expansions and major new greenfield projects within Xstratas pipeline will deliver a series of Tier I operations across the commodity businesses, further transforming the average cost profile and resource base of the Groups portfolio.
Significant acquisition and post-acquisition integration capability Xstrata has developed and demonstrated a significant capability in the opportunistic identification of acquisitions: the ability to execute transactions where the value proposition is compelling: and in the rapid integration of acquired operations into the Groups structure.
This capability has been replicated at the commodity business level, enabling several smaller bolt-on acquisitions to be completed simultaneously across the Groups commodity businesses.
Devolved management structure Xstratas management model is highly devolved and comprises a very lean corporate centre of some 50 people and fully resourced, standalone global commodity businesses.
The role of the corporate centre is well defined to minimise bureaucracy and avoid overlaps with the business unit activities.
Rational risk-taking is sponsored to stimulate innovation and an entrepreneurial spirit at every level.
We believe this model is a significant competitive advantage and enables Xstrata to be more opportunistic, entrepreneurial, nimble and less bureaucratic than other companies of a similar scale and geographic reach.
The devolution of authority to the commodity business level is accompanied by stringent accountability and transparency requirements.
A key role of the corporate centre is to ensure effective governance, through open and regular communication with the commodity businesses, by setting the Group governance framework in which our activities take place and by measuring performance against these principles, policies and standards.
Financial strength and discipline We are committed to maintaining a robust balance sheet and solid investment grade credit rating, ensuring access to a diverse range of funding sources.
Xstratas efficient financial structure, our focus on disciplined capital expenditure, strong cash management and cost control enable us to fund ongoing capital requirements, as well as pursuing rational organic and acquisition-led growth opportunities.
The ability to fund growth in a cost effective and timely manner is essential to enabling the Group to achieve its strategic aims.
Resource and reserve base Xstrata benefits from a significant resource and reserve base across each of its major commodities.
The Groups focus on value creation and our success in near-mine exploration has enabled us to extend or replace the resource base of a significant number of our assets over Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 | 19 the past several years.
Xstratas resource base compares favourably with mining industry peers, particularly in coking and thermal coal, copper and zinc.
The Group reserve and resource statement is published annually and is available from the Xstrata website.
Technological expertise Xstrata benefits from a significant depth of technological and technical expertise, an important resource for efficiency and environmental improvements at our operations and for the development of major growth projects.
Xstratas standalone Technology Services business comprises Xstrata Technology and the former Falconbridge Metallurgical Technology Group, renamed Xstrata Process Support.
In addition, Xstratas commodity businesses develop and implement proprietary technologies and innovative solutions to improve efficiency at the operational level.
Exploration capability Exploration is an integral part of each commodity businesss responsibilities and as such, Xstrata does not maintain a central or standalone exploration function.
Xstratas commodity businesses are responsible for undertaking near-mine exploration around existing operations or in nearby regions, leveraging existing assets, and conducting targeted greenfield exploration at known deposits with the objective of adding to the Groups resource base.
This strategy has been highly successful to date, providing significant additional value to shareholders.
Xstrata is pursuing a successful strategy of partnering with junior exploration companies who undertake greenfield exploration in new territories where existing Xstrata assets cannot be leveraged effectively.
Relationships with stakeholders Xstrata maintains a transparent and open relationship with its key stakeholders who include: the investment market, employees and unions, governments and regulators, communities associated with our operations, customers, suppliers, business partners, non-governmental and development organisations.
The Group is committed to the maximum transparency that is commercially possible and to engaging openly, honestly and in a culturally appropriate manner with its stakeholders.
Partnerships with key stakeholders that are based on mutual benefit, trust and respect are essential for the effective execution of the Groups strategy.
Glencore International AG is Xstratas major shareholder and holds 34.4% of Xstratas issued share capital.
A Relationship Agreement is in place to regulate the relationship between Xstrata and Glencore and the key points of the agreement are outlined in the Directors Report on page 107.
Details of commercial arrangements and transactions with Glencore are provided in the Related Parties notes to the financial statements on pages 236 to 239.
Stephane Moreau, mechanic at Xstrata Nickels Craig Mine, Miner at the main belt access at the Mototolo platinum joint venture, South Africa Sudbury, Canada
