Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Corporate governance Corporate governance Our governance framework As Chairman, my principal duty is to ensure that BAE Systems is headed by an effective board that is accountable to shareholders for the Companys performance.
Dick Olver Chairman This section of the report deals with how the Board and its committees discharge their duties and how we apply the principles in the UKs Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Over the page you will find detailed statements concerning our compliance with the provisions of the Code.
However, first I would like to highlight certain corporate governance matters and developments during the year.
At the end of last year the Financial Reporting Council issued the results of its review of the Combined Code.
It reported that investors perceived that there had been a continued improvement in overall governance standards of UK companies since the introduction of the Code.
I am pleased that the efforts made by companies such as ours in seeking to continually improve and stay at the forefront of corporate governance best practice is recognised.
Standards and values As the Combined Code states, boards should set the values and standards for a company.
To provide the BAE Systems Board with the best possible guidance on governance in this area, earlier this year we appointed an independent committee headed by a former Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales, Lord Woolf.
In forming the committee to study and publicly report upon its policies and processes, the Company seeks to: garner and implement recommendations which enable the Company to maintain a leadership position in ethical business practice amongst comparable industry peers: and further enhance the publicly available level of assurance regarding the accuracy of its assertions as to its policy, processes and conduct.
The Woolf Committee is to publish its report in due course and the Board has agreed to act on its recommendations.
baesyste ms. com Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information I see the formation of the Woolf Committee as positive affirmation of We need not only the right mix of knowledge, skills and experience around the Board table but also we have to be in a position to resource the Board seeking to continually improve, and in the area of business effectively the Boards committees.
This is an important consideration ethics not only achieve best practice but provide leadership.
because, as with the Audit and Remuneration committees, we believe Succession planning the membership of the Corporate Responsibility Committee should be Ensuring that we have the right people running the Company is one formed exclusively of independent non-executive directors.
of the Boards core governance duties.
Last year I reported on the Board committees new processes introduced by the Nominations Committee to identify The role that board committees play in the UKs corporate governance and oversee the development of over 50 employees from across the structure should not be underestimated.
As we seek to continually Group.
These individuals form the backbone of the Companys senior improve the effectiveness of our governance processes the demands management resource and in the future candidates for appointment on the committees have increased.
The table on page 59 detailing the to the Board are likely to be drawn from amongst them.
Overseeing attendance of directors at board committee meetings during the year the management of their development is a key responsibility for the shows that a total of 26 meetings were held last year: this compares Board and the Nominations Committee.
with 17 meetings five years ago over a half more.
A review of management resources was completed in November last A unitary board containing a good number of both executive and year and I am pleased to report that we have a good number of quality non-executive directors is an excellent forum within which to develop succession candidates across the current senior management roles and challenge strategy and provide entrepreneurial leadership for a in the Group.
These individuals cover the range from ready now to company.
However, certain responsibilities can only be undertaken those candidates who we believe have the potential to take up the effectively by directors who are independent of the activities they are most senior positions in several years time.
In some areas we have required to oversee.
The Audit and Remuneration committees are identified a need in the succession plans for greater bench strength.
obvious examples of this, but this applies equally to the Corporate Where this is the case we are working at achieving full coverage.
You will find a report from this committee addition, we have augmented our strategic management development on page 63, but I would like to highlight in particular the role it has in activities to address certain common development requirements overseeing compliance with the highest standards of ethical behaviour identified by our development and succession planning processes.
by all Group employees and also in overseeing our performance in keeping our employees safe and healthy in the workplace.
With Peter Naturally, the Chief Executive position is covered by these processes Weinberg retiring from the Board, Andy Inglis has been appointed to and with Mike Turner due to retire later this year the Nominations succeed him as chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, Committee has been actively engaged since last November on having first been nominated for appointment to this position by the who should succeed him.
As mentioned above, the Company has Nominations Committee.
comprehensive succession planning and management evaluation processes and these have been of great assistance.
In line with best Board performance evaluation practice, the Nominations Committee has also initiated an external I mentioned earlier the recent report on the Combined Code by the search for suitable candidates for the Chief Executive position, with Financial Reporting Council.
Reporting on its consultative exercise, it the aim of ensuring that the individual that the Board ultimately had the following to say on the subject of board performance evaluation: chooses to appoint is the best person available for the job.
Progress A number of respondents singled out the Codes recommendation is being made and we hope to be in a position to announce a that boards should carry out regular evaluations of their performance successor later this year.
as having been particularly beneficial.
This view was endorsed by the chairmen of the FTSE 350 companies surveyed by Independent Board appointments Audit, of whom over 90% had found the exercise to be useful.
During the year Andy Inglis joined the Board in a non-executive capacity.
As a director of BP p. l. c. he has excellent large global I am a big believer in performance evaluation, as this is a company experience as well as having considerable international fundamental part of performance improvement.
As a Board we project execution experience.
have just completed our fourth such performance evaluation.
This exercise covered the performance of the Board, its committees and We have agreed that as a Board, in addition to the chairman, we that of the individual directors.
should aim to have eight non-executive and four executive directors.
With Ulrich Cartellieri having retired last September and Peter The Board evaluation includes a review of the Boards effectiveness, Weinberg due to retire from the Board at the Annual General Meeting the effectiveness of each Board Committee, and an assessment of AGM in May, the Nominations Committee has been active and I am each Board director.
One-on-one feedback discussions between the pleased that Ravi Uppal will be joining the Board as a non-executive Chairman and each director occur in the first quarter of the year.
Search activity continues with a view to appointing table overleaf details some of the objectives that the Board has an additional non-executive director later this year.
agreed as a result of the evaluation process.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 57 Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Board performance evaluation objectives 2007 Objectives 2007 Achievements 2008 Objectives Continue the work started in 2006 on Good progress made on succession Engage non-executive and executive succession planning, with a focus on planning with greater coverage across directors in dialogue to ensure smooth the support and development of the next all senior executive succession plans.
and transparent selection and transition generation of senior executives and also New senior management programme of the new Chief Executive.
the identification and enhancement of the rolled-out to address the common Board to conduct additional site visits Groups management bench strength.
development needs identified during as part of its meeting programmes.
Develop further the work the Board Use the visits as an opportunity to meet has initiated on financial performance The Board reviewed programme and project with senior management to support monitoring and looking at project and KPIs regularly and uses these alongside succession planning.
programme KPIs in more detail.
standard financial measures to monitor Understand and review the competencies, the Companys performance.
Build on current non-financial performance processes and culture required to support monitoring, including the Corporate The Board and Corporate Responsibility the Companys increasingly global position.
Responsibility Committees focus on Committee have overseen the Ensure that ethical and reputational corporate reputation issues.
development of new non-financial risk implications of strategic growth options processes.
More work will be done in Provide additional opportunities for are explored and understood.
Plan for this area in 2008, aligning with Woolf non-executive directors to meet to and commence embedding the Woolf Committee recommendations.
discuss issues independently and Committee recommendations.
Additional opportunities were made available Keep attention focused on programme KPIs.
for the non-executive directors to meet to discuss issues informally as a group and with the Chief Executive present.
When we started the evaluation process in 2004 I was keen to use an external facilitator to conduct individual interviews with each director.
No evaluation process is perfect but I believe our approach does allow us to deal effectively with not only the procedural or administrative aspects of how we operate but also some of the behavioural aspects of performance.
As Chairman, it is important I receive full and frank feedback on my own performance and I receive this each year from our Senior Independent Director after he has met with the facilitator.
Shareholder communication Finally, I would like to highlight the importance I place on communications with our shareholders and the central role the AGM plays in this.
I want attendance at our AGM to be an interesting and worthwhile experience, allowing directors to report on their stewardship of the Company and to answer shareholders questions on this.
I hope as many shareholders as possible are able to attend and participate in the meeting on 7 May.
baesyste ms. com Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Applying the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance Compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code The Board has structured its activities so as to incorporate the main Compliance statement and supporting principles in the UKs Combined Code, recognising these The Company was compliant with the provisions of the Combined Code to be a sound statement of accepted good practice for a company such on Corporate Governance throughout 2007. as BAE Systems.
The core activities of the Board and its committees are documented and planned on an annual basis but this only forms The Board the basic structure within which the Board operates.
The directors are The Board comprises a non-executive chairman, seven non-executive required to provide entrepreneurial leadership for the Company, relying directors and four executive directors.
on the business skills and judgement that each director possesses.
The Board considers all of the non-executive directors, with the exception The governance structure recognises this essential human element of the Chairman, to be independent for the purposes of the Combined and the role of the Chairman in ensuring that decisions are made by Code.
Each of these directors have been identified on pages 54 and 55 the directors within a framework of prudent and effective controls.
The Board has adopted a document, the Board Charter, in which there Peter Weinberg was appointed to the Board in 2005.
As Mr Weinberg is a statement of governance principles that guide the activities of the was a senior director of Goldman Sachs Inc. an investment bank that Board and also details of the roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive provides services to BAE Systems the Board addressed the issue of and the Senior Independent Director.
The governance principles reflect his independence prior to his appointment in light of provision A.
3.1 of the main and supporting principles contained in the Combined Code the Combined Code concerning the possible existence of a material and cover the following: business relationship between the director and the Company or Strategy reviewing and agreeing strategy: between the Company and a party with which the director is a major shareholder, senior employee, partner or director.
It determined that Performance monitoring the performance of the Group and also he was independent for the purposes of the Combined Code, evaluating its own performance: notwithstanding the relationship with Goldman Sachs.
The reasons for reaching this conclusion were: Standards and Values setting standards and values to guide the affairs of the Group: Goldman Sachs is a very large organisation with many clients.
Oversight ensuring an effective system of internal controls is in BAE Systems is therefore just one of many clients it has worldwide place, ensuring that the Board receives timely and accurate and the fees earned from its relationship with the Company information on the performance of the Group and the proper represents a very small part of its total revenues.
As a delegation of authority: and consequence, the Board believes that the relationship between the Company and Goldman Sachs does not represent a material People ensuring the Group is managed by individuals with the business relationship: and necessary skills and experience and that appointments to the Board prior to his appointment to the Board, Mr Weinberg had no are managed effectively.
involvement with BAE Systems and none of the executive directors The Board Charter states that the Chief Executive is responsible for or the Chairman had had any business dealings with him.
the leadership and operational management of the Company within the strategy and business plan agreed by the Board.
Included within Mr Weinberg ceased to be associated with Goldman Sachs in 2006. the Charter is a schedule of matters that have been reserved for the In 2007 the Board was scheduled to meet eight times and in addition Boards decision.
These include approving the vision, values, principles one day was spent reviewing strategy.
Additional Board meetings are of ethical conduct, overall governance structure of the Company and called as required and in total the Board met 12 times during the year.
its strategy and business plans.
Within the Boards delegated The Board has appointed Sir Peter Mason as the Senior Independent authorities it has reserved for itself, amongst other things, certain decisions concerning contract bids and tenders, acquisitions and Director.
Amongst the duties undertaken by Sir Peter during the year disposals of businesses, capital expenditure and Company-funded was to meet with the non-executive directors without the Chairman product development expenditure.
present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
A copy of the Board Charter can be found on the Companys website, The attendance by individual directors at meetings of the Board and or alternatively, can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
its committees in 2007 was as follows: Corporate Non-Executive Audit Responsibility Nominations Remuneration Directors Fees Director Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 Professor S Birley 3 5 1 1 3 3 Mr P Carroll 11 12 5 5 7 8 1 1 2 Dr U Cartellieri 8 9 3 3 Mr C V Geoghegan 10 12 Mr M J Hartnall 12 12 4 4 Mr W Havenstein 11 12 1 1 3 Mr A G Inglis 6 6 2 2 Mr I G King 11 12 Sir Peter Mason 10 12 3 4 7 8 1 1 1 Mr S L Mogford 3 5 Mr R L Olver 12 12 8 8 1 1 4 Mr R Quarta 9 12 1 1 8 8 Mr G W Rose 12 12 Sir Nigel Rudd 11 12 5 5 8 8 Mr M J Turner 12 12 1 1 Mr P A Weinberg 10 12 5 5 7 8 Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended.
1 retired from the Board on 9 May 2007 2 retired from the Board on 26 September 2007 3 appointed to the Board on 13 June 2007 4 in attendance at three additional meetings when not a member of the Committee BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 59 Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Corporate governance Corporate governance continued The Companys Articles of Association require that all new directors The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee responsibility for seek re-election to the Board at the following AGM.
In addition, all reviewing in detail the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls.
Having undertaken such reviews, the Committee directors are required to stand down and seek re-election to the reports to the Board on its findings so that the Board as a whole can Board at least once every three years.
take a view on this matter.
In order to assist the Audit Committee and The Board has set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting the Board in this review, the Company has developed the Operational enclosed with this report their reasons for supporting the re-election Assurance Statement OAS process.
This has been subject to regular of those directors seeking re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
review over a number of years, which has resulted in a number of refinements being made.
Internal control The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups The OAS requires that each part of the business completes a formal system of internal controls, including financial, operational and review of its compliance against the Operational Framework, including compliance controls and risk management systems, in accordance operational and financial controls and risk management processes.
with the Combined Code and the Turnbull guidance as revised.
It is signed-off by the managing director of every line of business and relevant functional directors.
The OAS is completed every six months BAE Systems has developed a system of internal control that and includes a formal assessment of business risk.
was in place throughout 2007 and to the date of this report, that encompasses, amongst other things, the policies, processes, tasks The overall responsibility for the system of internal control within and behaviours that taken together, seek to: BAE Systems rests with the directors of the Company.
Responsibility for establishing and operating detailed control procedures lies with facilitate the effective and efficient operation of the Company the line leaders of each operating business.
by enabling it to respond appropriately to significant operational, financial, compliance and other risks that it faces in carrying out In line with any system of internal control, the policies and processes its business: that are mandated in the Operational Framework are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business assist in ensuring that internal and external reporting is accurate objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute and timely and based on the maintenance of proper records assurance against material misstatement or loss.
supported by robust information gathering processes: and The responsibility for internal control procedures with joint ventures assist in ensuring that the Company complies with applicable laws and other collaborations rests, on the whole, with the senior and regulations at all times and also internal policies in respect of management of those operations.
The Company monitors its the standards of behaviour and conduct mandated by the Board.
investments and exerts influence through Board representation.
Reporting within the Company is structured so that key issues are Going concern escalated through the management team ultimately to the Board After making due enquires, the directors have a reasonable if appropriate.
The Operational Framework provides a common expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue framework across the Company for operational and financial controls operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they and is reviewed on a regular basis by the Board.
The business policies continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
and processes detailed within the Operational Framework draw on global best practice and their application is mandated across the Relations with shareholders organisation.
Lifecycle Management LCM is such a process and The Company has a well-developed investor relations programme promotes the application of best practice programme execution and managed by the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Investor facilitates continuous improvement across the Group.
In addition, the Chairman is in regular contact with the whole life of projects from inception to delivery into service and major shareholders and looks to keep them informed of progress on eventual disposal, and its application is critical to our capability in corporate governance matters.
In order to assist in developing an delivering projects to schedule and cost.
understanding of the views of major shareholders, each year the Company commissions a survey of investors undertaken by external Further key processes are Integrated Business Planning IBP, Quarterly consultants.
The results of the survey are presented to the Board.
Business Reviews QBR and Performance Centred Leadership PCL.
The IBP, approved annually by the Board, results in an agreed long-term The Company maintains a comprehensive Investor Relations website strategy for each business group, together with detailed near-term that provides, amongst other things, information on investing in budgets.
The QBRs, chaired by the Chief Operating Officers, evaluate BAE Systems and copies of the presentation materials used for key progress against the IBP and business performance against objectives, shareholders presentations.
This can be accessed via the Companys measures and milestones.
PCL drives business success by linking website, www.
individual goals to those of the organisation enabling employees to The AGM provides all shareholders with the opportunity to develop understand how their own success contributes to the success of the their understanding of the Company and ask questions on the matters whole business.
put to the meeting including this Annual Report.
All shareholders are Whilst the quality of the control processes is fundamental to the entitled to vote on the resolutions put to the AGM and, to ensure that overall control environment, the consistent application of these all votes are counted, the Companys Articles of Association requires processes is equally important.
The consistent application of that a poll is taken on all the resolutions in the Notice of Meeting.
world-class control processes is a key management objective.
The results of the votes on the resolutions will be published on the Companys website.
The Company is committed to the protection of its assets, which include human, property and financial resources, through an effective risk management process, underpinned where appropriate by insurance.
The Internal Audit team independently reviews the risk identification procedures and control processes implemented by management.
It provides objective assurance as to the operation and validity of the systems of internal control through a programme of cyclical reviews making recommendations for business and control improvements as required.
baesyste ms. com Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Activities Audit Committee report One of the Committees principal duties is to review the effectiveness of the Groups internal control processes.
Robust internal controls are essential.
They ensure that the information on the performance of the Company is accurate and timely, thereby assisting management and directors in the effective management of the Group.
They are also essential in ensuring that the Group complies with law and regulations including those that concern external reporting.
As in previous years, the Committee received a report and presentation from the Auditors summarising the findings of their review of the Groups control Michael Hartnall environment.
In addition, the Committee received reports on control Audit Committee matters from the Internal Audit function and, as explained on page 60, Chairman twice during the year it reviewed the findings from the Groups Operational Assurance Statement process.
Members One of the Committees key responsibilities is monitoring the Michael Hartnall Chairman effectiveness of the Companys Auditors and Internal Audit function.
Sir Peter Mason Each year the Committee reviews the results of an internal evaluation Roberto Quarta of the performance of the Internal Audit function that looks at its effectiveness in terms of work planning, the skills and experience During the year, Dr Ulrich Cartellieri was a member of the Committee available to the function, quality of reporting, implementation of audit until his retirement from the Board on 26 September 2007. recommendations and its independence.
In addition, last year the Committee commissioned an independent third-party to provide the Responsibilities Committee with an external view of the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function this being in line with best practice recommended Reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys financial reporting, by the Institute of Internal Auditors.
internal control policies and procedures for the identification, An evaluation of the effectiveness of the Auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, assessment and reporting of risk.
was completed during the year.
Monitoring the role and effectiveness of the Internal Audit The Committee accepts that certain work of a non-audit nature is best function including approving the appointment or removal undertaken by the Auditors.
The Audit Committee reviews the amount of the Head of Internal Audit.
and nature of non-audit work undertaken by the Auditors during the Considering and making recommendations to the Board year and has agreed that, whilst it believes it is not appropriate to on the appointment of the Auditors.
manage such work by limiting it to a certain percentage of audit work, such work should be controlled to ensure that it does not compromise Keeping the relationship with the Auditors under review, including the independence of the Auditors.
Consequently, the Committee has the terms of their engagement and fees, their independence and agreed the following rules to control the quantity and the nature of the their expertise, resources and qualifications.
work undertaken by the Auditors: Monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial statements.
any non-audit work to be undertaken by the Auditors in excess Reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements.
of 250,000 to be authorised by both the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Group Finance Director: The full terms of reference of the Audit Committee can be found on the Companys website or can be obtained from the no partner director of the Auditors worldwide audit team is to be Company Secretary.
employed by the Company within two years of the conclusion of a relevant audit: Governance no qualified member of the worldwide audit team at manager level The Audit Committee was in place throughout 2007 during which all or below is to be employed by the Company within two years of the its members were non-executive directors deemed to be independent conclusion of a relevant audit: and in accordance with provision A.
no partner director of the Auditors not associated with the audit is The Committee is chaired by Michael Hartnall who is a chartered to be employed by the Company without the approval of the Group accountant and has relevant experience of serving as a finance Finance Director and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
director of a large UK listed company.
As part of the Committees annual schedule of meetings, a meeting The Committee normally asks that the Chief Executive, Group Finance is held at one of the Companys operations so that members of the Director and Head of Internal Audit attend its meetings.
However, Committee can meet management and develop a greater understanding during the year the Committee held individual meetings without of various aspects of the Company.
This year a meeting of the Company executives present, with only the Head of Internal Audit Committee was held at the Woodford site in the UK where the Regional present and also with only the external auditors present.
Aircraft business and Nimrod MR4A programme were reviewed.
The Committee met four times in 2007.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 61 Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Corporate governance Corporate governance continued The Audit Committee also undertook the following during 2007: Nominations Committee report reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and the disclosures made in the Annual Report on this matter: reviewed the output from the Group-wide process used to identify, evaluate and mitigate risk: received a report from the Auditors on their review of the effectiveness of the controls across the Group: reviewed the financial statements in the 2006 and 2007 Annual Dick Olver Report and the Interim Report issued in August 2007, and received Nominations Committee a report from the Auditors on the statements: Chairman reviewed and agreed the approach and scope of the audit work to be undertaken by the Auditors: Members agreed the fees to be paid to the Auditors in respect of the Dick Olver Chairman 2007 audit: Phil Carroll Sir Peter Mason received a report from the Head of Internal Audit on the work undertaken by the Internal Audit function: Responsibilities undertook an assessment of fraud risks: reviewed proposals concerning the Groups periodic financial Reviewing regularly the structure, size and composition of the reporting obligations: Board and making recommendations to the Board on any desired changes.
reviewed the Groups procedures for disclosing information to the Auditors and the statement concerning such disclosures in the Identifying and nominating for the Boards approval suitable Annual Report: candidates to fill vacancies for non-executive and, with the assistance of the Chief Executive, executive directors.
reviewed the Committees terms of reference: and Planning for the orderly succession of new directors to the Board.
reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys helpline procedures in respect of the reporting of possible accounting, financial control Recommending to the Board the membership and chairmanship and other financial irregularities.
of the Audit and Remuneration committees.
On behalf of the Audit Committee The full terms of reference of the Nominations Committee can be found on the Companys website or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Michael Hartnall Audit Committee Chairman Governance The Nominations Committee was in place throughout 2007.
It is chaired by the Chairman of the Company.
Whilst he is not deemed to be independent, the other two members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors in accordance with provision A.
The Committee normally asks the Chief Executive and Group Human Resources Director to attend its meetings.
However, during the year the Committee did meet without Company executives present.
The Committee met eight times in 2007.
Activities The Committee is responsible for nominating suitable candidates for appointment to the Board in both executive and non-executive capacities.
When the Committee identifies a need to recruit new nonexecutive directors, a profile of the ideal candidate is produced based on the skills and experience required.
The Company is increasingly global and looks beyond both the UK and the US to identify the right people.
Search consultants have an important role to play in identifying suitable candidates based on the Committees requirements.
In 2007, The Zygos Partnership was engaged to assist in such search activities.
Each year the Committee undertakes a detailed review of the Companys management resources and the succession plans for all senior executive positions.
The Committee is interested in both the 62 www.
baesyste ms. com Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information quality of management resource and also its depth, looking at who Activities is ready to take on specific management positions now, as well as Corporate responsibility concerns a companys economic, social who is likely to come through in the next couple of years and beyond.
All companies are different when it comes The Committee also monitors the development of senior management, to their impact in these areas and therefore it is important for the ensuring that individual development plans are in place.
Corporate Responsibility Committee to focus on the areas of corporate responsibility that are of particular importance for BAE Systems.
The Overseeing the process for the appointment of executive directors Committee has therefore agreed that its prime focus should be ethics is the most important task that the Committee has to perform.
However, it also deals with a range of other reported on page 57, the Committee is undertaking the task of finding areas, including matters such as workforce diversity and a range the right person to succeed Mike Turner when he retires later this year.
This process was started last year and the Committee is committed to doing this in line with best practice, reviewing rigorously both external The Committee monitors and reviews compliance with the Companys and internal candidates.
standards of business behaviour and the work undertaken to ensure that all employees are aware and understand the application of these.
On behalf of the Nominations Committee The activities of the Committee during 2007 included reviewing the Companys Ethics Helpline and Group ethics awareness programmes, including the results of surveys assessing such awareness.
As Dick Olver reported elsewhere in this report, the Board has formed the Woolf Nominations Committee Chairman Committee to study and report on the Groups ethical policies and processes.
During the year the Corporate Responsibility Committee met with members of the Woolf Committee to discuss ethics in Corporate Responsibility Committee report general and its role in relation to the prospective implementation and assurance of activity that may be recommended.
We look forward to the publication of the report later this year.
The health and safety of our employees is a key priority for the Company and also for the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
We monitor safety performance and have reviewed various aspects of the management Peter Weinberg of health and safety within the Company.
In addition, the Committee Corporate considered the output from a workshop held by management on Responsibility corporate responsibility and was pleased to endorse the priority Committee it is giving to health and safety in addition to ethics.
Chairman During the year the Company has been developing further its risk management processes, particularly in respect of the monitoring and Members mitigation of non-financial risks.
The Committee reviews, on an annual Peter Weinberg Chairman basis, the relevant output from such processes as they relate to health Phil Carroll and safety, workplace policies, environmental impact, business ethics Andy Inglis and compliance with anti-corruption laws and regulation.
Sir Nigel Rudd The Committee undertook the following activities in 2007: Responsibilities received reports on corporate responsibility matters including, amongst other things, engagement with shareholders and safety, health and environment performance information: Assisting the Board on overseeing the development of strategy and policy on social, environmental and ethical matters.
received reports from the Internal Audit function on audits undertaken on ethical and environmental matters: Monitoring and reviewing the Companys performance in managing social, environmental, ethical and reputational risk.
reviewed and approved the proposed approach to progress the Overseeing and supporting key stakeholder engagement Company towards a best in class position on safety performance: on social, environmental and ethical issues.
reviewed the Company Corporate Responsibility Report: The full terms of reference of the Corporate Responsibility reviewed its terms of reference: and Committee can be found on the Companys website or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
liaised with the Remuneration Committee on the setting of coporate  non-financial objectives to be included in the directors annual bonus plan.
Governance The Corporate Responsibility Committee was in place throughout 2007 See pages 37 to 43 for more detail on the Groups corporate during which all its members were non-executive directors deemed to be responsibility activities.
independent in accordance with provision A.
On behalf of the Corporate Responsibility Committee The Committee normally asks the Head of Internal Audit, Group Human Resources Director, Group General Counsel and Corporate Responsibility Director to attend its meetings.
Peter Weinberg The Committee met five times in 2007.
Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 63
