Report of the Directors Corporate Governance The Board believes that in terms of the overall direction and control of the Company effective corporate governance will come principally from the values, standards and disciplines it seeks to apply in dealings with shareholders, customers, staff, suppliers, contractors and other stakeholders.
Many of the Companys core values and standards are set out in a range of procedures and practice guidelines communicated throughout the Group.
However, external governance codes set the framework for our internal standards and we therefore seek to comply with established best practice in all areas of corporate governance.
Statement of compliance with Code provisions The Company is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance.
Throughout the year ended 30 June 2007 the Company complied with the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Code except in the following areas: Code provision A.
3.2. requires that at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent Non-Executive Directors.
At the start and the end of the year the Company achieved a balanced and independent Board as required by the Code.
Due to the order in which Directors were appointed to, and retired from, the Board the Company did not maintain this balance, as required by the Code, between 2 October 2006 and 8 January 2007.
2.1. requires the Remuneration Committee to consist of at least three members who should all be independent Non-Executive Directors.
Mr C Toner, as Chairman of the Board, stepped down from membership of the Committee on 18 November 2005 and was re-elected a member on 11 May 2007 in preparation for the implementation of the Combined Code 2006, which will apply to the reporting period beginning 1 July 2007, and which permits the Chairman to be a member of the Committee.
The Board The Company is led and controlled by the Group Board.
The names and descriptions of the Group Board Directors are set out on pages 26 and 27 of this report.
At the end of the financial year the Board comprised nine members, including the Chairman, four Non-Executive Directors and four Executive Directors.
The Company therefore complies with the principles of the Code in relation to the balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the number and calibre of Non-Executive Directors on the Board, together with their diverse backgrounds and experience, ensures that this principle is met.
In accordance with best corporate governance practice, the Companys Articles of Association require one-third of the current Directors to retire at each Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, Mr M Pescod, Mr R J Davies and Mr W Shannon will all retire by rotation and put themselves forward for re-election at this years Annual General Meeting in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Articles.
Mr M Pescod has been a Non-Executive Director since October 2001 and, as a result and in compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, his re-appointment as a Non-Executive Director has been subject to particularly rigorous review.
Following a formal evaluation process, the Company believes that the performance of each of the retiring Directors continues to be effective and they demonstrate commitment to their role.
The Board believes that the Chairman and all Non-Executive Directors are wholly independent in that they have no business or other relationship with the Group that might inuence their independence or judgement.
The division of responsibility between the Chairman of the Board, Mr C G Toner, and the Group Chief Executive, Mr M S Clare, is clearly dened and has been approved by the Board.
The Chairman leads the Board in the determination of strategy and in the achievement of its objectives.
He is responsible for organising the business of the Board, for setting its agenda and for ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and also ensures that the Board receives timely and accurate information so as to properly conduct its business as well as ensuring that communications with shareholders are effective.
The Senior Independent Director has specic responsibility for co-ordinating the evaluation by the Nominations Committee of the Chairmans effectiveness as well as being a point of contact for shareholders in the event of there being any material issues or concerns which the Chairman and or Group Chief Executive have failed adequately to address.
The current Senior Independent Director, Mr M Pescod, took over from MrAEKilburn on his retirement on 28 November 2006.
Barratt Developments PLC 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors Report of the Directors | Corporate Governance During the year the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met on two occasions independently of management.
Board process The Board has overall authority for the conduct of the business.
During the year the terms of reference for the Board, including those matters specically reserved to the Board, were reviewed and updated in line with best practice.
The Boards responsibilities include: determination of strategy and plans to achieve the Companys objectives determination of policy and the overall direction of the Company approval of the Group report and accounts prior to publication establishment of effective systems of delegation and internal control and the annual review of their effectiveness authorising material acquisitions, disposals, investments, capital projects and other significant transactions monitoring the Groups overall performance in relation to its strategies, plans, budgets and decisions In January 2007, the Board met for a full day to review and develop the overall business strategy of the Group.
In the week prior to each Board Meeting each Director is issued with an agenda, brieng papers and comprehensive operating and financial management reports for the period under review.
The Company Secretary, a solicitor, attends all Board and Committee Meetings and all Directors have access to his advice and, if necessary, to independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The Board met nine times during the year, including two special meetings related to the acquisition of Wilson Bowden.
Attendance at Board Meetings is shown in the table on page 35.
Any Director who did not attend a meeting presented his apologies and provided his views to the Chairman ahead of the meeting having reviewed the reports and management information.
Board Committees The Board has established four standing Committees, the Executive Committee, the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee.
During the year the terms of reference for all the Committees were reviewed and updated in line with best practice and approved by the Board.
Terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available on our corporate website.
Membership and attendance of each Committee is shown in the table on page 35.
Executive Committee The Board delegates management of the business to the Executive Committee, which is led by the Group Chief Executive.
In addition to the Directors identied in the table on page 35 and Mr L Dent, the Group Corporate Director and Company Secretary, the Executive Committee has been enhanced this year with the appointment of Mr N Richardson, Managing Director Wilson Bowden Developments, Mr P Law, Group Director of Corporate Affairs and Mrs J Mee, Group Human Resources Director.
The Executive Committees principal responsibilities include: implementing all operational policy and strategy across the Group the preparation and development of the Group Three Year Plan, Annual Business Plan and Budget to achieve the Groups objectives as determined by the Board monitoring the performance of the Group with particular emphasis on performance as measured against the Strategic Plan, Annual Business Plan and Annual Budgets, and other relevant key performance indicators monitoring all monthly financial and other management reports approving schemes, projects and contracts in accordance with authority delegated by the Board the management of proper systems of internal control and the identication of material risk to the business determining the senior management and staff structures of the organisation, terms and conditions of employment and remuneration and reward policies taking all necessary action to ensure that day to day Group business operations are effectively managed and controlled Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 33 Report of the Directors | Corporate Governance The Audit Committee All members of the Audit Committee are wholly independent Non-Executive Directors in accordance with Code provision C. 3.1.
The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee invites the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and other members of senior management and senior representatives of the external auditors to attend meetings as required.
Under its terms of reference the Audit Committees principal responsibilities are: monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Groups performance, and reviewing and challenging where necessary the consistency of, and changes to, accounting policy monitoring the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the external audit process and for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and remuneration of the external auditor monitoring the Groups financial management and reporting systems and for assessing the integrity and effectiveness of its accounting procedures, system of internal control and the process for identifying and monitoring the risks facing the Group reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the internal audit function, the annual internal audit plan and all reports produced by the internal auditor and managements responsiveness to the findings and recommendations of the internal auditor reviewing whistleblowing procedures and ensuring arrangements are in place for proportionate and independent investigation and follow up action As well as carrying out the work associated with the annual financial reporting cycle the Audit Committee completed significant areas of work during the year including further development of risk management systems and the external review of internal control systems as a consequence of the new Group structure following the acquisition of Wilson Bowden.
The Audit Committee is currently reviewing recommendations for the appointment of the external auditor for the next year.
The Companys Auditor,  LLP, provided non-audit related services during the year related to the acquisition of Wilson Bowden.
Auditor objectivity and independence was maintained by the provision of non-audit related services from a separate ofce under the supervision of a separate partner from that providing audit related services.
Remuneration Committee Following the retirement of Mr A E Kilburn on 28 November 2006, Mr R J Davies was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Following the amendments to the Combined Code, published in 2006, the Chairman of the Board, being considered independent on appointment as Chairman, was appointed a member of the Remuneration Committee.
All members of the Committee are considered by the Company to be wholly independent in accordance with Code provision B.
The Remuneration Committees principal responsibilities include: determining and reviewing executive remuneration policy, including the terms and conditions of employment for Executive Directors and their individual remuneration packages approving the rules of and the basis of participation in Group share options, long-term performance plans and cash based bonus incentive schemes and the specic awards, grants and payments made under any such schemes determining and reviewing the overall remuneration policy of the Group agreeing severance arrangements for Directors on early termination of contract During the year the Remuneration Committee reviewed the remuneration structure for divisional directors and integration of remuneration policy following the acquisition of Wilson Bowden.
Nominations Committee The Nomination Committees principal responsibilities include: regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition required of the Board and succession planning for Directors and senior executives identifying and nominating candidates to ll Board vacancies and evaluating the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment reviewing the performance of the Board Barratt Developments PLC 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors Report of the Directors | Corporate Governance During the year the Committee reviewed the performance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors and completed a review of succession plans for the Board.
The letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection by any person at the Companys registered ofce during normal ofce hours and at the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting.
 Group Executive Audit Remuneration Nominations Name Board Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 Mr M S Clare 7 7 Chairman 9 9 Mr M A Pain 9 9 12 12 Mr S J Boyes 9 9 12 12 Mr C Fenton 9 9 12 12 Mr C G Toner Chairman 9 9 2 2 Chairman 1 1 Mr R J Davies 9 9 3 5 Chairman 4 5 1 1 Mr W Shannon 8 9 5 5 4 5 1 1 Mr R MacEachrane 9 9 4 4 5 5 1 1 Mr M Pescod 9 9 Chairman 5 5 5 5 1 1 2 Mr A E Kilburn 3 4 2 2 2 3 1 1 3 Mr D A Pretty 4 4 5 5 4 Mr G K Hester 4 4 6 6 1 Mr M S Clare appointed Group Chief Executive 2 October 2006 2 Mr A E Kilburn retired from the Board on 28 November 2006 3 Mr D A Pretty retired from the Board on 31 December 2006 4 Mr G K Hester retired from the Board on 8 January 2007 Includes two special meetings in relation to the acquisition of Wilson Bowden.
9 Indicates number of meetings held 9 Indicates number of meetings attended Board achievement, performance evaluation and training The procedure for appointment of new Directors to the Board is overseen by the Nominations Committee.
All Directors joining the Board submit themselves for election at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment and a third of Directors retire each year and submit themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The names of the Directors subject to re-election at this years Annual General Meeting are set out on page 32.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a three year term and normally serve a second three year term subject to performance review and re-election.
Beyond this a third three year term may be served subject to rigorous review.
During the year a formal and structured process of evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors was undertaken by the Nominations Committee under the leadership and direction of the Chairman, based on the guidance set out in the Higgs Report Review of the Role and Effectiveness of Non-Executive Directors.
Central to the evaluation process are the Boards annual review of business strategy and the objectives and performance targets set by the Board each year for itself, its Committees, for the Group Chief Executive, and through him for the Executive Team, against which overall performance is measured.
In this way the evaluation is undertaken within clear parameters linked to overall strategy, operational and financial performance and the role and contribution made by the Board, its Committees and individual Directors in the attainment of agreed objectives and targets.
The Board circulated to all Directors a comprehensive performance evaluation questionnaire through which all Directors and the Company Secretary were given the opportunity to give their views on the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, particularly by identifying any shortcomings in procedures, working methods or any other areas of weakness requiring attention and improvement.
In addition, the performance of individual Non-Executive Directors and the Group Chief Executive was appraised by the Chairman and the performance of the Executive Team by the Group Chief Executive.
The Senior Independent Director led the appraisal of the Chairmans performance after obtaining the views of all Directors in one-to-one discussions.
The results of the questionnaires, system and proposals were reviewed and evaluated by the Nominations Committee and reported to the Board.
On the evidence provided, the Board and its Committees are satisfied with the overall effectiveness and balance and with the performance and contribution of the individual Directors.
As a result of the process the number of Board meetings has been increased to eight per year, a detailed and comprehensive shareholder relations and communication plan has been developed and steps are being taken to increase the amount of time available to focus on strategy.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 35 Report of the Directors | Corporate Governance Employment policy and involvement The Board recognises that employees need to understand and contribute to the broad objectives of the business and seeks to develop good relations with employees through regular communications and consultation.
Selection for employment and promotion is based on the objective assessment of ability and experience and the Group is committed to ensuring that its workplaces are free from unlawful discrimination of any sort.
The Group strives to ensure that its policies and practices provide equal opportunities for all existing or potential staff irrespective of gender, race, ethnic origin, colour, religion, physical disability, marital status, sexual orientation or age.
Every effort is made to retrain and support employees who become disabled while working with the Group.
The Group is committed to employee training and development at all levels of the organisation and endeavours to contribute to the industrys future skills base by an extensive recruitment and training programme for apprentices and graduate trainees.
This year the Group further developed its graduate recruitment and training programme designed to identify and promote the senior management of the future.
54 graduates were selected and began their training across all areas of the business on 1 September 2007.
This year the Groups human resources team, who provide our divisional management teams with advice on how to deliver best practice in terms of employment procedure and Group human resources policies, has been strengthened with several senior appointments including a new Human Resources Director, Mrs J Mee and Head of Talent, Mr G Jones.
The human resources team has also helped to deliver strategic programmes such as our new Performance Development Review and Management Development programmes.
The Group works closely with the Construction Industry Training Board CITB and the National House-Building Council NHBC in training provision and a training plan is prepared annually linked to identied business priorities and objectives.
Having regard to the nature of our business, particular focus is given in the training programme to construction management, trade skills, health and safety and customer care.
We have also committed to the Construction Skills Certication Scheme CSCS for our employees and subcontractors as part of the Major House Builders Group Qualied Workforce Initiative.
During the year the Group created a website called Getting Together to provide employees with information on the integration of the Wilson Bowden business into the Barratt business.
Employees also receive an electronic newsletter every two to three weeks with integration updates and have received a DVD explaining the Groups recent achievements and future marketing strategy.
The Group newsletter, Developing Times, which is published quarterly, is being revised to reect the enlarged Group following the acquisition of Wilson Bowden, and will be distributed to all employees: and all employees joining the Group receive a full day corporate induction.
The integration of the Wilson Bowden business following its acquisition has been managed by an integration team that includes employees drawn from all areas of the business.
Reporting responsibilities The Directors are responsible for: keeping proper accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and Group at any time and from which financial statements, and the Directors Remuneration Report, can be prepared to comply with the Companies Act 1985, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the Combined Code on Corporate Governance preparing financial statements for each financial period which give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, and on a going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group and for the detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the financial statements are set out in the Independent auditors report pages 89 and 90.
The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently and that reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made in the preparation of the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2007.
The Annual Report and Accounts will be published on the Groups Investor Relations website.
The maintenance and integrity of the Groups website is the responsibility of the Directors.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Barratt Developments PLC 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors Report of the Directors | Corporate Governance Going concern After making due enquiries the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Internal control and risk management The Board confirms that it has maintained a system of internal control and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls in accordance with Code provisions C. 2. and C. 2.1. and that this statement has been prepared in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal control appended to the Code.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed to manage risks that may impede the achievement of the Groups business objectives rather than to eliminate those risks entirely.
The system of internal control therefore provides only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The system of internal control does, however, provide reasonable assurance that potential difficulties can be identied promptly and appropriate remedial action taken.
It is the responsibility of the Executive Directors and senior management to implement and maintain the Groups internal control and risk management systems in accordance with policy approved by the Board.
The key aspects of the Groups internal control and risk management framework are as follows: a clear organisational structure with dened levels of authority and responsibility for each operating division.
extensive financial and management reporting systems under which financial and operating performance is consistently reviewed against budget and forecasts at divisional, regional and Group level on a monthly basis.
key risk areas such as land purchase, planning permission, production, sales, quality, customer care and service standards, adverse publicity, the market, corporate responsibility, environmental and health and safety performance and the integration of Barratt Developments PLC with Wilson Bowden are embedded in the Groups monthly management reporting system so that risk identication and the control of risk are a routine aspect of management responsibility.
internal control and risk management systems are supported by the Group internal audit team which is responsible for advising senior management, the Executive Directors and, through the Audit Committee, the Board on the operation and effectiveness of those systems.
The internal audit team undertakes a planned programme of audit appraisals across Group operations approved by the Audit Committee, including full divisional audits and targeted audits of key risk areas such as land viability process, land acquisition control and monitoring, work in progress and subcontractor payment controls.
Material issues identied in these audits and follow-up action plans are reviewed by the Executive Directors and by the Board on a quarterly basis, and necessary actions are taken to remedy any failings in the internal control system.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance and is satisfied that it is in accordance with that guidance.
During the year internal control and risk management has been enhanced by updating and embedding the risk register, implementing a process of control self certication and appointing regional finance directors.
On behalf of the Board Mr L Dent Company Secretary 26 September 2007 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 37
