Corporate Governance corporate governance policies and procedures ISS is committed to good corporate governance.
this is GS Capital partners is the private equity vehicle a practice fundamental to all ISSs activities as it benefits through which the Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. conducts stakeholders and the business itself.
its privately negotiated corporate equity investment activities.
Since 1986, GS Capital partners has raised Accordingly, although ISSs shares are not publicly listed, thirteen corporate investment vehicles aggregating over to some extent the Group applies corporate policies and uSd 56 billion of capital including mezzanine funds.
procedures based on the recommendations applicable to GS Capital partners is a global private equity group companies listed on the oMX nordic exchange Copenhagen.
focused on large, sophisticated business opportunities However, being privately held, some of the recommendations in which value can be created through leveraging the primarily targeted at companies with a broad shareholder resources of Goldman Sachs.
base are not relevant for ISS.
Shareholders agreement Shareholders the principal Shareholders have entered into a shareholders ISS is a limited liability company incorporated and operating agreement applying to any entities through which eQt and under danish law.
the companys share capital is indirectly GS Capital partners hold their interest in ISS.
the descripowned primarily by funds advised by eQt partners eQt tion below relates to implications of the shareholders and GS Capital partners together with eQt the principal agreement for ISS.
under the shareholders agreement, the Board of directors eQt is a leading private equity group with operations of ISS the Board shall consist of six members excluding in northern europe and Greater China.
eQt and GS Capital partners are manages approximately euR 11 billion in 12 funds.
In entitled to nominate three directors each.
eQt has the right total, eQt funds have invested approximately euR 6 billion to nominate the Chairman of the Board, after consultation in about 60 companies.
eQt partners, acting as exclusive with GS Capital partners.
In addition, each of eQt and GS investment advisor to eQt, is headquartered in Stockholm Capital partners is entitled to appoint one deputy member and maintains offices in Copenhagen, Frankfurt, Helsinki, of the Board who shall be entitled to be present at Board Hong kong, Munich, new York, oslo and Shanghai.
meetings, but the two deputy members shall be entitled to CoRpoRAte GoVeRnAnCe | AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 39 vote only if they are substitutes for a Board member who is ISS has prepared its consolidated financial statements for unable to attend the meeting.
2007 in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the eu with effect for finanthe Board will generally act by simple majority, with the cial reporting periods beginning on 1 January 2007, and the Chairman casting the deciding vote in the event of a tie.
statutory order on the adoption of IFRS issued pursuant However, under the shareholders agreement, certain actions to the danish Financial Statements Act.
the accounting require special approval by one or both of the principal policies applied are described in note 1 to the consolidated Shareholders.
the annual reports of ISS include financial as well as non-financial information.
Stakeholders ISS is committed to creating value for all its key stakeholders, For information about the ISS Group, stakeholders are always i. e. investors, customers, employees, suppliers and the sociewelcome to contact ISSs Group Communications department ties in which it operates.
this commitment is vested in ISSs info@group.
Questions from investors may be four corporate values: honesty, entrepreneurship, responsidirected to Group treasury of ISS ir@group.
bility and quality, based on the recognition that stakeholder value is directly connected to financial performance.
the Board ISS has a two-tier management structure consisting of the ISS has developed a corporate code of conduct endorsed by Board of directors the Board and the executive Group the Board.
the code applies to all ISSs executives, managers Management the eGM.
the Board supervises the companys and employees and is intended to assist them in carrying out activities, its management and organisation.
the eGM is their duties and responsibilities to high ethical standards.
responsible for ISSs day-to-day operations.
the two bodies the code of conduct is available from the corporate website: are separate and do not have overlapping members.
the Board functions in accordance with the rules set out in the stakeholder approach is also put into practice in the danish public Companies Act, the shareholders agreedialogues and partnerships with the united nations the ment and its rules of procedure, which provide guidelines Global Compact initiative, the european Works Council for the Boards work in general and prescribe any special and Amnesty Internationals Business Club.
Relations with duties assigned to the Chairman of the Board.
stakeholders are described in further detail in the Stakeholder Review on pages 51-64.
ISS follows the ISS Strategy plan 2007-2009 approved by the Board in spring 2007.
A description of the Group strategy is Openness and transparency available from the corporate website: www.
It In addition to its country-specific websites, ISS has a contains ISSs visions, goals, core values etc.
com on which financial statements and other announcements are posted.
ISS the Board convenes at least six times a year.
extraordinary endeavours to keep the website up to date at all times.
due meetings are convened whenever specific matters need attento ISSs international relations, the website is in english.
the Board is briefed about important matters in the periods between Board meetings.
40 AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 | CoRpoRAte GoVeRnAnCe the monthly reporting is the primary formal communicakorsholm and Steven Sher, and the Group Ceo, Group CFo tion vehicle between management and the Board.
the Board and Head of Group M&A participate in its meetings.
the approves the strategy plan, the annual budget and large or committee is convened at least six times a year.
strategic acquisitions based on recommendations from the Acquisition Committee see Board Committees below.
the Remuneration Committee considers remuneration packages and incentive schemes for ISS Management team memthe directors are nominated to the Board in accordance with bers, compensation levels and bonus systems in general, and the shareholders agreement described above.
As per 31 the status of the Management participation programme.
the december 2007, six directors and one alternate director committee consists of at least three members of the Board served on the Board: currently Francis Mackay, ole Andersen and Sanjay patel, and the Group Ceo participates in its meetings.
the commitSir Francis Mackay Chairman, Chairman of Carlton tee is convened at least twice a year.
partner LLp: Leif stling Vice-Chairman, president and Group Chief the Financing Committee considers ISSs capital structure, executive of Scania AB: financing of future investments and hedging policies.
the ole Andersen, Head of the Copenhagen office of eQt committee consists of at least two members of the Board partners and Senior partner at eQt partners: currently peter korsholm and Steven Sher, and the Group Sanjay patel, Co-head of private equity in europe for CFo and Head of Group treasury participate in its meetings.
the principal Investment Area of Goldman Sachs: the committee is convened at least twice a year.
Christoph Sander, Co-founder and Ceo of Casper Limited: the Audit Committee evaluates ISSs external financial Steven Sher, Managing director for the principal reporting, main accounting principles and estimates, and Investment Area of Goldman Sachs International: and systems of internal controls and risk management.
Further, peter korsholm alternate director, partner at eQt the committee considers the relationship to ISSs external partners.
auditor and reviews the audit process.
the committee consists of at least three members of the Board currently A further description of the Board members is available on Leif stling, Christoph Sander, Steven Sher and peter page 47 of this report and in note 32 to the consolidated korsholm, and the Group CFo participates in its meetings.
the committee is convened at least twice a year.
Board committees executive group Management the Board has established the following four committees the executive Group Management of ISS consists of Jrgen that all report to the Board.
Lindegaard, Group Ceo: Jeff Gravenhorst, Group Coo and Group CFo the eGM.
Flemming Schandorff was Group the Acquisition Committee considers ISSs procedures for Coo until 31 March 2008, when Jeff Gravenhorst took over acquisitions and integration, effected acquisitions and the the responsibilities as Group Coo.
ISS is in the process of acquisition pipeline.
the committee consists of at least three finding a new Group CFo and until then, Jeff Gravenhorst members of the Board currently Christoph Sander, peter will continue to act as Group CFo as well.
CoRpoRAte GoVeRnAnCe | AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 41 the eGM together with Coos Allan Aebischer, Jacob Management Participation Programme Gtzsche, Stig pastwa and Martin Gaarn thomsen, Head of the principal Shareholders have established a Management Group M&A Jens ebbe olesen, Head of Group development participation programme, under which the IMt and a number Magnus kerberg and Head of Group treasury Christian of senior officers of the Group were given the opportunity kofoed Jakobsen constitute the operational Board the oB.
the programme is structured as a the primary task of the oB is to coordinate and evaluate combination of direct and indirect investments in a mix of acquisitions made by the Group, operational issues in genshares and warrants of FS Invest, ISSs ultimate parent.
As eral as well as to discuss and develop new general strategic of 31 december 2007, the investments amounted to dkk 191 initiatives.
million in total for 139 executives and officers.
As part of the programme, warrants in FS Invest were granted of which Further, the eGM, the oB and certain senior officers of ISS 532,012 were outstanding as of 31 december 2007. constitute the ISS Management team the IMt.
non-executive members of the Board except representatives the members of the IMt are remunerated with a combination of the principal Shareholders have been given the opportuof a fixed salary and a bonus, which is capped at 50% of nity to participate in a directors participation programme, their fixed salary.
the employment contracts of the IMt under which they have invested in a mix of FS Invest shares members are subject to termination periods of between and warrants amounting to approximately dkk 6.4 million 12 and 18 months.
directorships in companies in the ISS in total.
In addition, they have co-invested with the principal Group held by members of the IMt are not remunerated Shareholders for approximately dkk 17.6 million in total.
Risk management no member of the IMt is permitted to hold directorships in ISS strives to identify risk factors that may have an adverse companies outside the ISS Group unless specific consent is effect on the ISS Groups activities, financial position, results granted.
Remuneration received in respect of such external and future growth.
For a detailed, non-exhaustive listing of directorships is retained by the member, and ISS assumes the risk factors, which the Group is subject to, reference is no liability for such directorships.
made to the High Yield offering Memorandum.
country management ISS considers strong controls to be an essential management ISS has country management teams in each of the countries tool.
Accordingly, care is taken to ensure that a sound framein which it operates, that are structured based on ISS princiwork of controls is in place for safeguarding the business.
ples and experience as well as local legislation and practice.
However, such controls are designed to manage rather than ISS delegates substantial autonomy and considerable powers eliminate the risks and can provide only reasonable and not to the country management teams including management absolute assurance against material misstatements or losses.
of operations in their relevant markets, financial reporting, the policies and procedures set out below reflect the princilocal tax and compliance with local legislation and pracpal features of the ISS Groups control environment.
A description of the country management teams can be found on the ISS website or in the annual report for each overall, operational and financial risk are managed in relevant country.
accordance with a policy adopted by the Board.
In addition, 42 AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 | CoRpoRAte GoVeRnAnCe detailed plans and business procedures for a number of and global insurance programmes including a captive Global functions are described in manuals and guidelines.
Insurance A S, all coordinated centrally in ISS.
operational risk management focuses principally on ISS considers that the Group is not subject to material operaprocedures for claims management, entering into contracts, tional risks except for risks usual in the ordinary course of occupational safety, environment and safeguarding of physical business in the service industry.
operational risk is assessed on the basis of the activities of each operating company, historic and current claims Financial risk management focuses principally on interest events, and the markets in which the companies operate.
rate risk, currency risk and credit risk.
the ISS Groups operational risk is monitored and mitigated in accordance financial risk management is described in note 31 to the with ISS Group standards for risk management, risk financing consolidated financial statements.
operational risk financing is based on insurance and own funding, primarily through local the policies for operational and financial risk management MuMBAI, IndIA deLOItte RAJendRA PAtIL, cLeAnIng and the ISS Groups standards are documented and third working day of each month.
Subsequently, actual distributed to the operating companies.
ISSs Group Risk figures are continuously monitored by ISSs Group treasury Management and Group treasury departments supervise department for deviations from the forecasted figures.
Monthly reporting to the Reporting of financial results all countries must report a Board contains an overview of the status in these areas.
full income statement, balance sheet, portfolio analysis etc.
Any significant variance from budgets operational responsibility is delegated to the operating must be explained.
companies under the supervision of regional management.
Full-year forecasts all countries must update and report In order to ensure that adequate internal control procedures their year-end estimates twice a year.
are maintained locally, controllers employed by ISS visit the subsidiaries regularly.
Controller visits take place according to Auditor a plan for the year approved by the Audit Committee and in the Board nominates the external auditor for election accordance with the control procedures and standards defined pursuant to the shareholders agreement.
the nomination in ISSs control manual.
the findings and conclusions of the is made after an assessment of the competencies, objectivity visits, which include recommendations on how to improve the and independence of the external auditor and the effectivecontrol environment, are presented in reports addressed to ness of the audit process.
local and regional managements and the external auditor.
the controllers perform follow-up reviews to ensure that the An independent business relationship with the ISS Groups recommendations are implemented.
external auditor is essential for the control environment.
As part of the safeguarding measures to ensure independence, other key elements of the framework constituting ISSs control the external auditor may not be used for certain non-audit environment are: services for ISS including, but not limited to, preparation of Strategy reviews annual meetings with country managers accounting records and financial statements and recruitment at which the strategy is discussed and priorities and plans for senior management positions.
for the coming year are agreed.
Business reviews monthly meetings between regional the company collaborates with its external auditor in relation management and country managers with a focus on the to risk management by exchanging controller reports and current performance and state of the business.
audit reports and by generally sharing relevant knowledge.
Budgets and financial plans all countries must prepare budgets and plans for the next financial year in a preAll Board members receive the external auditors long-form defined format.
Regional managements review the budgets audit reports in connection with the audit of the annual and plans with the countries.
financial statements and any other long-form report.
Acquisitions all acquisition proposals must be presented in a predefined acquisition report and valuation model for the Board reviews the Annual Report at a Board meeting approval.
Board approval is required for large or strategic attended by the external auditor.
of the external auditor and any major issues arising during Reporting of cash flow forecasts countries must report the course of the audit are discussed and key accounting the daily cash flow forecast for the coming month on the principles and audit judgments are reviewed.
44 AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 | CoRpoRAte GoVeRnAnCe RAndeRS, denMARK dAnISh cROwn Bent nIeLSen, cAteRIng SIR FRAnCIS MACkAY LeIF StLInG oLe AndeRSen SAnJAY pAteL SteVen SHeR CHRIStopH SAndeR peteR koRSHoLM
