GOVERNANCE 56 GRAINGER PLC Annual report and accounts 2007 corporate governance report Robin Broadhurst, appointed chairman in February 2007, has Roles continued to uphold the highest standards of governance which There is a written, approved statement of the separation were maintained under the previous chairman.
He has, inevitably, of duties of the chairman, who reports to the board and the made some changes to the operation of the board in line with chief executive, who reports to the chairman.
Other key the increasing complexity of the business and these are differentiating factors are as follows: described in this report.
The chairman The board believes that corporate governance is fundamentally Responsible for running the board about the way a company operates and should not be an Only the chief executive and the company secretary automatic response to a check list.
However, it is also mindful for corporate governance matters report to him that The Combined Code 2003 and the modifications to it in 2006 are generally accepted to describe best practice in Guardian of the boards decision making governance and seeks to comply as far as possible where this The chief executive is in the best interests of the company.
The statement of Responsible for running the business compliance refers to The Combined Code 2003, which was applicable to Grainger.
All executive management report to him, directly or indirectly This report fulfils the requirements of the Listing Rules and Responsible for implementing the boards decisions should be read in conjunction with the reports of the individual committees which follow.
Other key roles include the senior independent director and the chairmen of the committees.
Robin Broadhurst held the position The directors of senior independent director until his appointment as chairman A company is only as good as the people who work for it and following the Annual General Meeting in February 2007 and was the directors are committed to ensuring that the board itself replaced by Bill Tudor John.
The committees compositions and includes people who have all of the necessary skills, knowledge work are described in detail in their own reports which follow.
and experience to successfully lead the organisation.
The composition of the board, which is relatively small, changed Independence at two points during the year as follows: With the retirement of Robert Dickinson as chairman and subsequent appointment of Henry Pitman, an independent On 28 February 2007, Robert Dickinson retired as chairman non-executive director, the board has again demonstrated its and was succeeded by Robin Broadhurst, previously the senior commitment to increasing the independence on the board.
Up until that date, in the boards view, the It will no doubt still be of concern to some that the chief board consisted of the chairman, deputy chairman, two executive executive is a cousin of the deputy chairman, however this is directors and four independent non-executive directors.
There the only lasting family tie which remains on the Grainger board were no new additions to the board at that date.
following many years of greater links.
As intimated in The On 1 May 2007, Henry Pitman was appointed to the board as Combined Code, the criteria of A.
3.1 are only a guideline and an independent non-executive director, re-establishing the same it is the directors view of the independence of a particular balance of non-executives as previously.
director that is ultimately important.
In forming their opinion, The directors therefore believe that, excluding the chairman, the directors consider, amongst other things, the individuals the board consisted of at least half independent non-executive professional characteristics, their behaviour at board meetings, directors for the entire reporting period.
their contribution to the debate and unbiased judgement.
The following analysis explains the boards duly considered view of the independence of the directors.
GOVERNANCE 57 Director Boards determination Explanatory notes Robin Broadhurst  under A.
Appointed chairman 28 February 2007, previously senior independent director Stephen Dickinson Not independentclose family ties: Deputy chairman more than nine years service: previously managing director: part-time executive responsibilities: participation in all-employee share scheme.
Appointed senior independent director 28 February 2007 John Barnsley  under A.
Robert R S Hiscox Independentalthough a trustee for a trust holding a material shareholding 7% at 30 September, the board is of the opinion that this position does not interfere with or influence his character or judgement in any way.
As chairman of Hiscox plc, and past deputy chairman of Lloyds, Mr Hiscox brings extensive skills and experience in his own right, which can only be beneficial to Graingers board: the trust has reduced its shareholding over the past three years, from 12.5 million shares to 9 million shares.
3.1 criteria: Appointed 1 May 2007 note that as explained at the time of his appointment Mr Pitman is related to the Dickinson family, there are no close ties between him and the current or former directors of Grainger.
Robert Dickinson Not independentclose family ties: Retired 28 February 2007 more than nine years service.
Full biographical details of all current directors are given on pages 54 and 55.
Retirement by rotation and re-election of a significant development, is considered particularly beneficial.
The board recognises that it is important to adhere to good The board therefore continues to consider itself fortunate governance principles and all board members are, as such, that the deputy chairman, being willing and able, will again offer required to stand for re-election upon appointment and at himself for re-election, despite having passed the age of 70 and intervals of no more than three years.
However, the board having stood for re-election for each of the past three years.
is also of the view that long-term stability in the board is an The chairman has satisfied himself that, following evaluation, important factor, given the long-term nature of the business.
all directors offering themselves for re-election continue to Continuation of leadership throughout, for example, the period show the required commitment and effective performance.
GOVERNANCE 58 GRAINGER PLC Annual report and accounts 2007 corporate governance report continued Meetings Each director is given an opportunity to raise an item to the There were four ordinary meetings of the board in the year, agenda and any request for further information from a director where the board met to review the business and to consider is treated as a high priority.
The directors also have direct the items reserved specifically for it which have been documented access to the services of the company secretary, who reports and approved by the board.
These include setting the overall to the chairman regarding matters of corporate governance.
strategy, approving major transactions, setting debt gearing limits The appointment and removal of the company secretary is and associated hedging strategy and agreeing accounting policies.
a matter for the board as a whole.
Procedures also exist for No changes were made to this schedule during the year.
directors to take independent professional advice as required, Decisions regarding more minor transactions are delegated at the groups expense.
The chairman met once during the year with the nonEach meeting was preceded, the evening before, with an executives, without the executives present.
It was the joint view informal meeting allowing more time for debate and also a of the chairman and the non-executives that this was indeed dinner, giving an opportunity for the directors to enhance their useful and two such meetings have been planned for the next relationships with each other.
All directors attended all meetings reporting period.
during their relevant periods of office except for Robert Hiscox, Induction, evaluation, training and development who was not present at two of the meetings.
On one occasion Henry Pitman was appointed in the year and received a when unable to attend the formal board meeting, Mr Hiscox comprehensive, tailored induction to the company.
This consisted attended the previous evening meeting and dinner to ensure of the provision of a bible of information covering such items as that his views could be taken to the board meeting.
It is intended the most recent risk review, recent minutes, terms of reference that there will be six ordinary board meetings in the next of the committees etc.
as well as sessions with each member reporting period.
of the senior management team.
These meetings were arranged As in previous years, at the June meeting, the board met for an in small groups so that as well as the divisional leaders each extended period in order to debate and reflect fully on strategy.
giving a presentation of their business area, discussion and This event also provides an ideal opportunity for the board to debate was encouraged.
spend time with the senior executives.
Mr Pitman was also taken on two property tours, to enable him As well as the ordinary meetings, ad hoc meetings are arranged to see some of the companys properties ranging from the as necessary in order to consider major transactions or events.
core regulated portfolio through to the development activities.
Due to the short notice, which is unavoidable, all directors are Mr Pitman was fortunate to join the board in time to participate not always able to attend, or to join by teleconference.
Wherever in the June extended strategy meeting described above, which possible the chairman will take on views of the non-attending gave him an ideal opportunity to understand the strategy at director prior to the meeting.
Board papers are produced and distributed in a timely manner Directors and Officers insurance is held by the company and for each meeting.
They contain sufficient financial and nondetails of the policy are given to new directors on appointment.
financial information to allow the board to properly monitor the The evaluation process this year again built on the success group and understand the challenges facing it and opportunities of the previous year, extending the work involved and in turn open to it.
The format of the papers has recently been amended enhancing the outcomes.
The process was conducted internally to specifically highlight items for decision and for discussion.
In and consisted of a written questionnaire followed by an this way the board can be sure that it concentrates its efforts interview with the chairman.
Rather than a box ticking or simple and allocates sufficient time to those items which are most rating scheme, the response required from directors this year important.
was an in their own words approach.
This allowed for more GOVERNANCE 59 than just the standard areas of performance to be recognised.
together or individually in several roadshows throughout Europe The questionnaire covered all of the board as a whole, the and in the USA.
In particular this year, more meetings have taken committees and the individual directors and all of these areas place with private client brokers.
Feedback is always sought were picked up as relevant in the subsequent interviews.
following such events and is presented to the board as a whole.
Notes of the interviews are held only by the chairman and the The board is briefed on the views of major shareholders.
company secretary since it has been proven in recent years that Further, all directors, including the chairman and non-executives, this allows the directors to be more open in their discussions.
are available for meetings with shareholders.
There were no requests in the year from shareholders to meet Henry Pitman, The chairman was pleased with the commitment shown by the newly appointed non-executive director.
He, along with the directors to the process and felt that it was very useful for all other directors, will be in attendance at the Annual General him in his first year of chairmanship.
The whole process and its Meeting and available to answer questions.
outcomes were reviewed formally at a board meeting.
As a result of the evaluation process it has been agreed that more The groups website includes a specific and comprehensive communication between the executives and the non-executives Investor Relations section, containing all RNS announcements, could be beneficial.
This will be in part achieved through a share price information and annual documents available for planned increase in number of board meetings to be held download etc.
All shareholders have the opportunity to attend each year.
the Annual General Meeting, which continues as a route for communication with smaller private shareholders.
The senior independent director met firstly with the executives and then immediately after with the non-executives in order to The notice of meeting and annual report and accounts are sent evaluate the performance of the chairman.
The boards written out at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Separate votes document for the separation of the roles of the chairman and are held for each proposed resolution, including the approval of the chief executive was used as a basis for the evaluation, the remuneration committee report, and a proxy count is given bearing in mind that the chairman had only very recently in each case after the voting on a show of hands.
At the Annual been appointed.
General Meeting in February 2007, Grainger included a vote withheld category for the third year, in line with best practice.
The board is provided with regular written updates which are Shareholders were also able again to lodge their votes through relevant to a listed property company.
In the year this included the CREST system.
further information on the REIT regime and the Companies Act 2006.
Directors are able to request specific training, through Internal control the chairman or company secretary.
If any development areas The group has a cyclical process for identifying, assessing and are identified for the board as a whole, its committees or for managing its internal control, which has been in place for the directors as individuals, then they would be appropriately full year under review and up to the date of this report.
The addressed on appointment or thereafter.
process is designed to enable the board to be confident that such risks are mitigated, or controlled as far as possible.
It should Relations with stakeholders be noted however that no system can eliminate the risk of failure The primary contacts with shareholders, analysts and potential to achieve business objectives entirely and can only provide investors are the chief executive and deputy chief executive reasonable and not absolute assurance against material finance director.
The usual half yearly results announcements and misstatement or loss.
The audit committee is delegated the briefings were also attended by some of the companys most task of reviewing all identified risks, with the absolute key risks senior management and this was welcomed by shareholders.
retained for full board review.
The audit committee reports Apart from these meetings, there have again been circa.
100 to the board at every board meeting.
Risks and controls are meetings and presentations by the executive directors, to reviewed to ensure effective management of appropriate maintain an appropriate dialogue.
They also participated either GOVERNANCE 60 GRAINGER PLC Annual report and accounts 2007 corporate governance report continued strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
1.6 The company complied with this requirement at the committee also reviews the half year and full year financial year end, however as explained in detail in the directors statements and holds discussions with the groups auditors.
In remuneration report, Rupert Dickinson and Andrew addition, the group has an internal audit function which performs Cunningham held service contracts during the year with relevant reviews as part of a programme approved by the audit notice periods in excess of one year.
The notice periods were committee.
The committee considers any issues or risks arising being reduced from two years to one year on a straight-line from internal audit in order that appropriate actions can be basis over a period of five years from 1 October 2002 to undertaken for their satisfactory resolution.
The internal audit 30 September 2007. manager has a direct reporting line to the chairman of the Nomination committee report audit committee.
The nomination committee composition changed during the An annual budget is produced, together with longer-term year due to the retirement of Robert Dickinson, the previous projections in accordance with the agreed strategy, which are chairman, but at all times consisted of the chairman of the board presented to the board for approval.
A fundamental part of the who is the chairman of the committee and two independent control process is the diligent monitoring of actual performance non-executive directors as follows: against this budget by the board.
Where applicable, revisions are Until 28 February 2007 made to expected outturn against which further progress can Robert Dickinson Chairman be monitored.
Robert R S Hiscox Member The board also discusses in detail the projected financial impact of major proposed acquisitions and disposals, including their Robin Broadhurst Member financing.
All such proposed substantial investments are From 28 February 2007 considered by all directors.
Where meetings are required between board meetings and a full complement of directors Robin Broadhurst Chairman cannot be achieved, a committee of directors considers the Robert R S Hiscox Member necessary formalities.
The board is also responsible for the Bill Tudor John Member discussion and approval of the groups treasury strategy, including mitigation against changes in interest rates.
Due to the relatively small size of the board, matters which are Going concern included within the nomination committees terms of reference After making diligent enquiries, including the review of future are often discussed by the board as a whole.
As a result, this anticipated cash flows and compliance with banking covenants, year, the committee met only informally and communicated the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group and on other occasions by email or by telephone.
company have adequate resources to continue in existence for The terms of reference of the nomination committee are the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt available on the groups website and principally relate to filling the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
vacancies on the board, whether arising through resignation, retirement or desired expansion and succession planning.
Compliance statement Following some restructuring of the senior management team Independence of non-executive directors is explained in detail it is expected that succession planning will be high on the above.
In the boards view it is their assessment of independence nomination committees agenda next year.
which determines compliance with the Code and therefore no non-compliance on grounds of independence has been recorded.
The retirement of the previous chairman and appointment of the new chairman had been announced prior to last years Except as noted below, the board considers that it has report and as reported in last years nomination report, the complied with the Combined Code 2003 during the year recruitment of a further independent non-executive was in ended 30 September 2007. progress.
This involved the use of an agency.
GOVERNANCE 61 The nomination committee is also responsible for reviewing the The audit committee adheres to particularly strict and detailed desirability of the continuation of service of directors required terms of reference, which are available for inspection on the to retire by rotation.
In this regard each of the directors groups website.
In addition to the work described within the required to retire by rotation this year has continued to internal control section of the main report above, the audit demonstrate full, capable and committed participation in setting committee is also responsible for reviewing the independence and monitoring strategy for the group.
Details of those directors of the external auditor, which includes the approval of any standing for re-election in the February 2008 Annual General non-audit service fees above a relatively nominal level.
The audit Meeting are given in the notice of meeting which accompanies committee is responsible for the appointment of the external this report and biographies are displayed on pages 54 and 55. auditor and for agreeing the audit fee.
The deputy chief executive finance director and external Audit committee report audit partner as well as other senior management are invited The audit committee meets four times each year and reports to attend meetings of the committee.
In particular this year, on its work at every subsequent board meeting.
This is a critical the audit committee has started to receive presentations from part of the internal control process.
Meetings of the committee members of staff such as the treasury director, tax director invariably last two hours or more.
and IT director all non-statutory directors, to ensure that they As a result of Robin Broadhurst being appointed chairman of feel sufficiently close to these important individuals who have the board on 28 February 2007, he resigned from the committee significant levels of control to maintain.
Once each year the audit on that date.
The board therefore comprised only two members committee meet with management without the auditors present for the two months until 1 May 2007 when Henry Pitman was and also with the auditors without management present.
appointed to the board and the audit committee.
However, During the year the committee received 26 internal audit since there were no meetings of the committee during that reports covering both control and value for money matters.
period, there were three independent members available for all meetings.
As a result, this minor non-compliance with provision C. 3.1 has not been formally raised to the compliance statement.
By order of the board Attendance of the individual directors is shown below.
Mr Barnsley has the particular recent, relevant financial experience required by The Combined Code.
Nov Feb May Sep 2006 2007 2007 2007 John Barnsley MARIE GLANVILLE ACA ACIS Chairman Company secretary 18 December 2007 Bill Tudor John Member Robin Broadhurst Member resigned 28 February 2007 n a n a Henry Pitman Member appointed 1 May 2007 n a n a
