Corporate Governance Statement of compliance with code of To enable the Board to discharge its duties As well as being the Chairman of the best practice fully, all Directors receive appropriate and Company, Mr Edens, holds numerous The Financial Services Authority requires timely information, including brieng directorships in a professional capacity.
all UK incorporated listed companies to papers distributed in advance of Board The Board is satisfied that these disclose how they have applied the principles meetings.
Management regularly makes appointments do not adversely affect his and complied with the provisions of the presentations on business and operational commitment as the Companys Chairman.
The Company, as a issues to the Board and its Committees.
Guernsey incorporated company, is not All Directors have access to the advice and Non-Executive Directors currently required to comply with the services of the Company Secretary and his The Non-Executive Directors bring Combined Code.
The Directors believe, team, who are responsible to the Chairman independent views to the Board and have however, that it is important for the on matters of corporate governance.
diverse experience in chartered surveying, Company, as a public company, to maintain accountancy, law and finance to add to a high standard of corporate governance, Board balance and independence the Boards effectiveness, particularly in and as such, the provisions set out in the The Board is satisfied that no individual or the areas of corporate strategy, governance Combined Code which they consider group of Directors has unfettered powers and risk.
Non-Executive Directors take an applicable have been adopted during the of discretion and that an appropriate active part in debate, not being afraid to year and are summarised below.
Throughout balance exists between the executive and challenge proposals, ensuring the robustness 2007, except as otherwise explained Non-executive members of the Board.
below, the Company complied with the recommendations of the Combined During the year, the Board comprised of Remuneration for the Non-Executive Code in relation to the management the Chairman, one executive Director and Directors is determined by the Board.
The roles They do not participate in the Companys of Chairman and Chief Executive officer bonus or pension schemes but as part Role of the Board are split.
The Chairman is responsible for of the terms of their initial appointment The Board sets strategy and monitors the effectiveness of the Board, and the to the Board they have been given shares the Groups operational and financial Chief Executive officer for the day to day in the Company.
A schedule of matters management of the Company.
Directors are appointed for an initial period reserved for the Board was approved on of three years subject to renewal for admission of the Company to the Ofcial The Board considers that all four Nonfurther periods.
List, and is reviewed on an annual basis.
Executive Directors are independent It includes those matters that are most notwithstanding their entitlements to Board appraisal significant to the Group, based on the free Ordinary Shares under their letters The Board and its Committees undertake nature and size of the matter, both in of appointment.
Mr Carey is the senior a formal annual evaluation of their terms of financial impact and risk.
own performance and that of individual Mr Edens, the Chairman, may not be Directors.
The performance evaluation As part of its collective responsibility for regarded as independent since he is consists of each Director completing a the management of the Group, the Board the chief executive officer and chairman wide-ranging appraisal questionnaire based must ensure that adequate resources are of the board of directors of Fortress on the process and questions outlined in place to achieve its strategic aims and Investment Group LLC, afliates of which in the Higgs Reports recommendations that its obligations to its shareholders and manage the major shareholders of the for good practice.
The Non-Executive other stakeholders are met.
However the Board considers Directors also discuss the performance of that the experience and independent the Chairman annually, or more frequently The Board is responsible to shareholders judgment of its other Non-Executive as necessary.
The appraisal process revealed for the management and control of the Directors provides an appropriate and a high level of satisfaction with the Groups activities and good corporate effective balance between the executive operation and functioning of the Board governance.
The Board met 10 times during and non-executive and independent and and Committees.
the period and intends to meet at least non-independent members.
The Board objectively the period and to the date of this report, Board Committees sets and monitors Group strategy, reviews more than half of the Board, including The Board has established Nomination, performance, ensures adequate funding, the Chairman, comprised independent Remuneration, Investment and Audit examines major potential acquisitions and Non-Executive Directors.
Committees which deal with specic disposals, formulates policy on key issues aspects of the Groups affairs, each of and reports to shareholders.
which has written terms of reference which are reviewed annually and which deal clearly with their authorities and duties.
Copies of these are available on request from the Company Secretary.
Mapeley Limited Annual Report 2007 43 Corporate Governance continued The Nomination Committee and the Audit Committee reviewing and challenging, where Remuneration Committee are chaired by Membership necessary, the actions and judgment of Mr Edens.
The Board believes that the The Audit Committee is appointed by management in relation to the quarterly, interests of the Company are better served the Board.
It comprises of Non-Executive interim and annual financial statements with Mr Edens as a member of these Directors.
The Committee is chaired by before submission to the Board: and respective Committees, notwithstanding Mr Parkinson.
Its other members are reviewing the Companys procedures for the requirement of the Combined Code Mr Carey and Mr Harris.
The members handling allegations from whistleblowers.
that all members should be independent.
of the Committee have no links with The Audit Committee is chaired by the Companys external auditors and are The Company has procedures whereby Mr Parkinson.
independent of the Companys management.
staff may, in confidence, raise concerns The Board considers that collectively the about matters of possible impropriety, fraud, Nomination Committee Audit Committee has significant recent financial irregularity or other malpractice.
The Nomination Committee is appointed and relevant financial experience as detailed by the Board and chaired by Mr Edens.
on page 37 and the ability to discharge Financial Reporting Its other members are Mr Carey and its duties properly, gained from managing The Audit Committee has reviewed the Mr Parkinson.
Their experience is detailed businesses of a similar or greater size, significant financial reporting issues and on page 37.
Other Board members, together and through extensive service on the judgments made in connection with the with other individuals, attend if invited, Boards and Audit Committees of other preparation of the Groups financial for all or part of any meeting, as and listed companies.
statements including significant accounting when appropriate.
The Committee met policies, any changes to them and any once during the year with full attendance.
The Committee meets at least three times significant estimates and judgments.
The a year, and where appropriate meetings Audit Committee has also reviewed the The Committee is responsible for: coincide with key dates in the Companys clarity and completeness of disclosures considering the size, structure and financial reporting and audit cycle.
The in the financial statements and considered composition of the Board: Chief Financial officer, the Chief Executive whether the disclosures made were set considering the retirement of Directors officer and others attend by invitation.
The review of the and appointment of additional and During the period, the Audit Committee annual report included a review of the replacement Directors: and met five times.
business and financial review and corporate making appropriate recommendations governance relating to audit and risk to the Board.
The role and responsibilities of the Audit Remuneration Committee Committee are set out in written terms Internal audit The Remuneration Committee is appointed of reference, which have been reviewed The Audit Committee reviewed the by the Board and chaired by Mr Edens.
Its annually as part of the Committees requirement for an internal audit function other members are Mr Carey, Mr Fascitelli evaluation process.
Copies of these are during the year on behalf of the Board and Mr Parkinson.
The Chief Executive available on request from the Company and considered there was no necessity for officer, the Chief Finance officer and others Secretary.
The main responsibilities are: an internal audit function, as the Group attend by invitation.
The Committee aims considering and making recommendations has a small management team operating to meet at least once a year and during regarding the appointment and removal from two locations and the Board and the period met once with full attendance.
of the external auditors: senior management team exercise close recommending the audit fee to the Board control over the Groups activities.
This The main role and responsibilities of the and pre-approving fees in respect of enables the close involvement of the Remuneration Committee are set out in non-audit services provided by the Executive Director and the Chief Financial written terms of reference, which are external auditors: officer in the day to day operational reviewed annually.
During the year, the reviewing the nature and scope of the matters of the Group.
The Audit Committee Remuneration Committee carried out its external audit and monitoring the external expects to review this decision annually.
responsibilities in accordance with the terms auditors independence and objectivity: of reference and its activities are described monitoring the integrity in relation to the in the Directors Remuneration Report.
interim and annual financial statements and financial announcements and In accordance with the Committees terms significant reporting judgments therein of reference, no Director participated before submission to the Board: in discussions relating to his terms and ensuring effective systems of internal conditions of service or remuneration.
financial control, financial reporting and risk management are maintained: Mapeley Limited Annual Report 2007 44 Auditors The Committees terms of reference require the Audit Committee to carry out an annual review of the independence of the Groups auditors, Ernst&Young LLP.
Senior members of the audit team are rotated on a regular basis.
The Company has a policy on the provision of non-audit services by the auditors.
The implementation of the policy is continually monitored by the Audit Committee.
The Committee has considered the provision of non-audit services performed by the auditors and was satisfied they were and continue to be objective and independent of the Group.
Investment Committee The Company has clearly dened guidelines for capital expenditure.
An Investment Committee reporting to the Board and chaired by Mr Edens is responsible for reviewing and approving all significant individual property transactions proposed by the Group.
The Committee includes, in addition to the Chairman, Mr Fascitelli, Mr Harris, Mr Hopkins and Mr Parkinson.
The Committee also monitors the disposals of surplus property, rent reviews, lease renewals, development opportunities, dilapidations settlements, and freehold and leasehold acquisitions.
The Committee evaluates, considers and makes recommendations to the Board in relation to proposals for new business in terms of the type, t with the Companys strategic plan, its profitability and the resources required.
In addition, the Committee considers and makes recommendations to the Board in relation to customer requests, invitations to tender bid, market research, networking information, risk evaluation and major expenditure on life cycle and other projects in relation to the Groups properties.
Table of attendance for the year to 31 December 2007 Full Board Remuneration Audit Nomination Investment Director Meeting Committee Committee Committee Committee Roger Carey 5 1 5 1 n a Wesley R Edens 2 1 n a 1 1 Michael Fascitelli 6 1 n a n a 6 John Harris 8 n a 2 n a 10 Jameson Hopkins 9 n a n a n a 11 Charles Parkinson 6 1 4 1 11 Total meetings 10 1 5 1 14 Internal control There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The Executive Director and senior operational management are responsible for identifying key risks and assessing their probable impact through formal processes at both Group and subsidiary levels.
During 2007, the Board discharged its responsibility for internal control through the following key procedures: the maintenance of an organisational structure with clearly dened levels of authority and divisions of responsibilities: a comprehensive system of budgeting, planning and reporting, which is approved by the Board and against which performance is regularly monitored: the formulation of policies and of approval procedures in a number of key areas such as treasury operations and capital expenditure.
These are reviewed from time to time by the Board to confirm their adequacy: and the provision of a code of conduct for employees and the monitoring of the quality of personnel through an annual performance appraisal process.
The Group is committed to the highest standards of business conduct and seeks to maintain these standards across all of its operations.
The Group has what it believes to be an appropriate organisational structure for planning, executing, controlling and monitoring business operations in order to achieve its objectives.
The Group has designed and implemented procedures to ensure complete and accurate accounting and to limit the potential exposure to loss of assets or fraud.
Control measures undertaken include physical controls, segregation of duties and reviews by management.
Mapeley Limited Annual Report 2007 45 Corporate Governance continued Internal control continued Annual General Meeting In accordance with the Combined Code, At the Annual General Meeting, investors the effectiveness of the Groups system will be given the opportunity to question of internal control was kept under review the Board and to meet with them afterwards.
during the year by the Board.
This review They are encouraged to participate in the included financial, operational and Meeting.
At the Annual General Meeting compliance issues.
A formal evaluation the Company complies with the provisions was carried out in 2006 and the Audit of the Code relating to the disclosure Committee has been requested to keep the of proxy votes, the attendance of matter under review.
Committee chairmen and the separation of resolutions.
The Company arranges The Board considers its policies and for the annual report and notice of the procedures to be robust, whilst recognising meeting to be posted to shareholders in that such a system is designed to manage good time to allow for full consideration rather than eliminate the risk of failure to prior to the Annual General Meeting.
achieve business objectives, and can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance Going Concern against material misstatement or loss.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group Relations with shareholders has adequate resources to continue in The Chairman, Chief Executive officer, operational existence for the foreseeable Head of Investor Relations and designated future.
For this reason, they continue to members of senior management are the adopt the going concern basis in preparing Companys principal spokespersons with the financial statements.
investors, fund managers, the press and other interested parties.
The Board is fully informed on the information provided to shareholders and their reactions.
As part of the Companys effort to increase effective communication with both investors and potential investors, Mapeley executed a continual programme of meetings and presentations during 2007.
Management met with institutional shareholders as and when requested.
The Company works continually to improve the understanding of its objectives, strategy and performance and in the year 81 presentations were made by the Chief Executive officer, Chief Financial officer and Head of Investor Relations.
These presentations provide an opportunity to explain the Companys business and financial performance and to answer questions from investors.
All such meetings are conducted within the guidance provided by the UKLA Listing and Disclosure Rules on the dissemination of price sensitive information.
The Board is regularly updated as to the views of investors, analysts and the media and reports are made available to the Board on feedback received on an unattributable basis from investors.
