Remuneration report continued Directors interests The Directors interests, including immediate family interests, in the share capital of the Company were as follows: Ordinary Ordinary shares of shares of 25 pence each 25 pence each 30 June 2007 30 June 2006 Oliver Whitehead 40,000 Salmaan Hasan 115,000 100,000 Ivan Ezekiel 20,831 7,695 Tim Garnham 2,414 Clive Richards 211,110 211,110 Christopher Sheridan 16,666 16,666 Appointed on 19 July 2006.
Employee share incentives The Group has operated three types of share plans: the EIP, the Executive Share Option Schemes and the Sharesave Scheme.
During the year, conditional awards have been granted under the EIP and options were granted pursuant to the Sharesave Scheme.
No options were granted under the Executive Share Option Schemes.
None of the terms of the EIP, the Executive Share Option Schemes or the Sharesave Scheme were varied during the year.
42 2005 Executive Incentive Plan Minerva plc Participation in the EIP is available to executive Directors and senior employees of the Company and Annual report and its subsidiaries.
accounts 2007 The EIP was adopted in November 2005 and comprises two parts.
The first part provides for the Company to grant participants a conditional right or an option with a nominal value exercise price to acquire Matching Performance Shares over a number of shares in the Company linked to the number of shares purchased by the participant from his or her annual bonus.
The second part allows the Company to grant participants a conditional right to acquire Performance Shares or an option with a nominal value exercise price which is not linked to the co-investment in Company shares by the participant.
The vesting of awards of Matching Performance Shares or conditional rights to acquire Performance Shares is subject to a three year condition which will compare the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance with the TSR of the companies in the Comparator Group as follows: Proportion of Matching Performance Ranking of the Company within the Comparator Group Shares or Perfomance Shares which vest Within the top 20 per cent of companies 100 per cent Between the median company and the top 20 per cent of companies straight-line basis between 25 per cent and 100 per cent Median company 25 per cent Below median company Nil The TSR measure was chosen as it is considered to be well understood by the business and is a transparent measure that acts to align the interests of the participants with the interests of the Companys shareholders.
The Comparator Group is such group of listed companies as the Committee may from time to time select at the time each award is made to date this has comprised companies in the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Index at the date of grant, excluding agents.
The Company currently considers that this index is the Companys closest and most appropriate Comparator Group, although it will consider the continued inclusion of companies classified as Real Estate Investment Trusts in future awards.
The Committee will decide how to treat any companies that leave the Comparator Group, due to takeover for example, based on the circumstances prevailing at the time.
In addition, the Committee will have the power to scale back the vesting of awards where, in its reasonable opinion, there has not been satisfactory financial performance of the Company over the performance period.
Executive Share Option Schemes The Executive Share Option Schemes have been operated for executive Directors and senior management.
Details of the performance conditions which apply to historic share options are set out in the notes to the share options table below.
All Employee Sharesave Scheme The Company has operated an H. M. Revenue and Customs approved Sharesave Scheme since 2002.
All eligible employees of participating Group companies may participate in the Sharesave Scheme.
