Overview Ram Brewery London SW18 Great potential Minerva plans to transform this historic site where, until it closed, beer had been brewed since the 16th century.
Our current proposals are for a mixed-use development comprising 1 million sq.
We intend to submit a planning application by the end of this calendar year.
Board of Directors 34 Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Oliver Whitehead CBE Salmaan Hasan BA MBA Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Chairman of the Nominations Committee Aged 42 Member of the Remuneration Committee Joined Minerva in July 2005 from Deutsche Postbank AG Aged 66 where, as Head of Property Finance, he ran the unit for Appointed to the Board of Minerva in July 2006.
Chief Executive 11 years concluding over 5 billion of structured property of Alfred McAlpine from May 1993 to August 2003 and from loans in the UK and Europe.
Prior to this he worked at then until June 2007 was Chairman of Alfred McAlpine.
Industrial Bank of Japan and Samuel Montagu in London.
Between March 2004 and February 2005 he was non-executive He is responsible, alongside the Board, in setting the Chairman of ITNET plc.
Formerly Group Chief Executive of strategy of the Group, day to day management and new Babcock International Group plc, having previously been an business initiatives.
executive Director of AMEC plc and John Laing plc.
Ivan Ezekiel BSC FCA ATII CF Finance Director Aged 41 Responsible for finance, accounting, tax and co-ordination of management and external reporting.
He qualied as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG and worked for Capital and Regional Properties plc for three years as Group Financial Controller before joining Minerva plc in November 1997 as Chief Financial officer.
He was appointed to the Board in March 2005.
Overview 35 Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Tim Garnham BSC John McNeil BA Development Director Non-executive Director Aged 50 Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Joined Minerva in January 1998 from the Trafalgar House Member of the Nominations Committee Property Group where, as Deputy Managing Director, he was Aged 47 responsible for the UK development programme including a number of major London developments.
He is responsible Appointed to the Board of Minerva in July 2007.
He initially for the overall control of the Groups development activities.
trained as a barrister and has spent over 20 years working in various aspects of finance in the UK and internationally.
Between 1997 and 2000, he was head of corporate finance in the UK for J. Henry Schroder & Co Limited and between 2000 and 2001 served as head of UK investment banking for Schroder Salomon Smith Barney.
Between 2001 and 2006, he worked for Citigroup Corporate and Investment Bank, first as head of European Investment Banking and then as a senior consultant.
He retired from full time investment banking in 2005 and presently serves as a non-executive director of Mecom Group plc.
Clive Richards OBE DL FCA FCMA FMIM Christopher Sheridan FCIB MSI Non-executive Director and Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director Chairman of the Audit Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nominations Committee Member of the Nominations Committee Aged 70 Aged 64 Following six years at Peat Marwick Mitchell now part Joined Samuel Montagu & Co Limited in 1962 and became a of KPMG in 1960 he joined Wedd Durlacher Mordant, Director in 1974.
He was appointed head of Samuel Montagus subsequently a major constituent part of Credit Suisse where Treasury Division, with overall responsibility for all the banks he became Managing Partner.
From 1970 to 1976 he worked dealing activities, in 1976.
He was Chief Executive of Samuel at N M Rothschild & Sons Ltd where he rose to become Group Montagu from 1984 to 1994, where as head of merchant Finance Director.
In 1976 he left to set up his own investment banking of the Midland Bank Group he oversaw the changes and financial services company Clive Richards & Co which during Big Bang as well as the integration into HSBC.
has been involved in a number of successful ventures.
He is He is Chairman of Yorkshire Building Society and non-executive currently non-executive Chairman of Intelligent Environments Director of Alpha Bank London Limited, Hanover Acceptances Group plc and CEL International Limited.
Appointed to the Limited, Standard Bank London Limited and Deputy Chairman Board of Minerva in November 1996. of Inspace plc.
Appointed to the Board of Minerva in November 1996.
