The highest and lowest share prices during the year were 963.0p on and 530.0p on 26 February 2007 and 22 May 2006 respectively.
2 All share options and rights expire at the end of the exercise period.
indd 7 25 07 2007 11:40:47 QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 52 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SHARE OPTIONS AUDITED TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN During the year, the Company continued to operate the 1996 The following graph charts the total cumulative shareholder Unapproved Share Option Scheme albeit with no further grants return growth in share value assuming reinvestment of dividends being made and the 2004 Unapproved Share Plan.
It also operated, of the Company for the period from 31 March 2002 to 31 March 2007 for the first time, the Quintain Estates and Development PLC and then extended to 12 June 2007, compared with total shareholder Company Share Option Plan the CSOP which replaced the 1996 return relating to the FTSE 350 Index and the FTSE All Share Real Executive Share Option Scheme.
HMRC approval of the scheme Estate Index chosen for this purpose as the Company is a was given on 12 May 2006. constituent of these indices : The Committee has continued to follow its policy that, for it to exercise its discretion to grant any share options or rights under the 2004 Unapproved Share Plan and CSOP, the Groups performance over the previous three years must exceed the average of the rolling IPD index.
Approved options granted during the year at market price are subject to a performance condition whereby the growth in share price must exceed 10% net of ination over the three years following grant of the option.
This performance condition was approved by shareholders in September 2005 and is one that the Committee believes remains appropriate and provides a transparent incentive to increase returns to shareholders.
Share rights granted under the 2004 Unapproved Plan are NOTE: granted at par value and are subject to a performance condition This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2007 and then whereby the Companys real growth in net asset value must match extended to 12 June 2007, of 100 invested in Quintain Estates or exceed by an average of 10% pa the increase in the retail price and Development PLC on 31 March 2002 compared with the value index.
Option and rights awards are subject to a minimum three of 100 invested in the FTSE 350 Index and the FTSE All Share year vesting period and, on exercise, Directors are encouraged Real Estate Index.
The other points plotted are the values at to hold shares for a further period after vesting, subject to the intervening financial year ends.
need to finance the costs of acquisition and any tax liability.
For awards of share rights to be made in 2007, it is anticipated Share price as at that the performance conditions will be the same as for those 31 March 1 April 1 April 1 April granted in 2006, to reect the importance placed by the Committee 2007 2006 2004 2002 on incentivising senior executives to deliver substantial real growth pence pence pence pence in net asset value.
During the financial year, a total of 42,416 Quintain options and 129,816 share rights were granted, 45,923 options Estates and and share rights lapsed and 514,051 options and 16,980 rights Development PLC 895.50 680.00 423.75 219.50 were exercised at option prices of between 155.3p and 556.3p, Increase since and rights at 25.0p.
Details of options and rights granted to, and exercised by, the Executive Directors are shown above.
1 April 1 April 1 April 2006 2004 2002 Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any share option % % % or rights schemes.
Quintain Estates In its annual review of Executive Director and senior staff and Development PLC share price 31.69 111.33 307.97 remuneration policy and packages, the Committee considers various guidelines on executive remuneration.
In relation to Quintain Estates and Development PLC the grant of options and awards and the design of share-based total return 33.63 122.08 354.43 incentive schemes, the Committee ensures the setting of suitably stretching performance criteria and the recommended dilution FTSE 350 Index total return 11.07 63.59 50.42 limit for all Group schemes including all-employee schemes FTSE All Share Real Estate of 10% over a rolling 10 year period.
total return 22.15 127.71 187.73 Source: Thompson Financial Despite the transition to International Accounting Standards, the Group also prepares non-statutory accounts under UK GAAP By order of the Board so performance conditions relating to bonus and share incentives are measured on as consistent a basis as is reasonably practicable.
MARTIN MEECH SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN CHAIRMAN OF REMUNERATION COMMITTEE At the AGM in 2002, shareholders approved the terms of a Share 13 June 2007 Incentive Plan SIP.
Application has currently been made to HMRC for their approval of the SIP and it is anticipated that first invitations to all staff employed within the Group to participate will be sent out during the summer of 2007.
indd 8 25 07 2007 11:41:06 QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 53 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT INTRODUCTION The Terms of Reference, which are reviewed annually, may be The Audit Committee submits its report for the year ended found on the Companys website or are available on request from 31 March 2007, which sets out the Groups audit policy and the its registered ofce.
role of the Committee in monitoring the financial systems and the The Committee confirms that there has been an ongoing process management of external and internal auditors which are carried in place for the identication, evaluation and management of out in accordance with current legislation and best practice.
risk during the period to the date of the publication of this Once again, the Directors will be seeking approval of the Groups report, and the Committee is not aware of any previously Audit Committee Report from its shareholders at its AGM.
AUDIT COMMITTEE INTERNAL CONTROL The Audit Committee comprises all the Non-Executive Directors The Board recognises that it is ultimately responsible for the and since October 2002 has been chaired by David Pangbourne who system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
is a former partner with Deloitte & Touche LLP and a qualied In carrying out its duties, it delegates detailed responsibility Chartered Accountant.
During the year, the Committee met three for internal control to the Audit Committee.
Management times with full attendance on each occasion.
The Chairman will prepares financial statements and disclosures in accordance be present at the AGM to answer questions from shareholders with applicable rules and regulations which the Committee and offers himself for re-election.
reviews for clarity, completeness, accuracy and context, and on which it reports back to the Board.
The Finance Director, the Chief Financial officer and others attend by invitation.
The Committee Chairman met with the external The Group is committed to the highest standards of business auditor twice during the year without management being present.
conduct and seeks to maintain these standards across all of its The Committee also met the valuers of the Groups principal operations.
The Group has what it believes to be an appropriate properties prior to the release of the interim and preliminary organisational structure for planning, executing, controlling results, with the external auditors present.
and monitoring business operations in order to achieve its objectives.
In addition, the Committee has access to funding for any further independent legal, accounting or other advice it believes to be The Group has procedures designed to ensure complete necessary for the effective execution of its duties.
and accurate accounting, and to limit the potential exposure to loss of assets or fraud.
Control measures undertaken The duties of the Audit Committee are set out in its Terms include physical controls, segregation of duties, reviews of Reference, which were reviewed and approved during by management, and internal and external audit.
the period and include: In accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control was any financial announcements and significant reporting kept under review during the period, both by the Committee judgements therein: and by the Board.
This review included financial, operational considering and making recommendations to the Board and compliance issues.
regarding the appointment or removal of the internal and The Board considers its policy and procedures to be robust whilst external auditors: recognising that such a system is designed to manage rather reviewing internal financial controls: than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal against material misstatement or loss.
audit function: Monitoring is achieved through assessment by the internal auditor reviewing the nature and scope of the external audit at the direction of the Committee and the presentation to the Board and monitoring the external auditors independence of findings together with recommendations of any appropriate and effectiveness: corrective actions to be taken.
At the start of the year under forming policy on the supply of non-audit services by review, the Group employed a full-time internal auditor who the external auditors: reported to the Committee Chairman and to the Committee.
During the course of the year, Grant Thornton was appointed considering reports of the internal and external auditors to carry out the internal audit function and has commenced in the light of current corporate governance practice: and a comprehensive audit programme.
Representatives of Grant reviewing arrangements for staff to raise financial Thornton attend the Committee meetings on request to discuss concerns in confidence.
any issues arising from their work and answer questions directly.
The scope of the internal audit work was reviewed during the period and agreed with the Committee Chairman and Finance Director.
The Group has in place a whistle blowing policy under which members of staff with concerns may raise these in confidence under procedures contained in the staff handbook.
