70 Savills plc Our Governance Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report The Board is responsible to shareholders for the management and control of the Functioning of the Board Companys activities and is committed to high standards of Corporate Governance.
The Directors receive management information, including financial, operating and The principal governance rules applying to UK companies listed on the London Stock strategic reports, in advance of Board meetings.
During the year the Board held Exchange are contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance adopted seven scheduled meetings and also spent a day and a half reviewing and agreeing by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 The Code.
This report explains how the future Group strategy.
Attendance by Directors at scheduled meetings is the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code and explains where the outlined in the attendance of meeting table on page 72.
During the year five other Company has departed from them.
ad hoc Board meetings were also held to deal with specific matters.
When unable to be present in person, Directors may attend by audio or video-conference.
The Board considers that, throughout the period under review, with the exception When Directors are not able to attend Board or Committee meetings, their of one area detailed below see Board composition and balance, the Company comments on the papers to be considered at that meeting are relayed in advance has complied with the provisions recommended in Section 1 of the Code which to the relevant Chairman.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters applies to the financial period that is the subject of this Annual Report and Accounts.
specifically referred to it for decision.
These matters reserved for the Board include: Board composition and balance approval and management of Group strategy: The Board presently comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, four Independent review of Group policies and codes of conduct: Non-Executive Directors and six Executive Directors.
The biographies of the current Board members appear on pages 66 to 67. approval of the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets and any material changes: The posts of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separated.
The Chairman is responsible for the workings and leadership of the Board and for the balance review of performance, assessed against the Groups strategy, objectives, of its membership.
The Chief Executive is responsible for leading and managing business plans and budgets: the business within the authorities delegated by the Board.
approval of interim and preliminary announcements and the Annual Report Martin Angle who was appointed to the Board on 2 January 2007 and subsequently and Accounts: appointed to the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees on 30 January approval of the dividend policy: 2007, Timothy Ingram, Fields Wicker-Miurin and Charles McVeigh are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board considers that the Non-Executive Directors are approval of any significant changes in accounting policies or practices: independent of management and have no business or other relationship which could extension of the Groups activities into new other geographic areas: interfere materially with the exercise of their judgement.
approval of any significant acquisitions or investments: Mark Dearsley joined the Board as Group Finance Director on 3 September 2007. any decision to divest any Group business: On 18 October 2007, it was announced that Aubrey Adams would retire from the Board at the Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2008 and he would be succeeded delegation of the appropriate authorities and agreeing terms of reference for its as Group Chief Executive by Jeremy Helsby.
various committees: The Board is not currently compliant with the provision of the Code which requires delegation of the appropriate authorities to the Executive Sub Committee: and that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, be independent Non-Executive the appointment of new Directors.
Following the retirement of Aubrey Adams, the Board will revert to having a Non-Executive Chairman, four independent Non-Executive Directors and five The Non-Executive Directors meet separately at least twice each year without the Executive Directors.
The Board considers that under Savills current operational presence of the Executive Directors and also meet without the Chairman, at which structure it is appropriate for the key members of the executive management team time the Chairmans performance is appraised.
to be members of the Savills plc Board and that there is an appropriate balance There is an approved procedure for Directors to take independent professional between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and that no individual or small group advice at the Groups expense.
In addition, all the Directors have access to the of individuals dominates the Boards decision making.
The Non-Executive Directors advice and services of the Company Secretary.
have a wide range of business experience and expertise and provide a strong independent element to the Board.
The Board will keep under review the need for any changes to the composition of the Board.
Since 1 November 2004, Timothy Ingram has been the Senior Independent Director.
He is available to shareholders if they have concerns which have not been addressed by contact with the Chairman, Group Chief Executive or Group Finance Director.
71 Savills plc Our Governance Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Governance Report Board committees The Committee is authorised to investigate any matter within its terms of reference The Board has delegated certain authorities to committees each with formal terms and, where necessary, to obtain external legal or other independent professional of reference.
The terms of reference for the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration advice.
The Committees activities during the year have included: Committees were reviewed and updated during the year and are available on reviewing the half-year and annual financial statements with particular reference request or on the Companys website www.
The members of each to accounting policies, together with significant estimates and financial reporting committee are indicated on pages 66 to 67.
The principal committees of the Board judgements and the disclosures made therein: are as follows: reviewing the management representations made to the external auditors and Nomination Committee the Companys procedures to ensure all relevant information has been disclosed: The Committee consists of the four independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Committee is chaired by Peter Smith.
The Committee meets at least discussing any issues arising out of the interim review or the full year audit with once a year and otherwise as required to nominate candidates for the approval of the external auditors in the absence of management where appropriate : the Board to fill vacancies or new positions on the Board of Directors and to make monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function and recommendations to the Board on certain matters including its composition and reviewing all reports prepared by the internal auditors and assessing the balance.
The Committee met twice in 2007. managements responsiveness to such reports: The Companys Articles of Association provide that Directors must submit making recommendations to the Board with regard to continuing the appointment themselves for re-election every three years and that newly appointed Directors and remuneration of the external auditor: overseeing the Companys relations with must submit themselves for re-election at the first Annual General Meeting after their the external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process: and appointment.
In making recommendations to shareholders for the re-appointment of any Director, the Nomination Committee considers that Directors performance reviewing, and assessing the effectiveness of, the Groups internal financial and ongoing contribution to the success of the Company and makes its relevant controls together with its internal control and risk management systems.
The Committee also considers on an ongoing basis the independence of the During the year the principal activities undertaken by the Committee were the external auditors and has established policies to consider the appropriateness identification of a successor to Aubrey Adams as Group Chief Executive following the or otherwise of appointing the external auditors to perform non-audit services.
indication of his wish to retire in 2008 and the recommendation of the appointment As detailed on page 69 the external auditors are  LLP, of Mark Dearsley as Group Finance Director.
External consultants assisted in both who have provided certain non-audit services to the Company, principally advice matters: Hanson Green assisted in the development of a job specification for the on treasury, taxation and market analyses in particular in connection with the US new Group Chief Executive, consideration of potential external candidates and the market.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that such work was best undertaken assessment of internal candidates and Spencer Stuart carried out the search for by  LLP and their objectivity has not been impaired by the Group Finance Director.
reason of this further work.
Audit Committee The internal auditors are KPMG who serve the Group on a global basis.
The UK and The Committee consists of the four independent Non-Executive Directors.
most non-UK businesses have established whistleblowing procedures to enable The Committee is chaired by Fields Wicker-Miurin and met four times during the year.
employees to raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting and The Non-Executive Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, other other matters on a confidential basis.
The consistency of arrangements outside the Executive Directors, Group Financial Controller, the internal auditors, the external UK continue to be developed with the issue of a Group-wide whistleblowing policy auditors, Group Risk Director and other senior executives of the Group may be which sets out clear standards and procedures for all Group companies to follow.
invited to attend meetings of the Committee, but are not members.
The Board considers that the members of the Audit Committee collectively have sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to carry out the functions of the Committee.
72 Savills plc Our Governance Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Governance Report Remuneration Committee Attendance at meetings The Committee consists of the four independent Non-Executive Directors.
Directors attendance at scheduled Board and Committee meetings convened in The Committee is chaired by Charles McVeigh and meets at least twice a year the year ended 31 December 2007 was as follows: to determine Company policy on senior executive remuneration and to agree the Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee detailed remuneration packages of the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee takes the advice of external consultants from time to time and did Number of meetings in year 7 4 6 2 so during the year from Towers Perrin.
The Group Chief Executive is consulted Attended Attended Attended Attended on the remuneration packages of the other Directors and senior executives and Non-Executive Directors attends remuneration discussions by invitation, except when his own position is being discussed.
Given the central part that remuneration plays in the success Peter Smith 7 2 of the Group, the Chairman is also invited to attend meetings of the Committee.
Martin Angle The Committee does not deal with the fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors appointed 2 January 2007 7 4 5 1 which are decided by the Executive Directors.
The Report of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 75 to 83.
Timothy Ingram 7 3 6 2 Executive Sub Committee Fields Wicker-Miurin 7 4 4 2 Until January 2008, Savills plc operated an Executive Sub Committee ESC, which Charles McVeigh 6 4 5 1 comprised the Group Chief Executive and the Executive Directors.
Any senior executive of the Group could be invited by the Committee from time to time to Executive Directors attend all or part of the Committees proceedings.
Under the leadership of the Aubrey Adams 7 Group Chief Executive, the ESC reviewed the day-to-day operations of the Group including risk management, authorised certain investments, monitored Group Mark Dearsley performance and dealt with other specific matters delegated to it by the Board.
3 appointed 3 September 2007 The Committee usually met at least once between Board meetings and the minutes Jeremy Helsby 7 of the ESC were circulated to all Board members in advance of full Board meetings.
Simon Hope 7 With effect from February 2008, the ESC was superseded by a Group Executive Board GEB with revised and broader terms of reference to clarify its role as the Robert McKellar 7 key executive committee in the Group.
The GEB comprises the Group Chief Rupert Sebag-Montefiore 7 Executive, the Group Finance Director, the managing directors of the main operating subsidiaries and the Company Secretary.
The ESC met 11 times during the year.
Mark Dearsley was appointed to the Committee on 27 November 2007.
Three Board meetings were held between 3 September 2007 and 31 December 2007.
Martin Angle was appointed to the Nomination Committee on 30 January 2007, one Nomination Committee was held between Board performance and evaluation his appointment and 31 December 2007.
A formal review of Board performance was undertaken by an external consultant who carried out an evaluation process which reported in March 2006.
At its meeting on 6 March 2007 members of the Board reviewed progress and concluded that the Board and its main committees were working satisfactorily.
A further internal exercise was carried out at the end of 2007 to identify areas where Board procedures might be further improved and the findings were reported at a meeting on 29 January 2008.
The Board will continue to keep its performance under review and currently anticipates another review will be carried out in 2008 following the change in Group Chief Executive.
73 Savills plc Our Governance Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Governance Report Insurance cover Internal control and risk management The Company purchases insurance to cover its Directors and officers against their The Board recognises that it has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining costs in defending themselves in civil legal proceedings taken against them in that the Groups system of risk management and internal control to safeguard the capacity and in respect of damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of any shareholders investment and the Groups assets, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The insurance does not provide cover where the Director has acted The system of risk management and internal control is designed to manage but not fraudulently or dishonestly.
to eliminate the risk of failure of the Group to meet its business objectives and as such only provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material loss.
As permitted by company law at the date of this report it is proposed that indemnities will shortly be granted to each of the Directors in 2008.
No such indemnities had The Board confirms that it has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system been granted at 11 March 2008. of risk management and internal control and that the system has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the accounts and complies Directors remuneration with the 2005 Turnbull guidance.
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 75 to 83.
The Remuneration Report Reflecting a commitment to the continued development of our system for risk will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2008. management and internal control, a Group Risk Management Function was established during 2007 to support the activities of the Board, Group Risk Committee Relations with shareholders and operating subsidiaries.
The Board seeks to maintain an open relationship and the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director have a regular programme of meetings with analysts Key elements of the Groups system of risk management and internal control during and maintains a dialogue with shareholders which ensures that the Board is aware 2007 were: of shareholder sentiment.
Meetings are held with major institutional shareholders A comprehensive system for planning and reporting the performance of each regularly and include presentations at the time of the Companys preliminary operating subsidiary.
The Board met regularly and reviewed the Groups overall announcement of annual and interim results.
The Senior Independent Director makes results against plan and the previous year.
The Group regularly updated its himself available for the investor meetings held by the Group Chief Executive or forecast of results.
Clear responsibilities were given to operational and financial Group Finance Director upon request.
The Board also reviews a report at least once managers for the maintenance of effective financial controls and the production each year from its corporate broker on feedback from investors and the markets of accurate and timely financial management information: view of the Company.
The regular review and assessment of the performance of the business The Annual Report and Accounts and Interim Statement are sent to all shareholders.
including in relation to risk management and internal control by the Board The participation of private shareholders at the AGM is welcomed and all and its sub committees, including the Executive Sub Committee: shareholders are invited to attend the Companys AGM, which is attended by the Board.
In accordance with the Code, the Chairman declared the level and manner Attendance at operating subsidiary and associate boards by Executive Directors.
of voting of proxies lodged on each resolution at the AGM held during the year.
These boards and their associated committees also meet regularly and have The Chairmen of the Boards principal committees were present at the 2007 AGM formal reporting structures.
Directors of operating subsidiaries were also closely to answer shareholders questions as required.
The Directors aim to give as much involved in the day-to-day business of their respective operations identifying key notice of the AGM as possible which will be at least 21 days, as required by the risks and appropriate action to be taken: Companys Articles of Association.
In practice, this Report and Notice of AGM A Group Risk Management Policy which sets out our process for identifying, are being sent to shareholders more than 20 working days before the AGM as evaluating, assessing, and managing the key risks to our business objectives, required under the Code.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting of shareholders supported by an appropriate organisational structure and clearly defined and explanatory notes are sent to shareholders with this report.
management responsibilities: Information about the Company is also available on the website at www.
com 74 Savills plc Our Governance Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate Governance Report A Group Risk Committee which reported to the Executive Sub Committee and The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of was tasked with the review, discussion and challenge of key risks reported, the system of risk management and internal control.
In performing its review of the ongoing Group-wide development of internal control, and the monitoring of effectiveness, the Audit Committee considered the following reports and activities: internal audits and other sources of assurance on the effectiveness of internal Internal audit reports on the review of priority controls across the Group and controls.
The Committee consists of the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance the monitoring of management actions arising: Director, senior subsidiary business management and Group function heads including the Group Risk Director: Managements own assessment of the performance of the system of risk management and internal control during 2007: A framework of delegated authorities and control procedures, as defined by Group and subsidiary business policies, processes and standards, which are Reports from the Group Risk Committee including reporting on Group-wide subject to regular review by the Group Risk Committee in light of key risk reporting key risk assessment activity and annual control self assessment findings: and and our changing risk environment: and Reports from the External Auditor on any issues identified during the course A programme of assurance activities which assess the effectiveness of our internal of their work.
controls in respect of our key risks which includes: The Audit Committee confirms that necessary actions have been or are being A programme of internal audits undertaken in accordance with an annual taken to remedy any matters identified from their review.
risk based plan approved by the Audit Committee.
The plan is designed to ensure that internal audit reviews are focused on priority controls across Going concern the Group to provide both independent review and challenge on the After making enquiries, the Directors have reasonable expectation that the Group effectiveness of these controls: and the promotion of good practice and has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable consistency in their development: future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Accounts.
Compliance programmes within our regulated businesses in support of the Groups commitment to conduct its business responsibly and in accordance By order of the Board with all laws and regulations to which its business activities are subject: An annual self assessment and certification by management of the existence and effectiveness of the controls within each of our operating subsidiaries.
Peter Smith The results were collated for review and challenge by the Group Risk Chairman Committee and onward reporting to the Executive Sub Committee and 11 March 2008 Audit Committee: and There were also procedures available to employees who are concerned about possible impropriety, financial or otherwise, and who may wish to ensure that action is taken without fear of victimisation or reprisal.
