48 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT St. Modwen is committed to the highest standards and four executive members including the Chairman.
The object sought of corporate governance.
The board of directors, by the Code that no individual or group of individuals can dominate the through the executive directors and management, boards decision-making is thus achieved.
exercises effective control over the group and l The Code recommends that all members of the Audit and Remuneration its activities, recognising its responsibility to Committees are independent non-executive directors.
Each of these shareholders and other interested parties.
The Committees comprises all of the non-executive members of the board procedures for applying these principles within except for Christopher Roshier.
As explained above, Simon Clarke is not the group are set out below.
This should be read a fully independent director under the Code, but the board considers in conjunction with the Directors remuneration that its discussions bene t from his involvement in the preparatory report on pages 55 to 61. detailed scrutiny which takes place in these Committees.
As also noted Throughout the year ended 30th November 2007 above, Simon Clarke has a strong interest in challenging and monitoring the company has complied with the principles managements performance.
set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on l The Code recommends that a Chief Executive should not go on to be the Corporate Governance 2006 The Code except chairman of the same company.
As explained in previous years annual for the following matters: reports, the board recommended the appointment of former Chief l The Code asks the board to identify each Executive Anthony Glossop as Chairman of the board.
This was endorsed non-executive director it considers to be by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in April 2004.
Of the six non-executive 11th February 2008 Anthony Glossop became non-executive Chairman.
directors at the end of 2007, the board The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are carefully differentiated.
considers Mary Francis, Ian Menzies-Gow, Paul Rigg, Christopher Roshier and John Salmon to be fully independent.
The Code PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES seeks an explanation for the determination The company acts as the holding company of a group of property investment and of independence in certain circumstances, development companies.
A list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings including if a non-executive has served for affecting the pro t or net assets of the group is included at page 103. longer than nine years.
Christopher Roshier has been a non-executive director for twenty years, but the board is satis ed that he BOARD COMPOSITION AND COMMITTEES maintains an independent and rigorous The composition of the board provides an appropriate blend of experience approach to all of its business and accordingly and quali cations, and the number of non-executives provides a strong base considers him to be independent.
The board for ensuring appropriate corporate governance of the company.
The boards recognises that Simon Clarke does not meet decisions are implemented by the executive directors.
The Chairman and the criteria for a fully independent director the non-executives also met during the year without the executive directors under the Code, although his position as a being present.
representative of the Clarke and Leavesley Christopher Roshier is the senior independent director.
He is available for families, who together hold 51.4m shares consultation by shareholders, whenever appropriate.
42.5% in the companys equity, gives him a very strong interest in challenging and The companys Articles of Association provide that all directors are subject to scrutinising management to secure excellent re-election at least every three years.
In addition, all directors are subject to performance from the company.
re-election by shareholders after their initial appointment.
l The Code recommends that at least half The reappointment of non-executive directors is not automatic.
It is intended the board, excluding the Chairman, should that appointments will be for an initial term of three years, which may be comprise independent non-executive directors.
Prior to each non-executive offering himself The board currently comprises five nonto the members for re-election his reappointment must be con rmed by the executive directors whom it determines to be Chairman in consultation with the remainder of the board.
independent: one non-executive Simon Clarke The terms and conditions of appointment of all directors are available for who is not deemed fully independent under inspection at the companys registered of ce during normal business hours, the Code but who as explained above has a and at the AGM.
strong interest as a shareholder representative in challenging and scrutinising management: The board is supplied with timely and relevant information regarding the 14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 49 business, through regular monthly and ad that the companys financial statements comply with statutory and other hoc reports, site visits and presentations from requirements.
members of the management team and by meetings with key partners.
Where appropriate, l Receiving reports from, and consulting with, the internal and external the company provides the resources to enable auditors.
directors to update and upgrade their knowledge.
l Reviewing the interim and annual results and reports to shareholders, and Through the Company Secretary, the board is considering any matters raised by the internal and external auditors.
informed of corporate governance issues and all board members have access via the Company l Considering the appropriateness of the accounting policies of the company Secretary to independent advice if required used in preparing its financial statements.
The criteria used for evaluating individual executive l Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the group and directors performance are included in the Directors formal announcements relating to the groups financial performance, and Remuneration Report.
Individual non-executive reviewing signi cant financial reporting judgements contained therein.
directors performance is reviewed by the Chairman l Reviewing the effectiveness of the groups internal audit function.
The performance of the board as a whole is assessed in the context of the l Reviewing and monitoring the independence and objectivity of the companys achievement of its strategic objectives companys external auditors.
and total shareholder return targets.
Feedback on l Monitoring the scope, cost-effectiveness and objectivity of the audit.
the company is sought through external surveys from shareholders, analysts and other professionals l Monitoring the companys policy on non-audit services provided by the within the investment community following the external auditors.
regular brie ngs, presentations and site visits l Making an annual assessment of the external auditors and recommending, undertaken by the company.
This feedback is made or not, their reappointment.
available to the whole board.
In support of the principles of good corporate governance, the board has appointed the following l Reviewing its own performance, constitution and terms of reference to committees, all of which have formal terms of ensure it is operating at maximum effectiveness and recommending any reference which are available for inspection by changes it considers necessary to the board for approval.
shareholders and are posted on the companys Given the increasing size, complexity and geographical scope of the companys website: operations, the company has proceeded with the appointment of an internal a Remuneration Committee auditor tasked with formalising and documenting internal control procedures The composition and function of the and ensuring compliance.
The newly appointed internal auditor took up her Remuneration Committee are set out in the role on 2nd January 2007.
Directors Remuneration Report on page 55.
The Committees policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external b Audit Committee auditors is that, whilst it is appropriate and cost-effective for the external The Audit Committee, which currently comprises auditors to provide tax compliance and tax planning services to the group, all of the non-executive directors except for other services should only be provided where alternative providers do not Christopher Roshier, is chaired by John Salmon.
exist or where it is cost-effective or in the groups interest for the external auditors to provide such services.
In all cases the provision of non-audit The companys Finance Director, Financial services is carefully monitored by, and subject to the prior approval of, Controller and Internal Auditor attend Audit the Committee.
The external auditors would not be invited to provide any Committee meetings but the Committee also non-audit services where it was felt that this could con ict with their meets without management being present and independence or objectivity.
Such services would include the provision of has private sessions with the auditors.
The internal audit and management consulting services.
Committee has direct access to the internal and external auditors.
As part of the regular review of its providers of professional services, the board put the audit out to a tender process involving a number of The Audit Committees functions include: rms, including Ernst & Young, the incumbent auditors.
This process l Ensuring that appropriate accounting systems was completed in 2007 and Deloitte & Touche LLP were selected as the and financial controls are in operation and companys auditors.
14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 50 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT c Nominations Committee l Sharpened focus of board agendas and papers.
The Nominations Committee was reconstituted l Reviewed levels of authority and board involvement in major project in 2006 and now comprises Anthony Glossop as acquisitions.
chairman of the Committee, Mary Francis, Ian Menzies-Gow, Paul Rigg and John Salmon.
l Increased time given to strategy and risk analysis.
For the appointment of the Company Secretary l Identi ed structure for succession planning.
during the year, a detailed speci cation was drawn For 2007 the next formal evaluation has been commenced with Boardroom up and agreed with all board members setting Review to review the boards progress against previous action items, and to out the required skills and background from establish whether there are further improvements required.
which it was felt candidates should be drawn.
Since a suitable candidate was not already known to the company it was necessary to instruct a RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL search agency.
A recommendation was made The board recognises that it has overall responsibility for the identi cation by the Nominations Committee to the board for and mitigation of risks and the development and maintenance of an the appointment of Jon Messent as Company appropriate system of internal control.
During the period under review the directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control in accordance with the Turnbull guidance, BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE through the production of a detailed report which covered: the groups The board met eleven times during the control environment: the manner in which key business risks are identi ed: year.
The Audit Committee met three times, the adequacy of information systems and control procedures: and the the Nominations Committee once, and the manner in which any required corrective action is to be taken.
All members attended all meetings except that Simon The groups key internal controls are centred on comprehensive monthly Clarke and Paul Rigg were unable to attend two reporting from all activities which includes a detailed portfolio analysis, board meetings.
Ian Menzies-Gow and Christopher development progress reviews, management accounts and a comparison Roshier were each unable to attend one board of committed expenditure against available facilities.
Paul Rigg was unable to attend two reported to the board monthly, with reasons for any signi cant variances Remuneration Committee meetings, and Simon from budget.
Detailed annual budgets are reviewed by the board and revised Clarke and Ian Menzies-Gow one.
forecasts for the year are prepared on a regular basis.
There are clearly fide ned procedures for the authorisation of capital expenditure, purchases and sales of development and investment properties, BOARD EFFECTIVENESS contracts and commitments and a formal schedule of matters, including The Code recommends that the board undertakes major investment and development decisions and strategic matters, that are a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own reserved for board approval.
Formal policies and procedures are in place performance.
A formal evaluation, facilitated by covering all elements of employment, the construction process, health and an external assessor, Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom safety and IT.
The company is currently working in conjuction with FAST Review, was undertaken during 2005 and 2006.
Federation Against Software Theft to achieve their Gold Accreditation for The principal findings of the review were that the software licensing compliance.
The company already holds Bronze and Silver board functions well as a team, with high levels awards.
All necessary steps to achieve the Gold award were undertaken in of trust and respect amongst new and existing 2007 and an application will be made in 2008. members, and an ability to deal capably with change.
Financial documentation and controls Internal control, by its nature, provides only reasonable and not absolute have been upgraded, and recent improvements assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The directors continue, have been made in the area of board and however, to strive to ensure that internal control and risk management are committee independence and composition, further embedded into the operations of the business by dealing with areas board agendas, shareholder communication for improvement as they are identi ed.
In the year under review, no material and corporate governance.
Three areas for loss was suffered by a failure of internal control.
improvement were identi ed: maximising board contribution: succession planning: and risk The analysis of the businesss key risks was also reviewed and rede ned in analysis.
Actions taken to address these the light of current experience.
areas were: 14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 51 The companys policies with respect to its: attractiveness of the company and its remuneration packages.
To support the financial objectives, we will need to continue to improve the employee base.
a financial risk management objectives and policies, including the policy for hedging each 2.
ECONOMIC PROPERTY RISKS major type of forecasted transaction for which The risks identi ed included: hedge accounting is used: and l Demand for space from occupiers: b exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk l Rental levels: and cash ow risk l Investment yield: are contained in the notes to the accounts at pages 86 and 89. l Relative sector performance: l Overexposure to single tenant scheme: RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES l Site assembly risk: The key business risks facing the company, their l Occupational risks: potential impact and mitigation, are reviewed l Investment value risk: regularly.
This year the risks were assessed against a set of scenarios, and were found to be l Changing public sector requirements.
The principal mitigating actions are: MANAGEMENT OF KEY RISKS l Regular dialogue with industry experts and commentators: The key risks that have been identi ed, the management approach to each, and the l Use of high quality professional advisers: assessment of the residual risk are set out below: l The hopper and geographical spread gives exibility and facilitates 1.
ORGANISATIONAL PEOPLE FACTORS diversi cation: The risks identi ed included: l Emphasis on value creation through active property management and l Succession planning and talent management: development.
Assessment We have chosen to operate only in one geographical area, the l IT: UK, which is subject to relatively low-risk, low-returns from a stable and l Disaster planning: mature, albeit cyclical economy and property market.
By involvement with all sectors of that economy and that property market, we are as diversi ed as l Failure to recruit.
The principal mitigating actions are: 3.
REGULATORY FACTORS l Targeted recruitment procedures: The risks identi ed included: l Competitive remuneration packages: l Planning: l Strong performance-related link to l Tax: remuneration: l Technology: l Regular assessment of performance and identi cation of training needs: l Lease structures.
l Tailored training programme: The principal mitigating actions are: l Regular communication of strategic and l Being alert to policies being promoted: tactical objectives: l Use of high quality professional advisers: l Properly resourced and structured IT solutions: l In-house expert resources in planning residential construction tax IT.
Assessment Our daily exposure to all aspects of the planning process, and Assessment Employee turnover has been low, internal procedures for spreading best practice ensure we remain abreast of indicating good retention levels.
Vacancies are few, most developments.
We have not been very active in attempting to in uence and are generally lled promptly, indicating the public policy debate, but may need to do so as we grow.
FINANCIAL RISKS The risks identi ed included: Assessment The increasing focus on the regions to deliver acquisitions, and the growing reputation and financial capacity of the company, have l Lack of available funds: enabled us to deliver more than the target of replacing 120% of land used l Interest rates: over the past five years.
SOCIAL, ETHICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RISKS The risks identi ed included: The principal mitigating actions are: l Health, safety & environment risk: l Small number of high-quality banking relationships: l Climate change: l Hedging policy to contain interest rate risk: l Business ethics: l Benchmarking of costs of finance: l Internal controls: l Tax strategy identifying areas of acceptable l Customer satisfaction.
The principal mitigating actions are: Assessment Our conservative approach to l Systems of control procedures and delegated authorities: nancing reduces the opportunity for true innovation in this area.
This is offset by the l Regular and detailed operational and financial reporting: bene ts of stability, reliability and borrowing l Regular dialogue with industry investors and commentators: capacity, ensuring finance is available for all foreseeable projects.
l Close supervision of transactions and key relationships: 5.
FAILURE TO SECURE SCHEMES l Proactive press media contacts: The risks identi ed included: l Regular top-level meetings with local authorities, RDAs, and other l Competition: government or quasi-governmental bodies.
l Overheated market: Assessment The company has bene ted from an excellent reputation.
This is underpinned by a simple set of operating commitments.
The risks identi ed included: The principal mitigating actions are: l Failure to deliver on promises: l Regional of ces in touch with their local market: l Involvement with controversial schemes partners: l Strong performance-related link to l Failure to live up to expectations.
remuneration: The principal mitigating actions are: l Dedicated central resource to support regional teams: l Adherence to system of principles and ethics: l Streamlined and effective decision-making l Thorough and proactive PR to get messages across clearly: process: l Inclusion of reputational issues as an item in scheme selection process: l Availability of adequate finance: l A strong culture of propriety led from the board.
l Flexible and innovative approach to acquisitions Assessment The company enjoys an excellent reputation with its in response to changing market conditions: stakeholders including investors, business partners and employees.
This is l Raising the pro le of the company as the based on, and reinforced by, a strong set of principles and consistent delivery countrys leading regeneration specialist.
CONSTRUCTION RISK DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN ORDINARY SHARES The risks identi ed included: The interests of the directors in the issued share capital of the company are shown below: l Build quality: 30th November 30th November l Remediation contamination: 2007 2006 l Liability issues.
Bene cial The principal mitigating actions are: S. J. Burke 13,240 S. W. Clarke 3,859,332 3,859,332 l A strong internal construction management M. E. Francis 1,000 1,000 team: C. C. A. Glossop 1,707,933 1,707,933 l Projects, acquisitions and disposals are T. P. Haywood 87,823 66,823 reviewed and nancially appraised in detail W. A. Oliver 188,304 188,304 within clearly fide ned authorisation limits: P. Rigg 1,875 C. E. Roshier 10,417 10,417 l Regular management reviews: J. Salmon 2,000 l Use and close supervision of high-quality Non-bene cial trusted contractors and professionals: C. C. A. Glossop 100,000 100,000 l Contractual liability clearly fide ned.
The above interests do not include shares held under the share option Assessment The company is willing to accept schemes detailed in the directors remuneration report on page 59. a degree of environmental contamination risk, enabling higher returns to be made for the There has been no change in these interests between 30th November 2007 perceived higher risks undertaken.
These risks and 8th February 2008. are passed on or minimised where possible, but cannot be eliminated.
In our recent experience, SUBSTANTIAL INTERESTS the residual risks have been acceptably low.
As at 14th January 2008 in addition to those noted above, the company had been noti ed, in accordance with the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, of the following interests in more than 3% of its issued share capital: DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS In accordance with the provisions set out in Number of Percentage of Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Ordinary Shares Ordinary Share Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Shareholder Held Capital Council in July 2006 Christopher Roshier offers Lady Clarke and family holdings himself for re-election to the board.
The reasons excluding S. W. Clarke 30,271,420 25.1% for this are set out on page 48.
J. D. Leavesley and connected parties 17,307,477 14.3% Bill Oliver, John Salmon, Mary Francis and Christopher Roshier will retire from the board in ING Investment Management 10,038,746 8.3% accordance with the provisions of the companys Scottish Widows Investment Partnership 5,264,049 4.4% Articles of Association and offer themselves for Thames River Capital 4,430,000 3.7% re-election.
Legal and General None of the directors had any material interest in Investment Management 4,041,039 3.4% contracts with the group.
14704 12 02 08 Proof 12 54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ACQUISITION OF THE COMPANYS OWN SHARES During the year ended 30th November 2007 the The group operates a non-discriminatory employment policy under which company purchased 150,000 ordinary shares of full and fair consideration is given to disabled applicants, to the continued 10p each in the company and transferred them employment of staff who become disabled, and to their continued career into the companys employee bene t trust.
aggregate consideration paid for these shares The group operates a pension scheme which is open to all employees see amounted to 813,783.
The total of ordinary pages 91 to 94. shares purchased in the year constitutes 0.12% of the companys authorised and issued share capital.
POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS The company did not make any political donations in the year.
Details of CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY the companys charitable activities are included in the CSR review.
Direct It is the groups policy to agree speci c payment charitable donations during the year totalled 8,000 2006: 7,000. terms for its business transactions with its suppliers and to abide by those terms whenever it is satis ed that the supplier has provided the SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS goods and services in accordance with the agreed The executive directors have a programme of meetings with institutional terms and conditions.
shareholders and analysts at which the companys strategy and most recently reported performance are explained and questions and comments During the year ended 30th November 2007 made are relayed to the whole board.
Visits are also arranged to sites of trade creditors represented an average of 26 particular interest or signi cance to assist investors understanding of the days purchases 2006: 25 days.
This has been companys business.
The companys Annual General Meeting is also used as calculated by expressing year end creditors as an opportunity to communicate with private investors.
In addition to the usual a fraction of purchases made in the year, and period for questions which is made available for shareholders at the Annual multiplying the resulting fraction by 365 days.
General Meeting, John Salmon, the chairman of the Audit Committee, and Mary Francis, the chairman of the Remuneration Committee, will be available to answer appropriate questions.
Any matters of concern EMPLOYEES regarding the company are discussed by the senior independent director with The group encourages employee involvement shareholders or appropriate corporate governance bodies and comments are and places emphasis on keeping its employees fed back by him to the whole board.
informed of the groups activities and Copies of all press releases, investor presentations and Annual Reports performance.
The companys executive runs are posted on the companys website www.
co. uk, together with quarterly management meetings at which senior additional details of major projects, key financial information and company employees are informed about information background.
affecting them as employees, where their To simplify and encourage participation in voting on resolutions at our feedback is sought on decisions likely to affect Annual General Meeting, the company provides the opportunity to vote their interests, and where a common awareness electronically through CREST for further details see pages 112 and 113. is achieved of the financial and economic factors affecting the companys performance.
This information is then cascaded to staff at the companys head of ce and regional of ces.
BUSINESS STANDARDS A performance related annual bonus scheme The company does not condone any form of corrupt behaviour in business and share option arrangements are designed to dealings and has disciplinary procedures in place to deal with any illegal or encourage employee involvement in the success inappropriate activities by employees.
