The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 Statements 32 Governance Financial statements Investors Corporate governance statement Introduction The groups corporate governance framework is aimed at ensuring an alignment of managements interests with those of shareholders.
Within this framework, there is a clear separation of roles and responsibilities.
The functions of governance are undertaken by the board of directors who act on behalf of the companys shareholders while the functions of management are delegated to the groups Chief Executive and his management team.
Role played by shareholders Shareholders play an important role in the groups governance by electing the directors, by monitoring and rewarding their performance and by engaging in constructive dialogue with the board and senior management.
All directors are subject to re-election to the board every three years.
Any director appointed by the board during the year will also stand for appointment by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
The biographies of each director can be found on page 33.
In order to facilitate easier voting by our shareholders, for the 2008 Annual General Meeting we shall enable all shareholders to vote electronically either via Crest or directly with our Registrars and include a vote withheld box on the proxy voting forms.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director who is also Chairman of the audit committee and the Chairman of the remuneration committee will attend the Annual General Meeting on 28th April 2008 and will be available to meet shareholders.
Outside the Annual General Meeting, the Chairman, Christopher Kemball, is responsible for ensuring that there is ongoing and effective communication with shareholders.
If shareholders have any concerns, which contact through the normal channels with the Chief Executive, Finance Director or Chairman has failed to resolve, or for which contact is inappropriate, then Philip Rogerson, the Senior Independent Director, is available to them.
To that end, both the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director make themselves available, when requested, for meetings with investors on issues relating to the groups governance and strategy.
Over 50 separate meetings and telephone conference calls were held in 2007 with major shareholders in the UK, the US, Canada, Denmark, Germany and Sweden, by either or both the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
As expected, these meetings focused primarily on the groups trading operations and immediate prospects.
Where significant views were expressed during or following the meeting via our brokers, these were recorded and circulated to all directors.
In May 2007 an operational review by the executive team including divisional management took place in Denmark, including visits to our Holbaek and Ishoj facilities, for an invited group of financial analysts and shareholders.
Positive feedback was received and a similar event will be scheduled later in 2008.
Role of the board and its relationship with Executive Management The principal role of the board is to set the parameters within which the group seeks to further the interests of its shareholders and to monitor the performance of the executives to whom it delegates the management of the business.
Although it does not involve itself with the day-to-day activities of the groups senior management, the board does have a formal schedule of matters that are reserved for its own decision, which was reviewed and approved in April 2007.
Matters reserved to the board 1.
The approval of the groups overall strategy, values and governance.
Major changes to the groups capital, corporate or management structure.
3. significant investments, acquisitions, disposals, capital projects and contracts.
Fundamental changes to the groups financial reporting, internal controls and risk management.
Approval of the companys rolling three-year plan and annual budget.
Approval of the companys annual report and accounts, remuneration report and interim announcements.
Approval of any interim dividend and recommendation of the final dividend.
Approval of all circulars, resolutions and other documentation sent to shareholders.
Changes to board structure and membership.
Determination of the remuneration policy for directors and other senior executives.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The terms of reference for all board committees.
The groups ethics policy and its policies on corporate responsibility, including health and safety.
The Chairman of the board, Christopher Kemball, is responsible for the leadership of the board and for ensuring a challenging and constructive relationship between the executive and non-executive directors.
Between board meetings there is regular interaction between the Chief Executive and the Chairman and, where necessary, with other board members.
Prior to each board meeting an agenda, together with supporting papers, is circulated to directors to ensure they are supplied with all the information required.
Included with these papers are detailed monthly accounts, together with reports from the Chief Executive, Finance Director and the Managing Directors of the Nordic, Continent and UK Ireland Regions.
As part of this process, the board also reviewed and approved the groups 2008 budget.
After each board meeting, there is a comprehensive follow-up procedure to ensure that major actions are completed as agreed by the board.
Brieng packs are also circulated in months where board meetings are not scheduled.
