14705UKCOAL :14705UKCOAL 9 4 08 14:18 Page 48 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company recognises the importance of, and is committed to, high standards of Corporate Governance.
The following sections explain how the Company has applied the main and supporting principles set out in the Combined Code 2006 on Corporate Governance, issued by the UK Listing Authority.
The Board confirms that the Company has complied with the provisions set out in the Combined Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2007, save for the period between 1 January 2007 and Kevin Whitemans appointment as an independent nonexecutive on 1 June 2007, when less than half the Board, excluding the Chairman, comprised independent nonexecutive Directors and both the Audit and Remuneration Committees comprised only two independent non-executive Directors.
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Company is headed by a Board of Directors, comprising the Chairman, two executive Directors and four nonexecutive Directors, three of whom are determined by the Board to be independent.
The Board recognises that Owen Michaelson, who is a Director of Peel Holdings which is a major shareholder in the Group, is not independent.
The offices of Chairman and Chief Executive are held separately, and both officers have clearly defined roles and responsibilities.
The Chairman is responsible for the running of the Board including, but not limited to, ensuring that a fixed schedule of matters is exclusively retained for the Boards review and approval, and that a framework exists to allow the clear and timely dissemination of relevant information to all Directors for such review to occur.
The Chief Executive is responsible for running the Groups business and for implementing the Board strategies and policies.
The Senior Independent Director is Peter Hazell.
The Board of the Company is responsible for setting the Groups objectives and policies and for the stewardship of the Groups resources.
The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the overall management of the Group.
The Board considers its independent non-executive Directors bring strong judgement and considerable knowledge and experience to the Boards deliberations.
It is further considered that Owen Michaelsons skills and experience are extremely relevant to the business and he contributes to the realisation of the Groups strategy.
The nonexecutive Directors have no financial or contractual interests in the Company, other than interests in ordinary shares as disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Non-executive Directors are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and would attend them if requested by major shareholders.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
The appointment and removal of the company secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
The Board has established a procedure under which any Director, wishing to do so in furtherance of his duties, may take independent advice at the Companys expense.
The Company maintains an appropriate level of Directors and officers insurance in respect of legal action against the Directors.
During the year the Group entered into an indemnity with all Directors and members of the Executive Management Committee in respect of costs and expenses suffered from an investigation by a regulatory body which are not covered by insurance.
The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The biographical details of the current Directors are shown on pages 42 to 43.
14705 09 04 2008 Proof 14 14705 14705UKCOAL :14705UKCOAL 10 4 08 09:59 Page 49 ATTENDANCE AT BOARD MEETINGS Attendance by individual Directors at meetings of the Board and its Committees during the year ended 31 December 2007 is shown in the table below: Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual D H Jones 11 11 10 10 55 J S Lloyd 11 11 2 2 D G Brocksom 3 3 P F Hazell 11 10 44 10 95 5 M R Toms 11 11 44 10 10 55 K I Whiteman 66 32 43 22 O Michaelson 3 3 G R Spindler 77 33 C Mawe 8 8 The number of meetings includes those held by telephone.
COMMITTEES The Groups governance structure ensures that all decisions are made by the most appropriate people, in such a way that the decision making process itself does not unnecessarily delay progress.
The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to the Nomination, Remuneration, Audit and Health and Safety Committees, as described below.
Each committee has terms of reference that the whole Board has approved, which can be found on the Companys website.
Board and committee papers are circulated in advance of each meeting so that all Directors are fully briefed.
Papers are supplemented by reports and presentations to ensure that Board members are supplied in a timely manner with the information they need.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointments by making recommendations to the Board about filling Board vacancies and appointing additional persons to the Board.
The Committee also considers and makes recommendations to the Board on its composition, balance and membership and on the re-appointment by shareholders of any Director under the retirement by rotation provisions in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Committees members are the independent non-executive Directors and the Chairman, together with the Chief Executive.
Although the Chairman is also Chairman of the Committee, he will not chair the Committee when it deals with the appointment of a successor to the chairmanship.
The Nomination Committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepares a description of the roles and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
During the year the Committee engaged the services of external search consultants to assist with the recruitment of David Brocksom and Kevin Whiteman.
Whilst no consultants were engaged to assist with the recruitment of Owen Michaelson, the Chairman led a full consultation with major institutional shareholders to seek views and comments prior to his appointment.
The Board initially appoints all new Directors, having first considered recommendations made to it by the Nomination Committee.
Following such appointment, the Director is required to retire and seek re-appointment at the next Annual General Meeting.
There is a process of rotation, which ensures that approximately one third of all Directors are required to retire and seek re-appointment at each Annual General Meeting and that all Directors are required to be re-appointed no less than every three years.
The Nomination Committee considers succession planning for appointments to the Board and to senior management positions so as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience both on the Board and in the Company.
49 14705 09 04 2008 Proof 14 14705UKCOAL :14705UKCOAL 10 4 08 09:59 Page 50 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The composition and work of the Remuneration Committee are described in the Directors Remuneration Report.
AUDIT COMMITTEE AND AUDITORS The Audit Committee comprises Peter Hazell Chairman, Mike Toms and Kevin Whiteman.
The Board is satisfied that Peter Hazell has recent and relevant financial experience and that all members of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Group Internal Audit Manager and the external auditors are invited to attend meetings.
The minutes of meetings of the Committee are circulated to all Directors.
The Committee meets at least four times a year to review the Companys accounting and financial reporting practices, the work of the internal and external auditor and compliance with policies, procedures and applicable legislation.
The Audit Committee also reviews the half year and annual financial statements before submission to the Board and periodically reviews the scope, remit and effectiveness of the internal audit function and the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
It also reviews whistle-blowing arrangements by which employees of the Group may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible financial or other improprieties.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available to shareholders on request and are also available on the Companys website.
The Group Internal Audit Manager has a direct reporting line to the Committee.
The auditors throughout 2007 have been  LLP.
Fees to  LLP 2007 2006 000 000 Audit fees 348 375 Other audit-related fees 165 33 Tax compliance and advice services 212 173 725 581 The Board recognises the importance of safeguarding auditor objectivity and has taken the following steps to ensure that auditor independence is not compromised: The Audit Committee reviews the audit appointment periodically.
It is Group policy that the external auditors will not, as a general rule, provide consulting services.
The external auditors provide audit-related services such as regulatory and statutory reporting as well as formalities relating to shareholder and other circulars.
The external auditors may undertake due diligence reviews and provide assistance on tax and pension matters given its knowledge of the Groups businesses.
Such provision will, however, be assessed on a case by case basis so that the best placed adviser is retained.
The Audit Committee monitors the application of the policy in this regard and keeps the policy under review.
The Audit Committee reviews on a regular basis all fees paid for audit, and all consultancy fees, with a view to assessing reasonableness of fees, value of delivery, and any independence issues that may have arisen or may potentially arise in the future.
The auditors report to the Directors and the Audit Committee confirming their independence in accordance with Auditing Standards.
HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEE The Board has established a Health and Safety Committee to assist it in ensuring that the Company complies with its health and safety obligations and to review and recommend to the Board strategic options that may enhance the policies, standards and processes that operate within the Group.
The Committee comprises Kevin Whiteman Chairman, Mike Toms and Jon Lloyd and meetings are attended by all relevant senior managers.
14705 09 04 2008 Proof 14 14705UKCOAL :14705UKCOAL 10 4 08 09:59 Page 51 OTHER MEETINGS In accordance with best practice, the Chairman has regular meetings with the non-executive Directors without the executive Directors being present.
A meeting of the non-executive Directors, chaired by the Senior Independent Director without the Chairman, takes place at least annually to appraise the Chairmans performance.
DIRECTORS DEVELOPMENT All Directors receive formal induction training on joining the Company and access to further training is made available.
The Company provides the necessary internal and external resources to enable Directors to develop and update their knowledge and capabilities.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION The Board has conducted a self-evaluation of its performance and effectiveness and has both identified and addressed matters requiring attention.
It has also reviewed the results of an assessment by members of management and staff of how the business views the Board.
It has been agreed that the Chairman has responsibility for the appraisal of the performance of the non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive.
The Chief Executive has responsibility to conduct a performance evaluation of executive Directors.
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE The Executive Management Committee was established to manage and co-ordinate all strategic and key operational issues.
Its membership is as follows: Chief Executive Jon Lloyd Finance Director David Brocksom Production Director Bill Tinsley Human Resources and Communications Director Norman Haslam Commercial Contracts Director Philip Garner Company Secretary Richard Cole RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Company maintains ongoing dialogue with major shareholders through regular presentations and meetings to outline the Groups trading environment and objectives and also offers them the opportunity to meet nonexecutive Directors.
The Senior Independent Director is available to all shareholders.
Private investors are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting where they have the opportunity to question the Board.
INTERNAL CONTROL RISK ASSESSMENT There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks of the Group, and this process has been in place throughout the year under review.
Following a review by the Board, on 27 February 2008, of an updated strategic risk assessment and the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, it concluded that there were no significant risks that had not been considered, nor any significant weaknesses in internal controls that had not been recognised.
The updated assessment supplements ongoing dialogue between the Board and the Directors and managers responsible for monitoring risks at an operational level.
The Board receives regular reports from the Internal Audit and Health & Safety Management departments.
These reports identify areas of risk exposure, recommendations made and actions implemented.
They also highlight new areas of legislation that will impact on the risk profile of the Group, and provide positive assurance that procedures are working and assisting in the attainment of business objectives.
Operational and financial risk management is delegated to Directors and managers who are responsible for the day-to-day management of the business.
The following controls are embedded in the procedures of the relevant business units: 51 14705 09 04 2008 Proof 14 14705UKCOAL :14705UKCOAL 10 4 08 09:59 Page 52 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Operational detailed mining production and development plans are agreed on an annual basis and updated each month.
Quarterly Operational Review meetings are held with senior management to discuss performance against plan and to decide and implement any actions required.
There are Group-wide and local procedures to which compliance is monitored.
Health and Safety full details of the health and safety policies and practices of the Group are set out in the Operating and Financial Review.
Environmental Management full details of the environmental policies and practices of the Group are set out in the Operating and Financial Review.
Financial these controls are considered under the following headings: Cost Budgeting The annual budget setting process includes a detailed review of each business unit and final budgets are approved by the Board.
Costs and performance are monitored on a monthly basis against budgets.
Monthly Operational Review meetings are held with senior management to discuss financial issues.
Treasury The terms of reference for the Treasury department are approved and kept under review by the Board.
The Treasury department is responsible for placing deposits, for arranging borrowings and for making payments.
These transactions are subject to Director or senior management authorisation.
The Finance Director is responsible for determining Treasury policies which are reviewed by the Board, Internal Audit undertakes periodic reviews of the Treasury function and Groups financing agreements.
Insurance Risk The Company holds insurance cover for all employer liability and public liability claims, which is issued by its captive insurance company, and which limits the Groups exposure to the first 100,000 per claimant from 2008.
All claims are subject to expert assessment and challenge and, where appropriate, independent medical and legal opinion.
Capital Expenditure Board approval of all major capital projects is required.
Smaller capital projects are approved by the Investment Committee, which is chaired by the Finance Director and comprises the executive Directors.
Senior executives are invited where appropriate.
The Investment Committee reviews projects with a cost in excess of 100,000.
14705 09 04 2008 Proof 14 14705UKCOAL :14705UKCOAL 10 4 08 09:59 Page 53 ASSURANCE PROCEDURES Assurance is provided by the in-house team of Internal Auditors, Health and Safety Auditors and Environmental Auditors.
This resource is supplemented by the HM Inspectorate of Mines Health and Safety and other Health and Safety Commission personnel, legal advisers and professional claims handlers Insurance and Claims Management and external environmental consultants Environmental Management.
Reports are prepared and summarised at management level for reporting to the Board as either standing or intermittent agenda items.
The Audit Committee reviews internal audit reports and corporate governance matters.
The internal audit plan is based on the annual assessment of risks as reviewed by the Board and is not limited to financial systems.
Reports give an opinion of the risk and control profile of each audited system.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Board encourages shareholders to exercise their right to vote at the Annual General Meeting.
The notice calling the meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting and separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially separate issue.
Shareholders are encouraged to participate through a question and answer session and individual Directors or, where appropriate, the Chairman of the relevant committee, respond to those questions directly.
Shareholders have the opportunity to talk informally to the Directors before and after the formal proceedings.
