Each of the Non-Executive Directors, other than The Audit Committee meets with the Chief Board of Directors Mr N A Porter, is considered by the Board to be Financial Officer and with the external auditors During the course of the year, the Company independent of management and free from any and reviews the annual accounts and the complied except as specifically set out below, personal, business or other relationship with the preliminary and interim financial results with the principles of best practice set out in the Group, save for the receipt of Directors fees and announcements prior to submission to the Board.
Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting interests in shares of the Company.
As Mr Porter The Audit Committee also reviews compliance Council in June 2006 and as subsequently was, until 14 September 2006, Chief Executive with accounting standards, the scope and extent amended the Combined Code.
Officer of the Company, he is not considered to be of the external audit programme and the independent.
Consequently, the Company, which appointment, independence and remuneration of The Companys corporate governance procedures is a member of the FTSE 350, does not meet the the auditors.
The Chairman of the Audit provide that the full Board of Directors shall meet requirement of the Combined Code that at least Committee reports to the Board on matters at least six times a year.
During 2007, there were half of its Board, excluding the Chairman, is made discussed at meetings of the Audit Committee.
eight meetings of the full Board, all of which were up of independent Non-Executive Directors.
In that attended by each of the Directors then appointed, During the course of the year, the Audit respect, the Company believes that the quality of other than one, which Mr N P Hall was unable Committee reviewed the need for an internal audit its independent Non-Executive Directors is more to attend.
The conclusion of that important than their number and is satisfied with review was that, in view of the existing controls The Board receives regular reports from each of the current composition of the Board.
in place including a compliance audit regime in the Groups business units, but itself retains full Each of the Executive Directors has a written relation to the Groups Student Hospitality and effective control of the Groups activities, with service contract, whilst each of the Non-Executive businesses, and the size of the Group, a Group a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved Directors has a formal letter of engagement.
internal audit function was not required.
However, for decision by the full Board.
In particular, the full Executive Directors have rolling contracts of the position is being kept under review.
Board sets the strategic objectives, business plan employment with twelve months notice periods, and annual budgets for the Group, with major The Audit Committee has established a formal whilst Non-Executive Directors are appointed by investment decisions also requiring Board approval.
policy with regard to the Companys appointment the full Board for a term not exceeding three years.
Operational responsibility is delegated to the of the external audit firm for the supply of nonThe letters of appointment relating to the NonGroups Leadership Support Board, together with audit services.
In addition, the Audit Committee Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Managing Directors of each of the Groups reviews any potential threat to the objectivity and the Companys registered office during normal business units and the departmental heads of independence of the external auditor, including, business hours and for the 15 minutes prior the main support functions within the Group.
in particular, those potential threats identified by to and during the Annual General Meeting.
the Auditing Practices Board in its independence Terms of reference have been set by the Board The Board has appointed an Audit Committee, guidelines.
The Committee determines and then for its various committees and for the Chairman a Remuneration Committee and a Nominations reports to the Board, whether or not it is satisfied and the Chief Executive.
The terms of reference Committee.
The terms of reference for each such that the independence of the external auditor is for the Chairman and the Chief Executive are such committee which are published on the not jeopardised, taking into account the external as to clearly establish the division of responsibility Companys website are reviewed annually by auditors own submissions to the Committee between the two roles.
In addition, all Directors the relevant committee, as is the effectiveness and or the Board.
have access to the advice and services of the of each such committee.
The following sections Company Secretary, whilst procedures are in During the course of the year, the non-audit describe the work of the committees in place allowing for individual Directors to take services provided to the Group related to tax discharging their respective responsibilities.
A programme for the advisory and compliance matters and the review training of Directors has been put in place.
of management accounts of certain subsidiaries Audit Committee as part of a bank lending due diligence process.
The current Board consists of three Executive Directors, namely Mr M C Allan Chief Executive : During the year, the Audit Committee comprised Mr J J Lister Chief Financial Officer : and Mr J M Messrs N P Hall, S R H Beevor and R Walker, Tonkiss Chief Operating Officer, as well as Mr G all being independent Non-Executive Directors.
K Maddrell Chairman, Mr N A Porter NonMr Hall acted as Chairman of the Audit Executive Deputy Chairman, Mr N P Hall Senior Committee throughout the year.
Mr Hall is a Independent Non-Executive Director and two Chartered Accountant and was, until February other Non-Executive Directors Messrs S R H 2003, Finance Director of Arcadia Group plc Beevor and R Walker.
Mr A C Harris, who was formerly The Burton Group plc.
appointed Chief Financial Officer of the Group on During the year, the Audit Committee met on four 25 January 2007, resigned from the Board on occasions, all of which meetings were attended 2 January 2008. by each of its members.
38 Corporate Governance like to see appointed in order that a recruitment The process for evaluating the performance of the Remuneration Committee and selection process can be undertaken.
The Executive Directors flows from the setting of the During the year, the Remuneration Committee Committee then appoints an independent search overall business strategy for the Group.
Once comprised Mr S R H Beevor who acted as and selection agency to approach potential agreed by the Board, the Executive Directors Chairman, Mr N P Hall and Mr R Walker all candidates who it identifies as meeting the produce strategies and milestone action plans for being independent Non-Executive Directors, specification supplied by the Nominations the business units within the Group, which are together with Mr G K Maddrell.
Initial interviews are conducted by the designed to deliver the agreed overall strategy.
being Chairman of the Company, was considered search agency, which then compiles a short list of Such strategies and plans, which are challenged independent on his appointment to that role, his appropriate candidates to be interviewed by the and may be revised prior to being ratified by the membership of the Remuneration Committee is in Nominations Committee.
A recommendation of a Board, then form the basis of personal objectives accordance with the provisions of the Combined proposed candidate is then made following those that are set for each of the Executive Directors.
Code, as amended in June 2006. second round interviews.
Following a The personal objectives of the Chief Executive are recommendation from the Committee for the agreed between him and the Chairman as part of The Committee determines remuneration policy and appointment of a candidate to the Board, the the annual Performance Development Programme advises the Board accordingly.
In particular, the Chairman may be requested by the Board to PDP cycle.
The other Executive Directors agree Committee makes recommendations regarding the approach the nominated candidate to agree terms their objectives with the Chief Executive, again as terms of employment of Executive Directors and for the appointment according to the criteria set part of the PDP process.
Progress in achieving Senior Managers, including terms of remuneration, out in the Groups remuneration policies.
objectives is monitored at least monthly through the award of share options, long-term incentive plan one to one meetings between the Chairman and awards and other incentives.
Mr M C Allan is invited Consideration of the appointment of an internal the Chief Executive and between the Chief to attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee candidate to the position of Executive Director will Executive and the other Executive Directors.
but takes no part in the discussions concerning his follow a request from the Chief Executive to the Progress reviews are also carried out at Board level own remuneration and does not attend those parts Nominations Committee that the appropriate through the review of key performance indicators.
of the meetings of the Committee that consider that candidate be considered for nomination.
The Directors Remuneration Report is set out only follow a record of successful achievement in Formal performance measurement is undertaken on pages 42 to 47. the candidates current role and the gathering of through half-year reviews of progress made data from an independent external assessment against milestones, key performance indicators During the course of 2007, five meetings of the centre that the candidate will have been asked to and other personal objectives.
The annual PDP Remuneration Committee were held, all of which attend.
At that centre, the proposed candidate is review of performance takes place shortly after were attended by each of the then current assessed in the areas of commercial and strategic the year-end.
That review considers performance members of the Committee, other than one, ability: leadership: technical ability: ability to build against objectives, including key performance which Mr N P Hall was unable to attend.
peer relations: values and behaviours.
The results indicators, and the Groups values and of those assessments are compared against a behaviours.
The key performance indicators, Nominations Committee global norm group of highly performing directors which include financial performance and customer and senior managers.
After gathering the and employee satisfaction, also form the basis of The Nominations Committee is chaired by Mr G K assessment data, the Nominations Committee the bonus formulae as set out in the Maddrell.
However, the exact composition of the interviews the proposed candidate, following which Remuneration Report.
Committee is variable, provided that each meeting it may recommend his or her appointment to the has a majority represented by independent NonThe performance of the Non-Executive Directors Board.
If the Board accepts the recommendation Executive Directors.
During the course of 2007, is reviewed annually by the Chairman, whilst the of the Committee, it will, through the Chairman 4 meetings of the Nominations Committee were performance of the Chairman is considered and Chief Executive, invite the proposed candidate held, which were attended by Mr G K Maddrell, annually by the Non-Executive Directors in the to join the Board according to terms and Mr N P Hall and Mr S R H Beevor.
absence of the Chairman, in both cases taking conditions of service agreed by the Remuneration account of the views of the Executive Directors.
The Committee is responsible for making Committee.
Such terms and conditions of service The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors recommendations to the Board on any are set following an external benchmarking of also on an annual basis meet to consider the appointment or re-appointment to the Board and remuneration for the role.
overall effectiveness of the Board and its at Senior Executive level.
It is also responsible for For the appointment of external candidates to the Committees.
Those meetings are then followed ensuring that plans are in place for an orderly role of Executive Director, the process outlined by full Board review meetings, which are attended succession of appointments to the Board and at above in relation to Non-Executive Directors is by all members of the Board.
senior management level, so as to maintain an followed, with the addition that such external appropriate balance of skills and experience candidates are, as is the case with internal within the Company and on the Board.
candidates, required to attend an external Following determination by the Board that a new assessment centre prior to final interviews Non-Executive Director should be appointed, the by the Nominations Committee.
Nominations Committee draws-up a personal and professional profile of the ideal candidate it would 39 Corporate Governance procedures, levels of authority and due diligence In light of the foregoing, the Board believes that it Internal control requirements where investment or development has in place appropriate procedures to identify The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups properties are being acquired.
Post-investment and assess the significant risks to the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its appraisals are performed for major investments.
short and long-term value arising from SEE effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed matters, as well as opportunities to enhance value Business risk assessment to achieve business objectives: to manage, rather that may arise from an appropriate response.
In than eliminate, the risk of failure: and can only The Group has developed a comprehensive risk that respect, the Board considers that it receives provide reasonable and not absolute assurance management system whereby strategic threats to adequate information to make those assessments against material mis-statement.
the business are identified and the management and that the Company has in place effective and control of those threats prioritised.
As a result measures for managing significant risks.
Account The provisions of the Combined Code in respect of this system, the Board is satisfied with the high is taken of SEE matters in relation to the training of internal controls require that directors review all level controls in place, although all areas of the of Directors.
controls including operational, compliance and business are kept under review and new controls risk management, as well as financial control.
An analysis of the Through reports from the Groups Leadership Investor relations more important risks and uncertainties faced by Support Board, the Board has reviewed the The Executive Directors have a programme of the Group is set out on page 23.
The Groups effectiveness of the Groups system of internal meetings with institutional shareholders and objectives and policies with regard to the controls for the period covered by the annual analysts.
Feedback from such meetings regarding management of financial risks are set out in note report and accounts.
shareholder opinion is provided to the Board as a 20 to the Financial Statements.
In addition, the Senior Independent NonThe Company has an established framework of Executive Director is available to meet with major internal controls which, amongst other things, Social responsibility shareholders if requested.
The Companys Annual includes the following: The Company has formal procedures for General Meeting provides an opportunity, which Financial reporting considering the significance to its business of the Board encourages, for private investors to The Group has a comprehensive budgeting social, environmental and ethical SEE matters, communicate with the Company.
system with an annual business plan approved by which are considered as part of the Groups risk the Board.
Operating results and cash flows are management system referred to above in relation Going concern reported on monthly and compared against to Business Risk Assessment.
The results of the After making enquiries, the Directors have a budget.
Forecasts are reviewed throughout the benchmarking reviews which form part of that reasonable expectation that the Group and the year and revised as necessary.
The Company system which are carried out by the Groups Company have adequate resources to continue in reports to shareholders on a half-yearly basis.
Leadership Support Board, are reported to and operational existence for the foreseeable future.
considered by the full Board on a six monthly Investment appraisal For this reason, they continue to adopt the going basis.
Details of the SEE risks and opportunities concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The Company has clearly defined guidelines for that are considered most significant to the Group capital expenditure.
These include annual are set out on pages 23, 31 and 32. budgets, detailed appraisal and review In preparing each of the Group and parent Under applicable law and regulations, the Statement of Directors company financial statements, the Directors are Directors are also responsible for preparing a responsibilities required to: Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply The Directors are responsible for preparing the select suitable accounting policies and then with that law and those regulations.
Annual Report and Accounts and the Group and apply them consistently: parent company financial statements in The Directors are responsible for the maintenance make judgments and estimates that are accordance with applicable law and regulations.
and integrity of the corporate and financial reasonable and prudent: information included on the Companys website.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare state whether they have been prepared in Legislation in the UK governing the preparation Group and parent company financial statements accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and dissemination of financial statements may for each financial year.
Under that law they are and differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted prepare the financial statements on the going by the EU and applicable law and have elected to concern basis unless it is inappropriate to prepare the parent company financial statements presume that the Group and the parent on the same basis.
company will continue in business.
The Group and parent company financial The Directors are responsible for keeping proper statements are required by law and IFRSs as accounting records that disclose with reasonable adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial accuracy at any time the financial position of the position of the Group and the parent company and parent company and enable them to ensure that the performance for that period: the Companies its financial statements comply with the Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial Companies Act 1985.
They have general statements that references in the relevant part responsibility for taking such steps as are of that Act to financial statements giving a true reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets and fair view are references to their achieving of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and a fair presentation.
