Directors report statutory and corporate governance information This section of the Directors report contains The trustee of The 3i Group Employee Trust Business review statutory and corporate governance information the Employee Trust has waived subject to The Groups development during the year for the year to 31 March 2007 the year.
certain minor exceptions all dividends to 31 March 2007, its position at that date declared by the Company after 26 May 1994 and the Groups likely future development Principal activity in respect of shares from time to time held by are detailed in the Chairmans statement 3i Group plc is a world leader in private equity the Employee Trust currently 9,708,553 on page 3, the Chief Executives statement and venture capital.
In addition, holders of certain on pages 6 and 7 and the Business review on of the Company and its subsidiaries the performance share awards granted under pages 8 to 39.
It invests in a wide The 3i Group Discretionary Share Plan in range of growing independent businesses.
Share capital respect of an aggregate of 1,222,851 Its objective is to maximise shareholder Ordinary shares ordinary shares, have waived all dividends in value through growth in total return.
Pre-consolidation ordinary share relation to those shares for the duration of capital movements The issued share capital Tax and investment company status the three year performance periods relating of the Company as at 1 April 2006 was The Company is an investment company to the awards.
1 550,556,502 ordinary shares of 53 8p as defined by section 266 of the Companies Operations each.
This increased by 603,757 shares to Act 1985 and carries on business as an 1 The Group operates through a network 551,160,259 ordinary shares of 53 8p each investment trust.
of offices in Europe, Asia and the US.
in the period from 1 April 2006 to 16 July HM Revenue & Customs has approved The Group manages a number of funds 2006 on the issue of shares to the trustee the Company as an investment trust under established with major institutions and other of The 3i Group Share Incentive Plan and section 842 of the Income and Corporation investors to make equity and equity-related on the exercise of options under the Taxes Act 1988 for the financial period investments predominantly in unquoted Groups executive share option plans to 31 March 2006.
Since that date the businesses in Europe and Asia and advises 3i and The 3i Group Sharesave Scheme.
Company has directed its affairs to enable Infrastructure Limited, a UK listed investment Consolidation of ordinary share capital it to continue to be so approved.
company established to make investments in Pursuant to resolutions passed at an infrastructure assets.
Regulation Extraordinary General Meeting EGM of 3i Investments plc, a wholly owned subsidiary Management arrangements the Company on 12 July 2006, the issued of the Company, is authorised and regulated 3i Investments plc acts as investment manager ordinary share capital of the Company, of 1 by the FSA under the Financial Services and to the Company and certain of its subsidiaries.
Where applicable, certain Contracts for these investment management each, was on 17 July 2006 consolidated Group subsidiaries businesses outside the and other services, for which regulatory into 466,366,373 ordinary shares of 69 United Kingdom are regulated locally by authorisation is required, provide for fees 62 88p each.
based on the work done and costs incurred in relevant authorities.
Post-consolidation ordinary share capital providing such services.
These contracts may be Results and dividends movements At the Annual General Meeting terminated by either party on reasonable notice.
The financial statements of the Company and AGM in July 2006, the Directors were the Group for the year to 31 March 2007 3i plc provides the Group with certain authorised to repurchase up to 55,057,000 appear on pages 74 to 97. corporate and administrative services, for ordinary shares in the Company representing which no regulatory authorisation is required, approximately 10% of the Companys issued Total recognised income and expense for under contracts which provide for fees based share capital as at 10 May 2006 until the the year was 1,075 million 2006: on the work done and costs incurred in Companys AGM in 2007 or 11 October 831 million.
An interim dividend of 5.8p providing such services together with a 2007, if earlier.
In the year to 31 March 2007, per share in respect of the year to 31 March performance fee based on realised profits on the Company repurchased and cancelled 2007 was paid on 3 January 2007.
The administrative services 7,430,000 ordinary shares of 62 88p each The Directors recommend a final dividend contract between 3i plc and 3i Investments representing 1.56% of the nominal value of of 10.3p per share be paid in respect of plc may be terminated by either party on the Companys total called-up share capital as the year to 31 March 2007 to shareholders three months notice.
The administrative at 17 July 2006 pursuant to this authority for on the register at the close of business services contracts between 3i plc and other an aggregate consideration of 73,540,060. on 22 June 2007.
Group companies may be terminated by either party on reasonable notice.
3i Group plc 50 Report and accounts 2007 Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements Additional financial information Information for shareholders These shares were repurchased as part of Major interests in ordinary shares the Companys arrangements to return As at 2 May 2007, the Company had been notified of the following interests in the capital to shareholders.
Companys ordinary share capital in accordance with Chapter 5 of the FSAs Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules.
In the period from 17 July 2006 to 31 March Number of 2007, a total of 2,169,634 ordinary shares ordinary 69 of 62 88p were issued to the trustee of shares as at The 3i Group Share Incentive Plan and on 2 May the exercise of options under the Groups % 2007 executive share option plans and AXA S. A. and its group of companies 9.84 45,367,259 The 3i Group Sharesave Scheme.
The Goldman Sachs Group Inc 7.19 33,148,582 Accordingly, between 17 July 2006 and BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited 4.93 22,737,966 31 March 2007, the share capital of the Prudential plc group of companies 3.95 18,254,412 Company decreased by 5,260,366 ordinary shares to 461,106,007 ordinary shares of Legal & General Group plc and or its subsidiaries 3.61 16,685,941 69 62 88p each.
Each ordinary share carries one voting right.
B shares Directors interests B share issue Pursuant to resolutions passed The interests of the Directors all of which are beneficial in the shares of the Company at the EGM on 12 July 2006: up to 31 March 2007 as stated in the register of directors interests are shown below.
a the authorised share capital of the Ordinary share interests stated before the Companys share consolidation on 17 July 2006 Company was increased by the creation 1 relate to ordinary shares of 53 8p each while those stated after that date relate to ordinary of 610,000,000 B shares cumulative 69 shares of 62 88p each.
The B share interests of the Directors are also set out below.
preference shares of 1p each : and Ordinary shares B shares b on 17 July 2006, the Company issued 31 March 1 April 31 March 1 April 2007 2006 2007 2006 551,160,259 B shares on the basis of or date of or date of or date of or date of 1 new B share for each ordinary share of cessation appointment cessation appointment 1 if earlier if later if earlier if later 53 8p held on the register of members on 14 July 2006.
Baroness Hogg 18,772 18,686 B share repurchases At the EGM on 12 July O H J Stocken 21,944 20,026 2006, the Directors were authorised to P E Yea 595,947 379,460 192,114 repurchase up to 610,000,000 B shares in the S P Ball 174,570 30,422 25,843 Company until the Companys AGM in 2007.
C J M Morin-Postel 1,598 1,872 1,872 In the year to 31 March 2007, the Company repurchased and cancelled 542,530,279 M J Queen 382,493 327,697 109,910 B shares representing 1.82% of the nominal F D Rosenkranz 23,893 28,238 value of the Companys total called-up share Sir Robert Smith 8,455 3,952 capital as at 17 July 2006 pursuant to this authority for an aggregate consideration F G Steingraber of 689,013,454.
These shares were R W A Swannell appointed 1 September 2006 11,000 11,000 repurchased as part of the Companys Dr P Mihatsch until 31 July 2006 arrangements to return capital to shareholders.
Mr M J Queen also had a beneficial interest in conditional rights to acquire ordinary shares arising from a performance Accordingly, 8,629,980 B shares remained linked award under the Management Equity Investment Plan, described on page 72. in issue as at 31 March 2007.
The share interests shown above for each of Mr P E Yea, Mr S P Ball and Mr M J Queen include Performance Share awards and Super-performance Share awards which are subject to forfeiture and are detailed in the tables on pages 67 and 68 respectively.
3i Group plc 51 Report and accounts 2007 Directors report statutory and corporate governance information continued Each of the employees of the Group Corporate governance investments and divestments in the including each of the executive Directors Throughout the year, the Company complied ordinary course of business above certain is a potential beneficiary of the Employee with the provisions of section 1 of the limits set by the Board from time to time: Trust and as such was, during the year to Combined Code on corporate governance adequacy of internal control systems: 31 March 2007, interested within the published by the Financial Reporting Council meaning of section 324 of the Companies in July 2003. appointments to the Board and Act 1985 in the shares held by the trust Management Committee: The Companys approach other than in certain shares held by the trust to corporate governance principal terms and conditions of as nominee on behalf of specific individuals.
The Company has a policy of seeking to employment of members of Management The trust held 11,080,758 ordinary shares comply with established best practice in the Committee: and as at 1 April 2006 and 10,931,404 ordinary field of corporate governance.
The Board has shares as at 31 March 2007.
These numbers changes in employee share schemes and adopted core values and Group standards of ordinary shares include the ordinary shares other long-term incentive schemes.
which set out the behaviour expected of over which Mr M J Queen had conditional staff in their dealings with shareholders, Matters delegated to management rights to acquire under the Management customers, colleagues, suppliers and other include implementation of the Board Equity Investment Plan: and the ordinary stakeholders of the Company.
One of the approved strategy, day-to-day operation shares relating to the Super-performance core values communicated within the Group of the business, the appointment of all Share awards made to Mr P E Yea, Mr S P Ball is a belief that the highest standard of executives below Management Committee and Mr M J Queen.
integrity is essential in business.
and the formulation and execution of risk Details of Directors share options under the management policies and practices.
The Boards responsibilities and processes Groups executive share option plans are The Board is responsible to shareholders A Group succession and contingency plan shown in the Directors remuneration report for the overall management of the Group.
is prepared by management and reviewed on page 66.
It determines matters including financial periodically by the Board.
The purpose of In the period from 1 April 2007 to 2 May strategy and planning and takes major this plan is to identify suitable candidates 2007, the following Directors became business decisions.
The Board has put in for succession to key senior management beneficially interested in the number of place an organisational structure.
This is positions, agree their training and additional shares shown: Mr P E Yea further described under the heading development needs, and ensure the 33 ordinary shares, Mr S P Ball 33 ordinary internal control.
necessary human resources are in place shares and Mr M J Queen 33 ordinary for the Company to meet its objectives.
The Board has approved a formal schedule of shares.
In addition, as at 2 May 2007, matters reserved to it and its duly authorised Meetings of the Board During the year, there the number of ordinary shares held by the Committees for decision.
These include: were six meetings of the Board of Directors.
The Directors who served throughout the approval of the Groups overall strategy, Save as detailed above, no Director had any year attended all six meetings, save for strategic plan and annual operating budget: disclosable interest in the shares, debentures Mr F G Steingraber who attended five or loan stock of the Company or in the approval of the Companys interim and meetings.
Mr R W A Swannell attended the shares, debentures or loan stock of its annual financial statements and changes four meetings held since his appointment subsidiaries during the period and there in the Groups accounting policies on 1 September 2006 and Dr P Mihatsch have been no changes in the above interests or practices: attended the two meetings held before his between 1 April 2007 and 2 May 2007. retirement as a Director on 31 July 2006. changes relating to the capital structure of the Company or its regulated status: major capital projects: major changes in the nature of business operations: 3i Group plc 52 Report and accounts 2007 Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements Additional financial information Information for shareholders The principal matters considered by the Performance evaluation During the year, the consideration should be given as to how Board during the year included: Board conducted its annual evaluation of its further external input into the Board review own performance and that of its committees process could supplement existing the Group strategic plan, budget and and individual Directors.
The Chairman led the processes.
financial resources: process with the aid of an external The roles of the Chairman the Groups capital structure, balance consultant.
All Board members completed a and the Chief Executive sheet efficiency and the return of capital questionnaire and gave personal views to the The division of responsibilities between to shareholders: Chairman, who also sought views from all the Chairman of the Board and the Chief members of the Management Committee.
regular reports from the Chief Executive: Executive is clearly defined and has been The Chairman gave feedback to the Board approved by the Board.
co-investment arrangements for and to individual Directors.
These processes investment staff: also involved evaluation by members of The Chairman The Chairman leads the Board Board committees of their performance.
in the determination of its strategy and in the the recommendations of the Valuations The Senior Independent Director led a achievement of its objectives.
The Chairman Committee on valuations of investments: review by the Directors of the performance is responsible for organising the business of the Companys share price performance of the Chairman.
the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and and shareholder perceptions following setting its agenda.
The Chairman has no Following the completion of the above the release of year end results: involvement in the day-to-day business process, the Board concluded that: of the Group.
The Chairman facilitates the the raising of the Groups latest European it had benefited from having two strategy effective contribution of non-executive Buyout Fund: sessions during the year in addition to its Directors and constructive relations between the raising of a fund for infrastructure regular Board meetings, dealing with high executive and non-executive Directors.
investment: level issues and specific issues respectively, The Chairman ensures that regular reports and that this practice should be continued: from the Companys brokers are circulated establishing a Quoted Private Equity team to the non-executive Directors to enable to apply private equity management skills as the number of business lines had non-executive Directors to remain aware to small and mid-cap listed companies: increased, the amount of time spent on of shareholders views.
The Chairman specific strategic issues relating to them risk management arrangements and ensures effective communication with would also increase: investment approval process: the Companys shareholders.
it should continue the practice of holding a review of the Groups advisory and The Chief Executive The Chief Executive has at least one meeting a year away from corporate broking relationships: direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day the Companys head office in order to basis and is accountable to the Board for independence of non-executive Directors: enable members to spend time with the the financial and operational performance executives responsible for building the the valuation methodology, investment of the Group.
The Chief Executive has Companys global capability: strategy and the composition of the formed a committee called Management trustees of The 3i Group Pension Plan: and the preparation for succession planning had Committee to enable him to carry out the been beneficial and the Board invited more responsibilities delegated to him by the corporate responsibility initiatives opportunities to engage with those Board.
The Committee comprises the and performance.
executives likely to be promoted to executive Directors, the Company Secretary, Information Reports and papers are circulated Management Committee: Mr B N Carnegie-Brown, Ms D R Collis, to the Directors in a timely manner in Mr C P Rowlands, Mr J B C Russell, it should continue the process of adding preparation for Board and committee Mr A J M Taylor, Mr P Waller and external capability to the Board to match meetings.
These papers are supplemented Mr G A R Zarzavatdjian.
The Committee changes in the Groups international by information specifically requested by meets on a regular basis to consider commercial business and in financial the Directors from time to time.
operational matters and the implementation markets: and of the Groups strategy.
3i Group plc 53 Report and accounts 2007 Directors report statutory and corporate governance information continued Senior Independent Director Directors independence All the nonDuring the year the Directors received The Board has appointed Mr O H J Stocken executive Directors other than the training on anti money-laundering, the as Senior Independent Director, to whom, Chairman, who was independent on changes to the Combined Code on Corporate in accordance with the Combined Code, appointment are considered by the Board Governance, developments in relation to the concerns can be conveyed.
to be independent for the purposes of the implementation of the Transparency Directive Combined Code.
The Board assesses and and Companies Act 2006 and changes to the Directors reviews the independence of each of the Listing Rules.
Non-executive Directors also The Board comprises the Chairman, six non-executive Directors at least annually received presentations on specific aspects of independent non-executive Directors and having regard to the potential relevance the Companys business.
During the year, the three executive Directors.
Biographical details and materiality of a Directors interests Company also held an Environmental for each of the Directors are set out on and relationships rather than applying rigid Awareness day in which both staff and page 49.
Baroness Hogg Chairman, criteria in a mechanistic manner.
Mr O H J Stocken, Mr P E Yea, Mr S P Ball, Mme C J M Morin-Postel, Mr M J Queen, No Director was materially interested in any The Company has procedures for Directors to Mr F D Rosenkranz, Sir Robert Smith and contract or arrangement subsisting during take independent legal or other professional Mr F G Steingraber served throughout the or at the end of the financial period that advice about the performance of their duties.
Mr R W A Swannell was significant in relation to the business Re-election Subject to the Companys served as a Director from 1 September of the Company.
Articles of Association, the Companies Acts 2006.
Dr P Mihatsch served as a Director Directors employment contracts Details of and satisfactory performance evaluation, until 31 July 2006.
As stated in the Notice of executive Directors employment contracts non-executive Directors are appointed for an AGM for 2006, Mr F D Rosenkranz will be are set out in the Directors remuneration initial period of three years.
Before the third retiring from the Board at the conclusion of report on page 72. and sixth anniversaries of a non-executive the 2007 AGM.
Directors first appointment, the Director Training and development The Company has In addition to fulfilling their legal discusses with the Board whether it is developed a training policy which provides a responsibilities as Directors, non-executive appropriate for a further three year term framework within which training for Directors Directors are expected to bring an to be served.
The reappointment of is planned with the objective of ensuring independent judgment to bear on issues non-executive Directors who have served Directors understand the duties and of strategy, performance, resources and for more than nine years is subject to responsibilities of being a director of a listed standards of conduct, and to help the annual review.
All Directors are required to update Board provide the Company with effective their skills and maintain their familiarity with The Companys Articles of Association leadership.
They are also expected to the Company and its business continually.
provide for: ensure high standards of financial probity Presentations on different aspects of the on the part of the Company and to monitor a Directors to retire at the first AGM after Companys business are made regularly to the the effectiveness of the executive Directors.
their appointment by the Board and for Board.
On appointment, all non-executive the number nearest to, but not exceeding, The Boards discussions, and its approval of Directors have discussions with the Chairman one-third of the remaining Directors the Groups strategic plan and annual budget, and the Chief Executive following which to retire by rotation at each AGM: and provide the non-executive Directors with appropriate briefings on the responsibilities the opportunity to contribute to and validate of Directors, the Companys business and b all Directors to retire at least every managements plans and assist in the the Companys procedures are arranged.
The non-executive The Company provides opportunities for Subject to the Articles of Association, retiring Directors receive regular management non-executive Directors to obtain a thorough Directors are eligible for reappointment.
accounts, reports and information which understanding of the Companys business by enable them to scrutinise the Companys meeting members of the senior management and managements performance against team who in turn arrange, as required, visits agreed objectives.
to investment or support teams.
3i Group plc 54 Report and accounts 2007 Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements Additional financial information Information for shareholders In accordance with the Articles of The Boards committees During the year, the Committee: Association, at the AGM to be held The Board is assisted by various standing reviewed the effectiveness of the internal on 11 July 2007: committees of the Board which report control environment of the Group and regularly to the Board.
The membership of i Mr R W A Swannell, having been the Groups compliance with its regulatory these committees is regularly reviewed by appointed as a Director since the AGM requirements and received reports on the Board.
When considering committee in 2006, will retire and, being eligible, bank covenants, third-party liabilities and membership and chairmanship, the Board offer himself for reappointment: and off-balance sheet liabilities: aims to ensure that undue reliance is not ii Baroness Hogg, Mr P E Yea and placed on particular Directors.
reviewed and recommended to the Board Mr F G Steingraber will retire by the accounting disclosures comprised in the These committees all have clearly defined rotation and, being eligible, offer interim and annual financial statements of terms of reference which are available at themselves for reappointment.
the Company and reviewed the scope of www.
The terms of reference the annual external audit plan and the The Boards recommendation for the of the Audit and Compliance Committee, external audit findings: reappointment of Directors is set out the Remuneration Committee and the in the Notice of AGM.
Nominations Committee provide that no reviewed matters relating to the one other than the particular committee Groups key performance measures, Directors indemnities The Companys chairman and members may attend International Financial Reporting Standards Articles of Association provide that, subject a meeting unless invited to attend and financial reporting requirements to the provisions of the Companies Acts, by the relevant committee.
arising from the implementation of the the Directors shall be indemnified against Transparency Directive: liabilities incurred by them as Directors in Audit and Compliance Committee defending any proceedings in which judgment The Audit and Compliance Committee received regular reports from Group Risk is given in their favour, or where they have comprises Mr O H J Stocken Assurance and Audit the Groups internal been acquitted or been granted relief by the Chairman, Mme C J M Morin-Postel, audit function, monitored its activities and court.
As permitted by the Companies Audit, Mr F D Rosenkranz and Sir Robert Smith, effectiveness, and agreed the annual Investigations and Community Enterprise all of whom served throughout the period.
internal audit plan: Act 2004 and the Companys Articles of All the members of the Committee are received regular reports from Group Association, the Company has maintained independent non-executive Directors.
Compliance the Groups regulatory Qualifying Third-Party Indemnity Provisions The Board is satisfied that the Committee compliance function and Group Risk as defined under section 309B of the Chairman, Mr O H J Stocken, has recent Management Committee, and monitored Companies Act 1985 for the benefit of and relevant financial experience.
their activities and effectiveness: the Companys Directors and the Company During the year, there were four meetings Secretary throughout the period.
oversaw the Companys relations with of the Committee all of which were attended its external auditors including assessing Under the rules of the 3i Group Pension by all members of the Committee save that auditor performance, independence and Plan the Plan, the Company has granted Mme C J M Morin-Postel attended three of objectivity, recommending the auditors an indemnity to the directors of Gardens the four meetings.
reappointment and approving the Pension Trustees Limited a corporate trustee auditors fees: of the Plan and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company against liabilities incurred met with the external auditors and the as directors of that corporate trustee.
heads of Group Compliance and Group Risk Assurance and Audit individually, all in the absence of management: considered whether matters existed which could give rise to conflicts of interests between Directors and the Company.
3i Group plc 55 Report and accounts 2007 Directors report statutory and corporate governance information continued Remuneration Committee During the year, the Nominations Committee The Company Secretary The Remuneration Committee considered and recommended a candidate All Directors have access to the advice comprises Sir Robert Smith Chairman, for appointment as a non-executive Director and services of the Company Secretary.
Mme C J M Morin-Postel, of the Company.
The Committee also The Company Secretary is responsible for Mr F D Rosenkranz, Mr F G Steingraber and considered the composition of the Board to advising the Board, through the Chairman, on Mr O H J Stocken all of whom served ensure that the balance of its membership, governance matters.
The Companys Articles throughout the period.
Sir Robert Smith as between executive and non-executive of Association and the schedule of matters succeeded Mr F D Rosenkranz as Chairman Directors, and non-executive Directors reserved to the Board or its duly authorised of the Committee with effect from 1 August length of service remained appropriate.
committees for decision provide that the 2006.
All the members of the Committee appointment and removal of the Company A formal, rigorous and transparent process are independent non-executive Directors.
Secretary is a matter for the full Board.
for the appointment of Directors has been During the year, there were six meetings of established with the objective of identifying Relations with shareholders the Remuneration Committee all of which the skills and experience profile required The Board recognises the importance of were attended by all members of the of new Directors and identifying suitable maintaining a purposeful relationship with the Committee, save that Mr F G Steingraber candidates.
The procedure includes the Companys shareholders.
The Chief Executive attended five of the six meetings.
Details of appraisal and selection of potential and the Finance Director, together with the the work of the Remuneration Committee are candidates, including in the case of Group Communications Director, meet with set out in the Directors remuneration report.
non-executive Directors whether they the Companys principal institutional Nominations Committee have sufficient time to fulfil their roles.
shareholders to discuss relevant issues as The Nominations Committee comprises Specialist recruitment consultants assist the they arise.
The Chairman maintains a dialogue Baroness Hogg Chairman, Mr O H J Stocken, Committee to identify suitable candidates with shareholders on strategy, corporate Mr P E Yea, Mr R W A Swannell, for appointment.
The Committees governance and Directors remuneration Mme C J M Morin-Postel, Mr F D Rosenkranz, recommendations for appointment are as required.
Sir Robert Smith and Mr F G Steingraber, all put to the full Board for approval.
The Board receives reports from the of whom served throughout the period, save Valuations Committee Companys brokers on shareholder issues for Mr R W A Swannell who served from The Valuations Committee comprises and non-executive Directors are invited 27 September 2006.
Dr P Mihatsch served Baroness Hogg Chairman, Mr O H J Stocken, to attend the Companys presentations to as a member of the Committee until 31 July Mr P E Yea, Mr S P Ball and Mr R W A Swannell, analysts and are offered the opportunity 2006.
During the year, there were two all of whom served throughout the period, to meet shareholders.
meetings of the Nominations Committee.
save that Mr R W A Swannell served from The members who served throughout the The Companys major shareholders are 27 September 2006.
Dr P Mihatsch year attended both of these meetings save offered the opportunity to meet newlyserved as a member of the Committee that Mr F G Steingraber attended one appointed non-executive Directors.
Mr R W A Swannell attended the During the year such shareholders meetings of the Valuations Committee one meeting held following his appointment.
were given the opportunity to meet during the year.
The members who served Dr P Mihatsch was unable to attend the Mr R W A Swannell following his throughout the year attended all meetings.
one meeting held before he ceased to be appointment on 1 September 2006.
Mr R W A Swannell attended the one a Committee member on 31 July 2006. meeting held following his appointment and The Company also uses its AGM as an The terms of reference of the Nominations Dr P Mihatsch attended the one meeting held opportunity to communicate with its Committee provide that the Chairman of before he ceased to be a Committee member.
At the Meeting, business the Board shall not chair the Committee presentations are made by the Chief when dealing with the appointment of the During the year, the Valuations Committee Executive and the Finance Director.
considered and made recommendations The Chairmen of the Remuneration, to the Board on valuations of the Groups Audit and Compliance, and Nominations investments to be included in the interim and Committees are available to answer annual financial statements of the Group and shareholders questions.
reviewed valuations policy and methodology.
3i Group plc 56 Report and accounts 2007 Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements Additional financial information Information for shareholders During the year, at the invitation of the The Board considers and approves a strategic Policies Chairman, the Companys major shareholders plan every two years and approves a budget core values, Group standards and Group met with the Chairman, the Chairmen of on an annual basis.
In addition, there are controls together comprising the Groups the Audit and Compliance Committee and established procedures and processes for high level principles and controls, with the Remuneration Committee and the planning and controlling expenditure and which all staff are expected to comply: Company Secretary to discuss matters the making of investments.
There are also manuals of policies and procedures, of corporate governance and corporate information and reporting systems for applicable to all business units, with responsibility relevant to the Company monitoring the Groups businesses and procedures for reporting weaknesses and its shareholders.
and for monitoring corrective action: The Notice of AGM for 2006 was dispatched The Group Risk Management Committee is a code of business conduct, with to shareholders not less than 20 working a management committee formed by the procedures for reporting compliance days before the Meeting.
At that Meeting, Chief Executive and its purpose is to review therewith: voting on each resolution was taken on a poll the business of the Group in order to ensure and the poll results were made available on that business risk is considered, assessed and Processes the Companys website.
In accordance with managed as an integral part of the business.
appointment of experienced and the Companys Articles of Association, on There is an ongoing process for identifying, professional staff, both by recruitment each poll every member who was present in evaluating and managing the Groups and promotion, of the necessary calibre person or by proxy had one vote for each significant risks.
This process was in place to fulfil their allotted responsibilities: share held.
for the year to 31 March 2007 and up to a planning framework which incorporates the date of this report.
Portfolio management and voting policy a Board approved strategic plan, with In relation to unquoted investments, the With effect from 1 March 2007, the Group objectives for each business unit: Groups approach is to seek to add value to Risk Management Committees activities formal business risk reviews performed by the businesses in which the Group invests were supported by not only the established management which evaluate the potential through the Groups extensive experience, activities of Investment Committee but also financial impact and likelihood of identified resources and contacts.
In relation to quoted by two new committees: Financial Risk risks and possible new risk areas: investments, the Groups policy is to exercise Committee and Operational Risk Committee.
voting rights on matters affecting the Details of the new risk management the setting of control, mitigation and interests of the Group.
framework can be found in the Risk monitoring procedures and the review management section of the Business review of actual occurrences, identifying lessons Internal control on pages 26 to 31. to be learnt: The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and reviews its The overall internal control process is a comprehensive system of financial effectiveness at least annually.
Such a system regularly reviewed by the Board and the reporting to the Board, based on an is designed to manage rather than eliminate Audit and Compliance Committee and annual budget with monthly reporting the risk of failure to achieve business complies with the internal control guidance of actual results, analysis of variances, objectives and can provide only reasonable for Directors on the Combined Code issued scrutiny of key performance measures and not absolute assurance against material by the Turnbull Committee.
The process and regular re-forecasting: misstatement or loss.
established for the Group includes: regular treasury reports to the Board, which Through the regular meetings of the Board analyse the funding requirements of each and the schedule of matters reserved to the class of assets, track the generation and Board or its duly authorised committees for use of capital and the volume of liquidity, decision, the Board aims to maintain full and measure the Groups exposure to interest effective control over appropriate strategic, and exchange rate movements and record financial, operational and compliance issues.
the level of compliance with the Groups The Board has put in place an organisational funding objectives: structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
3i Group plc 57 Report and accounts 2007 Directors report statutory and corporate governance information continued a Group Compliance function whose role Employment The Groups remuneration policy is is to integrate regulatory compliance The Groups policy is one of equal opportunity influenced by market conditions and practices procedures into the Groups systems: in the selection, training, career development in the countries in which it operates.
and promotion of employees, regardless of All employees receive a base salary and well defined procedures governing the age, gender, sexual orientation, ethnic origin, are eligible for a performance related bonus.
appraisal and approval of investments, religion and whether disabled or otherwise.
Where appropriate, employees are eligible including detailed investment and to participate in Group share schemes to divestment approval procedures, The Group treats applicants and employees encourage employees involvement in incorporating appropriate levels of with disabilities equally and fairly and provides the performance of the Group.
Investment authority and regular post facilities, equipment and training to assist executives may also participate in investment reviews: disabled employees to do their jobs.
co-investment plans and carried interest Should an employee become disabled during Verification schemes, which allow executives to share their employment, efforts are made to retain a Group Risk Assurance and Audit function directly in the future profits on investments.
them in their current employment or to which undertakes periodic examination Further details of these plans are set out in explore the opportunities for their retraining of business units and processes and the Directors remuneration report.
or redeployment within the Group.
recommends improvements in controls Employees participate in local state or The Group also provides financial support to to management: company pension schemes as appropriate disabled employees who are unable to work, to local market conditions.
the external auditors who are engaged as appropriate to local market conditions.
to express an opinion on the annual Charitable and political donations The Groups principal means of keeping financial statements: Charitable donations made by the Group in touch with the views of its employees in the year to 31 March 2007 amounted an Audit and Compliance Committee which are through employee appraisals, to 429,409.
Excluding the Companys considers significant control matters and informal consultations, team briefings, matching of Give As You Earn contributions receives reports from Group Risk and staff conferences and surveys.
by staff, charitable donations amounted to Assurance and Audit and the external Managers throughout the Group have a 322,524.
Of this amount approximately auditors and the Group Compliance continuing responsibility to keep their staff 58% were donated to causes which aim to function on a regular basis.
fully informed of developments and to relieve poverty or benefit the community, or communicate financial results and other The internal control system is monitored both, approximately 12% were donated to matters of interest.
This is achieved by and supported by a Group Risk Assurance charities which advance education, and structured communication including regular and Audit function which operates on approximately 9% were donated to medical meetings of employees.
an international basis and reports to charities.
Further details of charitable management and the Audit and Compliance The Group has clear grievance and donations are set out in the Corporate Committee on the Groups operations.
disciplinary procedures in place, which include responsibility report on pages 40 to 47.
The work of Group Risk Assurance and Audit comprehensive procedures on discrimination In line with Group policy, no donations were is focused on the areas of greatest risk to the and the Groups equal opportunities policy.
made to political parties during the year.
Group determined on the basis of the Groups The Group also has an employee assistance Under the Companies Act 1985, as risk management process.
The external programme which provides a confidential, amended, the Company is required to auditors independently and objectively review free and independent counselling service disclose particulars of any donation to any the approach of management to reporting and is available to all staff and their families EU political organisation and EU political operating results and financial condition.
expenditure incurred during the year.
In co-ordination with Group Risk Assurance There are clearly defined staff policies for During the period, 3i plc, the main operating and Audit, they also review and test the pay and working conditions.
The Groups company of the Group, made a payment to system of internal financial control and the employment policies are designed to provide one organisation, detailed below, which may information contained in the annual financial a competitive reward package which will fall within the definition of donations to EU statements to the extent necessary for attract and retain high quality staff, whilst political organisations.
This payment was an expressing their opinion.
ensuring that the cost element of these annual subscription to the Industry Forum rewards remains at an appropriate level.
3i Group plc 58 Report and accounts 2007 Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements Additional financial information Information for shareholders Policy for paying creditors Auditors independence and objectivity services that could be provided by The Groups policy is to pay creditors in Subject to annual appointment by a number of firms including general accordance with the CBI Prompt Payers Code shareholders, auditor performance is consultancy work.
All significant of Good Practice, copies of which can be monitored on an ongoing basis and formally consultancy projects are normally put out obtained from the Confederation of British reviewed every five years, the next review to tender and work would be allocated to Industry at Centre Point, 103 New Oxford being scheduled for 2008.
The Audit and the auditors only if it did not present a Street, London WC1A 1DU.
The Company Compliance Committee reviewed auditor potential threat to the independence of the had no trade creditors during the year.
performance during the year and concluded audit team.
Included in this category is due 3i plc had trade creditors outstanding that Ernst & Young LLPs appointment as the diligence work relating to the investment at the year end representing on average Companys auditors should be continued.
If this service were to be provided 19 days purchases.
by the auditors, the specific team engaged The Committee recognises the importance of would be independent of the audit team.
Statement of Directors responsibilities ensuring the independence and objectivity of The Directors are required by UK company the Companys auditors.
It reviews the nature Details of the fees paid to the auditors are law to prepare financial statements which and extent of the services provided by them, disclosed in note 6 to the financial give a true and fair view of the state of the level of their fees and the element statements on page 84. affairs of the Company and the Group as at comprising non-audit fees.
The Audit and Audit information the end of the year and of the profit for the Compliance Committee Chairman is notified Pursuant to section 234ZA 2 of the year.
The Directors have responsibility for of all assignments allocated to Ernst & Young Companies Act 1985, each of the Directors ensuring that proper accounting records are over a set threshold, other than those confirms that: a so far as they are aware, kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy related to due diligence within the Groups there is no relevant audit information of the financial position of the Group and enable investment process where the team engaged which the Companys auditors are unaware: them to ensure that the financial statements would be independent of the audit team.
and b they have taken all steps they ought comply with the Companies Act 1985.
Safeguards have been put in place to reduce to have taken to make themselves aware They have a general responsibility for taking the likelihood of compromising auditor of any relevant audit information and to such steps as are reasonably open to them independence, including the following establish that the Companys auditors are to safeguard the assets of the Group and principles which are applied in respect of aware of such information.
to prevent and detect fraud and other services provided by the auditors and other irregularities.
Suitable accounting policies, accounting firms and monitored by the Appointment of auditors which follow generally accepted accounting Audit and Compliance Committee: In accordance with section 384 of the practice and are explained in the notes to Companies Act 1985, a resolution proposing services required to be undertaken by the financial statements, have been applied the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP the auditors, which include regulatory consistently and applicable accounting as the Companys auditors will be put to returns, formalities relating to borrowings, standards have been followed.
In addition, members at the forthcoming AGM.
This work is these financial statements comply with normally allocated directly to the auditors: By order of the Board International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and services which it is most efficient for A W W Brierley Secretary reasonable and prudent judgments the auditors to provide.
In this case, 9 May 2007 and estimates have been used in information relating to the service is largely Registered Office: their preparation.
derived from the Companys audited 16 Palace Street financial records: for example, corporate London SW1E 5JD Going concern tax services.
This work is normally allocated The Directors are satisfied that the Company to the auditors subject to consideration and the Group have adequate resources to of any impact on their independence: continue to operate for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements.
3i Group plc 59 Report and accounts 2007
