Corporate governance report Throughout the year ended 30 September 2007, the Company has been in compliance with the code provisions set out in section 1 of the 2003 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
This report describes Aberdeens corporate governance arrangements, explaining how we have applied the principles of the Code.
The Board The Board currently comprises the Chairman, five Non Executive Directors and three Executive Directors, all of whom served throughout the year.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, clearly defined and have been approved by the Board.
The Chairman, Charles Irby, is responsible for the effective conduct of the Board and for shareholder relations, whilst the Chief Executive, Martin Gilbert, is responsible for the day to day management of the Group.
The Board considers all of the Non Executive Directors to be independent and has appointed Donald Waters as the Senior Independent Director.
In considering director independence, the Board has taken into consideration the guidance provided by the Code.
Giles Weaver joined the Board following the acquisition of the Murray Johnstone Group MJ in November 2000.
Giles was formerly an executive director of MJ until December 1999, following which he became Chairman of MJ until its acquisition.
In addition, Giles is a member of the Murray Johnstone Limited Retirement Benefits Plan.
On a literal interpretation of the guidance in the Code, he was never an executive of Aberdeen nor of any subsidiary while it has been a member of the Aberdeen Group but, in seeking to apply the spirit as well as the letter of the Code, the Board chose not to regard Giles as independent until 2004.
A full seven years having now passed since his appointment, and taking into consideration his independence of character and judgement, the Board reiterates its view that Giles is an independent Non Executive Director.
Biographical details of Directors can be found on page 23.
The Board met eight times during the year to review financial performance and strategy and to follow a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision, which includes the setting of Company goals, objectives, budgets and other plans.
Comprehensive board papers, comprising an agenda and formal reports and briefing papers, are sent to Directors in advance of each meeting.
Throughout their period in office Directors are continually updated, by means of written and verbal reports from senior executives and external advisers, on the Groups business and the competitive and regulatory environments in which it operates, as well as on legal, environmental, social, governance and other relevant matters.
In addition to its formal business, the Board received a number of briefings and presentations from senior executive and local management during the year covering a wide range of topics across the range of the Groups business.
The Board also has a policy of making periodic visits to the Groups key overseas offices in order to meet local management and clients and to attain an understanding of the local business environment.
The Board visited the Oslo, Philadelphia and Singapore offices during the year.
All Directors have access to independent professional advice, if required, at the Companys expense as well as to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
New Directors appointed to the Board receive a full, formal and tailored induction, which includes meetings with relevant members of senior management, in order to help them gain a detailed understanding of the Group and its activities.
The Company Secretary, under the direction of the Chairman, is responsible for facilitating this induction programme, ensuring good information flow between the Board, its committees and management and assisting with Directors continuing professional development needs.
Directors are also advised, at the time of their appointment, of the legal and other duties and obligations arising from the role of director of a listed company and are reminded of these duties and obligations on a regular basis.
Directors appointed during the year are required to seek election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and all Directors have submitted themselves for re-election by shareholders at intervals of no more than three years.
Details of the attendance of individual Directors are shown in the table below.
Maximum possible attendance Meetings attended Charles Irby 8 8 Donald Waters 8 8 Roger Cornick 8 8 Anita Frew 8 8 Sir Malcolm Rifkind 8 8 Giles Weaver 8 8 Martin Gilbert 8 8 Bill Rattray 8 8 Andrew Laing 8 8 36 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Performance evaluation The Board has established a formal process, led by the Chairman, for the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its appointed Committees and each Director, to ensure that they continue to act effectively and efficiently and to fulfil their respective duties, and to identify any training requirements.
A tailored questionnaire, taking into account developments over the year and including specific references to the objectives of the Board and its Committees, was completed by each Director.
The responses were analysed and the results were subsequently discussed at meetings of the Committees and of the Board, as well as in individual discussions between the Chairman and each Director.
Additionally, the Non Executive Directors held a meeting without the Executive Directors present at which Executive Directors performance was discussed.
The Non Executive Directors also met without the Chairman present to discuss the results of the evaluation of the Chairmans performance, having taken into consideration the views of the Executive Directors, and the results of this meeting were subsequently discussed between the Senior Non Executive Director and the Chairman.
Board committees The Board has appointed the following committees to assist in the execution of its duties.
All of these committees operate on written terms of reference, which are reviewed annually and which are available on the Companys website, and the chairman of each committee reports regularly to the Board.
Each of the committees is authorised to obtain, at the Companys expense, external legal or other professional advice to assist in carrying out its duties.
Only the members of each committee are entitled to attend its meetings but others, such as senior management and external advisers, may be invited to attend as appropriate.
Current membership of the committees is shown in the Directors biographies on page 23.
The composition of these committees is reviewed annually, taking into consideration the recommendations of the Nominations Committee.
Nominations committee The Nominations Committee is chaired by Charles Irby and he is supported by two independent Non Executive Directors, Sir Malcolm Rifkind and Donald Waters.
All served on the Committee throughout the year.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and for recommending new members for appointment to the Board.
The Board as a whole has responsibility for the appointment of new Directors and for nominating them for election by shareholders at the first opportunity following their appointment.
The Committee is also responsible for giving due consideration to succession planning for the Board and other senior executives and for making recommendations to the Board.
During the year the Committee reviewed the proposals for rotation and re-election of Directors at the Annual General Meeting: discussed the results of the annual performance evaluation exercise and noted the satisfactory operations of the Committee: and reviewed its terms of reference.
The Committee met on a number of occasions during the year including one formal meeting and details of the attendance of individual members are shown in the table below.
Maximum possible attendance Meetings attended Charles Irby 1 1 Donald Waters 1 1 Malcolm Rifkind 1 1 Audit committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Donald Waters and he is supported by two independent Non Executive Directors, Anita Frew and Giles Weaver.
The Board is satisfied that all of the Committees members have recent and relevant commercial and financial knowledge and experience to satisfy the provisions of the Code, by virtue of their having held various executive and non executive roles in investment management and business management.
Additionally, Donald Waters and Giles Weaver are both Chartered Accountants.
The Committees role is to assist the Board in discharging its duties and responsibilities for financial reporting, internal control and risk management, and the appointment and remuneration of independent external auditors.
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing the scope and results of audit work and its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
In order to safeguard the objectivity and independence of the auditors, the Committee has approved a comprehensive policy to regulate the provision of non-audit services by the Groups external auditors.
The policy provides details of the types of service Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 37 Corporate governance report continued which are and are not permitted and those which require the explicit prior approval of the Committee.
Permitted non-audit services include the provision of tax compliance services: the provision of certain recruitment services: and acting as reporting accountant in appropriate circumstances, provided there is no element of valuation work involved.
The provision of tax advisory services, due diligence transaction services and litigation services may be permitted with the Committees prior approval.
The provision of internal audit services, valuation work and any other activity that may give rise to any possibility of self-review are not permitted under any circumstance.
The Committee also has responsibility for reviewing the Companys arrangements on whistle blowing, ensuring that appropriate arrangements are in place for employees to be able to raise, in confidence, matters of possible impropriety, with suitable subsequent follow-up action.
During the year the Committee discharged its responsibilities, under its terms of reference, by: a reviewing the Groups draft 2006 financial statements and 2007 interim results statement prior to discussion and approval by the Board and reviewing the external auditors detailed reports thereon: b reviewing the continuing appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies: c reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the Groups 2007 financial statements, receiving and reviewing confirmations of auditor independence and approving the terms of engagement and proposed fees for the 2007 audit: d making recommendations to the Board for a resolution to be put to shareholders to approve the re-appointment of the external auditors: e reviewing managements annual report on the Groups system of internal control and its effectiveness, reporting to the Board on the results of this review and receiving regular updates on key risks and controls: f reviewing the internal audit department terms of reference, its work programme and regular reports on its work during the year: g receiving reports from the chairman of the Group Risk Management Committee: h reviewing the Committees terms of reference, carrying out an annual performance evaluation exercise and noting the satisfactory operation of the Committee.
The Committee receives regular reports from the Groups external and internal auditors and can, and does, request supplementary reports from management to enable it to fulfil its duties under its terms of reference.
The Committee met four times during the year, with representatives of senior management and KPMG Audit Plc in attendance at each meeting.
Details of the attendance of the individual members of the Committee during the year are shown in the table below.
Maximum possible attendance Meetings attended Donald Waters 4 4 Anita Frew 4 4 Giles Weaver 4 4 Remuneration committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Sir Malcolm Rifkind, and he is supported by three independent Non Executive Directors, Roger Cornick, Anita Frew and Giles Weaver.
Anita Frew was appointed to the Committee after the year end.
The role of the Committee is to monitor, review and make recommendations to the Board on the Groups remuneration policy, as set out in the Report on pages 28 to 35, and to make recommendations to the Board on the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and other senior employees of the Group.
The Committee is also responsible for approving the design of all share incentive plans and for recommending their approval by the Board and by shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee held four formal meetings during the year and details of the attendance of the individual members of the Committee are shown in the table below.
In addition, and in accordance with its requirements of the terms of reference, the members of the Committee were also consulted on a range of issues during the year, including specific matters related to both recruitment and redundancy.
Maximum possible attendance Meetings attended Malcolm Rifkind 4 4 Roger Cornick 4 4 Giles Weaver 4 3 38 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Management Board The operational management of the Group is delegated by the Board to the Management Board which comprises the Executive Directors and other heads of department.
Brief biographies of its members are provided on page 24.
The Management Board meets three times each month, has specific terms of reference which have been approved by the Board and has responsibility for implementing the Boards strategy.
Relationships with shareholders The Company places great importance on communication with investors and aims to keep shareholders informed by means of regular communication with institutional shareholders, analysts and the financial press throughout the year.
Annual and Interim Reports and trading updates are widely distributed to other parties who may have an interest in the Groups performance and these documents are also made available on the Companys website.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director make regular reports to the Board on investor relations and on specific discussions with major shareholders and the Board receives copies of all research published on the Company.
Private investors are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting at which they have an opportunity to ask questions.
The Annual General Meeting is normally attended by all Directors, and the Chairmen of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees are all available to answer questions.
The Senior Independent Director is always available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Company continues to offer major shareholders the opportunity to meet any or all of the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and any new Directors.
The Group will continue its policy of announcing the number of proxy votes cast on resolutions at the Annual General Meeting and any other general meetings.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and the management of significant risks.
The Groups internal controls are designed to cover all risks to achieving the Groups objectives including all business, operational, reputational, financial and compliance risks.
The internal controls are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk of failure to meet business objectives and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The system of internal control is embedded within the day to day operations of the Group and a strong control culture is combined with clear management responsibility and accountabilities for individual controls.
The Group Risk Management Committee, chaired by the Group Head of Risk, oversees the key risks and controls and the risk management process.
Membership of the Committee comprises the Executive Directors and their senior colleagues plus the heads of Legal, Compliance and Internal Audit, and the Committee operates under terms of reference approved by the Board.
The Group operates an automated risk management framework that requires management to record and regularly assess the risks and the effectiveness of internal controls and to report their findings to the Board.
The risk management framework, which covers all material parts of the Group, also provides a continuous improvement process for the Groups internal controls.
The Group has separate functions which monitor the effectiveness of internal control.
The primary control functions sit with the Groups Risk Division, comprising the Compliance, Legal, Business Risk and Internal Audit functions.
The Compliance team reviews the effectiveness of controls that ensure compliance with regulatory requirements in each jurisdiction in which the Group operates while the Legal team is responsible for ensuring that the Group complies with statutory requirements globally.
During the period a separate function of Business Risk has been established to focus on operational and investment risks facing the Group, reflecting the increasing size and complexity of its operations.
The Internal Audit team reviews the effectiveness of all controls, either by reviewing the methods and findings of the other independent monitoring functions, or by directly auditing the controls operated by management.
The heads of these functions each report to the Group Head of Risk who, in turn, reports to the Chief Executive and also attends and reports at meetings of the Board.
The Head of Internal Audit, however, primarily reports to the Audit Committee and has unrestricted access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Further controls lie with the Performance division which reports on investment performance of assets managed by the Group to generally accepted industry standards.
The Head of this division reports directly to the Chief Investment Officer.
A summary of significant risks, key internal controls and findings arising from the risk management framework and the work of the monitoring functions is reported by the Management Board annually in a formal risk control report to the Board.
Identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks is an ongoing process which is regularly reviewed by the Board and has been in place throughout the year to 30 September 2007 and up to the date of approval of these financial statements.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 39 Corporate governance report continued Employees The Group recognises that the involvement of its employees is key to the future success of the business, and has for many years adopted a practice of keeping employees informed on all matters affecting them, via email and the Groups intranet site and that all publicly announced documents are circulated internally to all employees.
The Group has consistently operated a remuneration strategy that recognises both corporate and individual performance.
The Group is also committed to following good practice in employment matters, recognising the part this plays in attracting and retaining staff.
Further controls lie with the Performance team which report on investment performance of assets managed by the Group to generally accepted industry standards.
This team, in turn, report to the Chief Investment Officer.
The Group promotes the importance of high ethical standards to all employees and staff have the opportunity to voice any concerns they may have, either direct with management or on a confidential basis via the whistleblowing process.
Equal opportunities The Group is committed to providing equal opportunities, both for existing employees and for new applicants, and seeks to ensure that the workforce reflects, as far as is practicable, the diversity of the many communities in which the Group operates.
It is the Groups policy to give appropriate consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
For the purposes of training, career development and promotion, disabled employees, including anyone who may become disabled during the course of his or her employment, are treated on equal terms with other employees.
The Group operates a zero tolerance policy to harassment and bullying.
Details of the Groups equal opportunities policy is available on the Companys website and this policy is supplemented by specific policies that reflect local employment legislation and expectations.
Health and safety The Group has in place appropriate local health and safety policies which can be accessed by all staff via an internal database.
The aim is to provide both staff and visitors with a safe and healthy working environment.
The Group is committed to adhering to the high standards of health and safety set out by its policies and procedures and to providing training as necessary.
Corporate social responsibility The Group recognises the importance of Corporate social responsibility CSR incorporating transparency, fairness, accountability and integrity and believes that these principles are fundamental to the Groups operations.
The Group continues to monitor developments in all relevant areas of CSR, including environment management, employees, health and safety, suppliers and the community to ensure that it meets best practice.
The Group continues to promote energy efficiency and the avoidance of waste throughout its operations and a number of initiatives, such as the recycling of paper, glass and other waste and the use of green energy are encouraged.
The Group commissioned its third environmental audit, this time covering all our main offices worldwide, in order to obtain key performance indicator data and to provide comment on the Groups environmental performance in relation to published benchmarks.
The Group has codified and published its policy on corporate governance in relation to companies in which it has invested or is considering investing and on voting at shareholder meetings of investee companies.
Full details are available on the Companys website.
As part of the Groups CSR responsibilities, the Board takes account of the significance of environmental, social and governance ESG matters that are of importance to the Group.
Primary responsibility for these matters rests with Andrew Laing, the Chief Operating Officer, however reporting to the Board will come from a number of sources including the Group Risk Division via the Groups automated risk management framework.
The Board has identified and assessed the significant ESG risks to the Groups short and long-term value, as well as the opportunities to enhance value that may arise from an appropriate response.
The Board confirms that it has received adequate information to make this assessment and that account is taken of the ESG matters in the induction and training of Directors.
The Board is of the opinion that the Group has in place effective systems for managing and mitigating significant risks which, where relevant, incorporate performance management systems and appropriate remuneration incentives.
As previously stated, the most important ESG matters of relevance to the Group are employee retention and client relationships.
On both of these issues, the Board has received specific reports from the Executive identifying the risks and the issues and have taken steps to ensure that they are managed in an appropriate manner.
In addition, it is recognised that our activities do have an impact on the environment and in using the results of our recent environmental audit, the Group remains committed to minimising waste and using energy efficiently, thus aiming to reduce the negative impact of our operations on the environment.
Full details are available on the Company's website.
40 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007
