qxd:Layout 1 18 3 08 09:40 Page 50 Directors Report Corporate Governance 50 Governance Framework Corporate Governance GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK There are three elements to BG Groups Effective governance is at Governance Framework: the Groups the core of BG Groups organisation and structure: the Internal Control Framework: and independent ability to operate assurance.
These are described as follows: successfully in the global Organisation and structure business environment.
This section sets out details of the organisation and structure, and the procedures that ensure Sir Robert Wilson it is robust and effective in meeting the highest Chairman standards of corporate governance.
The Groups organisation and structure is The Board of Directors of BG Group is established and overseen by the Board and is committed to the highest standards of designed to allow for effective and efficient corporate governance, which it believes are decision-making.
critical to business integrity and performance, A diagram of the BG Group Board and and to maintaining investor confidence.
committee structure is set out on page 55.
In order to ensure the highest standards The membership of each of the principal of corporate governance are observed, Board committees is shown on pages the Company operates within a 56 and 57.
The Board has delegated authority to The Governance Framework complements its committees on specic matters, which the beliefs and behaviours as set out in are set out in written terms of reference.
the BG Group Business Principles, details The terms of reference of the Audit, of which can be found on page 38.
Remuneration and Nominations Committees are reviewed annually by the Board and The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
This report published on BG Groups website, together with the terms of reference for the Corporate explains how the Governance Framework Responsibility, Chairmans and Group is structured and implemented across the Executive Committees.
Copies are also Group in support of the statements by the available from the Company Secretary upon Board that the Company complies with the UK Financial Reporting Councils request.
Minutes of the meetings of these committees are circulated to all Directors.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
Board of Directors In September 2007, BG Group fide-listed its The Board is responsible to BG Groups shareholders for creating and delivering ordinary shares from the New York Stock Exchange NYSE and submitted an application sustainable shareholder value through the management of the Groups businesses to fide-register from the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC under the US Securities within the Governance Framework.
Boards role is to set the Groups strategy and to ensure that appropriate levels of financial On 20 December 2007, BG Groups application and human resources are made available to to fide-register its shares became effective and deliver it.
as a consequence, the Company is no longer obliged to comply with the US corporate As well as oversight responsibility for governance requirements.
However, key financial performance, internal controls and elements of the US governance regime have risk management of the Group, the Board been retained as best practice, as set out on has a formal schedule of matters specically page 56. reserved to it for decision.
com DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BG061 p50-57 vAW.
qxd:Layout 1 15 3 08 11:12 Page 51 Governance Framework 51 BG GROUP SHAREHOLDERS BOARD OF DIRECTORS matters, which is non-exhaustive, is set out on page 52.
In addition, during the year, the Board reserved to itself the oversight of all matters relating to safety and asset integrity.
A statement of the Directors responsibilities ORGANISATION INTERNAL INDEPENDENT for preparing the Financial Statements, AND CONTROL ASSURANCE including a statement regarding the status STRUCTURE FRAMEWORK of the Company as a going concern, is set out on page 60.
Board composition The Board is made up of a non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial officer and eight independent Independent Director is expected to commit determined that he was independent at the non-executive Directors.
A list of the at least three to four days per year to the time of his appointment.
individual Directors, their biographies and role, and signicantly more in exceptional The Board undertakes an annual review details of their committee membership are circumstances.
This is in addition to the of the independence of its non-executive provided on pages 46 and 47. expected time commitment in his capacity Directors in accordance with the criteria set as a non-executive Director.
Following this The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive review in 2007, the Board has concluded that are separate and their responsibilities are All Directors are subject to election by each of the non-executive Directors, with the shareholders at the first Annual General clearly established, set out in writing and exception of the Chairman, is independent.
This description of the Meeting AGM following their appointment by the Board.
Thereafter, in accordance with roles and responsibilities of the Chairman At the time of his original appointment, the Combined Code and the Companys and Chief Executive is also available on on 1 January 2004, the Chairman was also Articles of Association, they are subject to BG Groups website.
considered independent by the Board.
Based on these However, in accordance with the Combined The Chairman, Sir Robert Wilson, is responsible criteria, the Nominations Committee has made Code, the ongoing test of independence for the workings and leadership of the Board recommendations to the Board in respect for the Chairman is not appropriate, and and for the balance of its membership.
The of the election of Dr John Hood and the reaccordingly, this was not a factor relevant to Chief Executive, Frank Chapman, is responsible election of Sir John Coles and Baroness Hogg his re-appointment as Chairman for a second for leading and managing the business within at the 2008 AGM.
The Board considered and three year term effective from 1 January 2007. the authorities delegated by the Board.
endorsed these recommendations and The Board has therefore determined that, concluded that the performance of these The non-executive Directors provide other than Sir John Coles in respect of his Directors is effective and that they have experience and skills from a number of private length of service on the Board, none of its demonstrated commitment to the role.
They are non-executive Directors: key to the formulation and development of BG Group maintains liability insurance for has been an employee of the Company or the Groups strategy and also to reviewing and its Directors and ofcers, and also provides Group within the last five years: monitoring the performance of management, certain indemnities for its Directors and the the integrity of financial information, and Company Secretary and members of the has, or has had within the last three years, internal controls and risk management.
Further details a material business relationship with the are set out on page 59.
Company either directly or as a partner, Paul Collins, a non-executive Director since shareholder, director or senior employee October 2000, is the Senior Independent Director independence of a body that has such a relationship with Director nominated by the Board, and is The Combined Code includes provisions for a the Company: available to shareholders as an alternative companys board to assess the independence point of contact to the Chairman, Chief of each non-executive director.
The outcome has received or receives additional Executive and Chief Financial officer.
The role of this assessment is presented to the Board.
remuneration from the Company of the Senior Independent Director is clearly This assessment was applied in respect of the apart from a Directors fee, participates established, set out in writing and agreed appointment of Dr John Hood to the Board in the Companys share option or a by the Board.
This description of the role is during 2007.
The Nominations Committee performance-related pay scheme, or is a published on BG Groups website.
The Senior reviewed the proposed appointment and member of the Companys pension scheme: BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 BG061 p50-57 vAW.
qxd:Layout 1 18 3 08 09:40 Page 52 Directors Report Corporate Governance 52 Governance Framework continued has close family ties with any of the In addition to those meetings, the Board Matters reserved to the Board Companys advisers, Directors or senior focuses on the Groups strategy at an annual employees: 1 Approval of the Group vision, values and two day planning conference.
holds cross-directorships or has significant Guidelines are in place concerning the 2 Approval of the Companys Annual Report links with other Directors through content, timeliness and presentation of Board and Accounts, Remuneration Report and involvement in other companies or bodies: and committee papers from management, to Quarterly Financial Statements.
ensure that the Board is properly briefed.
represents a significant shareholder: or 3 Approval of any interim dividend and Opportunities are provided within the recommendation of the final dividend.
has served on the Board for more than nine scheduled meeting programme for nonyears from the date of his her first election.
4 Approval of Group financial policy.
executive Directors to meet, without the Sir John Coles, who will have served on 5 Approval of material capital projects, Chairman or Executive Directors being present, investments, acquisitions and disposals the Board for ten years on 23 April 2008, and under the guidance of Paul Collins, the by any Group company.
is considered by the Board to retain Senior Independent Director.
independence of character and judgment.
6 Approval of the Companys long-term finance Board effectiveness In accordance with provision A.
7.2 of the plan and annual capital and revenue budget.
Directors induction and professional Combined Code, which requires non-executive 7 Approval of any significant change in development Directors serving more than nine years to be Group accounting policies or practices.
All Directors appointed to the Board receive subject to annual re-election, he will stand 8 Approval of all circulars, listing particulars, a full induction brieng tailored to their for re-election at this years AGM.
He was resolutions and corresponding individual needs, taking into account their last re-elected at the AGM in 2007. documentation sent to shareholders.
Company Secretary 9 Approval of changes in the capital structure Ongoing professional development is The Company Secretary, Keith Hubber, is of the Company or its status as a plc and, in provided to Directors to meet their particular particular, the issue or allotment of shares responsible for advising the Board, through requirements.
Directors received regular in the Company otherwise than pursuant to the Chairman, on all governance matters.
briengs during 2007 on key relevant and The Directors have full access to the advice topical issues, including legislative, corporate and services of the Company Secretary, who 10 Approval of material changes to the governance, financial reporting and Companys pension schemes rules, any is also responsible to the Board for: ensuring operational matters.
In particular, the change of Trustee, or material changes to that correct Board procedures are followed: funding and management arrangements.
Directors received a series of presentations ensuring effective communication ows and teach-ins in relation to the codified within the Board and its committees, and 11 Appointment, re-appointment and removal directors duties introduced by the Companies of the Chairman and Directors and the between senior management and recommendation to shareholders of their Act 2006, some of which came into effect non-executive Directors: and facilitating election or re-election under the Articles of in October 2007, with the remainder coming induction and assisting with the professional Association: the appointment and removal into effect in October 2008. development of Directors.
In addition, any of the Company Secretary.
Director, who believes it may be required in Board evaluation 12 Approval of the division of responsibilities the furtherance of his or her duties, may take An evaluation of the performance of between the Chairman and Chief Executive.
independent professional advice at the cost the Board, its principal committees, the of the Company.
13 Establishing committees of the Board, individual non-executive Directors and the approving their terms of reference Chairman, was conducted during the year.
Board meetings and table of attendance including membership and financial The Board and committee evaluations were Directors are expected, wherever possible, authority, reviewing their activities and, facilitated by external consultants on behalf to attend all Board meetings, relevant where appropriate, ratifying their decisions.
of the Chairman and the chairmen of the committee meetings and the AGM.
14 Recommendation to shareholders for the Board committees, and comprised a series of appointment, re-appointment or removal The Board has regular scheduled meetings one-to-one interviews between a facilitator of the Auditors.
Additional meetings of and each Director.
the Board are held as and when necessary.
15 Oversight of safety and asset integrity matters.
During 2007, the Board met nine times.
A The interviews were based upon a number of key areas covering Group strategy, succession table detailing the Directors attendance at 16 Approval of this schedule of matters each of the Companys Board and committee planning, Board size and the relationship reserved to the Board.
meetings during 2007 is set out on page 53. between the Board and its committees.
qxd:Layout 1 15 3 08 11:12 Page 53 53 2007 Board and committee attendance Corporate Group Chairmans Audit Remuneration Responsibility Nominations Finance Executive Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 9 20 7 5 6 3 4 9 a Sir Robert Wilson 920 4 6 3 4 Frank Chapman 9 19 6 4 9 b William Friedrich 915 5 4 7 Ashley Almanza 9 18 4 9 Peter Backhouse 9 7 6 Sir John Coles 9 6 Paul Collins 8 6 5 3 Jrgen Dormann 8 3 5 c Dr John Hood 6 3 4 Baroness Hogg 9 7 5 3 Lord Sharman 9 7 Philippe Varin 8 6 4 a Sir Robert Wilson joined the Remuneration Committee on 6 February 2007. b William Friedrich stepped down from the Board, Chairmans Committee, Corporate Responsibility Committee, Finance Committee and Group Executive Committee on 13 December 2007. c Dr John Hood joined the Board on 26 April 2007.
He became a member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee and the Audit Committee on 17 May 2007.
The results of the reviews were then Relationship with shareholders and Annual meet institutional shareholders and to considered with the Chairman and Senior General Meeting discuss topical issues.
Independent Director and subsequently The Board recognises the importance of The Company, through its Investor Relations discussed collectively by the Board as a whole.
maintaining an ongoing relationship with team, responds to a variety of enquiries from the Companys shareholders based on The performance of individual non-executive shareholders and an email communication frequent dialogue.
The Board is accountable Directors is evaluated by the Chairman, with facility is available on the Groups website to shareholders for the performance and input from the committee chairmen and the for this purpose.
activities of the Group and it is proactive in Executive Directors.
The performance of the obtaining an understanding of shareholder In 2007, shareholders approved changes to Chief Executive is evaluated by the Chairman views on a number of matters.
the Companys Articles of Association to allow and non-executive Directors.
The performance electronic communications in accordance with of the Chief Financial officer is evaluated by Regular meetings with institutional the Companies Act 2006.
Shareholders were the Chief Executive in consultation with the shareholders are held with the Chief invited to elect whether, in future, to view Chairman and other non-executive Directors.
Executive and the Chief Financial officer shareholder communications on BG Groups and, where appropriate, the Chairman, The evaluation of the Chairman was led by website or to continue to receive hard copy following the announcement of quarterly Paul Collins, the Senior Independent Director, communications.
Those shareholders who and annual results.
This ensures that the and involved individual meetings with each did not inform the Company of their investor community receives a balanced of the Executive Directors, followed by a preferences were deemed to have agreed and comprehensive view of the Groups group review with the non-executive to view documents on BG Groups website.
performance and the issues it faces.
In Directors, excluding the Chairman.
Shareholders are entitled to change the addition, the Board regularly monitors way in which they receive shareholder The Directors have concluded that, following the views of shareholders and considers communications at any time, and details this evaluation, the Board and its committees reports from its investor relations advisers of how to do so are set out on page 129. operate effectively and also consider that concerning institutional shareholder each Director is contributing effectively and feedback.
The Chairman and non-executive demonstrates commitment to the role.
Directors are also given the opportunity to BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 BG061 p50-57 vAW.
qxd:Layout 1 18 3 08 09:40 Page 54 Directors Report Corporate Governance 54 Governance Framework continued These arrangements ensure that shareholders Groups objectives.
The Board, through the regularly assessed, and that, wherever can choose to receive communications in the Chief Executive, asks each member of the possible, there are controls in place to most appropriate way for them, while Group Executive Committee GEC to manage these risks.
allowing the Company to take advantage of complete and submit to the Chief Executive a BG Group views risk management as an the environmental and cost benets arising Letter of Assurance LOA, which provides this integral part of good business practice.
Risk from reduced paper usage, printing and conrmation for the areas of the business for assessment and evaluation are incorporated distribution costs.
A Governance into the key business processes, including Self-Assessment GSA questionnaire, based The Companys AGM will be held on strategy and business planning, investment on the core controls, is also completed by 14 May 2008 at the International Convention appraisal, performance management and the management level reporting directly to Centre in Birmingham.
The AGM is an Health, Safety, Security and Environment members of the GEC, in order to complement opportunity for shareholders who are able HSSE management processes.
Any exceptions arising to attend to ask questions of the full Board from the GSA questionnaires are collated and The risk management process is reviewed of Directors, including the chairmen of analysed to support the determination of the by the Governance & Risk Committee on the Audit, Remuneration, Corporate effectiveness of the ICF during the year.
behalf of the GEC, and the Audit Committee Responsibility and Nominations Committees, oversees the design and effectiveness of the and the Company Secretary.
The Notice of The Disclosure Committee, through formal process on behalf of the Board.
AGM, which includes full details of this and systematic enquiries of, and interviews years AGM, is set out on pages 131 to 138.
Independent assurance with, each member of the GEC and the Group Financial Controller, has evaluated The third element of BG Groups Governance Internal Control Framework the individual LOAs submitted to the Chief Framework is independent assurance, which The second element of BG Groups Executive.
The outcome of this process has is provided primarily by Group Audit, the Go vernance Framework is the Internal been reported to the Chief Executive and independent external Auditors and other Control Framework ICF, which defines Chief Financial officer.
the way in which the Group operates.
It comprises the Groups Business Principles, In turn, a report was presented to the Audit Group Audit provides assurance to the Board, policies, processes, standards and guidelines.
Committee setting out the process followed Audit Committee, GEC and management by management and the outcome of the that effective and efficient internal control The Board is ultimately responsible for the review.
The Audit Committee reviewed this processes are in place to identify and manage Groups system of internal controls and it report with management, the external business risk across the Group.
In particular, oversees the review, compliance and Auditors and Group Audit and, based on Group Audit: assurance processes that have been designed that review, reported to the Board on the to ensure there is an effective control provides an independent assessment of the effectiveness of BG Groups ICF in 2007. environment.
The Boards role is undertaken Groups system of risk management and in accordance with the guidance set out in Taking into account the processes that have internal control: the Combined Code and as set out in the been designed and implemented for 2007, assists management by carrying out US recognised Committee of Sponsoring the Board has concluded that the Groups independent appraisals of the effectiveness Organisations of the Treadway Commission system of internal controls was effective as of the internal control environment and COSO framework, which has been adopted at 31 December 2007. making recommendations for by the Audit Committee.
The COSO Risk management improvement: and framework provides reasonable, rather than The objective of risk management within absolute, assurance against material loss or supports development of the Groups BG Group is to improve performance and misstatement and is designed to manage, governance and business risk management decision-making through the identication, rather than to eliminate, the risk of failure policies.
evaluation and management of key risks.
The independent external Auditors report To achieve this, a business risk management Each year, conrmation is sought that all to shareholders and their audit opinion on assets and functions across the Group have, process has been established to identify, the applicable section of the Financial throughout the year, complied with a series evaluate and assist with the management Statements are set out on page 72. of core controls comprising mandatory of the risks faced by the Group.
The process The external reserves consultant, Degolyer policies, processes or standards from the operates on a mandatory basis across the ICF that signicantly contribute to the Group and provides the Audit Committee & MacNaughton, provides an independent identication and mitigation of one or more with assurance that the major risks faced review on certain of BG Groups gas and risks relating to the achievement of the oil reserves.
by the Group have been identied and are www.
qxd:Layout 1 15 3 08 11:12 Page 55 55 BG Group Board and committee structure BG GROUP PLC BOARD OF DIRECTORS CORPORATE AUDIT FINANCE REMUNERATION CHAIRMANS NOMINATIONS RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE GROUP RESERVES EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Portfolio Development HSSE Committee Committee Exploration & Appraisal People & Organisation Committee Committee Governance & Risk Investment Committee Committee Group Performance Energy Trading & Credit Risk Committee Committee STATEMENTS OF COMPLIANCE company should arrange for the notice Combined Code on Corporate Governance of AGM and related papers to be sent to As a UK listed company, BG Group is required shareholders at least 20 working days before to state whether it has complied with the the meeting.
It has been BG Groups practice provisions set out in Section 1 of the to comply with this provision and it continues Combined Code throughout 2007 and, where to be the Companys intention to do so.
the provisions have not been complied with, However, in 2007, 21 clear days equivalent to provide an explanation.
BG Group is also to 14 working days notice of the AGM was required to explain how it has applied the given to shareholders in accordance with the principles set out in Section 1 of the Companys Articles of Association to allow Combined Code relating to Directors, their the Directors sufficient time to consider the remuneration, accountability and audit, investigation into alleged improper conduct and relations with shareholders.
relating to the Brindisi LNG authorisation process reported to shareholders in the 2006 The Directors consider that the Company Annual Report and Accounts.
has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2007, other than provision D. 2.4, which states that the BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 BG061 p50-57 vAW.
qxd:Layout 1 18 3 08 09:40 Page 56 Directors Report Corporate Governance 56 Governance Framework continued CONSEQUENCES OF fide-LISTING FROM NYSE Disclosure Committee, a sub-committee of the appointment, compensation, AND fide-REGISTERING FROM SEC the Governance & Risk Committee, which independence and performance of the Groups external Auditors: and Following the fide-listing of BG Groups ordinary met with each of the control owners to review their design and to obtain assurance shares from the NYSE in September 2007, the independence and performance of the Company has retained its American on their effectiveness.
Depositary Receipt ADR programme as a Following the review by the Disclosure Specically, the Audit Committee: Level 1 programme.
BG Groups ADRs are now Committee, management concluded that, as listed on the Premier Tier of OTCQX.
Further at 31 December 2007, the Groups disclosure regularly reviews the external and internal information can be found at www.
com audit work plans: controls and procedures were effective.
Prior to fide-registration from the SEC under oversees and reviews the procedures for COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES the US Securities Exchange Act 1934, the the receipt, retention and treatment of Audit Committee management of the Group, in accordance complaints relating to financial matters, The members of the Audit Committee are with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act internal accounting controls and auditing, Lord Sharman Chairman, Peter Backhouse, 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley Act, was responsible and the Groups Whistleblowing policy: Paul Collins, Baroness Hogg, Philippe Varin for establishing and maintaining an adequate and Dr John Hood who joined the Committee requests, receives and reviews reports from system of internal controls over financial on 17 May 2007.
The Secretary to the management on actions taken to address reporting for the Group and used the COSO Committee is Alan McCulloch, Deputy risk areas identied by management and or framework to evaluate the effectiveness of Company Secretary.
All members of the the internal audit process: that system.
Following fide-registration, Committee are deemed to be independent BG Group is no longer required to comply reviews with management, and external and the Committee has concluded that its with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act: however, the and internal auditors, the significant risk membership meets the requirements of the Directors recognise the benets of the system exposures and the processes established to Combined Code.
The Board has determined of internal controls over financial reporting identify, monitor, control and report them: that Lord Sharman, a chartered accountant, established under that act and have therefore has recent and relevant financial experience annually reviews the control environment retained the key elements of the internal as required by the Combined Code.
within a specic asset: controls over financial reporting, including the During the year, the Committee met on seven COSO framework, under a financial control annually evaluates, on behalf of the Board, occasions.
The meetings of the Committee the design and effectiveness of the internal assurance programme.
are normally attended by the Chairman, the control structure, the Groups financial DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Chief Financial officer, the Group Financial reporting procedures and the Groups Disclosure controls and procedures were Controller, the Head of Group Audit and disclosure controls and procedures: and required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act: however, representatives of the external Auditors.
In annually evaluates the design and the benefit of these has also been recognised addition, the Committee meets privately with effectiveness of the processes established to and therefore they have been retained as the external Auditors at least twice each year.
estimate, aggregate and report the Groups best practice.
They are designed to ensure The Committee assists the Board in fullling various categories of oil and gas reserves.
that information required to be disclosed its responsibilities in respect of: is accumulated and communicated to During the year the principal activities of the management, including the Chief Executive overseeing the Groups financial reporting Committee included reviews of the following: and the Chief Financial officer, to allow process, including the internal control quarterly, interim and full year financial results: timely decisions regarding the disclosure structure and procedures for financial of information externally.
These disclosure reporting and monitoring the integrity the year end oil and gas reserves booking controls and procedures relate to the and appropriateness of the Groups process: Annual Report and Accounts, quarterly Financial Statements: the delivery of the 2007 internal Group financial releases, press releases and external the manner in which the Groups Audit plan and approval of the 2008 plan: presentations, annual investor presentations, management ensures and monitors the the Corporate Responsibility Report and the quarterly and full year internal control and adequacy of financial, operational and Groups annual Data Book publication.
assurance reports from Group Audit: compliance internal controls and business For 2007, a review of these disclosure controls risk management processes designed to the 2007 external audit plan and associated manage significant risk exposures: and procedures has been undertaken by the audit fees: www.
qxd:Layout 1 15 3 08 11:12 Page 57 57 the budget and framework for the supply of a review of security management issues: recommended to the Board, the Directors non-audit services by the external Auditors, standing for election and re-election at this a review of community relations: the independence and objectivity of the years AGM: and approval of a social performance policy to external Auditors and the effectiveness reviewed its Terms of Reference.
of the external audit process: govern the implementation of the social element of the Business Principles: Chairmans Committee the control environment within BG Trinidad The members of the Chairmans Committee and Tobago, and Atlantic LNG: a review of the Group strategy for managing are Sir Robert Wilson Chairman, greenhouse gas emissions and climate the Groups Internal Control Framework, Frank Chapman and Ashley Almanza.
The change: and including the business risk management Secretary to the Committee is Keith Hubber.
receiving regular reports on health, security process: The role of the Chairmans Committee is to and environment.
advise and assist the Chairman in the reports in relation to matters raised through preparation for Board meetings.
The Remuneration Committee whistleblowing and fraud processes: Committee also acts on behalf of the Board The members of the Remuneration the establishment of a financial controls between scheduled meetings, within clearly Committee are Baroness Hogg Chairman, and assurance programme to replace the dened delegated authority.
Paul Collins, Jrgen Dormann, Philippe Varin Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404 programme: and Sir Robert Wilson who joined the Finance Committee Committee on 6 February 2007.
The Secretary decommissioning provisions and liabilities, The members of the Finance Committee to the Committee is Keith Hubber.
The are Sir Robert Wilson Chairman, together with the process undertaken to Committee is responsible for setting, review the Groups decommissioning and Frank Chapman and Ashley Almanza.
The reviewing and recommending to the Board Secretary to the Committee is Keith Hubber.
site restoration obligations: for approval, BG Groups overall remuneration The Committee is responsible for finance relevant disclosures in this Report: and policy and strategy.
Full details are set out in and treasury policy decisions.
the Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 71. its Terms of Reference.
Group Executive Committee Nominations Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee The Committee has primary authority for The members of the Nominations Committee The members of the Corporate Responsibility the day-to-day management of the Groups are Sir Robert Wilson Chairman, Paul Collins Committee are Sir John Coles Chairman, operations, within agreed limits set by the and Baroness Hogg.
The Secretary to the Board.
Details of the membership of the GEC Sir Robert Wilson, Frank Chapman, Committee is Keith Hubber.
The role of the Peter Backhouse, Jrgen Dormann and are set out on pages 48 and 49.
Committee is to review the structure and Dr John Hood who joined the Committee on composition of the Board, to identify 17 May 2007.
The Secretary to the Committee candidates to ll Board vacancies, including is Keith Hubber.
The role of the Committee their election and subsequent re-election by is to assist the Board in providing strategic shareholders, and to review its own leadership, direction and oversight on all performance on an annual basis.
Corporate Responsibility issues, including health, security and environment, community The Committee met on three occasions relations, human rights, business principles and during the year.
Meetings are normally sustainable development within the Group.
attended by the Chief Executive.
The Committee met on six occasions during During the year, the Committee: the year and meetings are normally attended evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge by the Executive Vice President, Policy and and experience on the Board: Corporate Affairs.
identied, using external boardroom search In 2007, the principal activities of the consultants, potential new non-executive Corporate Responsibility Committee included: Director candidates: a review of BG Groups Business Principles: following a review of candidates, assurance that BG Group would be able to recommended to the Board the appointment conduct its business in accordance with the of Dr John Hood as an independent Business Principles in new areas of activity: non-executive Director of the Company: BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
