Directors Report Corporate Governance Board of Directors 26 Other Statutory Information 28 Statement of Corporate Governance 29 Directors Remuneration Report 34 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 41 Independent Auditors Report 42 Directors Report Corporate Governance Board of Directors 26 1.
Richard Banks Chairman Group Chief Executive Managing Director, Commercial Banking Appointed to the Board in October 2005, Appointed to the Board in January 2000 Appointed to the Board in 1998, Richard Sir Derek Higgs is a Chartered Accountant as Group Finance Director, David Bennett Banks has responsibility for the Groups and a former investment banker.
His became Group Chief Executive on Commercial Banking operations including previous career included five years as a 27 July 2007.
He has many years Treasury.
He was previously Distribution Director of Prudential plc and Chairman of experience in the financial sector, Director, Retail Banking, having held a its fund management business and 24 years as Finance Director of Cheltenham & number of senior positions in Alliance & with the Warburg Group where he was Head Gloucester plc and then as an Executive Leicester Commercial Bank plc formerly of Global Corporate Finance and Chairman Director of the National Bank of New Girobank plc since he joined the Company of SG Warburg & Co Ltd. His other Zealand Ltd.
He became a non-executive in 1987. appointments include a non-executive director of easyJet plc in October 2005.
Jane Barker directorship at Jones Lang LaSalle Inc and 4.
Malcolm Aish Non-Executive Director Chairman of Bramdean Asset Management Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board in 2004, Jane LLP.
He is also a Pro-Chancellor of the Appointed to the Board in May 2005, Barker is a Chartered Accountant and is the University of Bristol and a Trustee of the Malcolm Aish is a non-executive director Chief Executive Officer of Equitas Limited, Scott Trust.
and Chairman of the Audit Committee of the company set up to reinsure and run off 2.
Roy Brown Mitsubishi UFJ Securities International plc.
the 1992 and prior years non-life liabilities Non-Executive Deputy Chairman His previous career included nearly of Lloyds of London Syndicates.
She was and Senior Independent Director 30 years with N M Rothschild & Sons Ltd. until recently the Finance Director of Appointed to the Board in May 2007, At the time of his retirement in December Equitas.
She was previously a member Roy Brown is a Chartered Engineer 2003 he was Group Risk Director, having of the Council of the Open University and Chairman of GKN plc.
He is Senior previously been Head of Banking.
Malcolm and Chair of the Audit Committee of the Independent Director of HMV Group plc was a representative of the London Open University.
Her previous roles have and a non-executive director of the Investment Banking Association to the included being Finance Director of the Franchise Board of Lloyds of London.
FSA Advisory Group on the Basel Accord.
Formerly, he was an executive director of Unilever plc and NV, a non-executive director of Brambles Industries Ltd and plc and the British United Provident Association Ltd BUPA.
Alliance & Leicester Annual Report and Accounts 2007 27 7.
Margaret Salmon Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board in January 2006, Appointed to the Board in June 2000, Appointed to the Board in 2004, Margaret Rod Dukes career has been with HSBC, Mike McTighe has held a number of Salmon is Chair of the Sector Skills where he spent over 33 years.
At the time directorships, and is currently a member Development Agency and has held nonof his retirement in 2004 he was General of the Ofcom Board, Chairman of Pace Micro executive directorships at Kingfisher plc, Manager Banking Services and a Group Technology plc, a director of London Metal Manchester Airport Group plc and the General Manager, managing the banks Exchange Holdings Ltd, and also a University for Industry.
Her previous distribution capability for personal and chairman of a number of privately held executive roles have included being Chief commercial customers.
He had previously technology companies.
Mike also acts as Executive, BBC Resources Ltd, and HR held a number of executive positions across an advisor to several private equity firms.
Director at the BBC and The Burton Group.
the bank, including investment banking, Previously he was Chairman & CEO of 12.
Jonathan Watts credit cards and operations.
Rod is a nonCarrier1 International SA, and before that Non-Executive Director executive director of Exedra Clubs Limited.
Executive Director & Chief Executive, Global Appointed to the Board in May 2000, Operations of Cable & Wireless plc.
Mary Francis Jonathan Watts is also President of Geo these experiences, Mike spent five years Non-Executive Director and Chairman of Alaya Samadhi Ltd. with Philips of the Netherlands, five years Appointed to the Board in May 2007, Mary Previously he was Managing Director of with Motorola, and ten years with GE.
Francis is Senior Independent Director COLT Telecommunications, Europes largest of Centrica plc, a non-executive director 10.
Chris Rhodes business telephony, data and internet of Aviva plc and St Modwen Properties plc, Group Finance Director company and held senior positions a Director of the Almeida Theatre Company Appointed to the Board in June 2002 as in the UK and overseas in a number of Limited and a former Director of Fund Group Operations Director, Chris Rhodes telecommunications and technology Distribution Limited.
She was previously became Managing Director, Retail Banking companies, including BellSouth Corp, Director General of the Association of in 2003 and was appointed Group Finance Sintrom Plc, Datapoint Corp and Control British Insurers, a Director of the Bank Director on 27 July 2007.
Previously he has Data Corp. of England, and a senior civil servant held a number of senior positions with the in the Treasury and 10 Downing Street.
Group since he joined in 1988, including Deputy Managing Director and Finance Director of Alliance & Leicester Commercial Bank plc formerly Girobank plc.
co. uk Directors Report Corporate Governance Other Statutory Information 28 Directors Authority to Purchase Shares The following persons were directors of the Company during During the year 19,943,838 shares of 50 pence each, the year: representing a nominal value of 9,971,919 were repurchased Sir Derek Higgs Chairman and cancelled, representing 4.7% of the Companys issued 1 David Bennett Group Chief Executive capital as at 31 December 2007.
The aggregate consideration 1 Richard Pym to 27.07.2007 Group Chief Executive including stamp duty paid for the shares was 193.8m.
The Roy Brown from 4.05.2007 purpose of the share buyback programme was to help manage Peter Barton to 13.05.2007 the Groups capital base.
Malcolm Aish Capital efficiency remains a key financial objective and Richard Banks shareholder authority will again be sought, at the Annual Jane Barker General Meeting, for the Company to purchase in the market Rod Duke up to 63.1 million of its shares, representing some 15% of the Mary Francis from 2.05.2007 issued share capital, in order to retain flexibility in managing Mike McTighe the Companys capital requirements, although there are no Chris Rhodes current plans to buy back shares in 2008.
Margaret Salmon Jonathan Watts Special Business Note: The Annual General Meeting will be held on 13 May 2008.
David Bennett succeeded Richard Pym as Group Chief Executive business to be transacted at the Meeting is set out in full in the on 27 July 2007.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
The names and brief biographies of the current directors are Auditors shown on pages 26 and 27.
Chris Rhodes and Margaret Salmon In the case of each of the persons who are directors of the will retire by rotation and, being eligible, will offer themselves Company at the date when this report was approved: for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are Directors Interests in Contracts unaware: and No Director had a material interest at any time during the year in any contract with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself Directors Interests in Shares aware of any relevant audit information and to establish Directors interests in the shares in the Company and options to that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
acquire shares are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report Such confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance on pages 38 to 40. with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
Substantial Shareholders A resolution re-appointing Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Companys Shareholders with an interest in the issued ordinary share capital auditors and authorising the Group Audit Committee to of the Company, disclosed in accordance with sections 791 828 determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual of the Companies Act 2006, are shown in Note 38 on page 97.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties As a result of its normal business activities, the Group is exposed to a variety of risks, the most significant of which are operational risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has established a number of committees and policies to manage these risks.
These are set out in the Statement of S Lloyd Corporate Governance on pages 29 to 33 and Note 2 to the Group Secretary financial statements on page 54 to 72.
19 February 2008 Post Balance Sheet Events Since 31 December 2007, a number of post-balance sheet events have arisen, which have been disclosed in Note 44 on page 101.
Alliance & Leicester Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Statement of Corporate Governance 29 Dear Shareholder, Compliance Statement For the year ended 31 December 2007, Alliance & Leicester This section of our Annual Report & Accounts details how we have has applied the principles and complied with the provisions complied with the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate of Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Code was revised with effect from 1 November 2006 and The Board is committed to and recognises the importance of the revised Code applies to Alliance & Leicester with effect from high standards of corporate governance as a contribution to 1 January 2007.
Details of how Alliance & Leicester complied the success of the Group.
with the Code are summarised in this statement.
In our continuing drive towards transparency and maintaining Board Structure an effective dialogue with our shareholders, I would, again, At the date of this report, the Board comprises the Chairman, welcome any comments that you may have about Alliance & Sir Derek Higgs, the Group Chief Executive, David Bennett, Leicester and our corporate governance.
two executive directors and eight independent non-executive directors.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the roles of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
Sir Derek Higgs Chairman All Board members have the collective responsibility for ensuring that the affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries are managed competently and with integrity.
The Directors come from diverse business backgrounds and each actively and effectively contributes to the work of the Board and its Committees.
On 27 July 2007 Richard Pym retired as Group Chief Executive and was succeeded by David Bennett, who also has direct responsibility for Retail Banking.
Chris Rhodes, previously the Managing Director, Retail Banking, has taken over the role of Group Finance Director from David Bennett.
Roy Brown was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director on 4 May 2007 and succeeded Peter Barton, who resigned on 13 May 2007, as Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
Mary Francis was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director on 2 May 2007.
The Directors are required to report any material change in their circumstances to the Board.
The Chairman, during 2007, reported that he resigned as Chairman of Partnerships UK Plc on 31 May 2007.
The significant other commitments of the Directors are monitored and are set out in their biographical details on pages 26 and 27.
The Board considers all the non-executive directors to be independent.
Their role is to constructively challenge the management team and to utilise their business expertise, skills and experience to supplement the executive directors management of the Company.
The Group Secretary, Simon Lloyd, is an employee of the Company.
Role of the Group Board The Board is responsible for setting the Companys strategy to deliver increased shareholder value and for reviewing the Companys operating, financial and risk performance.
The Chairman is responsible for leading and managing the Board, ensuring it operates effectively and fully discharges its legal and regulatory responsibilities.
The Board has established a number of Committees to support its work.
Both the Board and its Committees meet regularly and details of the number of Board and Committee meetings and the attendance at those meetings are set out in the table on page 33.
The Board also met twice in 2007 to consider strategic matters and to receive presentations from the Executive Directors.
Minutes or reports of each of these meetings are circulated to all directors.
