34 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Investing for generations Corporate governance The Company is an investment The Company seeks approval from HM Revenue and Customs each year to maintain its status as an Investment Trust, the company which in addition to last such approval being given for the year ending January investing in equities, securities and 2006.
The Company has continued to conduct its affairs in a manner to enable it to continue to keep that approval.
property also invests in subsidiary The Company has complied with all of the provisions of the companies where the Board believes Revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by that there is an opportunity for the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 and with the new code issued in June 2006.
In addition the Company has increasing shareholder value in the complied with the AIC Code of Corporate Governance dated long term.
These subsidiary companies February 2006. may be incorporated by the Company The Board or may be acquired.
In addition to the Chairman, the Board comprises four Non-Executive Directors, all of whom are considered to be independent, and three Executive Directors.
In the course of the year the Board composition has changed with the retiral of our Investment Director Alan Young and our Corporate Development Director Sheila Ruckley.
Both of these Directors had been with the Company for many years and gave valuable service during their time in office.
Janet Pope was appointed as Chief Executive Alliance Trust Savings and an Executive Director during the year and the appointment of Katherine Garrett-Cox as Chief Investment Officer and Executive Director, with effect from May 2007, was announced.
Both will stand for election at the AGM.
Their biographies, along with those of the other directors, appear on pages 32 and 33.
The Board collectively is tasked with the setting of the Companys objectives and business plans, providing effective leadership, setting an effective framework of prudent controls to enable risk within the business to be managed, and reviewing on an ongoing basis the performance of the business.
The Board reserves the making of certain decisions to itself and in other cases delegates the power to committees or to the decision of the Executive Directors and management.
The areas that the Board has reserved to itself include: Approval of investment strategy and investment policy Proposals and decisions on new subsidiary businesses, joint ventures and other arrangements Approval of treasury policies, banking counterparties and counterparty exposure limits Approval of Group borrowing limits and the maximum amounts and nature of new bank borrowing facilities Major capital expenditure contracts Approval of the asset classes in which any Group company may invest Approval of the purpose of and the type of derivative instruments which any Group company may use Investing for generations Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 35 Approval of material changes to the percentage mix of Compliance the Board receives regular updates and on an asset allocation by asset class and geographical region annual basis receives and considers a full report through the Audit Committee of the state of compliance of the Approval of any business contracts whose value is in excess Group and of the effectiveness of the internal controls of defined limits within the business.
Major changes in employment and remuneration structures Progress Reporting at each meeting the Board receives for employees reports on progress of major projects against the targets The making of any political or charitable donation and objectives that have been set and agreed.
Prosecution, defence or settlement of any material Additionally, separate presentations have been made by litigation or civil proceedings senior members of management and external advisers in the course of the year to the Board on shareholder relations, Each year the Board agrees an annual Board Meeting investment support tools, office accommodation, investment timetable to ensure that all aspects of the performance of the performance, project management, asset management, company and its management are reviewed.
This includes: and the online share dealing service.
Considerable time was Strategy the Board holds an annual meeting at which the taken this year on consideration of the impact of the new performance of the Company is reviewed against its IT infrastructure and in reviewing the steps taken by business plan and future plans are discussed including areas management to reduce the impact of the initial problems that of potential growth or where a realignment of effort is had been experienced.
In 2006, it included formal presentations on The Board Committees report to the Board on their activities economic forecasts, portfolio performance and asset as appropriate during the course of the year.
allocation, the development of the SIPP business and the creation of the Hong Kong asset management business.
The Board held ten scheduled meetings during the year.
However this year, due to the importance of the merger with Asset Allocation the Board receives an update at each the Second Alliance Trust, a number of additional meetings meeting with a quarterly in-depth review of the took place.
Details of attendance by Directors at Board and performance of the investment team.
Board Committee meetings are set out below.
Subsidiary Returns the Board receives an update at each In addition to attending Board and Committee meetings the meeting on the financial performance of its subsidiaries Non-Executive Directors also make themselves available with a quarterly in-depth review between the scheduled meetings to provide guidance and Risk the Board receives regular updates and reviews on an advice in relation to the business activities and governance of annual basis the performance of the management and staff the Company.
The contribution of individual Directors should in their management of risk within the business.
This year not therefore be assessed solely by reference to the number as a consequence of the introduction of The International of meetings attended.
On those occasions where Directors Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards were unable to attend meetings as a result of business or A Revised Framework Basel 2, which impacts on the FSA personal commitments they had the opportunity to review regulated subsidiaries of the Company, the opportunity was the papers beforehand and raise issues or questions with the taken to undertake a full review of the relevant Chairman or Committee Chairman as appropriate.
Number of meetings attended in the year BOARD AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION Director Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Lesley Knox 12 12 3 3 Alan Harden 12 12 3 3 David Deards 12 12 Janet Pope 2 2 William Jack 9 12 33 67 3 3 Christopher Masters 12 12 34 77 3 3 Gordon McQueen 12 12 44 67 3 3 Clare Salmon 9 12 01 37 36 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Investing for generations Non-Executive Directors Clare Salmon was also a member until 16 June 2006 The Chairman is Lesley Knox and the Senior Independent The work of the Committee during the year is explained in Director is William Jack.
The Company is committed to more detail in the Accountability and Audit section of the maintaining a strong representation of independent nonreport on page 39. executives on the Board.
Remuneration Committee At the AGM William Jack will not be seeking re-election The members of the Committee are: and will stand down as a Director.
The role of Senior Independent Director will, following the AGM, be assumed Christopher Masters Chairman by Christopher Masters.
William Jack The Non-Executive Directors meet as a group normally twice a Gordon McQueen year.
On one of these occasions, the principal purpose is to discuss management performance and succession.
Clare Salmon The work of the Committee during the year is explained in Executive Directors more detail in the Remuneration section of the report on Alan Harden is the Chief Executive and has overall control and page 42. responsibility for delivering the objectives agreed by the Board and for the day to day running of the Group.
David Nomination Committee Deards is the Finance Director and is also responsible for the The members of the Committee are: Audit and Risk functions within the business: Janet Pope is responsible for business strategy as well as the performance Lesley Knox Chairman of Alliance Trust Savings.
William Jack The Executive Directors are also represented on each of Christopher Masters the Boards of the subsidiary companies in the Group.
No payments are received in respect of such directorships.
Gordon McQueen Alan Harden Company Secretary The Committee is responsible for ensuring that there is Donald McPherson was appointed Company Secretary on planned succession, so far as possible, at Board level and for 10 July 2006.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring the proper composition of the Board is maintained.
advising the board on matters of corporate governance as well as legal compliance matters.
The Directors always have In the course of this year the Committee considered the access to the Company Secretary for information and appointments of two new executive directors.
Given the assistance as required.
retirement of Alan Young during the year the Committee engaged a firm of external search consultants to seek a Board Committees suitable candidate for the role of Chief Investment Officer as well as using the existing network of contacts available to the Various committees have been instituted to assist decision Company through its senior management team.
After a series making and internal governance.
The three committees of meetings and interviews, Katherine Garrett-Cox was reporting to the Board are: identified as the preferred candidate.
Audit Committee The Committee determined that it would be appropriate to Nomination Committee appoint a Chief Executive for Alliance Trust Savings with Alan Harden taking on the role of chairman of that board.
Remuneration Committee The Company had engaged Ms Pope as a consultant earlier in the year as she had been identified at that point as having Audit Committee key skills required at a strategic level which she had acquired The members of the Committee are: in a number of financial services businesses.
Having knowledge of Ms Popes abilities and evidence of her Gordon McQueen Chairman demonstrable skills through the work that she had been William Jack engaged to carry out as a consultant it was considered appropriate that the services of external agencies to seek Christopher Masters other candidates would not be required.
Investing for generations Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 37 More recently, the Committee has reviewed the composition Group Executive Committee of the Board and has instructed a search agency to seek This Committee comprises the members of the Chief Executives appropriate candidates for a new Non-Executive Director.
Group together with the Heads of the major functions within the Group and serves to ensure the effective development of Other Committees policy and its communication through the Group.
In the course of the year the Board recognised that the increasing diversification of the group and the merger with Risk Management Committee the Second Alliance Trust required a review of the structure of This Committee comprises the Finance Director, who is the its management to clarify and, where appropriate, delegate Director responsible for risk, and senior managers who decision making from the Board to the Executive Directors oversee and review the control, monitoring and reporting and to senior managers.
The merger has allowed senior framework and related procedures for risk management management to concentrate less on the complexities of within the organisation.
It is responsible for overseeing that administering two separate listed companies and more on management effectively apply a risk management framework improving the effectiveness and profitability of the business.
for all relevant categories of risk impacting on Alliance Trust As a result of that review, the Chief Executives Group was PLC and its subsidiaries.
established and the remit of the Group Executive Committee was redefined and given clear terms of reference.
Authorisation Committee Additionally, the opportunity was taken to realign the Board This Committee, comprising the Executive Directors and other structure of Alliance Trust Savings to reflect its operational senior managers, considers and approves changes to signing nature.
Alan Harden was appointed Chairman and Janet Pope authorities, approval of banking arrangements, appointment the Chief Executive of that company.
Lesley Knox and Gordon of brokers and approval of other administrative McQueen continued as Non-Executive Directors.
that company, which also includes its senior management, continues to meet on a quarterly basis and reports on its Board and Committee evaluation activities to the Board of Alliance Trust PLC.
The Board carries out annual evaluations of its own The following are the major non Board committees: performance and that of the principal committees to identify where improvements can be made.
This evaluation was Asset Liability and Income Committee ALICo carried out by way of questionnaires followed up by The purpose of this Executive Committee is to manage the structured interviews with each of the Directors during which capital of the company within the investment and asset the performance of the Board, the Committees on which the allocation strategies agreed with the Board and the risk Director serves and individual performances could be parameters adopted by the Company.
The interviews were undertaken by the Chairman meets on a monthly basis, comprises the Chief Executive, the with the Company Secretary in attendance.
Finance Director, and the Investment Director together with The evaluations identified no serious concerns over the others nominated by the Chief Executive.
The current functioning of the Board or its committees.
There was a members are listed on page 10. general acknowledgement that the successful completion of the merger with the Second Alliance Trust had given the Chief Executives Group CEG Board greater freedom to focus on business issues rather than The purpose of this Executive Committee is to assist the being constrained by the need to maintain the distinction Chief Executive in the exercise of his responsibilities both in between the two trusts.
Several topics were identified as respect of the Company and the Group.
The CEG comprises justifying further consideration during the annual strategy the Chief Executive, Finance Director, Chief Investment Officer, session in June.
Chief Executive of Alliance Trust Savings and Chief Operating Board and management succession planning was identified as Officer.
The CEG meets on a weekly basis to review business an area which would continue to require focus as Alliance activities and take decisions on all significant business Trust and its subsidiaries developed their activities, and it was decisions that are not reserved to the Board.
CEG assists in the agreed that this would be kept under review by the formulation of strategy for the Company and provides an Nomination Committee.
additional level of monitoring on business performance.
The evaluation also helped to refine the information needs of directors under the new structure and identified a number of actions which could be taken to improve reporting for the future.
38 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Investing for generations Director Development providing them with an indemnity to the extent permitted by the Articles of Association of the Company.
The Board recognise the importance of its members receiving ongoing development and having a full understanding of The foregoing insurance and indemnity does not extend to the business.
In the course of the year one new Board cover claims brought by the Company itself which are upheld appointment was made as an Executive Director.
The Director by the courts nor to criminal fines or penalties.
received an induction including separate meetings with all of the senior management team and information as to the Directors Shareholdings Company and its policies and internal processes.
The Director All Directors are required to hold 3,000 shares in the Company was also provided with training, as appropriate, on the role as a condition of their appointment and all Directors hold and responsibilities of a director of a publicly listed company.
Full details of Directors shareholdings On an ongoing basis, the Board members are provided with can be found in the Remuneration section of the Report on updates on corporate governance issues and business issues page 50. impacting on the Company.
The Directors all attend the AGM where they have the opportunity to meet with shareholders Major Shareholders and meetings take place throughout the year with major and The table below shows the shareholders that have notified us institutional shareholders, such meetings normally being that they hold more than 3% of our issued share capital or attended by the Chairman or Chief Executive.
have notified us that they hold more than 3% of the voting rights with reference to the number of ordinary shares in External Non-Executive appointments issue with voting rights of the Company.
The Board believe that it is to the benefit of the Company Alliance Trust Savings Nominees Limited is included to show that Executive Directors have exposure to other organisations the aggregate holding of individual customers of Alliance in a non-executive capacity provided always that their Trust Savings Limited.
commitment to the Company is undiluted by such appointments.
The Company policy for such appointments Major Shareholders Holdings incorporates a number of safeguards to ensure that this is the case.
All payments received in respect of non-executive Ordinary shares as at 18 April 2007 appointments which have been approved under the DC Thomson & Company Limited Companys policy for such external appointments may be and John Leng & Company Limited 46,900,000 6.98% retained by the Executive Director.
Legal and General Group PLC 23,129,040 3.44% Janet Pope holds non-executive positions in the Rent Service, Alliance Trust Savings Nominees Limited 135,759,952 20.21% part of the Department for Work and Pensions, and the Department for Communities and Local Government.
Political and Charitable Donations She is paid and retains 4,000 per annum in respect of the In the course of the year we made no political or charitable first of these positions and reimbursement of expenses only donations.
in respect of the second appointment.
Alan Harden holds non-executive positions with Scottish Payment of Creditors Community Foundation and SCF Events Limited, neither of Our policy and practice is to pay creditors in accordance with which are remunerated.
Each contract including payment terms is negotiated on the best terms available through negotiation Access to advice with the supplier or through a tender approach.
All Directors have access to independent professional advice if At 31 January 2007, the Company had no trade creditors.
No such professional advice was required during The Companys main subsidiary undertaking, Alliance Trust the year.
Savings, had trade creditors outstanding at 31 January 2007 representing 14 days of purchases.
Directors and Officers Indemnification The Company provides directors and officers liability Social Responsibilities and Environmental Issues insurance giving cover for legal action brought against its In evaluating investments our managers review whether any directors as a consequence of their position as directors.
The social or environmental aspect of that companys operations maximum payable under that policy is 20 million in aggregate.
will impact on the quality of the investment and make their The Company has also in the course of the year entered into judgment accordingly.
separate deeds of indemnity with each individual director Investing for generations Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 39 Voting Annual General Meeting It is the Companys policy to vote, where practical, in respect Our Annual General Meetings are well attended by of all of its investments.
We will normally vote with the shareholders.
In addition to the formal business of the recommendation of the board of the company in which we meeting, the Chief Executive will give a presentation on are invested unless we believe that is not in the best interests business developments and there will be the opportunity for of our Company.
Any decision of an investment manager to questions to be raised of the other Directors.
All Directors vote against a recommendation by a board is subject to plan to attend and other senior managers will also be present.
review by the Chief Executive or other Executive Director and Details of the business of the meeting will be sent to all is reported to our Board.
shareholders who will also receive a copy of this Report and Accounts.
Shareholders may elect to receive these Relationship with Shareholders communications by email.
Regular meetings take place with institutional shareholders and fora are held where private shareholders are invited to meet directors.
Reports and Accounts and invitations to Accountability and Audit attend are sent to individuals who hold their shares in the Directors responsibility Company through Alliance Trust Savings investment plans.
Investors through Alliance Trust Savings have the opportunity The Directors are responsible for preparing the Report and to instruct how they want their votes cast or to attend the Accounts and the group and parent company financial AGM as a proxy.
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Companys subsidiary, Alliance Trust Savings, has agreed Company law requires the Directors to prepare group and with its customers that, except where they give instructions to parent company financial statements for each financial year.
the contrary, the entire shareholding of Alliance Trust Savings Under that law they are required to prepare the group through its nominee will be voted at the Annual General financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by Meeting in the proportions of the customers forms of the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the direction received voting for or against, or abstaining on all parent company financial statements on the same basis.
resolutions put to the AGM.
Alliance Trust Savings now publishes a magazine which it The group and parent company financial statements are sends to members on an occasional basis providing required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present information on developments through the year in a more fairly the financial position of the group and the parent informal context.
Details of the Companys net asset value company and the performance for that period: the Companies are published daily through the London Stock Exchange and Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that other information appears on our website.
references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their Share Capital and Waiver of Dividends achieving a fair presentation.
The Companys issued share capital as at 31 January 2007 In preparing the group and parent company financial comprises 671,909,760 ordinary 2.5p shares of which statements, the Directors are required to: 162,939 are held by the Trustee of an Employee Benefit Trust for the benefit of the Company and in respect of which the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Trustee has elected to waive all dividends payable in respect consistently: of those shares.
Each ordinary share of the Company is make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and entitled to one vote but the Trustee of the Employee Benefit prudent: Trust cannot vote in respect of the shares held by it on behalf of the Company.
There are no preference shares or shares state whether they have been prepared in accordance with held in treasury.
IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Share Buy Back Authority unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the At the EGM on 10 May 2006 the shareholders authorised parent company will continue in business.
the directors to make purchases of the Companys own shares.
This authority, for the repurchase of up to 14.99% of The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting the issued shares, falls to be renewed at the next AGM.
In records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the course of the year the Company did not make use of the financial position of the parent company and enable them this provision.
to ensure that its financial statements comply with the 40 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Investing for generations Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for risk framework was undertaken in the latter part of 2006. taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to The Company has an extensive risk framework identifying and safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect quantifying all major risks.
Management is responsible for fraud and other irregularities.
monitoring and, where possible and practicable, reducing such risks on an ongoing basis.
The success of management in Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also achieving this is measured through an executive risk responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors management committee and is monitored by the Audit Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement Committee.
that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and Internal Control integrity of the corporate and financial information included The Board confirms that in the course of the year a review of on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the effectiveness of the Groups systems of controls was the preparation and dissemination of financial statements carried out and these were found to be effective.
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Company maintains a separate internal audit function Audit Committee which has been strengthened in the course of the year by the addition of a specialist IT auditor reflecting the importance The Audit Committees main role is to report to the Board on that such systems have to the operation of the Company.
the integrity and effectiveness of: The Risk Management oversight function was transferred i the accounting and financial controls of the Company and during the year to the Internal Audit function to provide all its subsidiaries: additional resource and support.
It has been recognised that the incorporation of Risk Management oversight within the ii the system of risk management and internal controls of Internal Audit function carries with it potential conflicts and the Company and all its subsidiaries: and the risk oversight function will therefore be subject to iii to review changes in the business which require external review.
consequent changes to the financial controls or the system There is a rolling programme of internal audits set for the of internal control review.
year based on an assessment of risk approach while To assist the Committee in carrying out its duties the Finance maintaining the ability to introduce additional audits as Director and Head of Internal Audit normally attend.
Chairman and the Chief Executive may attend by invitation Internal controls are also reinforced by a clear segregation of and the external auditors normally attend when audited the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive through the terms financial statements are to be approved or when requested.
of their respective appointments, a strong non-executive The Committee also reviews and reports to the Board on presence on the Board and also through the various compliance by any group company with the requirements of committees set up to monitor and oversee the operation of the relevant legislation or regulation which applies to it and the Company.
the relationship of any such company with any appropriate regulatory body supervising or regulating its banking or Disclosure of information to auditors investment business.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this In the course of the year the Committee considered, reviewed, Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, approved or recommended to the Board the approval of there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys the Interim and Final Financial Statements of the Company, auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the internal and external audit plans, the going concern basis steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make of the business, the performance and independence of himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and the Auditor, and the groups whistleblowing policy.
The to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that Committee recommends the draft accounts to the Board for information.
Auditor Independence Risk Management The external auditor is appointed by the Board and their The Board, supported by the Audit Committees review, is performance is reviewed and monitored by the Audit responsible for all aspects of risk within the business.
The Company held a tender exercise and review course of the year the Board considered and approved an of its external auditor in 2004 and would intend to undertake amendment to the Risk policy and a major review of the a similar review no later than 2009.
The Company has a policy Investing for generations Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 41 of not using the firm engaged for audit work for any significant additional professional services.
In the course of the year our auditors, KPMG, provided advice in relation to the acquisition of Albany Venture Managers Holdings Limited, the total fees for which did not exceed 3,000 in the year.
In addition they also received fees of 181,625 from the Company and the Second Alliance Trust in relation to work arising in the merger.
In respect of the merger work the Board took the view that KPMG had a body of knowledge of the businesses of both the Alliance Trust and the Second Alliance Trust that would not have been easily, or quickly, gained by another advisor.
The Board therefore considered that it was in the best interests of the Company to use KPMGs services and that this unique engagement would not undermine the Auditors independence.
The reappointment of the external auditor is approved by the shareholders each year and the company undertakes regular tender exercises to ensure that fee levels remain competitive.
Report of Directors The Report of the Directors comprising the business review on pages 7 to 31, together with the Non-Executive Directors, Executive Directors, Directors shareholdings, major shareholdings, political and charitable donations, payment of creditors and disclosure of information to auditors sections of the corporate governance report on pages 36 to 41 of this Annual Report and Accounts has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Donald McPherson, Company Secretary 23 April 2007
