Accountability Corporate Governance Board Corporate Governance Mr Mylvaganam was first elected to the Board by The Board believes that high Statement shareholders in 1999 having been appointed to the standards of corporate Board composition and independence Board the previous September.
Accordingly, he is During the year the Board of Amlin plc the Board or being proposed for re-election to the Board at the governance are intrinsic to plc Board comprised: the Chairman, at different AGM to be held in April 2008 for a term of office of Amlins culture and values: times either five or six other non-executive directors one year only, on the basis that he will relinquish his NEDs, of whom at least five at any time were Committee appointments for which independence classified as independent, and four executive directors.
They are central to fulfilling The only changes to the Board during the year were many of its core values stated the retirement of the one non-independent nonRegulated subsidiaries within a Group executive, Mr Tom Kemp, at the AGM on 24 May framework earlier in this Annual Report, 2007, and the appointment with effect from 1 Each of the Groups business platforms Lloyds such as integrity, professional December 2007 of Mr Martin Marty Feinstein as a and Bermuda have their own regulated Boards: excellence and sustainability.
Mr those of Amlin Underwriting Limited AUL, as the Buchanan served as senior independent nonmanaging agent for the Groups Lloyds syndicate, executive director throughout the year.
Biographical and Amlin Bermuda Ltd ABL respectively.
As the They underpin the objectivity of details of all the current directors are set out on plc Board has overall responsibility to shareholders pages 94 and 95. and other stakeholders for the Groups operations, such processes as insurance it is at the same time necessary for Board reserving, risk management, The non-executive Chairman was independent on Committees such as the Audit and Nomination balance sheet and investment his appointment in 1998 but, as Chairman, is not Committees to be able to operate effectively in classified as independent.
Apart from Mr Kemp relation to the whole Group.
management, the design and who was not independent by virtue of his crossoperation of executive directorship with Montpelier Re, with which the Amlin has addressed this issue, and the wish to remuneration and succession Company has in the past had a material reinsurance avoid needless duplication between Amlin plc and relationship, all the other non-executive directors AUL board business, both by the memberships of planning.
during the year and in 2008 to date are determined the three boards illustrated in the figure below and by the Board as being independent in character and by the structure of Committee responsibilities at They are the basis for the judgement with no relationships or circumstances both board and executive management levels.
which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, accountability of executive the directors judgement.
management to the Board and Mr Joslin was until 2002 Vice Chairman of State of the Board to shareholders.
Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company State Farm, which is disclosed as a 5.5% shareholder in the Company.
In view of the length of time since his relationship with State Farm ended, he was classified as independent throughout the year.
Board membership at 31 December 2007 Chairman Chief Executive 4 Executives 6 NEDs 2 Executives Finance Director 2 Executives Simon Beale Roger Taylor Charles Philipps John Andrews Rod Dampier Richard Hextall Stuart MacKellar Nigel Buchanan David Harris Richard Davey James Illingworth Marty Feinstein Roger Joslin Ramanam Mylvaganam Sir Mark Wrightson Brian Carpenter Tony Holt Amlin Underwriting Limited board Amlin plc Board Amlin Bermuda Ltd board 98 Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 Accountability As all plc directors are members of the AUL board, Board and Board Committee Structure business reporting by AUL management is made to that board with no need for repetition at the plc Board.
The latter is then able to concentrate more on strategic and longer term issues.
The accountability of the ABL board to the plc Board Amlin plc Board operates differently.
It operates independently in Bermuda and no decisions are made at the plc Board other than in its capacity as shareholder.
Fuller operational reports on ABL than on AUL are then made to the plc Board in addition to reports on a Group level.
AUL board ABL board The operation of the Audit and Nomination Committees as committees of the AUL as well as the plc Board enables those Committees to report directly to AUL the conclusions of its reviews of matters that are that boards regulatory responsibility.
These include Syndicate 2001s reserving and Individual Capital Assessment, controls relating to all business written from the UK, Audit Nomination and succession planning of underwriters and key Renumeration Allotment Disclosure Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee AUL support roles.
The boards of the other regulated companies in the Group, service companies that obtain business for Syndicate 2001, also report to the AUL board.
In the case of 4 NEDs Chairman 3 NEDs 2 Executives 2 Executives ABL, its reporting continues in the traditional 3 NEDs manner through the parent.
Chief Executive As part of the two annual Board evaluations plc AUL AUL plc ABL conducted since changes were instituted in 2006, the effectiveness of this board and committee in certain circumstances these committees may also include NED members structure has been reviewed and the conclusion reached that it is working effectively in meeting both business and regulatory needs.
UK Executive Committee Structure Corporate governance within the executive structure Board level corporate governance is only the most Corporate Climate Change visible aspect of a review and decision-making Responsibility Amlin plc Board and Environment Advisory Group Panel structure that goes much deeper.
The Group and AUL executive team has many internal processes to operate and decisions to make, all of which require clearly defined authorities and processes.
Executive The structure in the UK of executive decisionCharities and Committees: making, review and consultation, and its interaction Community Panel with relevant board Committees, is illustrated in Underwriting Management Group, the chart opposite.
Operational Management Group, At the centre of the executive function is the Reinsurance Security Chief Amlin Staff Committee, Executive Management Group EMG, of the nine Executive and Consultation Binding Authority Executive most senior UK-based executives the executive Forum Committee Management Group directors of AUL plus the head of HR, led by the Chief Executive.
Some committees of executives report directly into the Board level governance structure, such as the Reserving Committee Investment a committee of the AUL board, and others report Risk Committee Advisory Panel to EMG.
The business functions themselves are all described in more detail in the Review section of the Annual Report but the above governance structure shows Audit Reserving Committee Committee that differing arrangements have been adopted to ensure the most appropropriate management and Board Board accountability of different aspects of the business.
Committee Some examples of these follow on the next page.
Investment Executive AUL board Management Executive Consultative Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 99 Accountability Corporate Governance Reserving Corporate responsibility managerial input, aiming to provide more focus and The ultimate responsibility for the Groups reserving The Chief Executive has Board level responsibility strategic direction, recognising the areas increasing is that of the boards but it is also important that the for all corporate responsibility matters.
Until 2007 importance as a responsibility of management and process whereby executive management reaches he was supported by a staff Charities Committee, a the boards.
A separate Corporate Responsibilitie the proposed reserving decisions is objective and staff Environment Committee and a Health & Safety report follows the corporate governance reports.
Hence AULs Reserving Committee, which Committee, with no formal governance structures reviews and finalises the preliminary reserving covering other aspects of corporate responsibility.
Board and Committee meetings and conclusions each quarter, reports on reserving to In late 2007 following the completion of a review of attendance the Audit Committee twice yearly and the AUL our strategy and approach, we broadened the remit The plc Board held six regular Board meetings in Board quarterly.
The Reserving Committee is of the Charities Committee into a Charities and 2007 2006: five and one two-day planning and chaired by the Chief Executive.
Its members include Community Panel and replaced the Environment strategy session 2006: one.
Three Board the Finance Director, the four divisional underwriters Committee with a Climate Change and Environment meetings were held during the year to consider and the Chief Risk Officer.
These panels will both report to a new specific corporate matters or transactions actuarial reports from the Risk Assessment & Corporate Responsibility Advisory Group, which will 2006: nil.
The subsidiary operating boards met Monitoring department reviewing the consistency of review the adequacy of the Groups overall quarterly.
The attendance of each director at plc the key reserving judgements.
In the case of ABL, corporate reponsibility activities.
Rather than being Board meetings out of ten possible meetings, its board effectively acts as the reserving made up principally of staff representative including the planning and strategy session are committee, receiving reports direct from its local committees, this structure will have greater shown below.
All of the committee members, management, which has the benefit of advice and whose attendance is also shown below, served analysis provided by the Group Risk Assessment & on relevant committees throughout the year Monitoring department.
Board meeting attendance in 2007 Risk management There is a clear line of responsibility for risk Number of management from business managers to the meetings attended executive Risk Committee and, from there, to the N J C Buchanan 10 B D Carpenter 10 Audit Committee reporting to both the AUL and plc R H Davey 10 boards.
The Risk Committee also reports to EMG M D Feinstein appointed Dec 2007 no possible meetings in order to ensure that recommendations for risk A W Holt 10 assessment, control and mitigation are carefully R S Joslin 9 considered and acted upon at executive level.
K T Kemp retired May 2007 maximum possible meetings 4 3 Further details of the Groups Risk Management is R W Mylvaganam 10 set out in the Review section of the Annual Report C E L Philipps 10 and the conclusions of the Boards review of internal R J Taylor 10 control is set out in the Board internal control Sir Mark Wrightson Bt 8 statement later in this report.
Average % attendance 96% Investments The setting and execution of the Groups investment Committee membership and meeting attendance in 2007 strategy has its own hierarchy of responsibilites.
The relevant boards AUL for syndicate funds, which Audit Nomination Remuneration includes its underwriting and capital assets, ABL for Committees Committees Committees its own funds, and Amlin plc for surplus capital and attended of 5 attended of 3 attended of 10 a Group overview are responsible for their own N J C Buchanan 5 3 8 overall strategies.
An Investment Management R H Davey 5 n m n m Executive including the Finance Director, Chief R S Joslin 5 2 n m R W Mylvaganam 5 3 10 Executive and Chief Investment Officer has C E L Philipps n m 3 n m responsibility for important tactical decisions with R J Taylor n m 3 n m day to day decisions being taken by the Chief Sir Mark Wrightson Bt n m n m 9 Investment Officer.
The executive is assisted in its Average % attendance 100% 93% 90% decision making and recommendations to the boards by an Investment Advisory Panel IAP The meetings not attended by Renumeration Commitee members were all formal or one-item meetings.
An entry of n m consisting of members of the Investment means that the director was is not a member of the Commitee.
Management Executive plus three external investment experts.
The whole process is governed by a comprehensive investment governance manual, which defines what decisions may be taken at what level.
This has been refined over time so that, for instance, during 2007 fund manager monitoring including receiving progress report presentations was moved from the IAP to the Investment Management Executive, freeing up more time for the IAP to consider strategic asset allocation issues.
100 Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 Accountability Compliance with Combined Code During the year ended 31 December 2007 the Company was in compliance with all of the provisions of section 1 companies of the Combined Code.
This report, the following Committee reports, the Directors Remuneration report and the summary table below together describe how the Company applied the Main and Supporting Principles of the Combined Code during the year.
Area of section 1 of the Combined Code Commentary A.
1 The Board The schedule of matters reserved to the Board for its own and its committees decisions provides that the Boards primary an effective boardcollectively responsible for the obligation is to lead and control the Company and its business, with exclusive decision making powers over such matters as: success of the company overall strategy and resources: risk appetite: investment strategy: remuneration policies: accounting policies: capital expenditure, acquisitions and debt facilities over certain thresholds: and certain key Group policies, appointments and categories of public announcements.
The detailed implementation of all these matters, and day-to-day business, are left to management, which reports formally to the Board at least quarterly on underwriting, financial and other operational matters and objectives.
The current schedule of matters reserved to the Board is available in the Corporate Governance section of Investor Relations on the Companys website or from the Company Secretary on request.
The Board meets regularly, usually at full strength, as demonstrated in the Board meeting attendance in 2007 table opposite.
The NEDs met on a number of occasions during the year without executive directors or other executive management present, including at least once without the Chairman.
The Chairman chairs full NED meetings and the senior independent director chairs meetings when the Chairman is not present.
2 Chairman and chief executive There is a division of responsibilities on the Board between the Chairman, who is responsible for leading and running the clear division of responsibilities Board and related matters such as Board induction and evaluation, and the Group Chief Executive, who has executive responsibility for running the Groups business.
A statement detailing this division of responsibilities, which includes provision for the Chairmans role in ensuring accountability of the Chief Executive to him and to the Board, in shareholder relations and in ensuring constructive relations between executive and non-executive directors, has been approved by the Board.
3 Board balance and independence The balance of the Board, its strong independent representation and the sharing of Committee work is set out in earlier a balance of executive and non-executive directors sections of this Board Corporate Governance statement.
Mr Buchanan is the appointed senior independent director in particular independent NEDs designated as an appropriate director to whom shareholders concerns may be conveyed if contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve them or is inappropriate.
4 Appointments to the Board The Companys Articles of Association Articles set out clear powers of removal, appointment, election and re-election of formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the directors.
A director may be removed either by a unanimous resolution of fellow directors or by an ordinary resolution of the appointment of new directorsexpected time Company in general meeting.
As regards appointments, the Board may appoint additional directors at any time but such commitments of NEDs appointees must, if they wish to continue, be elected by shareholders by an ordinary resolution at the AGM following their appointment.
The Articles also provide that no term of office may exceed the period between election or re-election by shareholders and the AGM in the third year following such election or re-election.
In certain circumstances, in accordance with the Code, directors are proposed for election for shorter periods.
The process for nomination to the Board and for considering succession planning is set out in the Nomination Committee report below.
The Board continues to satisfy itself that the Chairman has sufficient time available to devote to his duties as non-executive Chairman of the Company and of AUL.
The letters of appointment of the Chairman and the other NEDs, which are available for inspection at the Companys registered office, set out the following expected minimum annual time commitments to the Company and AUL : Chairman of the companies: 75 days Audit and Rermuneration Committee chairmen: 30 days Other NEDs: 20 days.
5 Information and professional development The Board is supplied in a timely manner with the appropriate information to enable it to discharge its duties, including timely quality informationinduction on joining regular providing constructive challenge to, and scrutiny of, management.
Further information is obtained by the Board from the update of skills and knowledge executive directors and other senior executives as appropriate.
All directors are provided with written materials on their responsibilities as directors of a public company and on other relevant regulatory, legal, accounting and insurance industry matters.
Updating information on technical and or industry matters is provided to the Board with opportunities for discussion and, during 2007, a separate session for the Boards of the Company and AUL took place on directors duties, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and related matters.
In addition, the Company encourages, facilitates and monitors other professional development for both executive and non-executive directors as is required for their particular roles.
The Company maintains a model director induction programme, which is tailored to suit the needs of each new director joining the Board and which the director who joined late in the year, Mr Feinstein, is completing in April 2008.
Procedures are in place for directors to take independent professional advice, when necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Board and its committees are supported by the Company Secretary who, under the direction of the Chairman, advises the board on all governance matters and helps to ensure good communication and information flows within the Board, including between executive and non-executive directors and between the Board and its Committees.
He also facilitates the Board updating and induction work outlined above.
Executive level committees are also serviced, attended and minuted by the Secretary or another member of his team.
6 Performance evaluation Since the last annual report the Board has undertaken its annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own and each director.
These were initiated by a questionnaire completed by each director giving his assessment of both performance collective and individual performances.
The results of the evaluation of the Board as a whole were summarised by the Chairman at its meeting in February 2008 and the Board agreed its conclusions.
Each Board Committee evaluated its performance in late 2007, and the conclusions were also reported to the Board.
The Chairman also discussed any issues arising from the evaluation of each individual director, including the performances of executive directors in respect of their boardroom as opposed to executive roles which are evaluated as part of the Groups regular Performance Development Review process, with the director concerned.
The Chief Executives total performance is reviewed by the Chairman.
The Chairmans own evaluation was conducted by the NEDs led by the senior independent director, taking into account the views of the executve directors.
The senior independent director discussed and agreed the conclusions with the Chairman.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 101 Accountability Corporate Governance Area of section 1 of the Combined Code Commentary A.
7 Re-election The Articles of Association of the Company provide that, following a directors election by shareholders at the Annual General re-election at regular intervalsplanned and progressive Meeting immediately following his or her initial appointment by the Board, each directors term of office before being required refreshing of the board to submit himself or herself to shareholders for re-election is three years.
If an NED has served on the Board for nine years or more, this is shortened to one year.
Details of the procedures whereby appointments and re-appointments to the Board are considered are set out in the Nomination Committee report below.
Board and individual directors evaluations are taken into account by that committee when considering specifications for new NEDs, succession planning and nominations for re-election at AGMs including that of the Chairman and Mr Mylvaganam in 2008.
Further details of the terms of appointment of both the non-executive and executive directors are also set out in the Directors Remuneration report.
1 The level and make-up of remuneration The Directors Remuneration report starting on page 108 sets out the policies and practices which demonstrate levelssufficient to attract, retain and motivate the Companys implementation of this Code principle and provisions.
directorsavoid paying more than is necessarysignificant proportion of executive remuneration linked to performance B.
2 Procedure The above sections entitled Board composition and independence and Board and Committee meetings and attendance formal and transparent procedure demonstrate the appropriate membership and meeting frequency of the Renumeration Committee.
There are generally four or five main meetings each year with a number of other meetings to implement formally decisions that have already been made or to deal with urgent matters.
Further details of the Remuneration Committees terms of reference and the Boards policy and practices regarding NED remuneration and terms of office are set out in the Directors Remuneration report.
C. Accountability and audit C. 1 Financial reporting The Audit Committees role in ensuring that the Groups financial reporting meets the standards of transparency and balance present balanced and understandable assessment of that are required and in monitoring reporting to regulators are set out in more detail in the Audit Committee report following position and prospects this report.
A going concern statement is included in the Directors report.
C. 2 Internal control The Boards statement and commentary on its review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control is set out sound system of internal control in the Board internal control statement below.
C. 3 Audit Committee and auditors The role of the Audit Committee and the conduct of the relationship with the auditors is set out in the Audit Committee report below.
formal and transparent arrangements for applying financial reporting and internal control principles D. Relations with shareholders D. 1 Dialogue with institutional shareholders The Company is committed to a process of continuing dialogue with its shareholders.
In addition to usual briefings on dialogue based on mutual understanding of objectives financial results, the Company presents at brokers seminars and makes appropriate contact with institutional investors and their representative bodies when there are specific matters to discuss.
Feedback reports from the Companys stockbrokers, Hoare Govett Ltd, are circulated to the full Board after each round of investor presentations and shareholder views on the Company are regularly discussed at Board meetings.
A survey is independently conducted on behalf of the Board approximately every eighteen months of institutional shareholders investment criteria and their perceptions of the Company, its management and its investor communications.
D. 2 Constructive use of Annual General Meeting Amendments to the Articles may only be made by special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders of the Company, use AGM to communicate with investors and encourage usually the AGM.
In order for a special resolution to be passed, it must be approved by 75% or more of the shares voted on their participation the resolution, either in person or by proxy.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM by the Chief Executive making a presentation there on the Groups progress.
The Company has a high level of voting participation at its AGMs, receiving proxies representing 74%, 77% and 73% of its shares in issue in 2005, 2006 and 2007 respectively.
Electronic proxy voting, details of which are included in the 2008 AGM circular and Notice of Meeting, is made available.
The totals of proxy votes on each resolution, including details of any votes withheld, are announced at the meeting after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands and the full proxy voting results are always announced through a regulatory news service and on the Companys website.
In the event of a close result as indicated by the proxies held by the chairman of the meeting, the chairman would call a poll, but this has not yet proved necessary.
102 Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 Accountability Board internal control statement These processes are designed to ensure that The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed system of internal control and has applied Principle and controlled.
They also permit the Audit C. 2 of the Combined Code by establishing a continuous Committee to determine whether any significant process for identifying, evaluating and managing the weaknesses are promptly remedied or indicate a significant risks the Group faces.
This process has need for more extensive monitoring.
been in place from before the start of 2007 to the date of approval of this report and is in accordance The Audit Committee has also performed a specific with revised guidance on internal control published assessment for the purpose of this Annual Report.
in October 2005 the Turnbull Guidance.
This This assessment considers all significant aspects of process explicitly includes the risks, and internal control arising during the period covered by opportunities to enhance value, arising from social, the report, including the work of internal audit.
The environmental and ethical matters.
The Board is Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging responsible for the Groups system of internal its review responsibilities.
control and for reviewing its effectiveness and the directors are aware that such a system is designed During the course of its review of the system of to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure internal control the Board has not identified or been to achieve business objectives and can only provide advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against determined to be significant.
material misstatement or financial loss.
The Audit Committee has additionally reviewed and In compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the Combined remains satisfied with the arrangements by which Code, the Audit Committee reviews regularly on behalf staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about of the Board the effectiveness of the Groups system possible improprieties in matters of financial of internal control.
Monitoring covers all controls, reporting or other matters.
Revised arrangements including financial, operational and compliance were put in place during the year to enhance controls and risk management.
Necessary actions existing processes through the provision of an have been or are being taken to remedy any externally managed confidential reporting line.
significant identified control failings or weaknesses.
The Group has in place a management structure By Order of the Board with defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
The Group also operates a financial performance monitoring process involving detailed reporting against budgets and the preparation of longer term projections.
The Audit Committee simultaneously reviews and monitors matters which C C T Pender Secretary are the regulatory responsibility of the board of AUL 27 February 2008 on which it reports directly to that board as well as to the Amlin plc Board and of the board of ABL on which it reports via the Group Chief Executive and Finance Director in their capacities as directors of ABL.
The plc Board receives regular reports from the Audit Committee which reviews the following main processes established by the Group: Regular reporting by each division and central function through an integrated risk management system on the main risks to the achievement of Group objectives and on the nature and effectiveness of the controls and other management processes to manage these risks.
Significant risks and the actions taken to manage those risks are regularly reviewed by the Groups Risk Committee which comprises senior executives.
The Risk Committees quarterly meetings are scheduled to report through to the subsequent meeting of the Audit Committee.
Senior managers reporting on those parts of the systems for which each of them is responsible through meetings with the risk management team.
Internal audit and compliance monitoring work carried out respectively by the Groups Internal Audit and Risk Assessment & Monitoring departments.
The latter also provides compliance advice.
The heads of both departments report to the Group Chief Executive and to the Audit Committee.
The Group has established a risk based audit and compliance programme for reviewing and evaluating the internal controls and compliance procedures used in the management of risk.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 103 Accountability Corporate Governance Nomination Commitee report No directors terms of office expired at the 2007 The Nomination Committee Terms of reference AGM although Mr Kemp decided to retire.
The is responsible for recommending The Nomination Committee the Committee, which senior independent director reported to the is a joint committee of the boards of the Company Committee on the possible re-election of the board appointments and and of its UK operating subsidiary, Amlin Chairman for a further term at the 2008 AGM and considering succession planning, Underwriting Limited AUL, is responsible for the Committee excluding the Chairman decided to identifying and nominating for the approval of the recommend to the Board that he be proposed for so that the boards and their relevant board or boards, all candidates for board re-election for a further three year term.
The committees comprise directors, appointment and proposed election or re-election Committee also recommended to the Board that Mr both executive and nonto the Board, whether non-executive or executive.
Mylvaganam, whose current term of office also Re-nomination of directors to the Companys expires at the 2008 AGM, be proposed for reexecutive, with the appropriate Annual General Meeting AGM is considered on a election for a one year term.
balance of experience and case by case basis before recommendations are qualities to deliver the strategic made.
The Committees terms of reference require An annual self-evaluation was conducted by the it to give full consideration to succession planning, Committee of its own terms of reference, direction, entrepreneurial taking into account the challenges and composition, procedures, contribution and leadership, values, management, opportunities facing the Group and what skills and effectiveness, the conclusions of which were agreed expertise are needed in the future.
The Committee and reported to the Board in November 2007. standards and framework of is also responsible for assessing the adequacy of controls that are required for the the Groups contingency and longer term By Order of the Board, on the recommendation of Companys success.
succession plans in respect of the most senior roles the Nomination Committee below Board level.
It also recommends to the Board the appointment of, and changes in, members of the boards main Committees.
No director may participate in any decision regarding his or her own C C T Pender Secretary position.
The terms of reference are available in the 27 February 2008 Corporate Governance section of Investor Relations on the Companys website or from the Company Secretary on request.
Membership, meetings and attendance The Committees membership, number of meetings and attendance during the year are set out in the Board and Committee meetings and attendance section of the Boards corporate governance statement that immediately precedes this report.
Activities During the year the Committee completed the process of recommending the appointment of a further US-based independent non-executive director.
This was against the background of one of the US directors, Mr Kemp, retiring in May 2007 and the other, Mr Joslin, having indicated that he was unlikely to seek re-election at the 2008 AGM.
An agreed specification was drawn up and, working with external search consultants, Mr Martin Marty Feinstein, a US citizen based in California, was recommended for appointment.
He joined the Board, and the board of AUL, on 1 December 2007.
The Committee also reviewed the general structure, size and composition of the Board and reviewed a detailed executive succession plan presented by the Chief Executive and the HR Director regarding all the senior executive roles in the Group.
This plan identified short term contingency plans for fulfilling each role at short notice as well as, in most cases, one or more potential permanent successors.
The Committee discussed the areas of the plan where it was agreed that more consideration was required.
The Committee also discussed the continuing renewal of the non-executive directors, considering likely retirement dates, Committee succession, and the timing of further appointments.
104 Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 Accountability Audit Committee report providing non-audit services a breakdown of the The Audit Committee Terms of reference fees for which is set out in note 13 to the Accounts : makes recommendations on The terms of reference of the Audit Committee the work of the Risk Assessment & Monitoring the Committee, which is a joint Committee of the department and the executive Risk Committee: the reporting, control, risk boards of the Company and its UK operating AULs Individual Capital Assessment before it was management and compliance subsidiary, Amlin Underwriting Limited AUL, submitted to Lloyds: the Groups whistle blowing enable it to take an independent view of the procedures: and other related matters.
Reports aspects of the directors and appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies were received from the external auditors in respect the Groups responsibilities, and practices.
It also considers the appointment of each set of financial statements, highlighting the providing independent and fees both audit and non-audit of the external material judgmental areas, which were then auditors, who have unrestricted access to it, and discussed by the Committee with executive monitoring, guidance and monitors the Groups compliance, internal control management and the auditors at the relevant challenge to executive and risk management procedures.
Committees terms of reference, which take full account of the Smith Report on the role of audit Procedures operated throughout the year for the Its aim is to ensure high committees, are available in the Corporate approval of any appointments of the external standards of corporate and Governance section of Investor Relations on the auditors or its associated entities to provide nonCompanys website or from the Company Secretary audit services.
The Committee remained satisfied regulatory reporting, controls on request.
that the provision of such non-audit services by and compliance, in the belief Deloitte & Touche LLP has not compromised the that excellence in these areas Membership, meetings and attendance auditors independence.
The Committees membership and number of enhances the effectiveness, meetings and attendance level during the year are Details of the Committees role regarding internal and reduces the risks, of the set out in the Board and Committee membership control issues are set out in the Board internal business.
and attendance section of the Board Corporate control statement starting on page 103 within the Governance statement.
Throughout the year there Board Corporate Governance statement.
have been a number of members with recent and relevant financial experience, including Mr The Committee monitored the Groups compliance Buchanan.
with Financial Services Authority, Lloyds and other regulatory requirements and recommendations.
The Chairman of the Company, the Group Chief Reports to the Committee included summaries of Executive and the Finance Director usually attend the findings of internal audit reports, enabling the Committees meetings, as does the Chief Risk members of the Committee to question the Officer and the head of Internal Audit.
executive responsible for internal audit on such reports and to monitor the measures taken by At least once a year the Committee meets, both on management to respond to issues raised.
its own and with the external auditors, without any executive management present.
The Committee During the year the Committee conducted a selfalso meets privately with the head of Internal Audit, evaluation of its composition, procedures, who has a private line of communication with the contribution and effectiveness, the conclusions of Committee Chairman.
which were agreed and reported to the Board early in 2008.
Activities In addition to reviewing the Companys interim and By Order of the Board, on the recommendation of preliminary results statements and its Annual the Audit Committee Report, the Committee reviewed and reported to the Board on: the managed syndicates Annual Report: the external auditors engagement and service plan: the plans, work undertaken and recommendations made during the year by the C C T Pender Secretary Groups Internal Audit department, including reports 27 February 2008 on Amlin Bermuda Ltd: the external auditors independence and the extent and reasons for them L R: James Illingworth, Chief Risk Officer, Fraser White, head of Internal Audit and Nigel Buchanan, Chairman of the Audit Committee Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 105
