Corporate governance report Section 1 of the June 2006 FRC Combined Code annual budgets and forecast updates: on Corporate Governance the 2006 Code, significant capital expenditure: and which supercedes the 2003 Code, applies to listed companies with reporting years beginning on or effectiveness of internal controls.
The Company has The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer voluntarily adopted the principles of the 2006 Code are separate, clearly defined and have been approved since its admission to listing on the London Stock by the board.
The Chairman is responsible for the Exchange on 17 October 2006 Admission.
effective conduct of the board, while the Chief The Company has been in compliance with the Executive Officer is responsible for execution of strategy 2006 Code since that date, except where the directors and for the day-to-day management of the Group.
consider that in particular limited circumstances departure is justified.
Such departures are fully In considering non-executive director independence, explained below.
the board has taken into consideration the guidance provided by the 2006 Code.
The board considers This report describes the Companys corporate Michael Benson and Nick Land to be independent.
governance arrangements, explaining how it has Nick Land is the senior independent director.
applied the principles of the 2006 Code.
Jon Moulton is not an independent director as he is Directors a substantial shareholder.
The effect of this is that The board of directors comprises an experienced the Group does not comply with the 2006 Code team, headed by the non-executive Chairman, requirement that at least half of the board are Michael Benson, with two non-executive directors, independent directors excluding the Chairman.
Nick Land and Jon Moulton, and two executive The board considers that its structure is consistent directors, Mark Coombs the Chief Executive Officer, with the principles underlying the 2006 Code and, and Jim Pettigrew the Chief Operating and despite Jon Moultons non-independence, regard Financial Officer.
his expertise to be of considerable value to the board and the committees on which he serves, and Mark Coombs and Jon Moulton both served as also considers that the board and its committees are directors throughout the year.
In order to meet the sufficiently well balanced to meet the current needs requirements of the business as a public listed of the Company.
company, additional directors were appointed during the year.
Michael Benson and Nick Land were Biographical details of the directors are given on appointed directors on 3 July 2006.
Jim Pettigrew page 20. was appointed director on 7 August 2006, but The board met seven times between 1 July 2006 submitted his resignation on 3 July 2007. and Admission and a further four times during the His contractual termination date is 2 July 2008, period from Admission to 6 September 2007 to although an earlier termination date may be agreed.
review financial performance and strategy and to The board has a schedule of matters specifically follow a formal schedule of matters reserved for its reserved to it for decision and approval, which decision, which include the setting of Company include but are not limited to: goals, objectives, budgets and other plans.
Comprehensive board papers, comprising an the Groups long-term commercial objectives and agenda and formal reports and briefing papers are strategy: sent to directors in advance of each meeting.
Throughout their period in office directors are major acquisitions, disposals and investments: continually updated, by means of written and verbal the Groups annual and interim reports and reports from senior executives and external advisers, on the Groups business and the competitive and financial statements: regulatory environments in which it operates, as well interim dividend and recommendation of final as on legal, corporate governance, corporate social dividend: responsibility and other relevant matters.
ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 25 Corporate governance report continued In addition to its formal business, the board received 2006 Code, a minimum of one-third of the directors a number of briefings and presentations from senior must retire by rotation at every annual general executives and local management during the year meeting of the Company.
The directors to retire must covering a wide range of topics across the range be those who held office at the time of the two of the Groups business.
All directors have access to preceding annual general meetings and did not independent professional advice, if required, at the retire at either of them.
The office of director shall Companys expense as well as to the advice and be vacated in other circumstances, including where services of the Company Secretary.
During preparation i that director resigns or is asked to resign: for the Companys IPO, the directors received advice ii he is or has been suffering from mental ill health: as to the legal and other duties and obligations arising iii he is absent without permission of the board from the role of director of a listed company.
from meetings of the board for six consecutive Since then, they have met with relevant members of months: iv he becomes bankrupt or compounds senior management, in order to help them gain a with his creditors generally: or v he is prohibited by detailed understanding of the Group and its activities.
Going forward new directors appointed to the board Powers of the directors will receive similar advice within a full, formal and Subject to the Companys memorandum of tailored induction programme.
The Company Secretary, association, the Articles, the Companies Acts and under the direction of the Chairman, is responsible for any directions given by the Company by special maintaining an adequate continuing education resolution, the business of the Company is managed programme, reminding the directors of their duties and by the board, who may exercise all powers of the obligations on a regular basis, ensuring good Company, whether relating to the management of information flow between the board, its committees and the business of the Company or not.
management and assisting with directors continuing professional development needs.
Board and committee attendance The Companys nominations committee considers The table below sets out the number of meetings the appointment and replacement of directors of the board and its committees and individual subject to the rules set out in the Articles, attendance by directors.
a summary of which is set out below.
Performance evaluation Under the Articles, the minimum number of directors The board has established a formal process, led by shall be two and the maximum shall be nine.
the Chairman, for the annual evaluation of the Directors may be appointed by the Company by performance of the board, its appointed committees ordinary resolution or by the board.
A director and each director, to ensure that they continue to act appointed by the board must offer himself for effectively and efficiently and to fulfil their respective election at the next annual general meeting of the duties, and to identify any training requirements.
Company following his appointment but he is not taken into account in determining the directors or Meetings were held between the Chairman and each the number of directors who are to retire by rotation individual director in which developments over the year at that meeting.
In line with the requirements of the were discussed and performance was considered by Audit Remuneration Nominations Board committee committee committee Total number of meetings between 1 July 2006 and 6 September 2007 11 4 42 Michael Benson 10 11 4 4 4 4 2 2 Mark Coombs 11 11 Nick Land 11 11 4 4 4 4 2 2 Jon Moulton 11 11 4 4 4 4 2 2 Jim Pettigrew 10 10 appointed 7 August 2006 26 ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 reference to the objectives of the board and its The committees normal duties are to assist the committees.
The responses were analysed and the board in discharging its obligations and results and issues raised were subsequently responsibilities for financial reporting, internal discussed at a meeting between the Chairman, control and risk management, and to oversee the the other non-executive directors and the Chief relationship with the external auditors, including Executive Officer.
This meeting also evaluated the approving their terms of engagement and their Chairmans performance.
An additional role of the committee is to investigate any areas of concern as to financial impropriety that may arise.
The committee is also Board committees responsible for reviewing the scope and results of The board has appointed the following committees audit work and its cost effectiveness and the to assist in the execution of its duties: independence and objectivity of the auditors.
audit committee: From time to time during the year the non-executives meet with the external auditors without the executive remuneration committee: directors being present.
The committee has received a comprehensive All of these committees operate on written terms of presentation from the auditors demonstrating to its reference, which are reviewed annually and which are satisfaction how their independence and objectivity available on the Companys website, and the chairman is maintained when providing non-audit services.
of each committee reports regularly to the board.
The committee has agreed the types of permitted Each of the committees is authorised, at the and non-permitted service and those which require Companys expense, to obtain external legal or other explicit prior approval.
Permitted non-audit services professional advice to assist in carrying out its duties.
include the provision of tax compliance services and Only the members of each committee are entitled to acting as reporting accountant in appropriate attend its meetings but others, such as senior circumstances, provided there is no element of management and external advisers, may be invited valuation work involved.
The provision of tax advisory to attend as appropriate.
services, due diligence transaction services and litigation services may be permitted with the Current membership of the committees is shown committees prior approval.
The provision of internal in the relevant sections below.
The composition of audit services, valuation work and any other activity these committees is reviewed annually, taking into that may give rise to any possibility of self-review are consideration the recommendations of the not permitted under any circumstance.
The audit committee also has responsibility for reviewing the Companys arrangements on whistleAudit committee blowing, ensuring that appropriate arrangements The audit committee is chaired by Nick Land and he are in place for employees to be able to raise, is supported by the Chairman, Michael Benson, and in confidence, matters of possible impropriety, with a non-executive director, Jon Moulton.
All served on suitable subsequent follow-up action.
the committee from Admission and continue to do so.
The committee has the authority to seek any The board is satisfied that Nick Land and Jon Moulton information it requires to perform its duties from any have recent and relevant commercial and financial employee of the Company and to obtain outside knowledge and experience to satisfy the provisions legal or other independent professional advice as of the 2006 Code, by virtue of their having held appropriate.
various executive and non-executive roles in investment management and business management.
During the year the committee discharged its Additionally, Nick Land and Jon Moulton are both responsibilities, under its terms of reference, by: chartered accountants.
reviewing the Groups transition to reporting in However, as Jon Moulton is not an independent accordance with IFRS: director as referred to above, the Group does not comply with the 2006 Code requirement that the reviewing the appropriateness of the accounting audit committee should consist of at least three policies adopted by the Group in accordance independent non-executive directors.
with IFRS: ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 27 27 27 Corporate governance report continued reviewing the Groups draft 2006 financial schedule, the purpose of which was to review the statements to be included in the prospectus Groups preparation for the transition to IFRS, and to associated with the Companys IPO, prior to review the Groups draft 2006 financial statements to discussion and approval by the board and be included in the prospectus associated with the reviewing the external auditors detailed reports Companys IPO.
thereon: Remuneration committee reviewing the Groups draft 2007 financial The remuneration committee is chaired by statements and 2007 interim results statement prior Jon Moulton and he is supported by the Chairman, to discussion and approval by the board and Michael Benson, and a non-executive director, reviewing the external auditors detailed reports Nick Land.
All served on the committee from thereon: Admission and continue to do so.
reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit As Jon Moulton is not an independent director as of the Groups 2007 financial statements, receiving referred to above, the Group does not comply with and reviewing confirmations of auditor the 2006 Code requirement that the remuneration independence and approving the terms of committee should consist of at least three engagement and proposed fees for the 2007 independent non-executive directors.
audit: The primary role of the remuneration committee is to making recommendations to the board for a make recommendations to the board as to the resolution to be put to shareholders to Companys framework or broad policy for the approve the re-appointment of the external remuneration of the Chairman, the executive directors auditors: and the Company Secretary and its cost.
reviewing managements annual report on the The committee is also responsible for advising on any Groups system of internal control and its major changes in employee benefit structures effectiveness, reporting to the board on the results throughout the Group and for recommending their of this review and receiving updates on key risk approval by the board and by shareholders.
Details of controls: the activities of the remuneration committee are set out in the remuneration report on pages 31 to 35. considering whether the Group should have an internal audit department and recommending to The number of committee meetings and their the board that this is not appropriate given the attendance by the directors are set out in the table current size, nature and business and operational above.
In addition, and in accordance with its model of the Group: and requirements under the terms of reference, the members of the committee were also consulted on reviewing the committees terms of reference, a range of issues during the year, including specific carrying out an annual performance evaluation matters related to recruitment.
exercise and noting the satisfactory operation of the committee.
Nominations committee The committee has requested and received reports The nominations committee is chaired by Michael from management to enable it to fulfil its duties under Benson and he is supported by the two non-executive its terms of reference.
directors, Nick Land and Jon Moulton.
All served on the committee from Admission and continue to do so.
The number of committee meetings and their attendance by the directors are set out in the table The committee is responsible for reviewing the above, with representatives of senior management structure, size and composition of the board and for and KPMG Audit Plc in attendance at each meeting.
recommending new members for appointment to the As a matter of practice, the Chief Executive Officer board.
The board as a whole has responsibility for and the Chief Operating and Financial Officer attend the appointment of new directors and for nominating each meeting.
In the 2007 financial year, there was an them for election by shareholders at the first additional meeting, over and above the normal annual opportunity following their appointment.
28 ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 The committee is also responsible for giving due The Group will announce the number of proxy votes consideration to succession planning for the board of cast on resolutions at the annual general meeting directors and other senior executives, any matters and any other general meetings.
relating to the continuation in office of any director, including the suspension or termination of service of Internal control an executive director as an employee of the Company, In accordance with the principles of the 2006 Code, and for making appropriate recommendations to the board has overall responsibility for the Groups the board.
system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The board is also responsible for the Since Admission the committee has reviewed the management of significant risk.
The Groups internal proposals for rotation and re-election of directors at controls are designed to cover risks relating to the the annual general meeting, discussed the results of achievement of the Groups objectives including the annual performance evaluation exercise and business, operational, financial and compliance noted the satisfactory operations of the committee, risks.
The internal controls are designed to manage, and reviewed its terms of reference.
The number of rather than eliminate, risk of failure to meet business committee meetings and their attendance by the objectives and to provide reasonable, but not directors are set out in the table above.
absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The system of internal control is embedded Relations with shareholders within the routine operations of the Group and a The Company places great importance on strong control culture is combined with clear communication with its investors and aims to keep management responsibility and accountabilities for shareholders informed by means of regular individual controls.
communication with institutional shareholders, analysts and the financial press throughout the year.
On a day-to-day basis the executive directors oversee the key risks and controls and the risk Annual and interim reports and trading updates management process.
Responsibility for risk are widely distributed to other parties who may have identification is shared amongst senior management an interest in the Groups performance.
These personnel, with each individual manager being documents are also made available on the responsible for control of risk in their business area.
Companys website where formal Stock Exchange Senior managers have direct reporting lines to the announcements are also posted.
The Chief Executive Chief Executive Officer, encouraging communication Officer and Chief Financial Officer make regular and early discussion to consider and effect change reports to the board on investor relations and on as required.
The Groups risk committee meets on specific discussions with major shareholders and the a monthly basis to review operational, credit and board receives copies of all research published on market risks.
The Groups compliance function the Company.
undertakes an ongoing compliance programme, The 2007 annual general meeting will be attended including a regular review of senior management by all directors, and the chairmen of the audit, systems and controls which is undertaken with the nominations and remuneration committees will be Chief Executive Officer.
Private investors are The key internal controls are supported by a encouraged to attend the annual general meeting detailed risk assessment with key control weakness The senior independent director is available to indicators designed to identify major operational, shareholders if they have concerns, if contact regulatory and financial exposures.
This risk through the normal channels of Chairman, management framework, which covers all material Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer has parts of the Group, provides a continuous failed to resolve or for which such contact is improvement process for the Groups internal inappropriate.
The Company continues to offer major controls.
In addition, the Group commissions regular shareholders the opportunity to meet any or all of independent review reports prepared pursuant to the Chairman, the senior independent director and the Statement of Auditing Standards No.
ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 29 Corporate governance report continued A summary of significant risks, key internal controls Equal opportunities and findings is reported annually in a formal risk The Group is committed to ensuring that all management and control report to the board together employees are treated fairly and with dignity and with a risk map.
Additionally, in the financial year to respect.
This commitment is reflected in the Staff 30 June 2007, significant risks were reviewed as part Handbook that all employees receive on joining.
of the Companys IPO process.
Identifying, evaluating The policies and practices in place within the Group and managing the Groups significant risks is an to deter acts of harassment and discrimination are ongoing process which has been in place throughout regularly monitored.
the year to 30 June 2007 and up to the date of It is the Groups policy that no employee shall be approval of these financial statements.
treated less favourably on the grounds of their sex, The Group does not currently have an internal audit sexual orientation, race, religion, nationality, marital function and in this respect is not in compliance with status or on the grounds of disability.
The board believes that given the applies, but without limitation, to promotion, training, current size, nature and business and operational placement, transfer, dismissal, remuneration, model of the Group, the relevant assurances are more grievance and disciplinary procedures and decisions.
effectively obtained via the risk management framework This policy also applies to persons from outside the referred to above and by the commissioning of regular workplace and the treatment of contract workers.
The Group seeks to ensure that the workforce reflects, as far as is practicable, the diversity of the many Corporate social responsibility communities in which it operates, and this is reflected The Group recognises the importance of in the wide-ranging nationalities of its employees.
Corporate Social Responsibility CSR incorporating transparency, fairness, accountability and integrity Health and safety and believes that these principles are fundamental to The Group has in place a global health and safety the Groups operations.
The Group continues to policy which can be accessed by all staff via an monitor developments in all relevant areas of CSR, internal database.
The aim of this policy is to provide including environmental management, employees, both staff and visitors with a safe and healthy working health and safety, suppliers and the community to environment.
The Group is committed to adhering to ensure that it meets best practice.
the high standards of health and safety set out by its policies and procedures and to providing training as Employees necessary.
The Group recognises that the involvement of its employees is key to the future success of the Environment business and adopts a practice of keeping The Group continues to promote energy efficiency employees informed on significant matters affecting and the avoidance of waste throughout its operations them, via email and in meetings arranged for the and a number of initiatives, such as the recycling of purpose.
The Group has consistently operated a paper, glass and other waste and the use of green remuneration strategy that recognises both corporate energy, are encouraged.
The Group is also committed to following good practice in employment matters, recognising the part this plays in attracting and retaining staff.
The Group promotes the importance of high ethical standards to all employees and staff have the opportunity to By order of the board voice any concerns they may have, either direct with management or on a confidential basis via the Mark Grimwood whistleblowing process.
Company Secretary 30 ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007
