Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate governance report regulatory compliance, key business operations and The Combined Code on other material issues.
Directors are fully briefed in advance Corporate Governance of Board and committee meetings on all matters to be The Combined Code on Corporate Governance sets out discussed.
The Group Company Secretary is responsible guidance in the form of principles and provisions on how for following Board procedures and advising the Board, companies should be directed and controlled to follow through the Chairman, on governance matters.
The Financial Services Authority All directors have access to his advice and services.
requires companies listed in the UK to disclose, in relation to Section 1 of the Combined Code, how they have The Board has adopted a procedure whereby directors applied its principles and whether they have complied with may, in the performance of their duties, seek independent its provisions throughout the accounting year.
Where the professional advice at the Companys expense if provisions have not been complied with companies must considered appropriate.
No director obtained any such provide an explanation for this.
It is the Boards view that the Company has been fully The directors compliant throughout the accounting period with the The Board currently comprises the Chairman, eight provisions set down in Section 1 of the Combined Code, independent non-executive directors and two executive apart from a period of 23 days in January 2007.
Each non-executive director serves for a fixed this period the majority of the members of the Nomination term not exceeding three years that may be renewed by Committee were not independent non-executive directors.
Subject to the Board being satisfied The Committee did not meet during this period.
This with a directors performance, independence and report sets out details of how the Company has applied commitment, there is no specified limit regarding the the principles and complied with the provisions of the number of terms a director may serve.
Each director is Combined Code during 2007.
Further information on the required to be elected by shareholders at the Annual Combined Code can be found on the Financial Reporting General Meeting following his her appointment by the 82 Councils website, www.
uk Board and to be re-elected at least once every three years.
Governance Any non-executive director who has served on the Board The Board for nine years or more is required to submit himself herself The directors are responsible to shareholders for ensuring for re-election annually.
The Boards policy is to appoint that the Company is appropriately managed and that it and retain non-executive directors who can apply their achieves its objectives.
It meets regularly to determine the wider knowledge and experiences to their understanding Companys strategic direction, to review the Companys of the Aviva Group, and to review and refresh regularly operating and financial performance and to oversee that the skills and experience the board requires through the Company is adequately resourced and effectively a programme of rotational retirement.
In addition to the controlled.
The specific duties of the Board are clearly set strengths of experience, diversity and an international out in its terms of reference that address a wide range of perspective, the Board also seeks to comply with the corporate governance issues and list those items that are requirements of the Combined Code on the independence specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
The process for appointing new directors is requiring Board approval include: conducted by the Nomination Committee whose report, Group strategy and business plans: including a description of its duties, is set out on page 90.
Acquisitions, disposals and other transactions outside The Combined Code requires that at least half the Board, delegated limits: excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors as determined by the Board.
Financial reporting and controls: The Nomination Committee performs an annual review Capital structure: of directors interests in which all potential or perceived conflicts, including time commitments, length of service Dividend policy: and other issues relevant to their independence, are Shareholder documentation: considered.
It is the Boards view that an independent non-executive director also needs to be able to present The constitution of Board committees: and an objective, rigorous and constructive challenge to Key business policies, including the remuneration policy.
management, drawing on his her wider experiences to question assumptions and viewpoints and where necessary The full terms of reference for the Board can be found on defend their beliefs.
To be effective, an independent the Companys website www.
com and are available director needs to acquire a sound understanding of the from the Group Company Secretary.
Matters that are not industry and the Company so as to be able to evaluate specifically reserved for the Board and its committees properly the information provided.
Having considered under its terms of reference, or for shareholders in general the matter carefully the Board is of the opinion that all of meeting, are delegated to the Group Chief Executive.
the current non-executive directors are independent and The Boards terms of reference also set out those matters free from any relationship or circumstances that could that must be reported to the Board, such as significant affect, or appear to affect, their independent judgement.
litigation or material regulatory breaches, and cover how Accordingly, over half of the directors, excluding the matters requiring consideration by the Board that arise Chairman, are independent non-executive directors.
between scheduled meetings should be dealt with.
Each of the directors being proposed for re-election at The Board and its committees operate in line with work the 2008 Annual General Meeting has been subject to plans agreed prior to the start of each year.
At Board a formal performance evaluation and took part in a peer and committee meetings, directors receive regular reports evaluation review during 2007.
Biographical details of all on the Groups financial position, risk management, the directors are set out on page 77.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Following this comprehensive review, the directors have The Chairman concluded that the Board and its committees operate The respective roles of the Chairman and Group Chief effectively.
Additionally, the Chairman has concluded that Executive are set out in the Boards terms of reference.
each director contributes effectively and demonstrates The Chairmans priority is the management of the full commitment to his her duties.
Board and the Group Chief Executives priority is the management of the Company.
The Chairmans The Board evaluation process assesses the executive commitment to the Company is two to three days directors in their capacities as directors of the Company.
per week and his main interests outside the Company They are evaluated in respect of their executive duties are set out in his biographical details on page 77. through a separate process whereby the Chairman During the year the Chairman ceased to be a Supervisory and the non-executive directors assess the Group Chief Board member of ABN Amro NV.
Executive and the Group Chief Executive assesses the executive directors.
Senior Independent Director Under the Combined Code the Board appoints one of Training and development the non-executive directors to act as Senior Independent The Board believes strongly in the development of all its Director.
The main responsibility of the Senior Independent employees and directors and it is a requirement of each Director is to be available to shareholders should they directors appointment that they commit to continue have concerns that they have been unable to resolve their development.
The form that this development through normal channels, or when such channels would takes is subject to individual directors requirements be inappropriate.
The Senior Independent Director is and the quality and relevance of the training available.
also responsible for leading the Boards discussion on During the year, directors attended a number of courses the Chairmans performance and the appointment of ranging from external seminars for members of the Audit a new chairman, when appropriate.
Wim Dik served and Remuneration Committees to internal seminars on as the Senior Independent Director throughout 2007.
83 directors duties and life assurance.
In addition, members of the Audit and Risk and Regulatory Committees received Governance Board effectiveness two tailored training sessions.
Training sessions have been The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success built into the Boards and committees work plans for of the Group.
The Board made visits to the Groups businesses evaluation each year in order to assess how well the located in the United Kingdom and North America during Board, its committees, the directors and the Chairman the year to gain a closer understanding of their operations.
The process is led by the Chairman and supported by the Group Company Secretary.
All directors The Board has a comprehensive induction programme complete a questionnaire evaluating the Board and consisting of several separate sessions which take committees processes, their effectiveness and where place over a number of months at times convenient improvements may be considered.
The process also for the director.
The sessions include presentations includes a peer review in which directors assess their fellow from key members of senior management, visits to directors performance against set criteria, including the the Groups main operating businesses, meetings with skills that they bring to the Company and the contribution the external auditor, and one of the Companys corporate they make.
This process is complemented by separate brokers.
Further or follow-up meetings are arranged meetings between each director and the Chairman where a director requires a deeper understanding on where feedback is discussed.
In 2007, following the a particular item.
process introduced in 2006, the directors completed a comprehensive questionnaire which was returned to an independent third-party who had helped with the preparation of the questions, and who then collated comments, drew the conclusions and presented the findings to the Board.
The performance of the Chairman is also included in the above process and takes into account the views of both the executive and non-executive directors.
The Chairmans evaluation is managed by the Senior Independent Director who provides feedback to the Chairman.
As part of the Chairmans evaluation the non-executive directors meet separately under the chairmanship of the Senior Independent Director.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate governance report continued Directors attendance Board committees The Company requires directors to attend all meetings of The Board has established the following standing the Board and the committees on which they serve and to committees to oversee and debate important issues of devote sufficient time to the Company in order to perform policy and oversight outside the main Board meetings.
The attendance of the directors at the Board Audit Committee: and committee meetings held in 2007 was as follows: Corporate Social Responsibility Committee: Board and Board committee attendance 2007 Nomination Committee: Corporate Risk and Social RemunerRisk and Regulatory Committee: and Audit Nomination Regulatory Responsibility ation Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Remuneration Committee.
Number of meetings held 1265748 Throughout the year the chairman of each committee Nikesh Arora provided the Board with a summary of the key issues appointed 1 July 2007 5 6 2 3 considered at the meetings of the committees and the Guillermo fide la minutes of the meetings were circulated to the Board.
Dehesa 12 5 4 The committees operate within defined terms of reference, Wim Dik 11 12 4 5 7 4 copies of which are published on the Companys website Mary Francis 10 12 6 7 8 www.
com and are available from the Group Richard Goeltz 12 6 8 Company Secretary upon request.
Board committees Andrew Moss 11 12 1 1 3 3 are authorised to engage the services of external advisers Carole Piwnica 12 6 4 8 as they deem necessary in the furtherance of their duties Philip Scott 11 12 at the Companys expense.
Lord Sharman 12 5 4 Russell Walls 12 6 4 4 7 Reports of the committee chairmen are set out below.
84 Scott Wheway appointed Governance 5 December 2007 0 0 0 0 Internal controls Former directors The Combined Code requires directors to review and Richard Harvey report annually to shareholders on the effectiveness of retired the Companys systems of internal control which include 11 July 2007 7 7 4 4 1 1 financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk Patrick Snowball management.
The Board has the overall responsibility resigned 8 May 2007 4 4 for maintaining the systems of internal control of the Tidjane Thiam Company and for monitoring their effectiveness: appointed while the implementation of internal control systems is 1 May 2007, the responsibility of management.
The Groups systems resigned 21 September of internal control are designed to manage rather than 2007 4 4 eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives Indicates not a member of that committee.
and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
During 2007 the Chairman and the non-executive The systems are designed to: directors met on one occasion in the absence of the executive directors and there was one meeting of the Safeguard assets: non-executive directors chaired by the Senior Independent Maintain proper accounting records: Director at which the Chairman was not present in order to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Provide reliable financial information: Identify and manage business risks: Maintain compliance with appropriate legislation and regulation: and Identify and adopt best practice.
The principal features of the control framework and the methods by which the Board satisfies itself that it is operating effectively are detailed overleaf.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Management monitors the completeness of the Groups Control environment risk profile on a regular basis through a Group risk The Group has an established governance framework, monitoring framework.
Each quarter, businesses report the key features of which include: residual risk profiles and the adequacy of the mitigating Terms of reference for the Board and each of action programmes, based on local materiality levels.
its committees: These impact assessments are based on financial, reputational and operational criteria.
This enables the A clear organisational structure, with documented Group risk function to assess the overall risk exposure delegation of authority from the Board to and to develop a Group-wide risk profile that is refreshed executive management: quarterly.
Material items in the Group risk report are A Group policy framework, which sets out risk reported to the committee of the Groups senior management and control standards for the Groups executives Executive Committee, the Risk and Regulatory operations worldwide: Committee and in respect of social, environmental and ethical risks, the Boards Corporate Social Responsibility Defined procedures for the approval of major Committee.
The Executive Committee considers whether transactions and capital allocation: and the residual risks are within the Groups risk appetite, Committees of senior executives responsible for and the adequacy of the mitigating actions.
reviewing the Groups financial risks Asset and Liability The Boards, audit committees and management of the Management Committee and non-financial i. e. operational businesses also consider local risk reports in operational risks Group Operational Risk Committee.
Regular reports are supported by escalation The Groups risk and governance framework has been procedures for new or deteriorating risks that are classified structured in accordance with the Financial Services at the highest impact levels.
In addition, business unit Authoritys risk-based framework for integrating heads and Group functional heads provide, in relation and embedding risk and capital management to their own areas of responsibility, a certificate every 85 Prudential Sourcebook.
six months to confirm compliance with the Groups Governance governance and risk management framework, and the Risk identification, assessment and management terms of their delegated authority.
Any risk or control There is in place an ongoing process for identifying, issues not already reported through the regular risk evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by management processes must be specifically highlighted.
the Group which has operated throughout 2007 and up to the date of signing this report.
The Groups risk Control procedures and monitoring systems management and control framework is designed to The Group has a well-developed system of planning, support the identification, assessment, monitoring, incorporating Board approval of a rolling three-year management and control of risks that are significant to the Group plan.
Performance against the plan is subsequently achievement of the Groups business objectives.
The Group monitored and reported to the Board each time it meets.
has a set of formal policies which govern the management This report also includes updates on relevant measures and control of both financial and non-financial risks.
Performance is reported through The adoption of these policies throughout the Group the half-yearly publication of the Companys results enables a broadly consistent approach to the management based on accounting policies that are applied consistently of risk at business unit level.
At Group level, policy owners throughout the Group.
Operational management reports are responsible for the Group-wide aggregation and quarterly to the Executive Committee on a wide range oversight of their specific risks.
During 2007 the Group of key performance and other significant matters policy set has been revised and refreshed and the risk and the Board receives regular representations from management framework has been reviewed and a the senior executives responsible for each principal Group Chief Risk Officer appointed.
The Asset and Liability Management Committee is Whilst the Audit Committee has the overall responsibility responsible for reviewing and monitoring the financial of monitoring the Groups internal control process risks to the Group and, with the assistance of its on behalf of the Board, it is assisted by the Risk and sub-committees, considers the risks relating to life Regulatory Committee, which oversees the regulatory assurance, general insurance, reserving, capital compliance and non-financial control processes and management, credit and investment.
Similarly, a Group reports to the Board.
In addition, the Audit Committee Operational Risk Committee monitors risks associated performs an annual review of the effectiveness of the with information technology, business protection, internal audit function and the framework for the Groups human resource management, business standards systems of internal control.
Throughout 2007, the Audit and regulatory compliance.
Committee and the Risk and Regulatory Committee received quarterly reports from the Group Audit Director on issues arising, and updates on previously reported items.
More detailed reports on the work of these committees during 2007 are set out overleaf.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Corporate governance report continued The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of The Board is equally interested in the concerns of private the Groups systems of internal control.
Where weaknesses shareholders and, on its behalf, the Group Company were identified as part of the control review, mitigating Secretary oversees communication with these investors.
actions have been taken or plans put in place.
These are It is the practice of the Company to issue a postage monitored by the appropriate committee on behalf of paid reply form with its Annual General Meeting the Board.
The Board is not aware of any significant documentation to enable shareholders to put relevant weaknesses that do not have mitigating actions in place.
This is considered to be particularly helpful for those shareholders who are unable Internal audit to attend the meeting.
Written responses are provided The Groups internal audit function advises management through a brochure containing answers to the most on the effectiveness of its internal control systems, frequently asked questions that is also placed on the the adequacy of these systems to manage business Companys website.
All material information reported to risk and to safeguard the Groups assets and resources.
the regulatory news services is simultaneously published Through the Group Audit Director, the internal audit on the Companys website affording all shareholders full function provides objective assurance on risk and control access to Company announcements.
to both the Audit Committee and Risk and Regulatory Committee.
The effectiveness of the Groups internal audit The Company has taken full advantage of the provisions function is reviewed each year by the Audit Committee.
within the Companies Act 2006 allowing communications to be made electronically to shareholders where they have not requested hard copy documentation.
As a result the Communication with shareholders Company's website has become the primary method The Company places considerable importance on of communication for the majority of its shareholders.
communication with shareholders and engages with Details of the information available for shareholders on them on a wide range of issues.
the website can be found on the Shareholder information The Group has an ongoing programme of dialogue pages 270 to 272.
86 and meetings between the executive directors and The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a institutional investors, fund managers and analysts.
Governance valuable opportunity for the Board to communicate with At these meetings, a wide range of relevant issues private investors.
At the meeting, the Company complies including strategy, performance, management and with the Combined Code as it relates to voting, the governance are discussed within the constraints of separation of resolutions and the attendance of committee the information already made public.
Whenever possible, all directors attend the The Companys Investor Relations Department is dedicated Annual General Meeting and shareholders are invited to facilitating communication with institutional investors.
to ask questions during the meeting and have an The directors consider it important to understand the opportunity to meet with the directors following the views of shareholders and, in particular, any issues which conclusion of the formal part of the meeting.
In line with concern them.
The Board receives reports on matters the revised Combined Code, details of proxy voting by that have been raised with management at the regular shareholders, including votes withheld, are made available meetings held with the large investors.
During the year on request and are placed on the Companys website the Chairman held a meeting with the major institutional following the meeting.
investors and attended investor meetings with The Companys annual report and accounts and annual management.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director review, together with the Companys interim reports, is available to meet with major shareholders to discuss any trading statements and other public announcements are areas of concern that cannot be resolved through normal designed to present a balanced and understandable view channels of investor communication and arrangements of the Groups activities and prospects.
The Chairmans can be made to meet with the Senior Independent statement, Group Chief Executives review, and Business Director through the Group Company Secretary.
Similarly, review provide an assessment of the Groups affairs and arrangements can be made for major shareholders they will be supported by a presentation to be made at to meet with newly appointed directors.
In addition, the Annual General Meeting.
the Board consults with shareholders in connection with specific issues where it considers appropriate.
Institutional investor Morley Fund Management Limited Morley, the Groups largest asset management company, believes that good governance contributes to better performance and practices.
Therefore, as a major investor, the Group monitors the governance of the companies in which it invests.
To this end, Morley holds regular meetings with the senior management of companies where it will raise matters which may affect the future performance of those companies.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Morley maintains a detailed Corporate Governance and Voting Policy as part of its investment strategy, which underpins its approach to engaging and voting at company general meetings.
The policy also extends to cover social, environmental and ethical issues.
Its policy is applied pragmatically, after careful consideration of all relevant information.
In addition, Morley makes detailed voting reports available to clients and publishes statistics on its website.
Directors responsibilities The directors are required to prepare accounts for each accounting period that comply with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 1985, the Companies Act 2006 where applicable and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, and which present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Company and the Group at the end of the accounting period.
A fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the directors to: select suitable accounting policies and verify that they are applied consistently in preparing the accounts, on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate 87 to presume that the Company and the Group will Governance continue in business: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Company and the Groups financial position and financial performance: and state that the Company and the Group have complied with applicable IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
The directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting records which are intended to disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the financial position of the Company and the Group.
They are also ultimately responsible for the systems of internal control maintained by the Group for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Further details of the systems of internal controls maintained by the Group are more fully described above.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group as a whole have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
