Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Nomination Committee report This report provides details of the role of the Nomination As a result of the restructuring of the senior management Committee and the work it has undertaken during team during 2007 there has been a reduction in the year.
the number of executive directors on the Board.
The Committee will review the position during 2008.
The main purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board by keeping the composition of the Board under review As part of the ongoing planning process for the and conducting a rigorous and transparent process when smooth replacement of current non-executive directors, making or renewing appointments of directors to the including refreshing the skill set with a view to the Board.
It also advises the Board on issues of directors future, the Committee identified a number of candidates.
conflicts of interest and independence.
The full terms During the year the Board accepted the Committees of reference for the Committee can be found on the recommendations that Nikesh Arora and Scott Wheway Companys website, www.
com, and are available join the Board.
In respect of both appointments the from the Group Company Secretary.
Committee engaged a search agency to help it identify suitable candidates and assist with the preparation of The following directors served on the Committee during an interview list.
the year: The appointment of two new non-executive directors Period during the year also helps to maintain the balance of Member From To the Board in the context of the intended retirement Lord Sharman Chairman 25 January 2006 To date Guillermo fide la Dehesa 21 June 2000 To date of Guillermo fide la Dehesa and Wim Dik during 2008.
Wim Dik 26 April 2004 To date In line with the Combined Code requirement Richard Harvey 21 June 2000 11 July 2007 the Board undertook a review of the effectiveness Andrew Moss 12 July 2007 To date of all its committees during the year, including the Russell Walls 23 January 2007 To date Nomination Committee.
The Committee met on five occasions in 2007 and the 90 This report was reviewed and approved by the Board members attendance record is set out in the Corporate on 27 February 2008.
The Group Company Secretary acts as the secretary to the Committee.
Russell Walls was Lord Sharman of Redlynch Chairman, Nomination Committee appointed a member of the Committee on 23 January 2007 and Andrew Moss was appointed a member of the Committee on 12 July 2007.
The Committee keeps under review the skill requirements of the Board and the knowledge, experience, length of service and performance of the directors.
It also reviews their external interests with a view to identifying any actual, perceived or potential conflicts of interests, including the time available to commit to their duties to the Company.
The Committee also monitors the independence of each non-executive director and makes recommendations concerning such to the Board.
The results of these reviews are important when the Board considers succession planning and the re-election and reappointment of directors.
Members of the Committee take no part in any discussions concerning their own circumstances.
