Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Risk and Regulatory Committee report This report provides details of the role of the Risk and Regulation and compliance Regulatory Committee and the work it has undertaken The Committee has reviewed the Groups regulatory during the year, and should be read in conjunction with operating plan and has received regular reports on its the report on the Groups approach to risk and capital relationships with its external regulators.
In particular, management on pages 54 to 62. the Committee monitors the actions being taken by management in relation to the Risk Mitigation Programme The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board in agreed with the Financial Services Authority FSA and providing leadership, direction and oversight with regard the overall relationship with the FSA as the Groups lead to the Groups risk and regulatory policies and procedures, regulator.
Reports on any material compliance issues are including those related to compliance, risk management, received by the Committee, including any reputational financial malpractice and internal controls.
The full terms issues which may arise and the lessons learned.
of reference for the Committee can be found on the In addition, the Committee receives reports on legislative Companys website, www.
com, and are available and regulatory developments which may impact the from the Group Company Secretary.
Group, such as the FSAs Treating Customers Fairly The following independent non-executive directors served initiative and the European Unions Directive on Markets on the Committee during the year: in Financial Instruments.
Period Member From To Group Internal Audit Mary Francis The Group Internal Audit function provides the Committee Chairman from 1 January 2007 14 January 2006 To date with independent and objective assurance over the Nikesh Arora 1 July 2007 To date appropriateness, effectiveness and sustainability of the Wim Dik 14 January 2006 To date Companys system of internal controls in place to mitigate Russell Walls 14 January 2006 To date significant risks.
The Group Internal Audit plan is based Nikesh Arora joined the Committee on his appointment on a robust and structured planning process using a risk 91 to the Board on 1 July 2007.
There were no other changes based methodology that allows for quarterly updates to in the membership of the Committee during the year.
Governance reflect changes to the Companys risk profile.
Key control The Group Company Secretary acts as the secretary to issues reported by Group Internal Audit to management the Committee.
The Committee met on seven occasions and to the Committee members are monitored on a in 2007 and the members attendance record is set out quarterly basis until the risk exposure has been properly in the Corporate governance report above.
Reports on financial malpractice are also the Committee held separate meetings with members presented to the Committee including incidence of of senior management and Ernst & Young for the fraud, anti-money laundering procedures and, at least purposes of induction and training.
on an annual basis, arrangements whereby persons can report in confidence any concerns about lack of The Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, probity whistleblowing.
Group Audit Director, the Chief Risk Officer, the Director of Group Compliance and the external auditor normally Business protection attend, by invitation, all meetings of the Committee.
The Committee has reviewed plans for maintaining Other members of senior management are also invited and further enhancing the Groups business continuity to attend as appropriate to present reports.
It is the management, systems for information security and Committees practice at each meeting to meet separately management of IT risks.
with the Group Audit Director and the external auditor without any members of management being present.
During the Boards visit to the Groups North American In performing its duties, the Committee has access to the operations in September 2007, the Committee held services of the Group Audit Director, the Chief Risk Officer, joint meetings with the Audit Committee and members the Director of Group Compliance, the Group Company of the local business unit audit committees.
The meetings Secretary and external professional advisors.
allowed the Committee to gain a deeper understanding of the relevant local issues and assess how the Groups The work of the Committee falls into the following risk, and regulatory policies and procedures were being broad areas: embedded in the business.
Risk management The chairman of the Committee reports at the subsequent A particular focus of the Committees work in 2007 was meeting of the Board on the Committees work and the on improvements to the framework for risk and control Board receives a copy of the minutes of each meeting of across the Group.
The Committee was involved in a review the Committee.
of the risk policy including risk appetite statements for In line with the Combined Code requirement the each of the main categories of risk faced by the Group, Board undertook a review of the effectiveness of all and in a review of the processes for identifying, controlling its committees during the year, including the Risk and and reporting risks in the business units, regions and Regulatory Committee.
A new Chief Risk Officer has been appointed.
The Committee has also received regular This report was reviewed and approved by the Board oversight reports on the Groups key risks and the on 27 February 2008. measures being taken by management to contain them.
Mary Francis It has increased its focus on market and other financial Chairman, Risk and Regulatory Committee risks and will continue to do so in the year ahead.
