Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Audit Committee report This report provides details of the role of the Audit The Committee follows an agreed annual work plan.
Committee and the work it has undertaken during the It reviews, with members of management and the year.
The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board internal and external auditors, the Companys financial in discharging its responsibilities for the integrity of the announcements including the annual report and accounts Companys financial statements, the assessment of the to shareholders and associated documentation.
It places effectiveness of the systems of internal financial controls particular emphasis on their fair presentation and the and monitoring the effectiveness and objectivity of the reasonableness of the judgemental factors and internal and external auditors.
The full terms of reference appropriateness of significant accounting policies used for the Committee can be found on the Companys in their preparation.
At each meeting, the Committee website, www.
com, and are available from the receives a report from the Group Audit Director Group Company Secretary.
concerning the Companys systems of internal financial control, including any significant new issues and actions The following independent non-executive directors, taken on previously reported issues.
Twice each year, served on the Committee during the year: the Committee receives reports on the adequacy of the Period Groups life assurance and general insurance reserves.
Member From To The Committee also reviews the annual work plan for Russell Walls the Groups internal audit function.
The Committee Chairman from 1 January 2007 1 July 2004 To date reports to the Board regarding the effectiveness of the Mary Francis 1 January 2007 To date Groups overall systems of internal control.
The Committee Richard Karl Goeltz 1 July 2004 To date itself reviews the financial controls and works closely Carole Piwnica 24 September 2003 To date with the Risk and Regulatory Committee, which reviews The Committee met on six occasions in 2007 and each the non-financial controls.
In addition, the During the Boards visit to the Groups North American Committee held separate meetings with members of operations in September 2007, the Committee held joint 88 senior management for the purpose of induction and meetings with the Risk and Regulatory Committee and training.
The Group Company Secretary acts as the Governance members of the local business unit audit committees.
Russell Walls, a Fellow The meetings allowed the Committee to gain a deeper Chartered Certified Accountant, is a former Group Finance understanding of the relevant local issues and assess the Director of BAA plc, Wellcome plc and Coats Viyella plc.
effectiveness of the systems of internal financial controls Richard Karl Goeltz is a former Chief Financial Officer of and the effectiveness and objectivity of the internal and American Express Company, NatWest Group plc and The external auditors.
The Board is satisfied that these directors have recent and relevant financial experience.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the Groups capital and risk frameworks against the regulatory reforms The Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, incorporated in the Financial Services Authoritys Prudential Group Audit Director, Group Chief Accountant and Sourcebook PSB concerning the Groups individual the external auditor normally attend, by invitation, capital assessments ICA.
The Committee endorsed the all meetings of the Committee.
Other members of senior proposed assumptions, methodology and process followed management are also invited to attend as appropriate in determining the amount of capital required to support to present reports.
It is the Committees practice at the Groups business plans and recommended the ICA each meeting to meet separately with the Group Audit to the Board for approval.
Director and the external auditor without any members of management being present.
In performing its duties, Each of the Groups major business units has an the Committee has access to the services of the Group audit committee that provides an oversight role for its Audit Director, the Group Company Secretary and business.
All such committees include members who are external professional advice.
independent of the relevant business.
The Group Audit Director reviews the papers and minutes from these committees and brings all significant matters to the Committees attention.
In 2007 the Committee made contact with the chairmen of the local audit committees and some members attended local committee meetings.
The Committee receives reports from the external auditor and regularly holds discussions with both the internal and external auditors in the absence of management.
The chairman of the Committee reports to the subsequent meeting of the Board on the Committees work and the Board receives a copy of the minutes of each meeting of the Committee.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Annually, the Committee reviews a formal letter provided Internal audit by the external auditor confirming its independence and The Groups internal audit function reports to objectivity within the context of applicable regulatory management on the effectiveness of the Companys requirements and professional standards.
systems of internal controls, the adequacy of these systems to manage business risk and to safeguard the Groups As part of the Committee's continual drive for assets and resources.
Through the Group Audit Director, improvement, the policy in respect of external auditors the internal audit function provides objective assurance on underwent a detailed review this year.
The policy was risks and controls to the Committee.
The plans, the level updated to reflect current global best practice on auditor of resources and the budget of the internal audit function independence, which is considered to be full compliance are reviewed at least annually by the Committee, which with all UK, US and International Federation of also undertakes an annual review of the effectiveness Accountants IFAC rules.
The revised policy aims to be of the Groups internal audit function against guidance simpler to interpret, providing greater clarity on what criteria provided by the Institute of Chartered Accountants services may and may not be provided by the Groups in England and Wales.
In addition, the Group Audit auditors.
This revised policy became operational from Committee is consulted in determining the remuneration 1 January 2008. of the Group Audit Director.
This review is complemented The Group paid 10.2 million to Ernst & Young LLP for with a questionnaire to assess the effectiveness of Group audit services in 2007, relating to the statutory audit of Audit and completed by a sample of the major Business the Group and Company financial statements and the Units, audit committee members and Executive members.
audit of Group subsidiaries and associates pursuant to As of 1 April 2007, the Group internal audit structure was legislation 2006: 9.2 million.
The fees for other services modified and the reporting line of all internal audit which included advice on accounting and regulatory resources from each business unit have been centralised matters, reporting on internal controls, corporate so that they report to the Group Audit Director, rather than governance matters, and due diligence work were to the business unit head.
89 8.9 million giving a total fee to Ernst & Young of 19.1 million 2006: 15.8 million.
Further details Governance External auditor are provided in note 12 to the accounts.
In addition, Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young was appointed the Group engaged the SMART Company in relation auditor of the Company in 2001 having previously been to certain assurance work including verification of its the auditor of Norwich Union plc.
Following the annual Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
external audit effectiveness review the Committee concluded that the audit was fit for purpose and During the year, the Committee performed its annual recommended that a re-tender process should not review of the independence, effectiveness and objectivity be undertaken in 2007 but that the relationship and of the external auditor: assessing the audit firm, the audit the effectiveness of the auditor be kept under review.
The process was conducted The audit signing partner changed as part of a rotation by means of a questionnaire, completed Group-wide process in 2002 and in line with that process there has by members of senior management and members of the been a further rotation in audit partner following the Groups finance community.
The questionnaire sought sign-off of the statements for the 2006 financial year.
opinions on the importance of certain criteria and Ernst & Young audits all significant subsidiaries of the the performance of the auditor against those criteria.
Group other than Delta Lloyd the Groups subsidiary The questionnaires were collated by the Group Company operating in the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg and Secretary.
Based on this review, the Committee concluded Germany, which is audited by  that the audit service of Ernst & Young was fit for purpose LLP PwC.
To fulfil its Group reporting responsibilities and provided a robust overall examination of the Groups Ernst & Young reviews the work of PwC in accordance business and the risks involved.
In line with the Combined Code requirement the The Company has policies aimed at safeguarding and Board undertook a review of the effectiveness of supporting the independence and objectivity of the all its committees during the year, including the Audit external auditors.
The policies regulate the appointment Committee.
In addition, the Committee also carried of former audit employees to senior finance positions out a self-evaluation of its effectiveness.
in the Group and set out the approach to be taken This report was reviewed and approved by the Board by the Group when using the services of the auditor.
It distinguishes between those matters where an independent view is required, such as audit and assurance Russell Walls Chairman, Audit Committee work, and other advisory services.
In addition to statutory audits, audit and assurance work includes reviewing statutory returns, actuarial assurance, regulatory advice requiring auditor reporting, due diligence on acquisitions and disposals, fraud investigations and control reviews and audit reviews.
As a general principle the auditor cannot be engaged by the Company for any other purpose, although the policy recognises that there may be areas of minor significance where, for pragmatic reasons, it may be in the Groups interests to use the external auditor for this work.
