30 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2007 Corporate Governance Introduction The Boards tenure and succession policy seeks to ensure that The directors are accountable to shareholders for the the Board is well-balanced and refreshed regularly by the governance of the Companys affairs.
appointment of new directors with the skills and experience necessary, in particular, to replace those lost by directors This statement describes how the principles of the retirements.
Directors must be able to demonstrate their Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code commitment to the Company, including in terms of time.
issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 and The Board seeks to encompass relevant past and current revised in June 2006 have been applied to the affairs of the experience of various disciplines.
In applying the principles of the Code, the directors have also taken account of the Code of Corporate The directors biographies, on page 19, demonstrate the breadth Governance published by the Association of Investment of investment, commercial and professional experience relevant Companies the AIC Code which established a framework to their positions as directors on the Board of the Company.
of best practice specifically for the boards of investment trust companies.
Chairman The Chairman, Mr Brewster, is an independent non-executive Application of the Codes Principles director who has no conflicting relationships.
Since all The Board attaches importance to the matters set out in both directors are non-executive and day to day management the Code and the AIC Code and observes the relevant Main responsibilities are sub-contracted to the Manager, the and Supporting Principles.
It should be noted that, as an Company does not have a Chief Executive Officer.
investment trust, most of the Companys day to day responsibilities are delegated to third parties and the directors Senior Independent Director are all non-executive.
Thus, not all the provisions of the Code Mr Sumner was appointed as Senior Independent Director on are directly applicable to the Company.
Board Independence and Composition Meetings The Board currently consists of six directors, all of whom are Currently the Board meets eight times per annum and is non-executive.
Following the introduction of the Code the responsible for the effective stewardship of the Companys directors have reviewed their independence.
Certain strategic issues have been considered at has served on the Board for more than nine years will be various meetings of the Board and additional meetings of the retiring from the Board from the conclusion of the AGM.
Board may be arranged as required.
The Board has a formal The Nominations Committee has considered the continued schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision which appointment of Mr Brewster and Mr Sumner who have served are categorised under various headings including strategy, on the Board for over nine years.
They have no other links to management, structure, capital, financial reporting, internal the Manager, a wide range of other interests and are not controls, gearing, asset allocation, share price discount, dependent in any way on the Company itself and the contracts, policy, finance, risk, investment restrictions, Nominations Committee concluded that they continue to make performance, corporate governance and Board membership a valuable contribution to the Board and, notwithstanding and appointments.
In order to enable them to discharge their length of service, they remain independent in character and responsibilities, all directors have full and timely access to judgement.
At each meeting, the Board reviews the Companys investment performance and considers financial The Board subscribes to the AIC Codes view that length of analyses and other reports of an operational nature.
The tenure is not in itself felt to be an issue, and does not diminish Board monitors compliance with the Companys objectives the directors contribution.
The Board is conscious of the need to and is responsible for setting asset allocation parameters, maintain continuity on the Board, and believes that retaining investment and gearing limits within which the Manager has directors with sufficient experience of both the Company and discretion to act.
The Board thus supervises the management the markets is of great benefit to shareholders.
of the investment portfolio, which is contractually delegated The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2007 31 Corporate Governance continued to the Manager.
The Board has responsibility for the approval The Committee meets at least three times each year to review of unquoted investments and all investments in in-house the internal financial and non-financial controls, to consider funds managed or advised by the Manager.
It also has and recommend to the Board for approval the contents of the adopted a procedure for directors in the furtherance of their Half-Year and Annual Reports to shareholders and to review duties, to take independent professional advice at the the accounting policies and significant financial reporting expense of the Company.
In addition, the Committee reviews the auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness, appointment and The Chairman attends meetings of all the chairmen of the remuneration, the quality of the services of the service investment trust companies managed by the Manager: these providers to the Company, and, together with the Manager, meetings provide a forum to discuss a variety of relevant reviews the Companys compliance with financial reporting matters and the Chairman reports on them to the Board.
Representatives of the Managers internal audit and compliance departments attend these The number of meetings of the Board and its Committees meetings at the Chairmans request.
held during the year and the attendance of individual directors are shown below.
All directors attend the Annual Representatives of  LLP, the Companys General Meeting.
auditors, attend the Committee meeting at which the Annual Report and financial statements are reviewed and are given the Management opportunity to speak to the Committee members without the Audit Nominations Engagement Charities Board Committee Committee Committee Committee presence of the representatives of the Manager.
No of meetings 8321 2 The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at the Mr R D Brewster 8 n a 2 1 2 Mr R R J Burns 8 n a 1 1 n a AGM to deal with questions relating to the Accounts.
Mr R Killingbeck 7321 n a Mr J Morley 8 3 n a 1 n a Management Engagement Committee Mr F I Sumner 8321 2 The Management Engagement Committees membership Mr D Thomas 8 3 n a 1 n a comprises Mr Brewster, Mr Burns, Mr Killingbeck, Mr Morley, The membership of each Committee is shown on the inside Mr Sumner and Mr Thomas.
The Chairman of the Committee back cover of this report.
The Committee meets at least annually to review the investment management agreement with the Board Committees Companys Manager and to review the services provided by The Board has appointed a number of Committees as set out the Manager.
Copies of the terms of reference which clearly define the responsibilities and duties for each Committee are Nominations Committee available on the website or on request and will be available The Nominations Committee comprises Mr Brewster, for inspection at the AGM.
Mr Burns, Mr Sumner and Mr Killingbeck.
The Chairman of the Nominations Committee is Mr Brewster.
The Committee, Audit Committee which meets at least annually, reviews the Boards size and The Audit Committee comprises Mr Morley, Mr Sumner, structure and is responsible for Board succession planning.
Mr Thomas and Mr Killingbeck, all of whom are considered The other members of the Board may attend meetings of the independent.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is Nominations Committee by invitation.
It is proposed that Mr Thomas will succeed Mr Morley as Chairman of the Audit Committee when The Board has in the past used an external recruitment Mr Morley retires from the Board at the conclusion of the consultant when appointing a new director.
The Board has satisfied itself that at least one of the Committees members has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee has written terms of reference, which clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
32 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2007 Corporate Governance continued Charities Committee are less likely to take a short-term view.
This view is supported The Charities Committee comprises Mr Sumner and by the AIC Code.
However, as three of the directors have Mr Brewster who consider requests for charitable donations of served on the Board for more than nine years their a limited nature within set criteria.
During the year donations independence is assessed according to the criteria set out in were made totalling 7,500 2006: 6,000. the Combined Code Code provision A.
In light of Code provision A.
7.2, two of the directors who have served for nine years or more, will be seeking annual re-election from Directors Remuneration shareholders.
Mr Morley will be retiring from the Board from As the Board has no executive directors and no employees the conclusion of the AGM.
and is comprised solely of non-executives, it does not have a Remuneration Committee.
The Company therefore is not required to comply with the principles of the Code in respect Directors Training of executive directors remuneration.
It is the responsibility of When a new director is appointed he or she is offered a the Board as a whole to determine and approve directors training seminar which is held by the Manager.
Directors are fees following proper consideration having regard to the level also provided on a regular basis with key information on the of fees payable to non-executive directors in the industry Companys activities including regulatory and statutory generally, the role that individual directors fulfil in respect of requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting Board and Committee responsibilities and the time directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they committed to the Companys affairs.
Directors also regularly participate in relevant training and industry seminars.
The Chairmans remuneration is decided and approved by the Board under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director.
Performance Evaluation The Companys Articles of Association limit the aggregate fees The Board payable to the Board to a total of 150,000 per annum.
In order to review the effectiveness of the Board, the Detailed information on the remuneration arrangements for Committees and the individual directors, the Chairman has put the directors of the Company can be found in the Directors in place and carried out a thorough appraisal process.
This was Remuneration Report on pages 28 and 29. implemented by way of a questionnaire and interviews with the Chairman.
In respect of the Chairman, interviews were Tenure Policy held between the directors and the Senior Independent No director has a contract of employment with the Company.
The process is considered by the Board to be Directors terms and conditions for appointment are set out in constructive in terms of identifying areas for improving the letters of appointment which are available for inspection at functioning and performance of the Board and the the Registered Office of the Company and will be available at Committees, the contribution of individual directors, as well as the AGM.
building on and developing individual and collective strengths.
The Articles of Association provide that one-third of the The Company directors must retire by rotation and may offer themselves for The performance of the Company is considered in detail at re-election at each AGM.
The terms of the directors each Board meeting.
appointment also provide that a director shall retire and be subject to re-election at the first AGM after appointment and The Board has direct access to company secretarial advice and at least every three years thereafter.
services provided by the Manager which, through its nominated representative, is responsible for ensuring that the Board and The Board believes that each of the directors exercises Committee procedures are followed and that applicable independent judgement and that length of service does not regulations are complied with.
During the year the Company has diminish the contribution from a director: indeed a directors maintained insurance cover in respect of legal action against the experience and extensive knowledge of the Company is a directors: this does not cover fraud, negligence or wilful default.
positive benefit to the Board.
Moreover, long-serving directors The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2007 33 Corporate Governance continued Continued Appointment of the Manager The Manager and the custodian maintain their own systems The Board reviews the performance of the Manager at each of internal controls and the Board and Audit Committee Board meeting.
The Management Engagement Committee receive regular reports from the Manager.
The control systems regularly reviews the terms of the contract with the Manager.
are designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, and to The Board has delegated contractually to the Manager and manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to other external third parties, the management of the achieve objectives.
investment portfolio, the custodial services which include the safeguarding of the assets, the day to day accounting, The Board has established a process for identifying, evaluating company secretarial, administration and registration services.
and managing any major risks faced by the Company.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper The process is subject to regular review by the Board and consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the accords with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on services offered, including the control systems in operation in the Combined Code published in September 1999 the so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
Turnbull Guidance which was revised by the FRC in October 2005.
The Board receives and considers regular reports from the Manager and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to The Board, assisted by the Manager, has undertaken an the Board as required.
annual review of the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control and the business risks have been analysed and In the opinion of the directors the continued appointment of recorded in a risk map which is reviewed regularly.
The Board the Manager on the terms agreed is in the interests of the receives each quarter from the Manager a formal report which Companys shareholders as a whole.
The Manager has extensive details the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk, including investment management resources and wide experience in those that are not directly the responsibility of the Manager, managing and administering investment trust companies.
and which reports the details of any known internal control failures.
The Board receives each year from the Manager a Internal Controls report on its internal controls which includes a report from the The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys systems Managers reporting accountants on the control policies and of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
controls aim to ensure that assets of the Company are safeguarded, proper accounting records are maintained, and The Company does not have an internal audit function: it the financial information used within the business and for delegates to third parties its day to day operations and does publication is reliable.
Control of the risks identified, covering not employ any staff.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the financial, operational, compliance and risk management, is procedures used by the Managers Internal Audit department, embedded in the controls of the Company by a series of regular and has concluded that they are sufficient for the Company investment performance and attribution statements, financial to rely on.
The Board will continue to monitor the system of and risk analyses and Managers reports, and a quarterly control internal control in order to provide assurance that it operates report.
Key risks have been identified and controls have been as intended and the directors review annually whether a put in place to mitigate such risks, including those risks that are function equivalent to an internal audit is needed.
not directly the responsibility of the Manager.
The effectiveness The Board confirms that in the event of any significant of the internal controls is assessed by the Managers compliance failings or weakness identified from the annual review of the and risk departments on a continuing basis and is also reviewed effectiveness of the Companys system of Internal Control, by the Company.
necessary actions would be taken to remedy them.
34 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2007 Corporate Governance continued Financial Reporting It is the intention of the Board that the Annual Report and The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Accounts and Notice of the AGM be issued to shareholders so Accounts is set out on page 29, the Report of the as to provide at least twenty working days notice of the AGM.
Independent Auditors on pages 53 and 54 and the Statement Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of the of Going Concern on page 27.
AGM are invited to do so by writing to the Company Secretary at the address given on the inside back cover of this report.
At other times the Company responds to letters from shareholders Voting Policy on a range of issues.
The Company has approved a corporate governance voting policy which accords with current best practice whilst General presentations to both shareholders and analysts follow maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
the publication of the annual results.
All meetings between the Manager and shareholders are reported to the Board.
Relations with Shareholders Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the Board Statement of Compliance and the Manager.
The prime medium by which the Company The directors consider that the Company has complied with communicates with shareholders is through the Half-Year and all material provisions of the Code throughout the accounting Annual Report and Accounts which aim to provide period ended 31 October 2007.
The Company is compliant shareholders with a clear understanding of the Companys with the AIC Code.
This information is supplemented by the daily calculation and by the publication at the Stock New Zealand Listing Exchange of the net asset value NAV of the Companys It should be noted that the UK Codes of Corporate ordinary shares and a monthly fact sheet.
Governance may materially differ from the New Zealand Stock At each AGM a presentation is made by the Manager Exchanges corporate governance rules and principles of the following the business of the meeting.
Shareholders have the Corporate Best Practice Code.
Investors can find more opportunity to address questions to the Chairman and the information regarding the UK Codes of Corporate Chairmen of the Committees of the Board at the AGM.
shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM.
