Governance The Directors retiring by rotation at the 2008 AGM and offering themselves to make EU political donations and incur EU political expenditure up to a for re-election are Fulvio Conti, Gary Hoffman and Sir John Sunderland.
maximum aggregate sum of 125,000 is therefore being proposed at the Sir Nigel Rudd retires annually as recommended by the Code and is Barclays PLC 2008 AGM.
In addition, David Booth, Sir Michael Rake Employee Involvement and Patience Wheatcroft, who were appointed as Directors since the last Barclays is committed to ensuring that employees share in the success of AGM, will be offering themselves for re-election at the 2008 AGM.
Staff are encouraged to participate in share option and share Cronj is retiring at the AGM and is not offering himself for re-election.
purchase schemes and have a substantial sum invested in Barclays shares.
Directors Interests Employees are kept informed of matters of concern to them in a variety Directors interests in the shares of the Group on 31st December 2007 of ways, including the corporate news magazines, intranets, briefings are shown on page 158. and mobile phone SMS messaging.
These communications help achieve Directors Emoluments a common awareness among employees of the financial and economic Information on emoluments of Directors of Barclays PLC, in accordance factors affecting the performance of Barclays.
with the Companies Act 1985 and the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Barclays is also committed to providing employees with opportunities Listing Authority, is given in the Remuneration report on pages 144 to 158 to share their views and provide feedback on issues that are important and in Note 42 to the accounts.
An annual Employee Opinion Survey is undertaken with results being reported to the Board HR and Remuneration Committee, all Directors Indemnities The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the Group to attract and employees and to Unite Amicus section, our recognised union in the UK.
Roadshows and employee forums also take place.
retain the services of the most able and experienced Directors by offering competitive terms of engagement, including the granting of indemnities In addition, Barclays undertakes regular and formal Group, business unit on terms consistent with the applicable statutory provisions.
Qualifying and project specific consultations with Unite Amicus section.
third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Diversity and Inclusion Companies Act 2006 were accordingly in force during the course of the financial year ended 31st December 2007 for the benefit of the then The diversity agenda at Barclays seeks to include customers, colleagues and suppliers.
Our objective is to recruit and retain the best people, Directors and, at the date of this report, are in force for the benefit of the Directors in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur regardless of but not limited to race, religion, age, gender, sexual orientation or disability.
We strive to ensure our workforce reflects the or have incurred in connection with their duties, powers or office.
communities in which we operate and the international nature of the Activities organisation.
We recognise that diversity is a key part of responsible Barclays PLC Group is a major global financial services provider engaged in business strategy in support of our increasingly global business.
retail and commercial banking, credit cards, investment banking, wealth management and investment management services.
The Group operates Barclays is committed to providing additional support to employees with disabilities and making it easier for them to inform us of their specific through branches, offices and subsidiaries in the UK and overseas.
requirements, including the introduction of a dedicated intranet site and Community Involvement disability helpline.
Through our Reasonable Adjustments Scheme, Barclays has an extensive community programme covering many appropriate assistance can be given, including both physical workplace countries around the world.
The Group provides funding and support adjustments, and relevant training and access to trained mentors is also to over 7,140 charities and voluntary organisations, ranging from small, provided for disabled employees.
A wide range of recruitment initiatives local charities, like Passage UK, to international organisations like the have been taken to increase the number of people with disabilities Red Cross.
We also have a very successful employee programme which working in Barclays.
in 2007 saw more than 43,700 employees and pensioners worldwide taking part in Barclays-supported volunteering, giving and fundraising Health and Safety activities.
Further information on our community involvement is given Barclays is committed to ensuring the health, safety and welfare of our on pages 72 and 74. employees and to providing and maintaining safe working conditions.
Barclays regards legislative compliance as a minimum and, where The total commitment for 2007 was 52.4m 2006: 46.5m.
The Group appropriate, we seek to implement higher standards.
Barclays also committed 38.9m in support of the community in the UK 2006: 39.6m recognises its responsibilities towards all persons on its premises, such and 13.5m was committed in international support 2006: 6.9m.
The as contractors, visitors and members of the public, and ensures, so far UK commitment includes 30.4m of charitable donations 2006: 35.2m.
as is reasonably practicable, that they are not exposed to significant risks Political Donations to their health and safety.
The Group did not give any money for political purposes in the UK nor Barclays regularly reviews its Statement of Health and Safety Commitment, did it make any donations to EU political organisations or incur any EU issued with the authority of the Board and which applies to all business political expenditure during the year.
Absa Group Limited, in which the areas in which Barclays has operational control.
In this statement Barclays Group acquired a majority stake in 2005, made donations totalling commits to: 170,142 in 2007 2006: 212,729 in accordance with its policy of making political donations to the major South African political parties to demonstrate personal leadership that is consistent with this support the development of democracy in South Africa.
The Group made commitment: no other political donations in 2007. provide the appropriate resources to fulfil this commitment: At the AGM in 2007, shareholders gave a limited authority for Barclays Bank carry out risk assessments and take appropriate actions to mitigate PLC to make political donations and incur political expenditure, within an the risks identified: agreed limit, as a precautionary measure in light of the wide definitions in The Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
This was similar consult with our employees on matters affecting their health and safety: to an authority given by shareholders in 2006.
This authority, which has ensure that appropriate information, instruction, training and not been used, expires at the conclusion of the AGM held this year, or, if supervision are provided: earlier, 26th July 2008.
The Companies Act 2006 largely restates the provisions of The Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000. appoint competent persons to provide specialist advice: and The risk of inadvertently breaching the Companies Act 2006 remains review Barclays Health and Safety Group Process and the Statement and the Directors consider it prudent to seek a similar authority from of Commitment, at regular intervals.
A resolution to authorise Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 131 Directors report Barclays monitors its health and safety performance using a variety of So far as each of the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit measurements on a monthly basis and the Board HR and Remuneration information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each of the Committee receives annual reports on health and safety performance Directors has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a from the Human Resource Director.
As part of its Partnership Agreement Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit with Unite Amicus section, Barclays currently funds full time Health information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of and Safety Representatives.
For these purposes, relevant audit information means information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with Creditors Payment Policy preparing their report.
Barclays values its suppliers and acknowledges the importance of paying The Annual General Meeting and invoices, especially those of small businesses, in a timely manner.
It is the Groups practice to agree terms with suppliers when entering into contracts.
Class Meeting of Ordinary Shareholders The Barclays PLC AGM will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference We negotiate with suppliers on an individual basis and meet our obligations accordingly.
The Group does not follow any specific published code or Centre on Thursday 24th April 2008.
The Notice of AGM is included standard on payment practice.
in a separate document sent to shareholders with this report.
A summary of the resolutions being proposed at the 2008 AGM is set out below: Paragraph 12 3 of Schedule 7 of the Companies Act 1985 requires disclosure of trade creditor payment days.
Disclosure is required by the Ordinary Resolutions Company, rather than the Group.
The Groups principal trading subsidiary To receive the Directors and Auditors Reports and the audited accounts in the UK is Barclays Bank PLC, the accounts for which are prepared in for the year ended 31st December 2007. accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.
The To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended components for the trade creditor calculation are not easily identified.
However, by identifying as closely as possible the components that would be required if Schedule 4 of the Companies Act 1985 applied, the trade To re-elect the following Directors: creditor payment days for Barclays Bank PLC for 2007 were 27 days David Booth: 2006: 28 days.
This is an arithmetical calculation and does not necessarily Sir Michael Rake: reflect our practice, which is described above, nor the experience of any Patience Wheatcroft: individual creditor.
Fulvio Conti: Gary Hoffman: Financial Instruments Sir John Sunderland: and The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies, including Sir Nigel Rudd.
the policy for hedging each major type of forecasted transaction for which hedge accounting is used, and the exposure to market risk, credit risk and To reappoint  LLP as auditors of the Company.
liquidity risk are set out in pages 75 to 108 under the headings, Barclays To authorise the Directors to set the remuneration of the Auditors.
approach to risk management, Credit Risk Management, Market risk management, Liquidity Management and Derivatives and in To authorise Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries to make EU political Note 14 and Notes 45 to 48 to the accounts.
donations and incur EU political expenditure.
Events after the Balance Sheet Date To renew the authority given to the Directors to allot securities.
On 3rd March 2008, Barclays entered into an agreement with Petropavlovsk Special Resolutions Finance Limited Liability Society to acquire 100% of the Russian bank, To renew the authority given to the Directors to allot securities for cash Expobank, for a consideration of approximately $745m 373m.
The other than on a pro-rata basis to shareholders and to sell treasury shares.
transaction is expected to close in summer 2008 after the receipt of appropriate regulatory approvals.
Expobank focuses principally on Western To renew the Companys authority to purchase its own shares.
Russia, with a substantial presence in Moscow and St Petersburg.
Founded To authorise the purchase of staff shares.
in 1994, it has grown rapidly and comprises a blend of retail and commercial banking, operating 32 branches and dealing with a range of corporate To create preference shares.
As at 31st December 2007, Expobank had net To adopt new Articles of Association.
A Class Meeting of ordinary shareholders will be held at the conclusion of The Auditors The Board Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the external the AGM to consider an extraordinary resolution approving the creation auditors, as well as their relationship with the Group, including monitoring of preference shares.
the Groups use of the auditors for non-audit services and the balance This is only a summary of the business to be transacted at the meetings of audit and non-audit fees paid to the auditors.
More details on this can and you should refer to the Notice of Shareholder Meetings for full details.
be found on pages 138 and 139 and Note 9 to the accounts.
Having reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the external auditors, By order of the Board the Committee has recommended to the Board that the existing auditors,  LLP, be reappointed.
 LLP have signified their willingness to continue in office and ordinary resolutions reappointing them as auditors and authorising the Directors Lawrence Dickinson to set their remuneration will be proposed at the 2008 AGM.
Company Secretary 7th March 2008 132 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Governance Corporate governance Corporate governance report Group Chairmans Introduction Statements of Compliance UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance I am pleased to report to you on the activities of the Board As Barclays is listed on the London Stock Exchange we comply with the and its Committees over the past 12 months, my first year UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
The Code was as Group Chairman.
It has been an eventful and busy revised in June 2006 and the revised Code applied to Barclays with effect year but we have continued to apply the high standards from 1st January 2007.
For the year ended 31st December 2007, we have complied with the relevant provisions set out in section 1 of the Code and of corporate governance that we set both for ourselves as applied the principles of the Code as described in this report.
a Board and for our Company.
NYSE Corporate Governance Rules Since I last reported to you, there have been a number of Barclays has American Depositary Receipts listed on the New York changes to the Board.
Chris Lucas succeeded Naguib Kheraj Stock Exchange NYSE and is therefore subject to the NYSEs Corporate as Group Finance Director in April 2007 and we have Governance rules NYSE Rules.
As a non-US company listed on the NYSE, we are exempt from most of the NYSE Rules, which domestic US companies significantly strengthened the independent non-executive must follow.
We are required to provide an Annual Written Affirmation to presence on the Board with the appointments of David the NYSE of our compliance with the applicable NYSE Rules and also to 2 Booth, Sir Michael Rake and Patience Wheatcroft.
disclose any significant ways in which our corporate governance practices differ from those followed by domestic US companies listed on the NYSE.
We report below on how we have complied in 2007 with As our main listing is on the London Stock Exchange, we follow the UKs the UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
Key differences between the NYSE Rules and the Code Code.
We are committed to promoting good corporate are set out later in this report.
We seek to be at the forefront of global best practice and to respond, in a timely fashion, to corporate governance developments.
To gain a greater understanding of the corporate governance framework within Barclays I encourage you to read Corporate Governance in Barclays, which is available from our website.
Marcus Agius Group Chairman 7th March 2008 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 133 Corporate governance Corporate governance report Corporate Governance Framework Board Group Chairman, Five executive Directors, 12 non-executive Directors Board Audit Committee Board HR and Remuneration Committee Group Chief Executive Board Corporate Governance Board Risk Committee and Nominations Committee Executive Committee Management committees including Disclosure Committee The overall governance framework within which the Group operates is set Scheduled Board and Committee meetings are arranged well in advance out above.
Details of the Groups risk management framework can be found to ensure, as far as possible, that Directors can manage their time on pages 80 to 112. commitments.
All Directors are provided with supporting papers and relevant information for each meeting and are expected to attend, unless The Board manages the Company on behalf of the shareholders.
In order there are exceptional circumstances that prevent them from doing so.
to run the business effectively, the Board delegates responsibility for the Attendance at the scheduled Board meetings is set out on page 137. day-to-day management of the Company to the Group Chief Executive, who Reasons for non-attendance are generally prior business or personal is supported by the Executive Committee, which he chairs.
In the event that a Director is unable to attend a meeting, Committee is supported by various management committees, including they will still receive the papers for the meeting and will normally discuss the Disclosure Committee.
Details of the Disclosure Committee are set out any matters they wish to raise with the Chairman of the meeting to ensure on page 141.
The rest of this report describes the way in which the Board their views are taken into account.
In addition, all Directors are able to and its Committees operate within the governance framework.
discuss any issues with the Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive The terms of reference for each of the principal Board Committees are at any time.
In the case of Leigh Clifford, who was unable to attend two available from the Corporate Governance section at: meetings of the Board HR and Remuneration Committee in 2007 because http: www.
com of other commitments, including his relocation to Australia following his retirement as Chief Executive of Rio Tinto, he received the papers for the There are eight scheduled Board meetings each year.
One of these meetings meetings he was unable to attend and provided comments to the Committee is a day and a half off-site meeting for the purposes of considering and Chairman ahead of both meetings.
In 2007, all Directors contributed the approving the Groups strategy.
The Group Chairman meets privately with time necessary to discharge their responsibilities to the Board.
the non-executive Directors before each scheduled Board meeting in order to brief them on the business of the meeting and identify any shared areas The Group Chairman works closely with the Company Secretary to ensure of concern.
In addition to the scheduled Board meetings in 2007, there that accurate, timely and clear information flows to the Board.
Supporting were a further 13 Board meetings held in relation to the proposed merger papers for scheduled meetings are distributed the week before each with ABN AMRO and ten meetings of a specially appointed Committee of meeting.
Directors may also access electronic copies of meeting papers the Board the Transaction Committee, comprising the Group Chairman, and other key documents quickly and securely via a dedicated Directors Group Chief Executive, Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director, Intranet.
Examples include past and current Board and Committee papers, which was established for the purpose of overseeing the proposed merger reports, minutes, press coverage, analyst reports and material from training with ABN AMRO and considering various aspects of the proposed sessions.
All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary transaction.
Attendance at the additional Board meetings, which were and his team, and can take independent professional advice on request, often called at short notice, was 88.1%.
Attendance at the Transaction at the Companys expense.
134 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Governance The Board Summary of matters reserved for the Board Role of the Board Under UK company law, Directors must act in a way they consider, in Approval of interim and final financial statements, dividends and good faith, would be most likely to promote the success of Barclays for the any significant change in accounting policies or practices.
benefit of the shareholders as a whole.
In doing so, the Directors must Approval of strategy.
have regard amongst other matters to: Major acquisitions, mergers or disposals.
the likely consequences of any decision in the long-term: Major capital investments and projects.
the interests of Barclays employees: Board appointments and removals.
the need to foster Barclays business relationships with suppliers, customers and others: Role profiles of key positions on the Board.
the impact of Barclays operations on the community and the Terms of reference and membership of Board Committees.
environment: Remuneration of auditors and recommendations for appointment the desirability of Barclays maintaining a reputation for high standards or removal of auditors.
2 of business conduct: and Changes relating to capital structure or status as a PLC.
the need to act fairly as between shareholders of Barclays.
Approval of all circulars, prospectuses and significant press releases.
The role and responsibilities of the Barclays Board, which encompass the Principal regulatory filings with stock exchanges.
duties of Directors described above, are set out in Corporate Governance in Barclays.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for creating and Rules and procedures for dealing in Barclays securities.
delivering sustainable shareholder value through the management of the Any share dividend alternative.
It therefore determines the goals and policies of the Group to deliver such long-term value, providing overall strategic direction Major changes in employee share schemes.
within a framework of rewards, incentives and controls.
The Board aims to Appointment or removal of company secretary.
ensure that management strikes an appropriate balance between promoting long-term growth and delivering short-term objectives.
The Board is also responsible for ensuring that management maintains a Board structure and composition system of internal control that provides assurance of effective and efficient The roles of the Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate.
operations, internal financial controls and compliance with law and The Group Chairmans main responsibility is to lead and manage the regulation.
In carrying out this responsibility, the Board has regard to what work of the Board to ensure that it operates effectively and fully discharges is appropriate for the Groups business and reputation, the materiality of its legal and regulatory responsibilities.
The Board has delegated the the financial and other risks inherent in the business and the relative costs responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Group to the Group and benefits of implementing specific controls.
Chief Executive, who is responsible for recommending strategy to the Board, leading the executive Directors and for making and implementing The Board is also the decision-making body for all other matters of such operational decisions.
importance as to be of significance to the Group as a whole because of their strategic, financial or reputational implications or consequences.
The Board of Directors has collective responsibility for the success of the There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision, Group.
However, executive Directors have direct responsibility for business which is summarised in the panel above right.
operations, whereas non-executive Directors are responsible for bringing independent judgement and scrutiny to decisions taken by the Board, The chart below left illustrates how the Board allocated its time at its eight providing objective challenge to management.
The Board can draw on scheduled meetings during 2007.
If the additional meetings relating to the wide range of skills, knowledge and experience they have built up the proposed merger with ABN AMRO are taken into account, 49% of the as Directors of other companies, as business leaders, in government or Boards time in 2007 was spent on M&A.
A typical Board meeting receives in academia.
It is the intention to have a broad spread of geographical reports from the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director and experience represented on the Board.
The chart below right illustrates will also be presented with an update on the execution of strategy in one the geographical experience of the current non-executive Directors.
or two of the main businesses and functions.
It will also receive reports from each of the principal Board Committees and may also receive a report Barclays has adopted a Charter of Expectations, which sets out, in detail, from the Company Secretary on any relevant corporate governance matters.
the roles of each of the main positions on the Board including that of the Group Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Director and both non-executive and executive Directors.
Sir Richard Broadbent continued in the role of Senior Independent Director in 2007.
The Senior Independent Director is an additional contact point for shareholders and also monitors the performance of the Group Chairman on behalf of the Board.
Sir Nigel Rudd continued in the role of Deputy Chairman during 2007.
The Charter of Expectations, including role profiles for key Board positions, is available from: http: www.
com Board allocation of time Geographical mix main experience of non-executive Directors 1 Strategy Formulation and 1 UK 8 Implementation Monitoring 39% 2 Continental Europe 1 2 Operational and Financial 3 US 1 5 Performance 27% 4 Other 2 4 4 3 Governance and Risk 9% 1 3 4 M&A 16% 3 2 5 Other 9% 1 2 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 135 Corporate governance Corporate governance report There is a strong independent element on the Board and, in line with the The Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee and recommendations of the Code, at least half the Board are independent subsequently the Board reviewed the independence of non-executive non-executive Directors.
At the date of this report, the Board is comprised Directors in early 2008 and concluded that each of them continues to of the Group Chairman, five executive Directors and 12 non-executive demonstrate these essential behaviours.
In determining that each of the Directors.
The balance of the Board is illustrated by the chart below left.
non-executive Directors remains independent, the Board considered in particular the following: The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee is responsible for reviewing the composition and balance of the Board Sir Nigel Rudd has served as a non-executive Director since 1996. and its principal Committees and for recommending to the Board the The Code suggests that length of tenure is a factor to consider when appointment of new Directors.
These regular reviews aim to ensure that determining independence.
As recommended by the Code, it is our there is an appropriate mix of skills and experience on the Board, taking policy that any Director who serves for more than nine years should into account the need to progressively refresh the Board.
Details of the seek annual re-election by shareholders and that all Directors subject experience and skills of each of the current Directors are set out in their to re-election should undergo a rigorous performance evaluation.
The length of tenure of the current nonAt the time of his appointment to the Board, Dr Danie Cronj executive Directors is illustrated by the chart below right.
The Code suggests that such a All Directors are required to seek re-election every three years and any business relationship is a factor to be considered by the Board when Directors appointed during the year seek re-election at the next annual determining independence.
The Code further suggests that crossgeneral meeting AGM.
Sir Nigel Rudd, who has served on the Board directorships may affect independence.
Sir Nigel Rudd and Dr Cronj since 1996, seeks re-election annually.
These periods are in line with are both non-executive Directors of Sappi Limited.
Dr Cronj retired as the recommendations of the Code.
Details of Directors proposed for Chairman of Absa and left the Absa Board in 2007 and will not submit re-election are given in the Notice of Shareholder Meetings, which is himself for re-election as a Director of Barclays when he retires at the enclosed separately with this Report.
Executive Directors are allowed to serve on one other listed company As a result of the annual performance review, the Board concluded that board, in addition to their role at Barclays.
Sir Nigel Rudd and Dr Cronj both continue to demonstrate the essential characteristics of independence expected by the Board.
Sir Nigels length Independence of non-executive Directors of service, and his resulting experience and knowledge of Barclays, is The Code sets out circumstances which the Board may find relevant viewed by the Board as being especially valuable, particularly as only one when determining the independence of a non-executive Director.
other non-executive Director has served for more than six years and the The Board considers that the following behaviours, as set out in our Board continues to be regularly refreshed.
Charter of Expectations, are essential for the Board to conclude an individual is independent: All Directors must report any changes in their circumstances to the Board and the Board reserves the right to terminate the appointment of a nonprovides objective challenge to management: executive Director if there are any material changes in their circumstances is prepared to challenge others assumptions, beliefs or viewpoints that may conflict with their commitments as a Barclays Director or that as necessary for the good of the organisation: may impact on their independence.
questions intelligently, debates constructively, challenges rigorously and decides dispassionately: is willing to stand up and defend their own beliefs and viewpoints in order to support the ultimate good of the organisation: and has a good understanding of the organisations business and affairs to enable them properly to evaluate the information and responses provided by management.
The Board considers non-executive Director independence on an annual basis, as part of each Directors performance review.
Balance of non-executive and executive Directors Length of tenure of non-executive Directors 1 Chairman 1 1 0-3 years 6 2 Executive Directors 5 2 3-6 years 4 3 Independent non-executive 3 6-9 years 1 1 Directors 12 4 4 Over 9 years 1 3 2 1 3 2 136 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Governance Board and Committee Membership and Attendance The table below sets out attendance of Directors at scheduled Board and Committee meetings in 2007.
Board Board HR & Corporate Board RemunerGovernance & Board Audit ation Nominations Risk Independent Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of scheduled meetings 88424 Group Chairman Marcus Agius OA 8 4 2 Executive Directors John Varley Group Chief Executive ED 8 Robert E Diamond Jr ED 8 2 Gary Hoffman ED 8 Chris Lucas joined the Board 1st April 2007 ED 6 Frits Seegers ED 8 Naguib Kheraj left the Board 31st March 2007 ED 2 Non-executive Directors David Booth joined the Board 1st May 2007 I 5 Sir Richard Broadbent Senior Independent Director I 8 4 2 4 Leigh Clifford I 7 2 Fulvio Conti I 7 6 Dr Danie Cronj I 8 4 Professor Dame Sandra Dawson I 8 8 Sir Andrew Likierman I 8 8 4 Sir Nigel Rudd Deputy Chairman I 8 2 Stephen Russell I 8 8 2 4 Sir John Sunderland I 8 4 2 Key OA Independent on appointment ED Executive Director I Independent non-executive Director Board Committees In order for the Board to carry out its functions, and to ensure independent oversight of internal control and risk management, certain aspects of its role are delegated to Board Committees, whose members are non-executive Directors.
The specific matters for which delegated authority has been given are set out in each Board Committees terms of reference, which are reviewed annually.
The Board has delegated authority to four principal Board Committees: Board Audit Committee Board Risk Committee Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee Board HR and Remuneration Committee The Board appoints Committee members on the recommendation of the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee, which regularly reviews Committee composition and balance and the need for refreshment.
The number of scheduled meetings held and attendance at the Committee meetings is set out above in Board and Committee Membership and Attendance.
The Board Committees report on their activities on the following pages.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 137 Corporate governance Corporate governance report The Committee also received regular updates during 2007 on: Board Audit Committee Basel II: Stephen Russell Chairman Fulvio Conti MiFID: Professor Dame Sandra Dawson Sarbanes-Oxley compliance: and Sir Andrew Likierman Sir Michael Rake from 1st January 2008 Sanctions compliance.
Secretary: Lawrence Dickinson In February 2008, the Committee reviewed its activities in 2007 against its terms of reference and concluded that it had discharged the responsibilities delegated to it under those terms of reference.
The Board Audit Committee terms of reference are available from the Corporate Governance section at: http: www.
com There are a number of regular attendees at each meeting, including the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Barclays Internal Audit Director, Barclays Risk Director, Barclays General Counsel and the lead external audit partner.
The Board Audit Committee members meet with the external auditors and the Barclays Internal Audit Director, without management present, as part of most Committee meetings.
Sir Andrew Likierman continued in his role as financial expert as defined by the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and has recent and relevant financial experience as recommended by the Code, as a result of his accountancy background and his career with HM Treasury.
Since the year end, Sir Michael Rake, a former Chairman of KPMG International, has been appointed a member of the Committee.
Non-audit services policy Activities in 2007 The Committee takes seriously its responsibility to put in place The chart below illustrates how the Committee spent its time in 2007. safeguards to auditor objectivity and independence.
It has therefore During 2007, the Committee: established a policy on the provision of services by the Groups statutory auditor.
The Policy describes the circumstances in which the considered control issues of Group level significance for different areas Auditor may be permitted to undertake non-audit work for the Group.
of the business: The Committee oversees compliance with the Policy and considers received reports on the control environment in each of the following and approves requests to use the Auditor for non-audit work.
areas: Barclaycard, BGI, Barclays Commercial Bank, Western Europe, Allowable non-audit services require pre-approval before they can be Emerging Markets, GRCB IT, UK Retail Banking and Barclays Capital: carried out.
For allowable services, the Committee has pre-approved all assignments where the expected fee does not exceed 100,000, reviewed the effectiveness and independence of the Group or 10,000 in the case of certain taxation services.
Any assignment statutory auditor: where the expected fee is above the relevant threshold requires monitored the performance of the Internal Audit function: specific approval from the Committee or a member of the Committee.
The Company Secretary and his team deal with day-to-day reviewed internal control and risk management systems: administration of the Policy, facilitating requests for approval by the considered the provision of non-audit services by the Group statutory Committee.
The Committee receives a report at each meeting on the auditor more details can be found in the panel opposite: non-audit services provided by the Auditor and the Policy is reviewed by the Committee annually.
Details of the services that are prohibited approved the re-appointment, remuneration and engagement letter and allowed are set out below.
of the Group statutory auditor: Services that are prohibited include: reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts and Preliminary and Interim Results: bookkeeping considered the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting: design and implementation of financial information systems received reports from the external and internal auditors: appraisal or valuation services reviewed the Global Internal Audit Plan: actuarial services received regular reports on concerns raised by employees internal audit outsourcing whistleblowing more details can be found on page 139 : and management and Human Resource functions considered the Fraud Risk Control Framework.
broker or dealer, investment advisor or investment banking services legal, expert and tax services involving advocacy Allowable services that may be approved include: statutory and regulatory audit services and regulatory non-audit services Board Audit Committee allocation of time other attest and assurance services 1 Internal control issues 9% accountancy advice and training 2 Financial results 33% 3 Internal audit matters 9% risk management and controls advice 7 1 4 External audit matters 9% 6 transaction support 5 Business control environment 25% 2 6 Governance and compliance 14% 5 taxation services 7 Other 1% 4 3 business support and recoveries translation services 138 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Governance Approval of financial statements Barclays has in place a strong governance process to support its framework of disclosure controls and procedures.
That process, in which the Board Audit Committee plays a key role, is illustrated below.
Legal and Technical Disclosure Executive Board Audit Board Review Committee Committee Committee Committee Reviews the Reviews and Reviews Disclosure Receives a report on Approves the results annual results agrees the Groups Committee the review of Group announcement announcement and disclosures to ensure conclusions and internal controls and Annual Report Annual Report for they are appropriate provides further for publication and Reviews the financial technical accounting, and correct challenge as needed ensures relevant statements prior to legal and regulatory disclosures have 2 Reviews and Agrees annual results approval by the Board compliance been made evaluates the announcement Reviews Disclosure Reports its Groups disclosure and Annual Report Committee conclusions to controls and subject to Board conclusions and the Disclosure procedures and Board Audit provides further Committee Committee Reports conclusions challenge as approval to Executive necessary Committee and CEO and FD take Board Audit opportunity to Committee challenge Executive Committee members The membership of the Disclosure Committee and its role is set out on Board Audit Committee Chairmans Statement page 141.
The Legal and Technical Review Committee is an accounting, We had eight scheduled meetings in 2007 and the report set out legal and regulatory compliance committee, which is responsible for above describes in some detail how we used our meetings.
Our reviewing the Groups financial reports and disclosures and for ensuring reviews of the control environment in each of our businesses in 2007 they have been subject to adequate verification.
Meetings are attended by had a particular focus on those areas where the Groups business is the Groups external US lawyers and auditors.
This governance process expanding or which are deemed to be higher risk.
We also continued ensures that there is sufficient opportunity for both management and the to review the controls around our key regulatory programmes, in Board to review and challenge the Groups financial statements and other particular, Sarbanes-Oxley and Basel II.
The second half of the year saw significant disclosures before publication.
It also provides assurance for significant disruption to the credit markets and we held two additional the certifications made by the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance meetings to review and consider the statements made by the Group Director as required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and recommended on its exposures to the sub-prime market.
The Committee discussed by the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control.
Further details of the Groups the timing and content of the statements and the process that had system of internal control and an assessment of its effectiveness may be been followed to prepare the statements, including the internal reviews found on page 159. conducted.
We also reviewed Barclays Capitals control environment and how effectively it had operated during the difficult market conditions.
Whistleblowing In light of market events in 2007, in February 2008 we held a separate Barclays takes any concerns of employees about the integrity session for Committee members on accounting for and valuation of and honesty of other employees very seriously and will investigate derivatives and complex investment banking instruments and where appropriate.
Information leaflets are distributed encouraging subsequently considered a report reviewing the loan impairment and employees to report any behaviours or actions that they reasonably mark-to-market valuations ahead of the Groups 2007 preliminary results.
believe might be against accounting or regulatory requirements, as well as our internal policies.
Dedicated whistleblowing hotlines and email addresses are in place so employees can talk about what has happened, or is happening, directly and in confidence.
The Board Audit Committee receives reports of instances of whistleblowing and any resulting investigations.
Stephen Russell Chairman of the Board Audit Committee 7th March 2008 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 139 Corporate governance Corporate governance report During 2007, the Committee also reviewed, in depth, leveraged credit Board Risk Committee and asset backed securities markets, including the Groups counterparty Sir Richard Broadbent Chairman exposures.
It considered whether there were any signs of material David Booth from 1st January 2008 contagion in other markets in which the Group operates.
The Committee Dr Danie Cronj examined how the Groups risk controls and stress limits had operated Sir Andrew Likierman in the prevailing market conditions and was satisfied that risk controls Stephen Russell had operated as anticipated.
The Committee reviewed the impact on impairment and mark-to-market positions and the impact on the Secretary: Lawrence Dickinson Groups balance sheet of the market conditions.
The Committee also monitored progress in meeting the new capital regime introduced under Risk is a key parameter of Barclays business.
Accordingly, the Board has Basel II and continued to review the retail credit experience.
established a Board Risk Committee to provide Board level monitoring The chart below left shows how the Committee allocated its time at its and oversight of all Barclays risk activities.
The Board Risk Committees terms of reference are available from In March 2008, the Committee will review its activities in 2007 against the Corporate Governance section at: http: www.
In addition to its members, all meetings are attended by the Group Finance Director and the Barclays Risk Director.
Attendees at meetings More information on risk management and the internal control framework may also include Barclays Internal Audit Director, Barclays General Counsel can be found in the Risk management report on pages 80 to 89. and the Barclays external auditor, as well as other senior executives, who join for specific topics.
Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee Approach The Committee approaches its task primarily by: Marcus Agius Chairman receiving from the Barclays Risk Director and discussing a detailed risk Sir Richard Broadbent report at every meeting: Sir Nigel Rudd Stephen Russell reviewing in depth specific topics or areas of risk that the Committee Sir John Sunderland identifies as meriting detailed analysis: Secretary: Lawrence Dickinson reviewing stress scenarios: reviewing historic risk tendencies and experiences: The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee terms of reference are available from the Corporate Governance section at: monitoring risk appetite and the Groups risk profile.
com recommends to the Board each year an appropriate level and composition of risk for the coming year.
The meetings are also attended by the Group Chief Executive.
In addition, the Committee: Activities in 2007 The chart below right shows how the Committee allocated its time at its reviews the internal control framework: meetings in 2007.
During 2007, the Committee: examines the risk control framework, and approves Group policies regularly reviewed Board and Board Committee composition to including the trading book policy, liquidity policy, credit impairment ensure the right mix of skills and experience are present: policy and principal risks policy: and recommended the appointment of David Booth, Sir Michael Rake and receives updates on risk measurement methodologies.
Patience Wheatcroft as non-executive Directors: Activities in 2007 monitored the progress of the action plan arising from the 2006 The Committee requested at the end of 2006 that the US mortgage Board Effectiveness Review and oversaw the conduct of the 2007 business be reviewed early in the year as one of the key risk issues.
This was Board Effectiveness Review: presented in March 2007 and included an analysis of stress loss scenarios under adverse market conditions.
Management took decisions during the reviewed the corporate governance disclosures for the 2006 Annual first half of 2007 to reduce limits in this business and, given the volatility in Report and considered the proposed disclosures for 2007: the credit markets during 2007, the Committee subsequently received reviewed and updated Corporate Governance in Barclays and the regular reports on market conditions.
Charter of Expectations: and reviewed succession plans for the Executive Committee and the position of Group Chief Executive.
Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee Board Risk Committee allocation of time allocation of time 1 Risk profile Risk appetite 40% 1 Corporate Governance matters 23% 2 Key Risk issues 40% 2 Board and Committee composition 3 Internal control Risk policies 3% including succession planning 46% 5 4 Regulatory frameworks 12% 3 Board effectiveness 20% 4 4 1 5 Other 5% 4 Other 11% 3 1 3 2 2 140 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Governance The Committee received updates on: Activities in 2007 The chart below shows how the Committee allocated its time at its the status of the Companies Act 2006 and, in particular, the new meetings in 2007.
During 2007, the Committee: statutory statement of Directors Duties: and held discussions with external advisers to the Committee: the FRCs review of the Combined Code.
reviewed executive compensation: During 2007, the Committee reviewed the composition of the Board and its principal Committees at each of its meetings.
Following those considered resourcing, compensation and incentives for staff: deliberations the Committee recommended to the Board the considered pensions, mobility and relocation matters: and appointments of David Booth May 2007, Sir Michael Rake and Patience Wheatcroft January 2008 as non-executive Directors.
In the case of reviewed the compensation frameworks and overall level of bonus David Booth, the Committee had concluded that a non-executive Director pools for each of the Groups principal businesses.
with US banking experience would bring the skills and experience to the The Committee received updates on: Board that had been lost on the retirement of Robert Steel as a nonexecutive Director in late 2006.
In the case of Sir Michael Rake, the revised ABI Guidelines on Executive Remuneration: Committee sought a non-executive Director with a financial and auditing talent: 2 background.
Patience Wheatcroft has extensive experience of the highest levels of business and politics, which will bring additional valuable skills health and safety: and and a wider perspective to the Board.
When considering appointments, equality and diversity.
the Committee typically engages external search consultants, who are provided with a specification of the skills and experience required, to assist In February 2008, the Committee reviewed its activities in 2007 against its with identifying potential candidates, although candidates may be terms of reference and concluded that it had discharged the responsibilities recommended to the Committee from other sources.
Each of David Booth, delegated to it under those terms of reference.
Sir Michael Rake and Patience Wheatcroft met with members of the Detailed information on the role and activities of the Committee can be Committee prior to the Committee considering their appointments and found in the Remuneration Report on pages 144 to 158. recommendations being made to the Board.
In January 2008, the Committee reviewed its activities in 2007 Management against its terms of reference and concluded that it had discharged the Executive Committee responsibilities delegated to it under those terms of reference.
The executive Directors bear the responsibility under the leadership of the Group Chief Executive for making and implementing operational decisions Board HR and Remuneration Committee and running the Groups business.
The Executive Committee supports the Group Chief Executive.
It meets fortnightly to develop strategies and Sir Richard Broadbent Chairman policies to recommend to the Board and to implement approved strategy.
Marcus Agius The Executive Committee is supported by other Committees, including Leigh Clifford the Disclosure Committee.
Sir John Sunderland Executive Committee Secretary: Patrick Gonsalves John Varley Chairman The Board HR and Remuneration Committee terms of reference are Bob Diamond available from the Corporate Governance section at: http: www.
com Chris Lucas The Committees independent advisers, from Towers Perrin MGMC Frits Seegers and Kepler Associates, attended 2 meetings and 1 meeting of the Paul Idzik Committee respectively in 2007.
Disclosure Committee The Disclosure Committee is chaired by Chris Lucas, the Group Finance Director.
Members include the Company Secretary, Barclays General Counsel, Head of Investor Relations, Barclays Risk Director, Head of Corporate Affairs, Financial Controller and Treasurer.
The Committee: considers and reviews the preliminary and interim results, Annual Report Annual Report on Form 20F and the Annual Review: considers Interim Management Statements released to the Stock Exchange: and considers the content, accuracy and tone of any other announcement that is proposed to be made in accordance with the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Board HR and Remuneration Committee allocation of time The Committee reports to the Executive Committee and the Board Audit Committee.
1 Talent 6% 2 Remuneration incentive 61% 3 Remuneration 1 other including pensions 17% 4 4 Other 16% 3 2 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 141
