BlueBay Asset Management plc 32 Annual Report 2007 Corporate Governance Report The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for The composition of the Board sound corporate governance and is committed to ensuring As at 30 June 2007, the Board comprised of four executive directors the integrity of the business, maintaining its ethical values and three non-executive directors, of whom two are considered and continuing the high degree of professionalism across independent for the purposes of the Code.
For its initial phase as the Company.
The Board considers that during the relevant a public company, the Board deemed that its composition was period it has applied the principles of the Combined Code appropriate, having regard to the size, nature and stage of development 2003 on Corporate Governance, apart from as described in of the Company, the integrity of the Chairman and the independent the relevant paragraphs below.
non-executive directors and the experience and skills which they bring to their respective duties.
The composition of the Board The Companys ordinary shares were admitted to the Official List of complies with the provisions of the Code in that a smaller company the UK Listing Authority and to trading on the main market of the should have at least two independent non-executive directors.
London Stock Exchange on 22 November 2006 and the Company The Board also considers it appropriate to appoint an additional became a member of the FTSE 250 on 16 March 2007.
This is, independent non-executive director during the course of the therefore, the first year in which the Company has been required financial year 2007-08.
It is intended that upon appointment the to apply the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority FSA additional independent non-executive director will become a member and to include a statement of corporate governance in its Annual of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Report relating to its compliance with the principles and provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code 2003 on Corporate The profiles of the Directors are on pages 26 and 27.
Governance the Code, on the basis that the Company is a smaller company as defined by the Code.
This statement includes The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct and separate.
a description of how the Company has applied those principles since The Chairman, Hans-Jrg Rudloff, has been chairman of the 22 November 2006 and whether or not the Company has complied Company since July 2001 and is responsible for leading the Board with those provisions throughout the remainder of the financial year.
The role of Chief Executive is held by Hugh Willis, one of the co-founders of the Company, who has been This report covers the period from 22 November to 30 June 2007. a Director and the Chief Executive since its inception in 2001.
He is Throughout this period the Company has applied the principles of responsible for the executive management of the Company which the Code, with the exception of the departures discussed in the includes the formulation of the Companys strategy for building relevant sections below.
The Board is committed to achieving and shareholder value over the long term.
maintaining the high standards of corporate governance required following Listing.
Terence Eccles is the Companys senior independent non-executive director and was appointed to the Board in November 2006.
He is The role of the Board available to shareholders if they have concerns which have not or The Board is responsible to shareholders for creating and delivering cannot be resolved through normal channels with the Chairman or sustainable long-term shareholder value through strong leadership, Chief Executive.
financial performance and the approval of the Companys strategic objectives.
It is also responsible for ensuring that adequate resources The Board considers that Terence Eccles and Tom Cross Brown are are made available to ensure these objectives are met and for ensuring independent non-executive directors as none of the factors implying that management maintains systems of internal control which provide lack of independence, as set out in the Code, apply.
assurance of effective and efficient operations, strong internal financial controls and compliance with applicable law and regulations.
The Where Directors have concerns that cannot be resolved about Board fulfils its duties to the Companys shareholders either by means running the Company, these are recorded in the Board meetings.
of direct intervention or by delegating its responsibilities to Board No such concerns were recorded during the period.
Committees or to the Management Committee.
BlueBay Asset Management plc Annual Report 2007 33 The Chairmans other significant commitments are described under Board meetings Board of Directors on page 26.
There have been no material changes The Board held three meetings during the year ended 30 June 2007. to such commitments during the period and these commitments are The Board is collectively responsible for setting its own agenda.
At not considered to impact his duties on the Board.
each Board meeting, the Chief Executive provided a review of the business and its performance and the Chief Financial Officer provided Appointment to the Board a review of the financial position of the Company.
The range of topics Since Listing, no changes have been made to the structure of the discussed during the period under review included, for example, the Board.
Nick Williams and Alex Khein were appointed as executive strategic development of the Company, the approval and review of directors on 1 November 2006.
At the date of Listing, Terence new business, regulatory and corporate governance issues along with Eccles and Tom Cross Brown were appointed as independent nondiscussion of the resourcing and administrative issues of the Company, executive directors.
The changes to the Board which took effect on the approval of the change in premises for the London office and the Listing were approved by the Board before Listing and therefore approval of the interim Financial Statements.
before the formation of a Nomination Committee.
The members of the private company Board identified and recommended all the new Attendance at the Board and Board Committee meetings since directors having evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and 22 November 2006 to 30 June 2007 is set out in the table below.
experience required of the Directors.
Nomination AuditRemuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Prior to the re-organisation as a result of Listing, the private company Meetings held 3012 Board comprised five members: Hugh Willis and Mark Poole as Hans-Jrg Rudloff2012 executive directors, Roger Jenkins and Mark Militello as non-executive Terence Eccles 2012 directors who were respectively the representative directors for Tom Cross Brown2001 Barclays Bank PLC and Shinsei Bank, Limited, and Hans-Jrg Rudloff Hugh Willis 3 n a n a n a Mark Poole 3 n a n a n a as a non-executive director and Chairman of the Board.
Both Roger Nick Williams 3 n a n a n a Jenkins and Mark Militello resigned from the Board on 1 November Alex Khein 3 n a n a n a 2006 as part of the re-organisation of the Board prior to Listing.
The executive directors are not members of the Board committees.
The appointments of the non-executive directors are terminable without Any director who was unable to attend a Board meeting received entitlement to compensation and without notice, in accordance appropriate and timely information in advance of the meeting in with the Articles of the Company although it is envisaged that the order that their views could be taken into consideration.
The Board appointments will be for an initial term of no more than three years.
considers that it has witnessed a period of transition since Listing The terms and conditions of each appointment will be made available and has been able to achieve a reasonable number of Board for inspection at the first AGM to be held on 14 November 2007. meetings.
However, the Board intends to increase the frequency of meetings and expects Directors to attend all meetings, unless there Independence are exceptional circumstances which prevent them from doing so.
Prior to their appointment, potential non-executive directors are subject to a review to assess their independence and to confirm that After the year end, two further Board meetings were held, one in they have no other relationships that might affect their judgement.
July 2007 and one in September 2007, with two further meetings To avoid potential conflicts of interest, non-executive directors are scheduled before the end of the calendar year 2007. expected to inform the Chairman before taking up any additional external appointments.
BlueBay Asset Management plc 34 Annual Report 2007 Corporate Governance Report continued The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring Board effectiveness Board procedures are followed and compliance with rules and The Board considers that seven months is an insufficient time scale regulations applicable to the Company.
to fully assess the effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and the individual Directors.
The Board anticipates that the formal and Time commitment rigorous performance evaluation required by the Code to be The Board considers that the seven month period from 22 November completed annually, will be undertaken before the end of calendar 2006 to 30 June 2007 is an insufficient time scale to assess satisfactory year 2007.
The Board considers that each Director has continued to time commitment of its Chairman and independent non-executive perform effectively and demonstrated sufficient commitment to their directors.
Please refer to the section on Board effectiveness below for respective roles for the purposes of re-election as a Director at the further detail.
Information to the Board Board Committees To enable the Board to discharge its duties effectively, all Directors The Board formally delegates certain responsibilities to Committees by receive appropriate and timely information in advance of Board way of written terms of reference.
The three principal Committees are meetings.
All Directors receive monthly updates on the financial the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Details of each performance of the Group and its Assets under Management.
principal Committee, its membership and terms of reference are All Directors also receive copies of the minutes to principal summarised below together with details of significant activities Committee meetings, copies of proposed press releases for review undertaken during the year.
The Directors receive copies of the minutes and comment before publication including the quarterly trading to all the Committee meetings.
The Code requires that the Audit statements and updates to changes in or development to Committee members should be independent non-executive directors.
In order to provide continuity between the pre and post-IPO Board structures, during the period the Chairman has been a member of the All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Audit Committee.
In view of the progress made by the Company and Secretary and may seek independent professional advice, if necessary, in conformity with the Code, the Chairman stood down from the Audit at the Companys expense.
On appointment to the Board, Company marketing literature and Shareholder relations financial reports are made available to a new Director.
During the year, the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer met and made presentations to institutional investors, analysts and The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter prospective shareholders.
Feedback from these meetings was given for the Board as a whole, following recommendation of the to the Board.
The senior independent non-executive director is also Nomination Committee.
available to meet institutional shareholders if requested.
Insurance and indemnification The first AGM since Listing is due to be held on 14 November 2007 The Company maintains appropriate directors and officers liability and the Board and the Chairman of each of the principal Committees insurance and has entered in to a deed poll of indemnity in favour of welcome the opportunity to answer questions put forward to them the Directors.
by shareholders of the Company.
The Annual Report and Accounts and the notice of the AGM will be sent to shareholders at least 20 Chairmans Committee working days prior to the date of the meeting.
The Chairman intends to meet exclusively with the non-executive directors of the Company at least once a year.
The first meeting will The Company maintains a corporate website www.
com take place prior to the first AGM to be held on 14 November 2007. which contains a wide range of information on the Company, BlueBay Asset Management plc Annual Report 2007 35 including press releases and published financial information and also physical presence in an EU state other than the UK, it is only subject to details on the net asset values of the funds it manages.
the rules of these various EU states to a limited degree having obtained the appropriate European investment services passport.
This passport Re-election derives from the pan-European regime established by the Investment The Board confirms that the Directors subject to re-election in the Services Directive ISD which regulates the provision of investment next financial year, namely Hans-Jrg Rudloff, Terence Eccles, Tom services throughout the EEA.
The ISD is due to be replaced by a new Cross Brown, Hugh Willis, Mark Poole, Nick Williams and Alex Khein, Directive, the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive which will continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their come into force in the UK on 1 November 2007. respective roles.
The Company is the Promoter, Investment Manager and Principal Going concern Sales Agent of the BlueBay Funds and is subject to supervision by The Directors are satisfied that the Company has adequate resources the Commission fide Surveillance du Secteur Financier in Luxembourg.
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and accordingly continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing The Board is committed to achieving and maintaining the high the Financial Statements.
standards of corporate governance required following Listing.
Internal control By Order of the Board The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys systems of internal control and risk management.
Please refer to the Risk Management and Internal Control report on pages 46 to 48 for James Brace further detail.
Company Secretary 24 September 2007 Whistle-blowing measures In accordance with the FSA rules the Company has had a whistleblowing policy in place for a number of years.
This enables staff to raise concerns about possible improprieties relating to the Companys operations.
The Code requires the Audit Committee to review the adequacy of the Companys whistle-blowing arrangements.
This review was conducted after the financial year, on 14 September 2007, when the Committee found the arrangements to be satisfactory.
Regulation The Company is authorised and regulated in the United Kingdom by the FSA.
The Company is registered as an investment adviser with the US Securities and Exchange Commission and with the Kanto Local Finance Bureau Financial Services Agency in Japan.
The Company also provides financial services but does not have a physical presence in various EU states but as these services are provided on a cross-border basis and the Company does not have a
