BlueBay Asset Management plc 38 Annual Report 2007 Audit Committee Report This Audit Committee Report sets out the role of the Audit Report on the Committees activities Committee, its membership and what it considered during Meetings the year.
This is the first Annual Report of the Committee For meetings and attendance refer to the table on page 33 of the since Listing on 22 November 2006.
Two meetings were held after the year end: one in July 2007 and one in September 2007 at which all Role of the Committee members were present.
The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for overseeing the financial reporting and internal control of the Group To assist the Committee in fulfilling its role, the following senior and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with executives and functional heads were invited to attend the above the Groups auditors.
The main role of the Committee is to Committee meetings: Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, encourage and safeguard the highest standards of financial Chief Operating Officer, Compliance Officer and the General reporting integrity, risk management and internal control.
The Companys external auditors, PwC, were also this the principal responsibilities of the Committee include: represented at the above meetings and presented reports on their activities.
reviewing the form, content and integrity of the Group and Companys Financial Statements: It is proposed that during the year commencing 1 July 2007, the monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the external and Committee shall meet separately on no less than two occasions with internal audit functions: the Groups external auditors and with the Groups outsourced internal recommending to the Board the appointment, reappointment or audit function service providers, with no executive management removal of the external auditors: present.
This will provide an opportunity for the external and internal reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal auditors to raise matters of concern in confidence.
controls and risk management systems: and reviewing and monitoring the Groups ethical standards, The Committee has a formal programme of issues which it covers procedures for ensuring compliance with regulatory and financial during the year.
This programme is formulated by the Committee reporting requirements and its relationship with the relevant Chairman and the Company Secretary and is designed to ensure regulatory authorities.
that all matters that fall within the Committees remit are reviewed at the appropriate time.
The terms of reference of the Committee as updated from time to time are available on our website at www.
com and The principal issues considered during 2007 were: from the Company Secretary at the registered office.
the interim and annual Financial Statements for 2007: Composition of the Committee the external audit plan for 2007: The Audit Committee was formed on Listing and as at 30 June the Groups internal audit plans for 2007 and 2008: 2007, comprised the independent non-executive directors: the Groups risk management process, including key risks facing Tom Cross Brown Chairman and Terence Eccles: together with the Group: Hans-Jrg Rudloff.
the appropriateness of the accounting policies used in drawing up the Groups Financial Statements: Tom Cross Brown is considered by the Board to have recent and the external auditors year-end report: and relevant financial experience.
the performance, independence and objectivity of the external auditors, including a review of non-audit fees.
Hans-Jrg Rudloff ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee on 14 September 2007.
BlueBay Asset Management plc Annual Report 2007 39 Other issues framework to ensure the objectivity and independence of the external As well as the agreed schedule of issues the Committee also auditors.
Under the proposed policy the provision of any service which received reports and presentations on various subjects connected might lead to a conflict of interests will not be permitted unless other principally with the control environment in the Group.
These possible providers are themselves conflicted.
In such exceptional cases included presentations on the Groups compliance with applicable the Audit Committee must approve each service and approval will only regulations and developments thereto during the period.
The be given where the Committee is satisfied that appropriate measures Committee also intends to consider, the implications for the Group are in place to manage or mitigate any potential conflict of interest.
of the implementation of the Markets in Financial Instruments There were no such occurrences in 2007.
Directive and Capital Requirements Directive.
The policy also includes rules in relation to the approval of contracts The Board confirms that the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating for non-audit services which do not present a possible conflict of and managing significant risks has been in place for the period under interest.
The external auditors are also required to confirm annually review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and that their firm, partners and staff are independent of the Group.
that this process accords with the Guidance on Internal Control the Turnbull Guidance published in September 1999 and revised in In 2007 the value of non-audit services provided by PwC to Group October 2005. companies was 0.8 million.
The Board also acknowledges that the system of internal control is The Committee also considered the reappointment of PwC as designed to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against auditors, taking into account the results of the auditor assessment material misstatement or loss.
process, the quality of work undertaken and the level of audit fees.
The Committee concluded that it was appropriate to recommend The Code requires the Board to conduct an annual review of the the reappointment of the auditors and that this recommendation effectiveness of the system of internal controls covering all material be put to shareholders at the next AGM.
The initial phase of the Boards review was completed on 14 September 2007, with the remainder to be completed before the The Committee is satisfied that the external auditors remain end of calendar year 2007, being in addition to the Boards regular independent.
review of the ongoing process of identifying, evaluating and managing risks.
Where necessary, the Board confirms that action Committee evaluation has been taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses The Board considers that seven months is an insufficient time scale to identified from its review of the effectiveness of the internal control fully assess the Audit Committees effectiveness.
The Board notes that there are no significant problems evaluation will take place before the end of the 2007 calendar year.
disclosed in this Annual Report.
Support to the Committee Non-audit services and auditor independence The Committee received information and support from management The Committee is formulating a policy covering the provision of nonduring the year to enable it to carry out its duties and responsibilities audit services to the Group by the external auditors.
This policy will be effectively.
finalised for adoption by the Committee before the end of calendar year 2007 and thereby enhance further the governance around the The Committee has access to external independent advice at the provision of such services and provide a clear and transparent Group's expense.
