Governance B19557 R&A 2007 FRONT 25 2 08 16:53 Page 25 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2007 25 Governance Corporate governance report Bradford & Bingley is committed to high interim and annual financial statements, the operational locations and branches, to standards of corporate governance in approval of recommendations in connection enhance their understanding of the Group.
with the payment of dividends, approval of Throughout their period in office, all corporate governance arrangements, the Directors are updated on Group business, The Directors are pleased to report that, approval of the Groups strategic direction the competitive and regulatory environment throughout the year ended 31 December and the approval of various policies to be in which it operates and other changes as 2007, the Company complied with the adopted by the Group.
The mandate they occur, via presentations at Board or provisions of the Combined Code.
This structure enables authorised individuals to committee meetings.
During 2007, a Corporate Governance Report, coupled approve levels of expenditure and commit programme of briefings and training on the with the Directors Remuneration Report, to contracts or other agreements in the implications of Basel II, the Companies Act explains how the Company has applied the normal course of business.
2006 and Treating Customers Fairly were governance principles set out in the Code.
The Board reviews its constitution every The Board year and during 2007 the Chairman took All Directors have access to the advice and During the year, the Directors satisfied the the lead role in the evaluation of the services of the Company Secretary who is main and supporting principles and provisions performance of the Board, the principal responsible for ensuring that Board of the Code by the following actions, committees and the performance and procedures and applicable rules and procedures and policies: commitment of each Director.
The process regulations are observed.
The Company included questionnaires, one-to-one Secretary also assists the Chairman in The Board met ten times during the year.
interviews with the Chairman and a full facilitating the Directors training.
Directors are This included two meetings primarily discussion at a Board Meeting.
Nicholas also able to take independent professional devoted to strategic matters.
In addition, the Cosh, the Senior Independent Director, led advice at the Companys expense.
Chairman held one meeting with the Nonthe Non-executive Directors in the executive Directors without the Executive evaluation of the Chairman.
Principal Board committees Directors being present.
One meeting of the The Board has established a number of Non-executive Directors, chaired by the All Directors are subject to election by committees, each of which has detailed terms Senior Independent Director, was also held shareholders at the first AGM after their of reference.
The four principal committees are without the Chairman present in order to appointment by the Board and each the Audit, Balance Sheet Management, review the Chairmans performance.
Director is subject to re-appointment every Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
three years, in accordance with the Articles The Audit and the Remuneration Committees As a matter of policy, the roles of Chairman of Association.
Rod Kent, Nicholas Cosh comprise only independent Non-executive and Group Chief Executive are distinct and and Steven Crawshaw will retire by rotation Directors.
The terms of reference of all these the offices are held by different people Rod at the AGM in 2008 and offer themselves committees are available on request to the Kent and Steven Crawshaw respectively.
for re-appointment by shareholders, under Registered Office and by visiting the Corporate The role of each is recorded in writing and the terms of the Articles of Association.
Governance section within the Our Business has been agreed by the Board.
Michael Buckley, Roger Hattam and Mark part of the www.
Stevens were appointed since the last AGM During the year the constitution of the and will seek re-appointment at the AGM, During the year the Audit Committee Board satisfied the Code at all times.
At the in accordance with the Articles of monitored the effectiveness of the Groups risk end of the year the Board consisted of a Association.
As part of the evaluation management process and its financial and Non-executive Chairman, five independent process, these re-appointments were other internal control systems, including Non-executive Directors and five Executive considered by the Nominations Committee, internal audit, risk management and Directors.
The independent Non-executive which recommended to the Board that the compliance functions.
The Committee also Directors bring wide experience from performance of the existing individuals reviewed the Groups accounting policies, varied backgrounds to the workings of the concerned was effective and their financial statements and external reporting Board and the Board considers that all commitment exemplary.
It met with the external auditors independent directors meet the appointees were considered to be valuable and received all reports by them addressed to independence criteria set out in the Code.
additions to the Board who would contribute the Group.
The Committee reviewed the considerable experience of the mortgage disclosure of information to the external auditor The recognised Senior Independent Director, business and the financial services sector as required by the establishing Companies Act until the end of September 2007, was George to Board discussions.
In light of his length of and the governance issues for tax enhanced Cox.
Nicholas Cosh took over as Senior service on the Board, Nicholas Cosh is deals.
It also reviewed the Companys risk Independent Director from 1 October 2007. seeking re-appointment for one year only.
framework and assessed the funding lessons This will allow the Board time to seek an to be learned from the liquidity crunch.
It The purpose of the Board is to govern the appropriate replacement Non-executive continued to review the mis-selling Groups strategic direction, supervise its Director, whilst maintaining continuity to compensation provisions and actions being operational management and define and ensure the smooth operation of the Board.
taken to comply with the Treating Customers monitor acceptable risk parameters for the Further information about the Fairly requirements.
It also reviewed the Group.
The Board has adopted a structure recommended re-appointments is included arrangements for staff to raise concerns about of mandates, granted to individuals and in the Notice of the AGM.
possible improprieties in the area of financial committees throughout the Group, whilst reporting or other issues.
The Committee retaining specified matters for its exclusive External and internal training is available to reviewed its terms of reference and made a decision.
The specified matters include the all Directors as required.
A number of Nonsmall number of changes to improve the approval of annual budgets, approval of executive Directors undertook visits to effectiveness of the meetings.
Governance B19557 R&A 2007 FRONT 25 2 08 16:53 Page 26 26 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2007 Governance Corporate governance report continued The Audit Committee also considered the on a daily basis to monitor the impact of the discussions relating to their own reposition of the internal and external auditors restricted market for wholesale funding.
The Committee also made including any risk of conflict of interest.
The addition, the Committee reviewed dividend recommendations to the Board on the Group recognises the importance of internal policy, secure medium term funding facilities appointment of two new Executive Directors and external auditor independence and has and stress testing of the mortgage book.
The and of one Non-executive Director.
External adopted principles to safeguard this, as follows: members of the Committee throughout the recruitment consultants assisted with the year were Nicholas Cosh Chairman, Rod search for the new Non-executive Director.
the Group will continue to use the external Kent, Chris Willford, Roger Hattam and the The members of the Committee, during 2007, auditor for non-audit work where appropriate: Director of Treasury and Wholesale Banking a were Rod Kent Chairman, Ian Cheshire, senior executive.
Nicholas Cosh, George Cox, Louise Patten, the Group recognises the need for Stephen Webster, Michael Buckley and Steven transparency around the services being The Remuneration Committee, during the year, Crawshaw.
Following his resignation from the provided and for a central independent reviewed the remuneration policy for the Group, Board on 31 December 2007, George Cox will overview.
This is provided by the Audit including the salary, bonus and benefits no longer sit on the Nominations Committee, Committee which monitors audit and nonarrangements for the Executive Directors and otherwise the membership of the Committee audit fees paid: and other members of the senior management is unchanged.
Following changes to the Combined there is an appropriate approval process Code implemented in 2006, Rod Kent became Shareholder relations for non-audit work to ensure that external a member of the Committee with effect from The Company is committed to ongoing, auditor independence is not compromised.
George Cox stepped down as transparent communication across the Chairman of the Committee and was replaced shareholder base, whether to institutional The members of the Committee are Stephen in June 2007 by Louise Patten.
The Committee investors, private or employee shareholders.
Webster Chairman, Ian Cheshire, Nicholas also reviewed the grants and awards of The Summary Financial Statement, which Cosh and Michael Buckley.
The Board is satisfied schemes established by the Company.
The details key facts about the Groups that Mr Webster fulfils the Code requirement members of the Committee during 2007, were performance, is distributed to those private that at least one member of the Committee has Louise Patten Chairman, Rod Kent, Ian shareholders who have requested it.
All Annual recent and relevant financial experience.
Following his Reports and AGM documents, announcements, resignation from the Board on 31 December presentations and press releases are available During the year, the Balance Sheet 2007, George Cox will no longer sit on the on our www.
Management Committee monitored the Remuneration Committee, otherwise the Groups capital position and funding policies, membership of the Committee is unchanged.
The Company engages in two-way including the import of Basel II.
The Committee communication with institutional For further information on approved all treasury policies and, in the latter 33-39 shareholders, fund managers and analysts to remuneration see pages half of the year carefully considered the impact discuss publicly available information on its of the turmoil in the wider market on liquidity The Nominations Committee reviewed the strategy, performance and policies.
The Board and the measures in place to manage this.
The Committee receives feedback on these communications During September and October 2007, a recommended Directors for re-appointment from the Directors attending the meeting, and combination of the Committee and ALCO met at the AGM and no Director took part in the is also regularly apprised of comments from institutional shareholders and analysts so that all Directors can develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of Board meeting and committee attendance 2007 shareholders.
The Chairman and Senior The table below shows the attendance by Directors at the Board meetings and at the principal Independent Director are available to meet committees of which they were members during the year.
Director absences were the result of shareholders on request, and will ensure that unavoidable diary clashes and, in all cases, were agreed with the Chairman in advance.
the Board is aware of any shareholder concerns not resolved through the usual Board Audit Remuneration Nominations investor communications routes.
At each Committee Committee Committee AGM, there is a review of the Groups performance and the Board welcomes the Rod Kent 10 10 - 4 4 2 2 opportunity to gather views and take Steven Crawshaw 10 10 - - 2 2 questions from shareholders.
Michael Buckley 4 4 2 2 - 1 1 In connection with the AGM, the Company Ian Cheshire 8 10 3 5 3 4 1 2 discloses the level of proxy voting including Nicholas Cosh 8 10 5 5 - 1 2 for, against and votes withheld, proposes separate resolutions and has a policy that the George Cox 10 10 - 4 4 2 2 committee chairmen should attend the Robert Dickie 10 10 - - - Meeting.
In addition, the Notice of the Roger Hattam 6 7 - - - AGM and any related papers are sent out to arrive at least 20 business days before Louise Patten 9 10 - 4 4 1 2 the Meeting to ensure that shareholders have Mark Stevens 7 7 - - - sufficient time in which to consider the items Stephen Webster 9 10 5 5 - 2 2 of business.
Chris Willford 10 10 - - - Governance B19557 R&A 2007 FRONT 26 2 08 14:04 Page 27 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2007 27 The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company has sufficient resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Internal control Changes in financial regulation continue lines and governed by appropriate business The Board is responsible for the Groups within the industry.
The Groups risk monitoring mechanisms, codes of conduct system of internal control.
It seeks regular management processes are kept under and policy statements.
assurance to satisfy itself that the system is regular review to ensure that the Group functioning effectively in managing risks in the responds appropriately both to actual and The system of internal control has been in place manner which it has approved.
Such a system proposed regulatory changes.
throughout 2007 and up to the date of approval can only provide reasonable, and not of the Annual Report & Accounts.
It accords with absolute, assurance against material misThe Groups management operates a risk the guidance from the Turnbull Committee.
statement or loss, as it is designed to manage management process, producing a Group-wide rather than eliminate the risk of failure to risk profile.
This identifies the Groups significant In reviewing the effectiveness of this system, the achieve business objectives.
risks, the probability of those risks occurring and Board takes into account the work of the Audit their impact should they occur, and has the Committee which receives reports from the Throughout the year ended 31 December prime responsibility for the design and operation Group Risk Committee on the Groups 2007, the Group has operated a system of of suitable controls and mitigating actions.
The significant risks and how these are being internal control which includes an ongoing risk risk management process is complemented by managed.
The Board also considers reports management process for identifying, a formalised reporting and escalation process from internal audit, external audit, compliance evaluating and managing the significant risks for control issues.
Internal audit has a key role in and management on the system of internal faced by the Group.
During the year, the maintaining the control environment by providing control, adherence to regulatory requirements Board has continued to review the independent assurance on the effectiveness of and material control weaknesses, if any, effectiveness of the Groups system of the Groups internal control systems.
The Group together with actions taken to address them.
financial and non-financial controls including Risk Committee oversees the risk management The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports operational and compliance controls, risk process, regularly considers the Group-wide risk on the outcome of each meeting to the Board, management and the Groups most profile, and receives monitoring reports to where appropriate, and the Board also receives significant risks and mitigating actions.
minutes of these Committee meetings.
In addition, as part of the process of preparing Going concern For further information on risk management and control this statement, the Board has also performed 18-21 The Directors confirm that they are satisfied see pages its annual assessment of the effectiveness of that the Company has sufficient resources internal controls.
No significant weaknesses to continue in operation for the foreseeable or failings in the system of internal controls The Group is committed to developing and future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt were identified in this annual assessment.
maintaining an appropriate risk management the going concern basis in preparing the Management continually takes action to framework and culture with the aim of Financial Statements.
improve internal controls, either as a result continuing to ensure that management of its own initiative or in response to reports understand the key risks that the business from internal audit and other oversight faces.
This is achieved through an review functions.
organisational structure with clear reporting
