Corporate governance report Statement of compliance The chief executive, Mr T C W Ingram, heads the executive management The board recognises the importance of good corporate governance and team and is primarily responsible for the implementation of the boards this report describes how the company has applied the principles of good policies and strategies and for managing the activities of the company corporate governance as set out in section one of the Combined Code other than in relation to those matters specifically reserved to the board issued in July 2003 the Combined Code.
Shareholders registered on the or delegated to its committees.
His responsibilities have also been agreed companys New Zealand branch register should note that the principles of and set out in writing in the Schedule of Authorities adopted by the board.
good corporate governance set out in the Combined Code may materially Except where the board gives specific direction otherwise, the chief differ from the New Zealand Exchange Limiteds corporate governance executive may delegate any of those matters to other members of the rules and the principles of its Corporate Governance Best Practice Code.
executive management team or to executive committees, but ultimately A copy of the Combined Code is available on the website of the Financial he is accountable to the board for the overall performance of the company.
A strong independent non-executive representation on the board is headed by the senior independent non-executive director, Mr C M Allen-Jones.
The The board role of the non-executive directors, as set out in their letters of Overall responsibility and operation appointment, is to challenge constructively, and contribute to, the The board as a whole is responsible for the groups objectives and policies development of strategy: to scrutinise the performance of management and the management of its resources.
It usually has eleven scheduled in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor their performance: to meetings a year, but also convenes at additional times when required.
satisfy themselves that financial information is accurate and that financial The board has adopted a Schedule of Authorities which sets out matters controls and systems of risk management are robust and defensible: to specifically reserved to it for decision.
Such matters include the approval determine appropriate levels of remuneration for executive directors: of strategy, the annual budget, material capital and revenue transactions and to have a prime role in senior management appointments and and changes in business activities, treasury policies, risk management and succession planning.
internal policy limits relating to the companys investment activities.
The The composition of the board is such that, throughout the year, the Schedule of Authorities also sets out the authorities that are delegated to company did not comply with provision A.
board committees and to executive management.
The Schedule of The board however believes that the main objectives of board balance Authorities is reviewed annually by the board.
and independence set out in the Combined Code that the board should All directors receive appropriate and timely information to ensure that include a balance of executive and non-executive directors, and in particular they are properly briefed in advance of board meetings and have unlimited independent non-executive directors, such that no individual or small group access to the advice and services of the company secretary and other of individuals can dominate the boards decision taking are met.
senior management should further information be required.
Non-executive The board is currently broadly comprised of three categories of directors directors have access to independent professional advice at the companys the four independent non-executive directors: four directors the chairman expense where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities and three executive directors The Hon C W Cayzer and Messrs J M B as directors.
Cayzer-Colvin and W P Wyatt who are involved in the affairs of Cayzer Appointment, induction and training Trust, Caledonias largest shareholder: and three other executive directors All new directors appointed by the board are required to seek election Messrs T C W Ingram, J H Cartwright and J M May.
Mr J R H Loudon does by shareholders at the next general meeting of the company following not fall into any of these categories as his twelve year tenure as a their appointment and subsequently all directors are required to retire by non-executive director exceeds the nine year limit specified in the rotation at least every three years.
Any non-executive director who has Combined Code criteria for independence although absent the Combined served on the board for over nine years is subject to annual re-election.
On Codes nine year limit the board would have regarded him as independent appointment, new directors are offered induction and training considered and, although a member of the wider Cayzer family, he is not involved in appropriate by the board and subsequently as necessary.
The company the affairs of Cayzer Trust.
secretary provides details of, and where requested arranges attendance In addition to the balance on the board brought by these categories, the at, external courses to assist in directors professional development.
Governance Committee, comprising solely independent non-executive Board composition directors, keeps under review corporate governance and conflict of interest The directors, all of whom served throughout the year, are shown on issues relating to the company and the board and has authority to pages 26 and 27. recommend that any director abstains from participating in any decision of the board, or any board committee, where it believes that a conflict of The board currently comprises twelve directors.
Excluding the chairman, interest could, or could be perceived to, arise.
The board believes that this six of the directors are executive and five non-executive.
The non-executive structure ensures the necessary level of board balance demanded by the directors considered to be independent are Messrs C M Allen-Jones, Combined Code and safeguards against any individual or small group of M E T Davies, R Goblet dAlviella and D G F Thompson.
In assessing individuals being able to dominate the boards decision taking.
Whilst not Mr Goblet dAlviellas independence, the board took account of his position in strict compliance with provision A.
3.2 of the Combined Code, the board as chief executive officer of Sofina sa, which has a 4.7% shareholding in believes this structure is appropriate in the context of a company with a Caledonia, but did not consider this shareholding to be significant in the large controlling shareholder whose stability and support is fundamental context of independence, particularly given the size of the Cayzer Concert to Caledonias business model as a long term, supportive investor, and is Partys total interest in the company.
Moreover, in the context of therefore in the best interests of all shareholders.
Caledonia, the board regards as key in assessing independence Mr Goblet dAlviellas ability, given the shareholding of Sofina sa and his past The Combined Code also requires that the members of the Remuneration investment banking experience, to look at the interests of the general and Audit Committees should all be independent non-executive directors.
body of shareholders, independent of the Cayzer Concert Party and of However, Mr Loudons membership of these Committees, given the nine Caledonias executive management.
Collectively, the directors throughout year limit on length of service as a non-executive director included in the the year brought a wide range of experience, skills and expertise to the Combined Codes criterion for independence, means that provisions B.
The individual biographies of the directors and C. 3.1 of the Combined Code are not met.
However, the board appear on pages 26 and 27. otherwise regards Mr Loudon as independent and considers his length of experience with the company, as well as his business career, to be The board is led by the chairman, Mr P N Buckley, whose responsibilities significant assets.
Accordingly, the board believes his membership of these have been agreed and set out in writing in the Schedule of Authorities Committees to be in the best interests of the company.
The chairmans primary role is to ensure that the board and individual directors are able to operate efficiently by setting Board committees the agenda, style and tone of board discussions to promote constructive The board has delegated certain specific areas of responsibility to the debate and effective decision making.
He has overall responsibility for following standing committees, the terms of reference of which are monitoring the development needs of the board as a whole and of reviewed annually and are available on the companys website or from the individual directors and for ensuring that the performance of the board, company secretary on written request.
The current membership of these its committees and individual directors are evaluated at least once a year.
committees is noted on page 61.
In conjunction with the chief executive, the chairman is responsible for ensuring effective communication with shareholders and that all board members develop an understanding of the views of investors.
This is primarily achieved by board briefings following meetings with significant shareholders, analysts and private client stockbrokers, some of which are also attended by the senior independent non-executive director.
54 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2007 Nomination Committee It is also the Audit Committees responsibility to review and monitor the The Nomination Committee, chaired by Mr P N Buckley, is responsible for independence and objectivity of the external auditors and the effectiveness the regular review of the structure, size and composition including the of the audit process and to develop and implement policy on the skills, knowledge and experience of the board and for giving consideration engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
In this to succession planning for executive directors and, if requested by the regard, the Audit Committee has approved a schedule of specific non-audit board, for other senior executives.
It is responsible for identifying, using activities which may not be undertaken by the external auditors, within the external search consultants where necessary, candidates to fill board broad principles that the external auditors should not audit their own work, vacancies as and when they arise and for making recommendations to the should not make management decisions on behalf of the company, should board in relation thereto and for keeping under review the leadership needs not be put into the role of advocate for the company and that no mutuality of the company, both executive and non-executive.
It reviews the time of interest should be created between the company and the external required of non-executive directors and ensures that they receive formal auditors.
The Audit Committee believes that, by applying these principles, letters of appointment setting out clearly what is expected of them in the objectivity and independence of the auditors is maintained, terms of time commitment, committee service and involvement outside notwithstanding that non-audit work may be undertaken.
On an annual board meetings.
basis, the Audit Committee considers and makes a recommendation to the board as to the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external The Nomination Committee met once during the year in order to auditors.
The Audit Committee is also responsible for the companys formal undertake a formal review of the size and composition of the board whistleblowing arrangements, whereby members of staff may raise any following the 2006 annual board performance evaluation and to consider issues of concern regarding possible impropriety in the conduct of the the contribution and commitment of the non-executive directors retiring companys business and whereby any such concerns are properly at the 2006 annual general meeting, prior to giving recommendations investigated and appropriate action taken.
The Combined Code recommends that at least one member of the Audit Remuneration Committee Committee should have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Mr M E T Davies, is responsible Committee considers that Mr J R H Loudon, who was formerly group for the review of executive remuneration policy.
Within that policy, the finance director of Blue Circle Industries, has such financial experience.
In Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration packages of addition, the chairman of the Audit Committee, Mr C M Allen-Jones, is a executive directors and reviews those of other senior executive member of the Financial Reporting Council.
It is also responsible for the design of, and grant of awards under, the companys share incentive schemes and for the determination The Audit Committee met five times during the year, including three times of the policy for and scope of pension arrangements, service agreements, without any of the executive directors present.
During the year, the termination payments and compensation commitments for executive business undertaken by the Audit Committee included: directors and, if requested by the board, for other senior executives.
A review of the performance of the external auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, The Remuneration Committee met five times during the year.
The matters and the level of fees charged for its services.
considered by the Remuneration Committee included: The conduct of a tender for the group audit and resultant The determination of bonuses for executive directors and review of recommendation to the board of a change of auditors to bonuses for other senior executives for the year ended 31 March 2006.
A review of the companys bonus schemes to ensure consistency of Consideration of the scope of the annual audit and agreement with the bonus increments for all levels of staff in relation to company external auditors of the key areas of focus.
Consideration of the reports from the external auditors concerning their The grant of options and deferred bonus awards under the companys audit of the annual financial statements of the company and their executive share option scheme and deferred bonus plan.
review of the interim report.
A review of the impact of the Employment Equality Age Regulations Consideration of the financial disclosures contained in the annual and 2006 on the rules of the companys executive share option scheme interim reports to shareholders.
and deferred bonus plan and approval of consequential minor The review of reports from management on the effectiveness of the amendments thereto.
companys system of internal financial control.
The determination of basic salaries for executive directors and review Consideration of the need or otherwise for an internal audit function.
of salaries for other senior executives for the year commencing 1 April 2007.
A review of the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, including their system of quality controls and the level and nature of Further information on the companys executive remuneration policy and non-audit services provided by them.
the work of the Remuneration Committee are included in the directors remuneration report set out on pages 49 to 53.
An evaluation of the performance of the Audit Committee itself.
Audit Committee Assurance of the companys compliance with the requirements The Audit Committee, chaired by Mr C M Allen-Jones, is responsible for the for approval as an investment trust.
monitoring of the integrity of the financial statements of the company and any announcements relating to the companys financial performance and for reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements contained therein.
It also reviews the companys systems of internal financial control and considers annually whether an internal audit function is required.
The Audit Committee believes that, in the context of the companys business as an investment trust, the key issues on which it has to satisfy itself are the integrity of the application of the companys policy for the valuation of its investments, particularly those which are unquoted, and the robustness of the groups internal financial controls.
The valuations of the companys unquoted investments are subject to formal six monthly reviews by an internal challenge committee, independent of the investment executives, whose meetings are also attended by the auditors, and key valuations are then reviewed by the Audit Committee.
A formal report on the effectiveness of the groups internal financial control is prepared annually for the board by the group financial controller.
It is the Audit Committees current opinion that, in view of these control processes, the size of the entities controlled by Caledonia and the relatively straightforward control considerations in relation to other investments, a separate internal audit function is not necessary.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2007 55 Corporate governance report Governance Committee Internal control The Governance Committee, chaired by Mr C M Allen-Jones, keeps under The board has overall responsibility for the groups system of internal review corporate governance issues relating to the company and is control, although the review of internal financial controls is delegated to responsible for the monitoring and review of the ability of each director the Audit Committee.
The groups system of internal control is designed to to act in the interests of shareholders as a whole and to exercise manage, rather than eliminate, risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
independence of judgement free from relationships or circumstances It is recognised that such a system can only provide reasonable, but not which are likely to, or could appear to, affect his judgement.
Where it absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The board concludes that such criteria are not satisfied with regard to any director, it confirms that the system of internal control operated by the group accords may make such recommendations to the board as it may think fit, including with the guidance issued in September 1999 by the Institute of Chartered that the director abstains from participating in any decision of the board or Accountants in England and Wales the Turnbull Committee guidelines any of its committees on the matter concerned.
The Governance and has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval Committee met once during the year.
Major business risks facing group companies, including social, ethical Attendance at meetings and environmental issues, are identified in conjunction with operating The following table identifies the number of board and committee management and procedures agreed to address these as appropriate.
meetings held in the year to 31 March 2007 and the attendance record Risks facing the groups material investments are identified and evaluated of individual directors.
through board representation or regular contact.
Nomination Remuneration Audit Governance Key risks identified are regularly monitored at group level by members Board Committee Committee Committee Committee of the executive committee, who have clear mandates to assess and report Number of meetings on risk in their particular areas of responsibility.
From these assessments, 1 in the year 12 1 5 5 1 an ongoing risk profile of the groups activities is updated half-yearly and Attendances by reviewed by the board.
The board is also provided quarterly with a list of the key risk issues identified by executive management at that particular P NBuckley 11 1 time.
All of the companys larger investments are reviewed at least annually TCWIngram 12 by the board and the smaller portfolio holdings reviewed at least annually JHCartwright 12 by the executive investment management committee.
The Hon C W Cayzer 11 Specific control procedures are in place to ensure that the company J M BCayzer-Colvin 12 continually monitors and complies with the requirements for investment JMMay 12 trust status.
The board receives monthly compliance reports evidencing WPWyatt 11 that the company is meeting the various tests for investment trust status CMAllen-Jones 12 1 5 5 1 and also confirming that the investment activities undertaken by executive METDavies 12 1 5 1 management are within the overall policy limits set by the board.
A compliance committee, comprising the company secretary chairman, RGoblet dAlviella 9 the finance director, three associate directors and the group financial JRHLoudon 12 1 5 4 controller has been established, which meets weekly to review the D G FThompson 12 1 5 1 companys ongoing compliance with its investment trust status and to 1.
monitor and approve all investment activity from an investment trust compliance perspective.
Board performance evaluation Financial performance is continuously measured by comparing total The board conducts an annual formal evaluation of its own performance shareholder returns and net asset value movements against the FTSE and that of its committees and individual directors.
For the year ended All-Share index.
Performance statistics are reported monthly to the board.
31 March 2007, the evaluation of the board as a whole and of its Income and expenses are monitored by the board against an approved committees was led by the chairman and was conducted by inviting annual budget and regularly updated forecasts.
Valuations of unquoted individual board members to complete a questionnaire regarding the investments are subject to a rigorous six monthly review process operation and effectiveness of the board as a whole and of its committees, undertaken by a challenge committee independent of the investment the responses to which were collated by the company secretary and executives, whose meetings are also attended by the auditors, and key discussed.
The evaluation of the performance of the chairman was led valuations are then reviewed by the Audit Committee.
by the senior independent non-executive director and involved private discussion with other members of the board of their views on his Since the year end, the directors have conducted their annual review of the performance, the results of which were then considered at meetings operation and effectiveness of the groups system of internal control.
of the non-executive directors, without the chairman present, and of the Governance Committee.
The evaluation of the performance of the chief Relations with shareholders executive was undertaken by the chairman and the non-executive The company welcomes dialogue with institutional shareholders in order directors.
The performance of the non-executive directors was reviewed by to achieve a mutual understanding of objectives.
The chief executive and the chairman, the chief executive and the senior independent non-executive the finance director seek meetings with larger institutional shareholders director, with the senior independent non-executive director absent in and private client stockbrokers after the announcement of year end and respect of his own performance appraisal.
As part of this review, noninterim results.
The senior independent non-executive director attends executive directors were invited to complete self-assessment questionnaires some of these meetings.
The annual general meeting also provides a forum in relation to their own effectiveness.
The performance of the executive for shareholders to meet the directors, both formally and informally.
directors, which included further consideration of that of the chief executive and chairman, was undertaken by the Remuneration Committee The chairmen of all of the boards committees will be available to answer as part of the annual executive salary review process.
questions at the annual general meeting of the company.
The results of the evaluation of the board as a whole and of its committees for the year ended 31 March 2007 were presented in a report to the board.
The Nomination Committee reviewed the size, structure and composition of the board in the light of this report.
56 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2007
