CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The following statement sets out the Companys application in the Board committees year to 31st December, 2007 of the Combined Code on Corporate The Board is supported in its decisions by three principal Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in committees, which are described below.
The terms of reference June 2006 the Combined Code.
In the opinion of the Board, of each committee are available on the Companys website.
the Company has complied with the principles and the relevant provisions in section 1 of the Combined Code in all respects The audit committee throughout the year except where stated otherwise.
The audit committee, chaired by Chris Russell, comprises five directors, as shown on pages 26 and 27.
Nico Lethbridge was a The Board member of the committee until his death on 16th August, 2007.
Corporate governance of Candover is achieved through its Board Lord Jay became a member of the committee on 1st March, 2008. which, at the end of the year, comprised five directors, all of whom All other members served on the committee throughout 2007. were non-executive.
There were a number of changes to the The Board is satisfied that the chairman of the audit committee composition of the Board during the year and there have been has recent and relevant financial experience, as do other members further changes since the year-end.
Nico Lethbridge, who had of the committee.
been a director since January 2003, died on 16th August, 2007.
Stephen Curran, who joined the Board in 1982 and is a former The audit committee carries out a number of duties, including chief executive and executive chairman of the Company, retired reviewing the interim and annual accounts, the effectiveness from the Board on 6th December, 2007.
Lord Jay became a of the systems of accounting and internal financial control and director on 1st January, 2008.
Nicholas Jones will join the Board the systems of risk management, and seeking to ensure that on 14th April, 2008. arrangements are in place for the staff to whistle-blow on financial reporting or other matters in so far as they may affect the Company.
Brief biographical details of the directors currently in office appear Further information on the committees remit is given on page 34. on pages 26 and 27 and, in the case of Nicholas Jones, on page 29.
The interests of the current directors in the share capital of the Meetings of the audit committee are held at least three times Company are shown in note 18 on page 58. a year, and are attended by the external auditor.
Four audit committee meetings were held during 2007.
All members attended The Board typically meets five times a year, although there were all meetings, with the exception of the September meeting which eight meetings during 2007.
There is a formal schedule of matters Richard Stone was unable to attend.
The committees terms of reserved for decision by the Board including corporate strategy, reference were updated in June 2007. review of the Companys management agreement with Candover Partners Limited together with monitoring of performance The remuneration committee thereunder, and approval of the annual budget, the report and The remuneration committee, chaired by Richard Stone, accounts, the payment of dividends and the valuation of the comprises six directors.
Its members are shown on pages 26 Companys investments.
All regular meetings during 2007 and 27.
Nico Lethbridge was a member of the committee until were attended by all directors with the exception of the April his death on 16th August, 2007.
Lord Jay became a member meeting, which Jimmy West was unable to attend.
An additional of the committee on 1st March, 2008.
All other members served meeting was held in October attended by Gerry Grimstone and on the committee throughout 2007.
This committee supports the Board in determining the level of In line with the requirements of the Combined Code, the Board the remuneration of the Chairman, and reviews the remuneration reviews its own performance annually using a predetermined policy applicable to senior management.
The full report of the template, designed to act as a tool to facilitate the evaluation committee is set out in the directors remuneration report on process.
The assessment covers the functioning of the Board page 36. as a whole, and includes a review of the effectiveness of the Board committees.
In addition, the Chairman reviews with each The remuneration committee met four times during 2007. of the directors their individual performance, contribution and All members were present at each meeting, with the exception commitment to the Company and any further development of of the September meeting, which Richard Stone was unable to skills that may be required.
Following discussions with the attend, and the November meeting, which Jimmy West was other directors, the Senior Independent Director reviews the unable to attend.
The Board considers the results of the performance evaluation when making its recommendations The nominations committee regarding the election and re-election of directors.
The Board In considering Board appointments, the Board is supported by does not consider it necessary to employ the services, or to incur a nominations committee whose remit includes reviewing the the additional expense, of an external third party to conduct the structure, size and composition of the Board, satisfying itself that evaluation process as an appropriate mechanism is already in plans are in place for orderly succession for appointments to the place.
A review was undertaken in January 2008 and the Board Board and identifying appropriate candidates.
A job specification concluded that its performance, and that of its committees, for the non-executive director role has been approved by the Chairman and directors, was satisfactory.
The nominations committee will generally use an appropriate external search consultancy to identify suitable Chairman candidates, and employed the services of Whitehead Mann to Gerry Grimstone served as non-executive Chairman throughout assist with the recent recruitment of both Lord Jay and Nicholas the year.
A job specification for the role of non-executive Chairman Jones.
All Board appointments are subject to final approval of has been approved by the nominations committee.
the Board and election or re-election at a general meeting of shareholders.
32 Candover Report and accounts 2007 The nominations committee, which is chaired by Antony Election and re-election of directors Hichens, comprises four directors and the present members of The principle set out in the Combined Code is that all directors the committee are shown on pages 26 and 27.
Nico Lethbridge should be subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual was a member of the committee until his death on 16th August, General Meeting after their appointment, and to re-election 2007.
Richard Stone became a member of the committee on thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
Code requires that the non-executive directors are appointed for specific terms.
At Candover, directors are appointed, elected and The nominations committee met once during 2007, when all re-elected subject to retirement by rotation in accordance with the members were present, and dealt with other business by means Companys Articles of Association, with all directors being required of written resolutions.
The committees terms of reference were to submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
All non-executive directors appointments are terminable at will.
The details of non-executive directors letters of appointment Board balance are set out in the directors remuneration report on page 38.
There are currently six non-executive directors on the Board, although there were seven for most of 2007 and only five in Relations with shareholders office at the year-end.
Nicholas Jones will join the Board on Dialogue with institutional shareholders 14th April, 2008, increasing the number of directors to seven.
The Board is willing to enter into a dialogue with institutional shareholders based on a mutual understanding of objectives, The Board considers its composition appropriate to the subject to its duties regarding equal treatment of shareholders Companys status as an investment trust.
The non-executive and the dissemination of inside information.
Brokers reports on directors are considered to be of sufficient calibre and experience the Company are circulated to non-executive directors.
to bring significant influence to bear on the decision-making process.
In the view of the Board, no non-executive director The Senior Independent Director is available to be contacted by has any relationships that could materially interfere with their shareholders in situations where contact through the Chairman is independent judgement.
It is therefore the Boards view that all felt to be inappropriate.
non-executives are independent, although two of them Jimmy West and Antony Hichens have exceeded the nine year period Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting of service envisaged by the Combined Code as being potentially The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate relevant to the determination of a non-executive directors with investors and encourages their participation by ensuring independence.
In this regard, the Board acknowledges the that senior Board members attend, including the chairmen of the Association of Investment Companies guidelines on corporate audit, remuneration and nominations committees Chris Russell, governance, which do not recommend that long-serving directors Richard Stone and Antony Hichens respectively, to answer be prevented from forming part of an independent majority.
In addition, in compliance with the Combined Code, both Jimmy West and Antony Hichens have submitted themselves Voting policy for re-election at each annual general meeting since May 2004.
As Candovers investee companies are principally unlisted companies in which Candover, together with the third party funds Jimmy West became the Senior Independent Director in May 2006 managed by Candover, is a significant shareholder, Candover and will retire from the Board at the forthcoming Annual General would usually be a party to all issues requiring shareholder Meeting on 14th May, 2008.
Subject to being reappointed at the approval and would always expect to vote on such issues.
Annual General Meeting Anthony Hichens will become the Senior Independent Director with effect from 14th May, 2008.
It is the Companys policy with regard to all its investments either made by the Company alone or alongside third party funds to Supply of information vote in a prudent and diligent manner after careful review of The Chairman ensures that all directors are properly briefed on each investee companys proxy statement on an individual basis.
issues arising at Board meetings.
The Candover management Candovers voting decision is based on its reasonable judgement provides the Board with appropriate and timely information in of what will best serve the financial interests of the Companys order that the Board may reach proper decisions.
Its members shareholders and third party investors and Candover will not can, if necessary, obtain independent professional advice at the subordinate the economic interests of its shareholders and Companys expense.
third party investors to any other entity or interested party in determining such a vote.
Directors training Training is available to all directors, particularly new directors, on Accountability and audit issues relevant to their role.
As part of the annual Board evaluation Financial reporting process directors are asked if there are any areas of knowledge The directors are required to explain their responsibility for the or skill which they would like to develop further.
A formal induction financial statements and this statement is given on page 35. process exists for new non-executive directors.
The auditors review the Companys compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code and compliance with the rules of the Financial Services Authority FSA, the regulatory authority that regulates Candover Partners Limited, and are also required to report on their audit of the financial statements.
Their report is shown on page 39.
The Board seeks to give a balanced and clear assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
Further information is given in the Chairmans statement and the operational and financial reviews on pages 8 to 17.
33 Candover Report and accounts 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Going concern Control procedures The main areas of control relate to the Under the Combined Code the directors are required to satisfy investments that Candover makes and the financial controls that themselves that it is reasonable to presume that the Company is enable the Board to meet its responsibilities for the integrity and a going concern.
accuracy of the Groups accounting records.
After making enquiries, and on the basis of the strength of its The Board delegates responsibility for the effectiveness of such balance sheet, the directors are of the opinion that the Company controls to senior management, who in turn ensure the completion has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for of the required procedures.
These key procedures involve: the foreseeable future.
The Board is therefore of the opinion that analysis of potential investments leading, where appropriate, the going concern basis should continue to be adopted in the to the preparation of a full investment report: preparation of the financial statements.
regular monitoring of completed investments by executives, who make progress reports to the appropriate Board: Internal control a comprehensive system for reporting financial results to the Under the terms of the Combined Code the Board is required to Board five, and if appropriate more, times per year giving actual review the effectiveness of Candovers internal controls including results compared to budget.
Towards the end of each financial its financial, operational and compliance controls and risk year detailed budgets for the following year are prepared and management.
The Board continues to apply the procedures are reviewed by the Board: and necessary to comply with the requirements of the Turnbull a review of these financial controls is carried out by the audit Committee guidelines Internal Control Guidance for Directors committee twice a year and by Candovers external auditors on the Combined Code.
to the extent necessary for expressing their audit opinion.
Candovers system of internal control includes, inter alia, the Although no system of internal control can provide absolute overall control environment, the procedures for identification and assurance against material misstatement or loss, the Companys evaluation of business risk, the control procedures themselves system is designed to assist the directors in obtaining reasonable and the review of these internal controls by the audit committee assurance that problems are identified on a timely basis and dealt on behalf of the Board.
Each of these elements that make up with appropriately.
the Companys system of internal control is explained in further detail below: Audit committee and auditors The Board has delegated authority for reviewing the effectiveness Control environment Candover is dependent upon the quality of the Groups internal controls to its audit committee.
The audit and integrity of the Companys management and staff and highly committee receives monitoring reports on a six-monthly basis from qualified and able staff have been selected at all levels.
The long the Company Secretariat with regard to the operational aspects of service record of many senior Candover executives helps to ensure internal controls over the areas of key risk identified, which include that knowledge and experience is retained within the Company FSA regulatory matters.
The chairman of the audit committee and passed on to new employees, thereby providing continuity reports on the review of internal controls and any matters arising and renewal.
New executives are recruited when appropriate in to the Board at the following Board meeting.
Using the above order to aid the Companys development and growth.
process, the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls has been reviewed in respect of the year ended 31st December, 2007.
Appropriate members of staff are aware of the internal controls and are also accountable for collectively operating the system of As required by the Combined Code, the audit committee has internal controls.
reviewed the need for an internal audit function.
Due to the size of Candover, it does not consider an internal audit function Management are supported by the Board of non-executive appropriate, although this is kept under review.
However, a directors who, in conjunction with the Companys auditors, number of internal checks are carried out in accordance with the Grant Thornton UK LLP, and the auditors of the managed funds, requirements of the FSA as well as those checks required to be KPMG LLP, carry out an external review of the Companys financial made to enable the Board to report in compliance with the Internal controls and also those of the funds which Candover manages.
Controls Guidelines, the efficiency of which is regularly reviewed.
KPMG LLP and Grant Thornton UK LLP carry out their review only to the extent necessary to give their UK LLP audit opinions.
The audit committee considers the scope and effectiveness of the Companys external auditors.
The Companys auditors, Identification and evaluation of business risk The key business Grant Thornton UK LLP, also provide non-audit services to the risk at Candover remains the identification and evaluation of our Company, as referred to in note 2 on page 49.
These services investments and this is achieved by a comprehensive study of relate mainly to tax advice and do not, in the Boards opinion, potential investments by executives in co-operation with outside compromise the independence of Grant Thornton UK LLPs resources provided by market research specialists, lawyers and audit team.
The audit committee has a policy on the provision by accountants.
An investment report is then prepared and, in the the auditors of non-audit services.
This policy recognises three case of an investment by one of the managed funds, is sent to the categories into which non-audit services may fall, namely work Board of Candover Partners Limited or an appropriate committee from which the external auditors are excluded, work for which the for their decision as to whether or not to proceed: and in the case auditors can be engaged without referral to the audit committee, of other investments, a report is sent to the Board of Candover and work for which a case-by-case decision by the audit Investments plc or an appropriate sub-committee of the Board.
The responsibility for identification of other business risks is delegated to senior management, who advise the Board of any material risks.
34 Candover Report and accounts 2007 Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and where applicable 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Pursuant to section 234ZA 2 of the Companies Act 1985 each of the directors confirms that a so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and b he has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the Board Andrew Moberly Company Secretary 31st March, 2008 35 Candover Report and accounts 2007
