AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2007 I IN NT TR RO OD DU UC CT TI IO ON N MARGARET YOUNG OTHER MEMBERS OF THE COMMITTEE Chairman of the Audit Committee D A Haxby This report to shareholders has been prepared in accordance with F Dee the requirements of paragraph C. 3.3 of the Combined Code on A J McWalter Corporate Governance and paragraphs 5.1 and 5.2 of the Guidance on Audit Committees produced by Sir Robert Smith.
This report gives details of the work of the Committee in discharging its responsibilities.
T TE ER RM MS S O OF F R RE EF FE ER RE EN NC CE E The Committees terms of reference, which can be found on the Companys website, are reviewed annually by the Committee and any changes are approved by the Board.
The main responsibilities of the Committee set out in the terms of reference are shown in the box below.
M ME EM MB BE ER RS SH HI IP P The four independent non-executive directors, M A Young as chairman, D A Haxby, F Dee and A J McWalter have been members of the Committee throughout 2007.
The chairman of the Committee, M A Young, qualified and practised as a Chartered Accountant ACA and has significant, relevant and up-to-date financial and accounting knowledge and experience.
M A Young was previously chairman of the audit committee of Uniq plc 2003 to 2007 and a managing director of Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette and then Credit Suisse First Boston 1997 to 2000 and a director of NatWest Markets Corporate Finance Limited 1985 to 1997.
The other members of the Committee have a wide range of business experience which is evidenced in their biographical details on page 43.
M ME EE ET TI IN NG GS S The Committee normally meets three times a year and did so in 2007.
All members of the Audit Committee attended each of the three meetings held in 2007, except for D A Haxby who missed one meeting due to illness.
Both the external auditors and internal auditors and the Finance Director and the Treasury & Risk Director attend all meetings of the Committee.
The Chairman of the Board, the other executive directors, the WFS managing director and the WFS risk and compliance director usually attend meetings of the Committee at the invitation of the Committee chairman.
The external auditors have a confidential discussion with members of the Committee without the executive directors being present during part of each meeting.
C Co om mm mi it tt te ee e s s R Re es sp po on ns si ib bi il li it ti ie es s Monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial statements: Reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and risk management systems: Reviewing the Companys arrangements for employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting and other matters: Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function in the context of the Companys overall risk management system: Considering and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the Companys external auditors: and Overseeing the relationship with the external auditors, including but not limited to approving their remuneration, assessing annually their independence and objectivity taking into account relevant professional and regulatory requirements and the relationship with the auditors as a whole, including the provision of any non-audit services.
The Committees terms of references are available at www.
php?audit committee 50 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 T Ta ax x c co om mp pl li ia an nc ce e a an nd d t ta ax x a ad dv vi is so or ry y s se er rv vi ic ce es s W WO OR RK K O OF F T TH HE E C CO OM MM MI IT TT TE EE E Tax compliance involves dealing with the Groups corporation tax The Committee discharges its duties as follows: returns and this work is carried out by  At its meetings in February and August, the Committee reviews LLP.
Tax advisory services include tax planning and structuring the Companys preliminary announcement and Annual Report advice for direct and indirect taxes.
The Groups policy is for each and Financial Statements and interim announcement individual assignment to be assessed separately and awarded respectively.
At each of these meetings the Committee receives depending on which professional services firm is considered best a report from the external auditors setting out any accounting suited to perform the relevant work.
or judgemental issues which require its attention.
O Ot th he er r n no on n- -a au ud di it t s se er rv vi ic ce es s A report from the internal auditors is reviewed at the meetings This category includes work relating to due diligence and other in February, August and December.
The Committee considers non-regulatory reporting.
The Groups normal policy is to appoint the internal auditors work plan for the following year at its the external auditors to undertake this work because of their December meeting.
With effect from 1 July 2007, the knowledge and experience of the business.
However, the Board Committee appointed Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte as the reviews their independence and expertise on every assignment.
Companys internal auditors in place of KPMG, although KPMG In 2007 and 2006 this category included work in connection with continue to perform the internal audit function in relation to the possible offer for London Scottish Bank plc.
the Siebel information technology programme implementation because Deloitte advise the Group on this.
The external auditors are not permitted to provide internal audit, The Committee considers the external auditors pre-year end risk management, litigation support, remuneration advice and issues report at its December meeting and their audit plan at legal advice services.
The provision of other non-audit services its August meeting.
is awarded on a case-by-case basis, depending on which At its August and December meetings the Committee reviews professional services firm is considered best suited to perform the reports of the Risk Management Group, which comprises the work.
In 2007 the external auditors provided advisory services the executive directors and other key members of senior in relation to the Groups defined benefit pension scheme, the management including risk specialists and considers the key Groups share-based payment awards and the Groups response risks facing the Group and the effectiveness of the Groups to the Competition Commissions inquiry into the payment internal controls to manage and reduce the impact of those risks.
At its February and August meetings the Committee considers These safeguards, which are monitored by the Audit Committee, the annual and half-yearly risk and compliance reports are regularly reviewed and updated to ensure they remain produced by the Treasury & Risk Director in relation to the appropriate.
The appointment of the external auditors to provide preceding year and half-year respectively.
non-audit services requires Board approval for any assignments The Committee reviews the fees paid to the external auditors with fees above a set financial limit.
for audit and non-audit services at all its meetings and at its February meeting it assesses the external auditors The external auditors report to the Audit Committee each year on independence and makes a recommendation to the Board the actions they have taken to comply with professional and as to the appointment or re-appointment of the auditors regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure at the Annual General Meeting.
their independence, including the rotation of key members of the external audit team.
 LLP have formally I IN ND fide EP PE EN ND fide EN NC CE E O OF F A AU UD DI IT TO OR RS S confirmed their independence to the Board, in respect of the Both the Audit Committee and the external auditors, period covered by these financial statements.
 LLP, have put in place safeguards to The disclosure of the non-audit fees paid to the external auditors avoid the auditors objectivity and independence being during the year is included in note 10 to the financial statements, compromised.
The Groups policy with regard to services provided on page 87. by its external auditors is as follows: S St ta at tu ut to or ry y a au ud di it t s se er rv vi ic ce es s The external auditors, who are appointed annually by the shareholders, undertake this work.
The external auditors also provide services in respect of the provision of a review opinion on the Companys Interim Results, perform work in their capacity as Margaret Young reporting accountant in accordance with the Prospectus Rules Chairman of the Audit Committee 28 February 2008 and provide regulatory services and formalities relating to other circulars.
The Audit Committee reviews the auditors performance on an ongoing basis.
51 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 T Tr ra ai in ni in ng g o on n t th he e n ne ew w S Si ie eb be el l I IT T s sy ys st te em m b be ei in ng g d fide el li iv five er re ed d a at t o on ne e o of f o ou ur r C Cu us st to om me er r S Sa al le es s a an nd d S Se er rv vi ic ce e 52 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 C Ce en nt tr re es s i in n H Hu ul ll l..
