CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2007 The Board of Cattles plc aims to maintain the highest standards NORMAN BROADHURST of corporate governance in the belief that such standards are Chairman essential to the process of delivering long-term growth in profits and dividends.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2007, the Company complied with the provisions of the 2006 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance, except that in September 2007 the Company did not comply with Code provision A.
3.2 which provides that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors because during that month there were four independent non-executive directors and five executive directors after D J Postings was appointed as an executive director on 1 September 2007 before becoming the Chief Executive on 1 October 2007 following S P Mahons retirement.
B BO OA AR RD D O OF F D DI IR RE EC CT TO OR RS S The Company is managed through the Board of directors.
The Boards main roles are to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed, to set the Companys strategic aims and to ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives and so increase shareholder value.
B BO OA AR RD D M ME EE ET TI IN NG GS S Normally, there are seven regular Board meetings a year, together with a day devoted to reviewing the Groups business strategy, with additional meetings being held as required.
All directors attended each of the seven regular meetings held during 2007 except for D A Haxby who missed one meeting due to illness.
The table below sets out the number of meetings of the Board and its Committees which each director attended during 2007, together with, in brackets, the number he or she was eligible to attend.
WFS Regulatory Audit Remuneration Nomination Oversight Director Board Committee Committee Committee Committee N N Broadhurst 7 7 6 6 3 3 D J Postings 3 3 S P Mahon 5 5 3 3 M W G Collins 7 7 2 2 J J Corr 7 7 I S Cummine 7 7 D A Haxby 6 7 2 3 5 6 3 3 F Dee 7 7 3 3 6 6 3 3 A J McWalter 7 7 3 3 6 6 3 3 2 2 M A Young 7 7 3 3 3 3 There are a number of matters specifically reserved for Board approval, which include: Approval of the Groups overall business strategy, planning and annual budgets: Assessment of internal controls and risk management: Senior management appointments: Approval of major contracts and significant acquisitions: Investment and capital expenditure decisions: C Co om mp pl li ia an nc ce e Corporate governance practices: and Throughout the year ended 31 December 2007, the Company complied with the provisions of the 2006 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance, except that Approval of the Groups financing and dividend policies.
in September 2007 the Company did not comply with Code provision A.
3.2 which provides that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise At each regularly scheduled Board meeting, there is a full independent non-executive directors because during that month there were four financial and business review and discussion, which includes the independent non-executive directors and five executive directors after D J Postings comparison of trading performance to date against the annual was appointed as an executive director on 1 September 2007 before becoming the Chief Executive on 1 October 2007 following S P Mahons retirement.
budget and any other financial plan which has been previously approved by the Board for that year.
Each Board member receives a comprehensive Board pack prior to each meeting, which incorporates a formal agenda, separate reports from the Chief Executive and each of the executive directors on their specific areas of responsibility, together with supporting papers for items to be discussed at the 44 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 meeting.
Board papers are usually sent out one week before the The Board considers all its other non-executive directors meeting to give the directors sufficient time to prepare for a to be independent in character and judgement.
No independent comprehensive review of the relevant issues at the meeting.
non-executive director: The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the Has been an employee of the Group within the last five years: executive directors: Has, or has had within the last three years, a material business relationship with the Group: The development and recommendation of strategic plans for Receives remuneration other than a directors fee from the Group: consideration by the Board that reflect the longer-term Has close family ties with any of the Groups advisers, directors objectives and priorities established by the Board: or senior employees: Implementation of the strategies and policies of the Group as Holds cross-directorships or has significant links with other determined by the Board: directors through involvement in other companies or bodies: Monitoring of operating and financial results against plans Represents a significant shareholder: or and budgets: Has served on the Board for more than nine years.
Monitoring the quality of the investment process against objectives: D A Haxby will have served as a non-executive director for nine Prioritising the allocation of capital, technical and human years on 1 July 2008, but the other directors have determined resources: and that in spite of this he will continue to be considered to be an Developing and implementing risk management systems.
independent non-executive director because he continues to be independent in character and judgement and none of the other T TH HE E R RO OL LE ES S O OF F T TH HE E C CH HA AI IR RM MA AN N A AN ND D C CH HI IE EF F E EX XE EC CU UT TI IV five E relationships or circumstances set out in provision A.
3.1 of the The division of responsibilities between the non-executive 2006 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance apply to him.
Chairman of the Board, N N Broadhurst, and the Chief Executive, D J Postings, is clearly defined in writing and has been approved by the Board.
BALANCE OF EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Chairman leads the Board in the determination of its strategy and in the achievement of its objectives.
The Chairman is Chairman 000.0 1 Executive directors responsible for organising the business of the Board, ensuring its Non-executive directors effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chairman has no involvement in the day-to-day business of the Group.
4 The Chief Executive has direct charge of the Group on a day-to- 4 day basis and is accountable to the Board for the financial and operational performance of the Group.
S SE EN NI IO OR R I IN ND fide EP PE EN ND fide EN NT T D DI IR RE EC CT TO OR R Fig 2.
D A Haxby continues to perform the role of Senior Independent LENGTH OF TENURE OF DIRECTORS Director.
D A Haxby is available to meet shareholders on request and to ensure that the Board is aware of shareholder concerns 0 3 years not resolved through the existing mechanisms for investor 3 6 years 2 communication.
6 9 years 3 Over 9 years D DI IR RE EC CT TO OR RS S A AN ND D D DI IR RE EC CT TO OR RS S I IN ND fide EP PE EN ND fide EN NC CE E The Board currently comprises the Chairman, four executive directors and four independent non-executive directors see Fig 1.
3 1 The names of the directors together with their biographical details are set out on pages 42 and 43 and Fig 2 shows the length of tenure of the directors.
All the directors served throughout the period under review, except for D J Postings who was appointed on 1 September 2007.
The Board includes independent nonexecutive directors who constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy, and bring strong, independent judgement, knowledge, and experience to the Boards deliberations.
The independent directors are of sufficient calibre and number that their views carry significant weight in the Boards decision making.
Independent professional advice is provided at the Companys expense, when the directors deem it necessary in order for them to carry out their responsibilities.
Details of the Chairmans professional commitments are included in the Chairmans biography.
The Chairman holds the chairmanship of one other listed company and one private company and two other non-executive directorships, but the Board is satisfied that these do not interfere with the performance of his duties to the Company which are based around a commitment of approximately 80 days per annum.
45 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued Individual written personal objectives in relation to their P PR RO OF FE ES SS SI IO ON NA AL L D fide EV five EL LO OP PM ME EN NT T management roles are prepared at the beginning of the financial On appointment, the directors take part in an induction year by each executive director.
After agreement with the Chief programme when they receive information about the Group, Executive, and in the case of the Chief Executive with the the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, Chairman, these objectives are submitted to the Remuneration the terms of reference and membership of the principal Board Committee for consideration and approval on behalf of the Board.
Committees, together with the powers delegated to those The Chief Executive conducts an annual appraisal of the Committees, the Groups corporate governance practices and performance of the other executive directors which includes an procedures, and the latest financial information about the Group.
assessment of their individual performance against their This is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings personal objectives and a formal interview.
The same process is with key senior executives.
Throughout their period in office conducted by the Chairman in respect of the Chief Executive.
The the directors are continually updated on the Groups business, extent to which executive directors personal objectives have the competitive, legal and regulatory environment in which it been achieved is determined during this review process, the operates and other changes affecting the Group and the financial results of which are submitted to, and taken into account by, the services industry by written briefings and Board presentations by Remuneration Committee in finalising the executive directors senior executives.
Directors are also updated on changes to their bonuses for the year.
legal and other duties and obligations as directors of a listed company.
At the November 2007 Board meeting the Companys R RE E- -E EL LE EC CT TI IO ON N legal advisers, Walker Morris, provided training to the directors Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, the Companies on directors duties and derivative actions under the Companies Acts and satisfactory performance evaluation, non-executive Act 2006. directors are appointed for an initial period of three years, but may be invited to serve one or two additional three year terms P PE ER RF FO OR RM MA AN NC CE E E EV VA AL LU UA AT TI IO ON N if the Nomination Committee believes this to be appropriate.
The Board has established a formal process led by the Chairman The re-appointment of directors who have served for more for the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its than nine years is subject to annual review and re-election by principal Committees and the individual directors, with particular the shareholders.
attention being paid to those who are due for re-appointment.
The directors are made aware, on appointment, that their C CO OM MP PA AN NY Y S SE EC CR RE ET TA AR RY Y performance will be subject to an evaluation.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board In 2006, the directors completed a questionnaire which was through the Chairman on all governance matters.
The directors circulated by the Company Secretary and was designed to gain an have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
insight into how well the Board and its Committees were The Companys Articles of Association and the schedule of meeting their objectives.
The questionnaire included the former matters reserved to the Board for decision provide that the Chairmans summary of progress made during 2005 against the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matters identified for attention in the 2004 self-evaluation matter for the full Board.
process and asked the directors to state whether or not those matters had been addressed.
The Company Secretary then S ST TA AN ND DI IN NG G C CO OM MM MI IT TT TE EE ES S O OF F T TH HE E B BO OA AR RD D collated the completed results from the questionnaires and The Board has established three standing Committees, each presented the consolidated results to the Chairman.
with formal terms of reference, being the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.
In 2007, the directors reviewed the consolidated results of the The terms of reference are published on the Companys website, 2006 self-evaluation questionnaires and agreed that good www.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to progress had been made in the various areas identified during the all three standing Committees.
They also identified specific matters where action would be taken during 2008.
A AU UD DI IT T C CO OM MM MI IT TT TE EE E The Chairman conducts the annual appraisals of the four Details of the Audit Committee and its activities during 2007 are executive directors and the four non-executive directors in set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages 50 and 51. relation to their duties as directors of the Company.
These appraisals are conducted in separate meetings between the R RE EM MU UN NE ER RA AT TI IO ON N C CO OM MM MI IT TT TE EE E Chairman and each director, at which the directors contribution Details of the Remuneration Committee and its activities during to Board proceedings is reviewed and the directors views on his 2007 and the Groups remuneration policy are set out in the or her own performance and the operation of the Board identified Directors Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 63. in the self-evaluation exercise are discussed.
The Chairman reports to the Board on any issues requiring Board consideration.
N NO OM MI IN NA AT TI IO ON N C CO OM MM MI IT TT TE EE E Details of the Nomination Committee and its activities during Led by the Senior Independent Director, the non-executive 2007 are set out in the Nomination Committee Report on page 53. directors meet annually, without the presence of the Chairman, to conduct a performance evaluation of the Chairman.
The Senior Independent Director subsequently has a meeting with the Chairman on a similar basis as the Chairmans meeting with each director.
46 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 W WE EL LC CO OM ME E F FI IN NA AN NC CI IA AL L S SE ER RV VI IC CE ES S R RE EG GU UL LA AT TO OR RY Y R RE EL LA AT TI IO ON NS S W WI IT TH H S SH HA AR RE EH HO OL LD fide ER RS S O OV five ER RS SI IG GH HT T C CO OM MM MI IT TT TE EE E The Board maintains a close relationship with the Companys Welcome Financial Services WFS, the Companys largest major shareholders.
The Chief Executive, Finance Director, subsidiary and the owner of Welcome Finance, Welcome Car Treasury & Risk Director and Chief Operating Officer maintain Finance and Shopacheck Financial Services, is regulated by regular contact with major institutional shareholders, who are the Financial Services Authority FSA in relation to general offered a personal meeting with the Chief Executive and other insurance business.
executive directors at least twice each year.
The Chairman usually attends the presentations to analysts of the Companys Interim In 2007, following discussions with the FSA about WFSs and Final Results and all major shareholders are offered a corporate governance arrangements, the Company and WFS personal meeting with the Chairman and Senior Independent established the Welcome Financial Services Regulatory Oversight Director, if they so require.
Major shareholders are also given Committee.
the opportunity to meet new non-executive directors on their The purpose of the Welcome Financial Services Regulatory appointment and to provide non-attributed feedback to the Oversight Committee, as set out in its terms of reference, Board through discussions with the Companys stockbrokers, is to provide oversight to the operation of WFS, including: HSBC Bank plc and CitiGroup Global Markets Limited.
Providing an independent challenge and support to the As required by the Combined Code, the Chairman relays WFS board on the development of its strategic and operational to the Board any issues raised with him by shareholders.
This is plans, policies, procedures and budgets in the light of the supplemented by a report by the Chief Executive of shareholders boards regulatory responsibilities and, in particular, to ensure views following the presentations of the Interim and Final that the risk of customer detriment, financial loss or Results.
The directors also receive reports from the Companys mismanagement is minimised: advisers on the markets views of the Company both before and Providing an independent assessment of WFSs compliance after the announcement of the Interim and Final Results and with FSA regulation, guidance and principles, as well as other copies of analysts reports.
legal and statutory obligations, with particular regard to any The Annual General Meeting is seen as an opportunity to customer detriment: and communicate with other shareholders and all directors are Agreeing actions and monitoring performance against these expected to attend.
The Chief Executive gives a presentation to actions, in order to ensure that any issues that may arise are shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on the Groups appropriately dealt with by the WFS board.
results for the previous year.
All shareholders have the The Welcome Financial Services Regulatory Oversight Committee opportunity to put questions at the Annual General Meeting.
comprises A J McWalter, one of the independent non-executive In addition to regular financial reporting, significant matters directors of the Company, who chairs the Committee, relating to the trading or development of the Group are M W G Collins, the Treasury & Risk Director, the managing disseminated to the market by way of Stock Exchange director, risk and compliance director and sales and marketing announcements.
co. uk, director of WFS and one other WFS director on a rotating basis.
includes a section focusing specifically on investor relations.
All The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
such announcements are accessible on the website once made.
The Committee held its inaugural meeting in September and met In addition, the materials used in the presentations to analysts of again in December 2007.
The Committee will meet quarterly in the Companys Interim and Final Results and the webcasts of 2008.
The chairman of the Committee reports to the Board and these presentations are also available on the website after the the WFS board on its proceedings and minutes of meetings are presentations have been made.
circulated to the directors of both companies.
A AC CC CO OU UN NT TA AB BI IL LI IT TY Y A AN ND D A AU UD DI IT T At its inaugural meeting in September 2007 the Committee The directors believe that the Annual Report and Financial approved its terms of reference and reviewed a report from WFSs Statements presents a balanced and understandable assessment risk and compliance department, WFSs risk register and risk of the Groups financial position and prospects.
The Chairmans maps, a progress report on WFSs Treating Customers Fairly TCF Statement, the Chief Executives Review and the Operating and project, a report on WFSs insurance sales process and relevant Financial Review, which can be found on pages 8 to 40, together sections of the internal audit plan for 2007 8. provide a detailed assessment of the Groups affairs.
The At its December meeting the Committee reviewed the directors responsibilities for the financial statements are discussions with WFSs FSA supervisor about five complaints in described in the Directors Report on page 66.
The Companys relation to payment protection insurance and considered reports financial statements are reviewed by the Audit Committee prior on WFSs compliance with FSA regulation, guidance and to being submitted to the Board for approval.
principles, complaints handling procedures and TCF initiative.
47 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued The Group is continuing to develop its risk management I IN NT TE ER RN NA AL L C CO ON NT TR RO OL L A AN ND D R RI IS SK K M MA AN NA AG GE EM ME EN NT T framework further to ensure that risk monitoring and reporting The Board of directors has overall responsibility for the Groups is embedded at all levels of management and throughout all internal control system, which is designed to safeguard areas of the Groups operations.
shareholders investment and the Companys assets, and Arrangements by which employees of the Group may raise embraces all risks faced by the Group, including business, concerns in confidence about possible improprieties in matters financial, operational and compliance risks.
The directors of financial reporting or other matters, together with recognise, however, that there are inherent limitations in any arrangements for the proportionate and independent system of internal control and as such the controls can provide investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow-up only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material action and reporting to the Board.
Operation of a comprehensive planning and financial reporting The Group has complied with the guidance provided by the system, which covers income, expenditure, cash flows and Financial Reporting Council in a document entitled Internal balance sheets.
Annual budgets and medium-term plans are Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code approved by the Board and monitored against actual October 2005 Turnbull guidance, through an ongoing process performance on a monthly basis to identify any significant to identify and evaluate key areas of risk, both financial and deviation from approved plans.
The annual budget is reviewed non-financial, the Groups perceived tolerance or commercial and reforecast on a regular basis.
appetite towards such risks and the policies and procedures Adoption of a schedule of matters specifically reserved for which should be adopted in order to manage the likely exposure the approval of the Board ensuring that it maintains full and to review the operation and effectiveness of the Groups and effective control over appropriate financial, strategic, internal control system.
This process, which has been in place organisational and compliance issues.
As described on throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this Annual page 44, the Board has identified a number of key areas, Report, is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the which are subject to regular reporting to the Board.
The Board also reviews the role of insurance in managing risks across the Group.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the internal control system on at least a six G GO OI IN NG G C CO ON NC CE ER RN N monthly basis and reporting to the Board thereon.
Such reviews Under company law, the directors are required to consider have been conducted during the financial year.
The principal whether it is appropriate to prepare financial statements on the features of the Groups internal control system can be basis that the Company and the Group are going concerns.
As summarised as follows: part of its normal business practices, the Group prepares annual Primary responsibility of the Board to ensure that the major budgets and longer-term financial and business plans.
In business risks facing the Group are identified and that reviewing this information, the directors are satisfied that the appropriate policies are developed for the management of Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in those risks.
The Board, however, recognises that the internal business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors control system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
A clearly defined organisational structure with lines of responsibility and delegation of authority to divisional executive management supported by established policies and procedures.
The engagement of a leading firm of professional advisers for the provision of a complete range of internal audit services, Norman Broadhurst with a direct reporting link to the Audit Committee.
Chairman 28 February 2008 A Risk Management Group, comprising the executive directors and other key members of senior management including risk specialists, reviews key Group risks together with the effectiveness of the Groups controls to manage and reduce the impact of these risks.
This review includes the adoption of procedures which are designed to capture and evaluate any failings or weaknesses in the internal control system.
The Risk Management Group meets twice yearly and reports to the Audit Committee.
Delegation of the responsibility for ongoing maintenance of the system of internal control procedures to the executive management, with specifically designated Risk Champions for all business areas and appropriate working parties.
The system ensures that successive assurances are provided to ascending levels of management and changes in the risk profiles for all business areas are monitored and reported on a monthly basis.
48 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 D Di is sc cu us ss si in ng g s sa al le es s p pe er rf fo or rm ma an nc ce e a at t o ou ur r C Cu us st to om me er r S Sa al le es s a an nd d 49 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 S Se er rv vi ic ce e C Ce en nt tr re e i in n N No ot tt ti in ng gh ha am m..
