OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2007 I IN NT TR RO OD DU UC CT TI IO ON N NORMAN BROADHURST OTHER MEMBERS OF THE COMMITEE Chairman of the Nomination Committee D J Postings This report to shareholders has been prepared in accordance with D A Haxby the requirements of paragraph A.
4.6 of the Combined Code on F Dee Corporate Governance.
This report gives details of the work of the A J McWalter M A Young Committee in discharging its responsibilities.
T TE ER RM MS S O OF F R RE EF FE ER RE EN NC CE E The Committees terms of reference, which can be found on the Companys website, are reviewed annually by the Committee and any changes are approved by the Board.
The main responsibilities of the Committee set out in the terms of reference are shown in the box below.
M ME EM MB BE ER RS SH HI IP P The Committee comprises the Chairman, the four independent non-executive directors D A Haxby, F Dee, A J McWalter and M A Young and the Chief Executive, D J Postings, under the chairmanship of the Chairman of the Board, N N Broadhurst.
D J Postings became a member of the Committee upon his appointment as Chief Executive on 1 October 2007.
S P Mahon was a member of the Committee until his retirement as Chief Executive on 30 September 2007.
There were no other changes to the composition of the Committee during 2007.
M ME EE ET TI IN NG GS S The Committee met formally on three occasions during 2007.
All members of the Committee attended each of the three formal meetings held in 2007.
W WO OR RK K O OF F T TH HE E C CO OM MM MI IT TT TE EE E The main work undertaken by the Committee during 2007 was the process which culminated in the recommendation to the Board that D J Postings should succeed S P Mahon as Chief Executive following his retirement on 30 September 2007.
In anticipation of S P Mahons likely retirement at some point during 2007, in the autumn of 2006 members of the Committee agreed a description of the role and capabilities required for the next Chief Executive and appointed an external search consultancy to assist with the recruitment process.
The consultants then reviewed the description of the role and the required capabilities and drew up a list of potential candidates.
This list was then reviewed by members of the Committee so as to create a definitive list of internal and external candidates.
Members of the Committee and the external search consultants interviewed various candidates in January and February 2007 and then re-interviewed the shortlisted candidates in the spring of 2007.
S P Mahons retirement later in 2007 was announced on 1 May 2007 and, following the Boards acceptance of the Committees recommendation, D J Postings appointment as a director on 1 September 2007 and as Chief Executive on 1 October 2007 was announced on 25 May 2007.
C Co om mm mi it tt te ee e s s R Re es sp po on ns si ib bi il li it ti ie es s Evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and, in the light of this evaluation, preparing a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment: Identifying and nominating for the approval of the Board candidates to fill Board vacancies: and Norman Broadhurst Considering proposals for succession planning for directors and other senior Chairman of the Nomination Committee executives, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the 28 February 2008 Company and what skills and expertise are therefore needed on the Board in the future.
The Committees terms of references are available at www.
php?nomination committee 53 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007
