20328 Text 6 9 07 15:51 Page 21 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2007 21 Corporate Governance Background For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and in the preamble The Board is accountable to shareholders for the governance of to the Combined Code, the Board considers these provisions the Companys affairs.
6 of the UK Listing Rules are not relevant to the position of The City of London requires all listed companies to disclose how they have applied Investment Trust plc, being an externally managed investment the principles and complied with the provisions of the revised company.
The Board has therefore not reported further in Combined Code.
The Financial Reporting Council the FRC respect of these provisions.
confirmed in February 2007 that it remained the view of the Application of the Codes Principles FRC that by following the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for The AIC Code comprises 21 principles.
The Board attaches Investment Companies the AIC Guide, boards of investment importance to the matters set out in the Code and lists below companies should fully meet their obligations in relation to the how the Codes Principles have been applied.
Board Independence and Composition The Board of The City of London Investment Trust plc has The Board currently consists of five non-executive directors.
considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC The directors reviewed their independence and confirm that Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to all directors remain wholly independent of Henderson Global the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, Investors Limited the Investment Manager.
No director has addresses all the principles set out in Section 1 of the links with the Investment Manager, all directors have a wide Combined Code, as well as setting out additional principles range of other interests and are not dependent in any way on and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance the Company itself.
The Chairmans other significant to The City of London Investment Trust plc.
commitments are detailed on page 13 and have not changed The Board considers that reporting against the principles and during the year.
On length of tenure, in the event of a director recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the having more than nine years service, the Board would explain AIC Guide which incorporates the Combined Code, will the reasons for considering such a director to be independent.
provide the most appropriate information to shareholders.
The directors biographies, set out on page 13, demonstrate the breadth of investment, commercial and professional experience Statement of Compliance relevant to their positions as directors.
The Board believes that The directors consider that throughout the accounting period retaining directors with sufficient experience of both the ended 30 June 2007 the Company has complied with the Company and the markets is of great benefit to shareholders.
recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code, except as set out below.
At least eight scheduled Board meetings are held each year to deal with the important aspects of the Companys affairs, The Company does not have a senior independent nonincluding the setting and monitoring of investment strategy, executive director.
gearing policy, the review of investment performance and the The Combined Code includes provisions relating to: level of the discount or premium to net asset value and the evaluation of the service providers.
Additional meetings of the the role of the chief executive Board may be arranged as required.
The number of formal executive directors remuneration meetings of the Board and its committees held during the the need for an internal audit function financial year and the attendance of individual directors are shown overleaf.
All directors attend the Annual General Meeting.
20328 Text 6 9 07 11:10 Page 22 22 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2007 Corporate Governance continued Audit Nominations When applicable, the Auditor is engaged to review the Board Committee Committee calculation of any performance fee due at the year end.
This is No of meetings 8 2 1 considered to be a non-audit service.
Simon fide Zoete 7 n a 1 Mark Nicholls 7 2 1 Angus Russell 7 2 1 Nominations Committee Sir Keith Stuart 8 2 1 The Nominations Committee meets at least annually and Anita Frew i 5 n a 1 considers Board succession planning, the review of the i Appointed 1 October 2006 performance of the Board as a whole and the Board Committees and the appointment of new directors.
All Board Committees directors are members of the Nominations Committee.
The Board has two Committees, the Audit Committee and the The Chairman of the Board acts as Chairman of the Nominations Committee and terms of Reference for these Nominations Committee but would not chair the Committee Committees are available on the Companys website.
The when the Chairmans successor was being considered.
Board has not formed a Management Engagement Committee as it remains the role of the Board as a whole to During the year the Nominations Committee agreed to engage an external agency to recruit a new director.
keep under review the terms of the management agreement between the Company and the Investment Manager.
The Nominations Committee also reviewed and recommended the directors to retire by rotation.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee consists of Sir Keith Stuart Chairman, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Mark Nicholls and Angus Russell.
Collectively the members of The Chairman is a non-executive director.
A senior the Audit Committee are considered to have the necessary independent director has not been identified as the Board recent and relevant financial experience.
considers that all the directors have different qualities and The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year and is areas of expertise on which they may lead where issues arise.
responsible for the review of the annual accounts, the nature Performance Evaluation and scope of the external audit and the findings therefrom, The Company the terms of appointment of the auditors together with their The performance of the Company is considered in detail at remuneration, performance, independence and objectivity, as each Board meeting.
well as any non-audit services provided by the auditors, and the half year report.
It meets with representatives of the The Board Investment Manager and receives reports on the quality and The Chairman reviews each individual directors contribution on effectiveness of the accounting records and management an annual basis and the work of the Board as a whole and the information maintained on behalf of the Company.
Board Committees is also reviewed annually by the Nominations Following a recommendation from the Audit Committee, Committee.
The Committee meets without the Chairman the Board concluded that the Auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, present in order to review the performance of the Chairman.
remains independent of both the Company and the Investment Manager.
20328 Text 6 9 07 11:10 Page 23 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2007 23 Corporate Governance continued Tenure Policy Directors Remuneration All directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, The Board as a whole considers directors remuneration and subject to re-appointment and Companies Act provisions and, in therefore has not appointed a separate Remuneration accordance with the Articles of Association, stand for election at Committee.
Directors fees are detailed in the Directors the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
Directors will retire at intervals of not more than three years to Responsibilities ensure compliance with the Code.
The Investment Manager takes decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual investments.
The Investment Manager Board Succession and Policy for Recruitment also ensures that all directors receive, in a timely manner, all The Nominations Committee considers succession planning relevant management, regulatory and financial information.
bearing in mind the balance of skills, knowledge and Representatives of the Investment Manager attend each Board experience existing on the Board and will recommend when meeting enabling the directors to probe further on matters of the further recruitment of non-executive directors is required.
The Committee aims to maintain a balance of relevant skills, experience, ages and length of service of the directors serving A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision on the Board.
by the full Board has been defined and a procedure adopted for directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take Once a decision is made to recruit additional directors to the independent professional advice at the expense of the Board, each director is invited to submit nominations and Company within certain parameters.
The directors have access these are considered in accordance with the Boards agreed to the advice and services of the corporate Company procedures.
The Nominations Committee considers the use of Secretary through its appointed representative who is external agencies as and when the requirement to recruit an responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures additional Board member becomes necessary.
are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Board and Investment Manager operate in Reappointment as a director is not automatic and will follow a a supportive, co-operative and open environment.
process of evaluation of each directors performance.
In accordance with the Combined Code any director serving for Continued Appointment of the Investment Manager longer than six years would be subject to particularly rigorous The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of assessment of his her contribution and any director serving for investment management and other services to the Company longer than nine years would be subject to annual re-election on an ongoing basis.
The principal contents of the agreement by shareholders.
with the Investment Manager are contained in the Report of the Directors on pages 15 and 16.
Directors Training When a new director is appointed he or she is offered a The Board reviews investment performance at each Board training seminar which is held by the Investment Manager.
meeting and a formal review of the Investment Manager is Directors are also provided on a regular basis with key conducted annually.
information on the Companys policies, regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes As part of the annual review in July 2007 the directors affecting directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as discussed the quality and continuity of the personnel assigned they arise.
Directors also regularly participate in relevant to handle the Companys affairs, with particular reference to training and industry seminars.
performance and results achieved to date.
In addition, they 20328 Text 6 9 07 11:10 Page 24 24 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2007 Corporate Governance continued reviewed other services provided by the Investment Manager The Board receives and considers regular reports from the to the Company, such as accounting, company secretarial and Investment Manager and ad hoc reports and information are administrative services, and the Investment Managers supplied to the Board as required.
In addition, the Chairman promotion of investment and savings products linked to the attends meetings of all the chairmen of the investment trust Companys shares.
The Board noted the Investment Managers companies managed by the Investment Manager: these investment management resources and experience in meetings provide a forum to discuss industry matters and the managing and administering investment trust companies.
Chairman reports on them to the Board.
The Board also considered the performance of other The Investment Manager has established an internal control companies in the same peer group and compared the terms of framework to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance their investment management arrangements.
The directors on the effectiveness of the internal controls operated on reviewed whether the terms of the agreement with the behalf of its clients.
The effectiveness of the internal controls Investment Manager continued to represent both good value is assessed by the Investment Managers compliance and risk for shareholders and appropriate incentivisation of the department on a continuing basis.
Internal Controls In line with the Companys objective, the directors place The Board has established a process for identifying, evaluating particular importance on the Managers ability to deliver longand managing any major risks faced by the Company.
The term growth in income and capital.
process is subject to regular review by the Board and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the As a result of their annual review, it is the opinion of the Combined Code published in September 1999 the Turnbull directors that the continued appointment of the current Guidance.
The process has been in place since 2 March Investment Manager on the terms agreed is in the interests of 2000 and up to the date of approval of this annual report.
the Companys shareholders as a whole.
The Board is responsible overall for the Companys system of Accountability and Audit internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate Accounts is set out on page 19, the Independent Auditors risks of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives Report on page 45 and the Statement of Going Concern on and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance page 19. against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has delegated contractually to external third The Board, assisted by the Investment Manager, undertook a parties, including the Investment Manager, the management full review of the Companys business risks and these have been of the investment portfolio, the custodial services which analysed and recorded in a risk map which is reviewed regularly.
include the safeguarding of the assets, the day to day The Board receives each quarter from the Investment Manager accounting, company secretarial and administration a formal report which details the steps taken to monitor the requirements and registration services.
Each of these contracts areas of risk, including those that are not directly the was entered into after full and proper consideration by the responsibility of the Investment Manager, and which reports the Board of the quality and cost of the services offered, including details of any known internal control failures.
The Board the control systems in operation in so far as they relate to the receives each year from the Investment Manager a report on its affairs of the Company.
internal controls which includes a report from the Investment 20328 Text 6 9 07 11:10 Page 25 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2007 25 Corporate Governance continued Managers auditors on the control policies and procedures in the proxy votes received on the resolutions proposed is operation.
Steps will continue to be taken to embed the system displayed at the meeting.
It is the intention of the Board that of internal control and risk management into the operation and the Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of Annual General culture of the Company and its key suppliers.
Meeting be issued to shareholders so as to provide at least twenty working days notice of the meeting.
Shareholders The Company delegates to third parties most of its operations wishing to lodge questions in advance of the meeting are and does not employ any staff.
The Board will continue to invited to do so by writing to the Company Secretary at the monitor its system of internal control in order to provide Registered Office address given on page 52. assurance that it operates as intended and the directors will review from time to time whether a function equivalent to an General presentations to both shareholders and analysts internal audit is needed.
follow the publication of the annual results.
All meetings between the Investment Manager and shareholders are Relations with Shareholders reported to the Board.
Shareholder relations are given high priority by the Board.
The The Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 49 to 51 sets prime medium by which the Company communicates with out the business of the meeting and the special resolutions shareholders is through the Half Year Report and Annual are explained more fully in the Report of the Directors on Report and Accounts which aim to provide shareholders with pages 14 to 19.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each a clear understanding of the Companys activities and their substantive issue.
This information is supplemented by the daily calculation and publication at the London and New Zealand Exercise of Voting Powers Stock Exchanges of the net asset value of the Companys The Company has approved a corporate governance voting ordinary shares and a monthly fact sheet.
policy which accords with current best practice whilst The Board considers that shareholders should be encouraged maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
to attend and participate in the Annual General Meeting, New Zealand Listing which is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and all directors normally attend.
Shareholders have the opportunity to address It should be noted that the UK Codes of Corporate Governance may materially differ from the New Zealand Stock questions to the Chairman of the Board, the Chairman of the Audit Committee and all other directors at the meeting.
The Exchanges corporate governance rules and principles of the Corporate Best Practice Code.
Investors may find more Portfolio Manager, as the representative of the Investment Manager, makes a presentation to shareholders.
A summary of information at www.
