Reports and Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance, business integrity and professionalism in all its activities.
This report explains how the Company has applied the main and supporting principles of the Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Code.
The Company has complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2007.
1 Directors The Board has overall responsibility for leading and controlling the Company and is accountable to shareholders for financial and operational performance.
The Board comprises the Chairman, three executive directors and four non-executive directors, whose biographies are set out on pages 24 and 25.
The Chairman, Terry Smith, has a part-time executive role and is responsible for supporting the management, strategy and certain client and business relationships.
The Chairman is also responsible for the conduct of the Board and its collective oversight of the Companys affairs and strategy.
The Chief Executive, Joel Plasco, is responsible for the management of the business, the co-ordination of its activities and the development of strategy.
The Deputy Chairman, Keith Hamill, is responsible for supporting the Chairman with regard to management of the Board and has been designated the Senior Independent Director.
As such, he has responsibility for dealing with any shareholders who have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Board believes that these arrangements facilitate the effective management of the business and provide a strong control environment.
All of the non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be independent under the Code.
Keith Hamill and Richard Kilsby are non-executive directors of Tullett Prebon plc, of which Terry Smith is Chief Executive, and were previously non-executive directors of Collins Stewart Tullett plc.
They were appointed to the Board to provide experience and continuity and the Board has determined that the limited nature of their financial and other relationships with those companies and other directors does not preclude them from being independent as defined under the Code.
The other non-executive directors, Patrick OSullivan and Iain Napier, were recruited externally and had no previous association with the business on appointment.
The directors biographies demonstrate a range of experience and sufficient calibre to bring independent judgment on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct which is vital to the success of the Group.
A statement of the directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out on page 48, and a statement on going concern is set out below.
The directors receive ongoing training including an induction programme tailored to meet the needs of the individual.
The directors also receive regular updates on changes and developments to the business, legislative and regulatory environments.
34 Collins Stewart plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 1 Directors continued The Board has established Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees to which it has delegated some of its responsibilities.
Each of the Committees has detailed terms of reference and a schedule of business to be transacted during the year.
The responsibilities of each of the Committees are described below.
The number of meetings of the Board and of each of the Committees is set out below, together with the attendance of each director: Main Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Total meetings held during the year 9 5 4 1 Terry Smith 9 9 Joel Plasco 9 9 David Lindsay appointed 1 June 2007 5 5 Paul Baines 9 9 Richard Kilsby 9 9 5 5 4 4 1 1 Keith Hamill 9 9 5 5 4 4 1 1 Patrick OSullivan 9 9 5 5 4 4 1 1 Iain Napier appointed 12 February 2007 8 9 4 5 4 4 1 1 Diana Dyer Bartlett resigned 16 May 2007 2 3 Committee attendance shown for committee members only 2 Board Administration The Board has a schedule of eight meetings during the year to discuss the Groups ordinary course of business.
Every effort is made to arrange these meetings so that all directors can attend.
Additional meetings are arranged throughout the year as required to address matters arising.
The Board is provided with appropriate information on a timely basis to enable it to discharge its duties.
It has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision, including developing the future direction of the Groups business, agreeing policies and procedures, approving material transactions, budgets and borrowings and monitoring the Groups progress.
All directors receive detailed papers prior to each Board meeting which will enable them to make an informed decision on corporate and business issues under review.
All Board meetings are minuted and any unresolved concerns would be recorded in such minutes.
Reviews of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual directors are undertaken each year.
In this process, the Board or Committee members assess whether the Board or Committee fulfilled its terms of reference satisfactorily, whether the terms of reference need to be revised, whether the administration operated effectively and whether individual directors performed their roles effectively.
The Non-executive directors are responsible for assessing the effectiveness of the Chairman, including holding a meeting conducted in his absence.
Collins Stewart plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Collins Stewart plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 35 Reports and Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report continued 2 Board Administration continued The terms of the directors service agreements and letters of appointment are summarised in the Report on Directors Remuneration.
All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment and, thereafter, at intervals of three years.
At the forthcoming meeting, in May, David Lindsay will be subject to re-election as this will be the first AGM since his appointment.
The Board considers that Davids financial expertise and general business experience is of considerable value to the Company and accordingly proposes that he should be reelected.
All other directors were re-elected at the 2006 AGM.
Executive directors are permitted by the Board to take up a non-executive appointment with another company, and retain any fees payable, provided that the time commitment involved would not be too onerous.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors will be available for inspection during normal business hours on any weekday other than public holidays at the Companys offices from the date the notice of Annual General Meeting is posted until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
All directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and there are procedures in place for taking independent professional advice at the Companys expense if required.
The Company arranges insurance cover in respect of legal action against the directors and provides indemnities to the extent permitted by law.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that the Board keeps up to date with key changes and developments to the legislative and regulatory environments which affect the Company and is also responsible for ensuring that directors receive appropriate ongoing training.
3 Audit Committee Keith Hamill was chairman of the Audit Committee until 8 March 2007, when Patrick OSullivan took over the role.
Keith Hamill remains a member of the Committee, together with Richard Kilsby and Iain Napier, who joined the Committee on his appointment as a director on 12 February 2007.
All of the members are independent non-executive directors.
The Companys external auditors, the Chairman, the executive directors and other appropriate members of senior management may attend Committee meetings by invitation.
The Committee meets at least three times a year and the Committee has a discussion with the external auditors at least once a year without executive directors being present, to ensure that there are no unresolved issues of concern.
The Audit Committee met five times during 2007.
The Committees terms of reference include monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, reviewing the scope and findings of the external audit, assessing the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and making recommendations for the re-appointment or removal of the external auditors, monitoring the internal audit function, reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal control procedures, and overseeing and assessing the risk control system and reviewing arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about improprieties.
36 Collins Stewart plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the interim and preliminary announcements of results and the statutory accounts prior to their approval by the Board.
When conducting the review, the Committee considers any judgments made in the preparation of the accounts, whether the accounting policies are appropriate and the adequacy of disclosures.
The Audit Committee received an annual risk assessment following a review of the effectiveness of internal control and risk management systems and reported to the Board thereon.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on the Companys website, www.
4 Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the policy and framework of executive remuneration.
The policies concerning the remuneration of executive directors and their application are approved by the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee also reviews the remuneration of senior managers and is consulted on changes in their remuneration.
In addition, on behalf of the Board, the Committee approves long-term and share-based incentive plans and the granting of awards under those plans.
The Remuneration Committee comprises Richard Kilsby, who is the Committees Chairman, Keith Hamill, Patrick OSullivan and Iain Napier who joined the Committee on his appointment as a director on 12 February 2007.
All of the members are considered independent non-executive directors.
The Chairman and Chief Executive attend meetings by invitation but do not attend those parts of meetings which deal with their own remuneration.
Further details of the Companys policies on remuneration, service contracts and share options are given in the Report on Directors Remuneration.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on the Companys website, www.
5 Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprises Keith Hamill, who is the Committees Chairman, Richard Kilsby, Patrick OSullivan and, since his appointment as a director on 12 February 2007, Iain Napier, all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
The Nominations Committee is responsible for proposing candidates for appointment to the Board, having regard to the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board.
For non-executive appointments, the Committee will also consider the time commitment involved in the appointment in arriving at its decision and this is reflected in all new letters of appointment.
The services of an external search consultancy were retained to assist with the appointment of Iain Napier and David Lindsay during the year.
Collins Stewart plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Collins Stewart plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 37 Reports and Financial Statements Corporate Governance Report continued 6 Risk Management and Internal Control The Board is responsible for setting the Groups risk policies and ensuring that it has an appropriate and effective risk management framework.
The Board monitors the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating, managing and reporting the significant risks faced by the Group.
The Board is also responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In discharging its responsibilities in this respect, the Board has appointed the Audit Committee to carry out the annual review of the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems and to report to the Board thereon.
The key risks facing the business are described in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 21 and 22.
These risks are assessed before any new business is established and monitored on a day-to-day basis as part of the normal management process.
A single set of policies for the management of risk has been adopted and is applied across all activities.
Risk management and the operation of the internal control systems within the Group are primarily the responsibility of the executive directors and the senior management.
These individuals are allowed commercial independence and flexibility within parameters agreed by the Board to ensure that risks are clearly owned and managed on a day-to-day basis and that systems of control operate effectively.
The Company has established a Risk Committee, which comprises the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and other executives representing all activities of the Group, which monitors the Groups exposure to risk and makes recommendations for the management of risk to executives or the Board as appropriate.
In addition, the executive directors monitor activities on a daily basis and ensure that appropriate controls are exercised over the Groups operations.
The Board reviews the monthly management accounts, budgets and plans and discusses any issues arising from them.
The systems of internal control operated by the Group are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
7 The Boards Review of the System of Internal Control The Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee as described above, has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control operated throughout the period from 1 January 2007 to the date of this report and is satisfied that the Group complies with the Turnbull Guidance.
8 Compliance The Group has a compliance function which ensures that all the Groups entities meet the rules of the regulators in each of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The compliance officers are in regular contact with the Group compliance officer and other senior management and report to the Audit Committee and the Board as appropriate.
The Group is regulated on a consolidated basis by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
The Company ensures that its controls are consistent with the FSA Handbook.
The calculation of regulatory capital altered with the introduction of the Transitional Provisions of the Capital Requirements Directive in 2007.
The Group continues to maintain sufficient regulatory capital in all its regulated entities and at the Group level.
38 Collins Stewart plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 9 Internal Audit Following the demerger of Collins Stewart Tullett plc in December 2006, the Group had a transitional agreement in place with Tullett Prebon plc through which Tullett Prebon provided internal audit services to the Group.
During the year, the Board appointed the independent firm of accountants, Ernst & Young LLP, to establish and operate an internal audit function for the Group that has replaced that transitional arrangement.
The internal audit process is risk-weighted and includes undertaking reviews and providing objective analysis, appraisals, advice and recommendations concerning the activities reviewed.
The internal auditors report to the Audit Committee and executive management as appropriate following completion of their review of each business unit.
10 Going Concern The directors have satisfied themselves, at the time of approving the financial statements, that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and for this reason the financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
11 Relations with Shareholders The Board recognises the importance of communications with shareholders.
com, provides information for shareholders on the Groups activities, announcements, shareholder presentations and meetings.
Websites for various operating subsidiaries also exist providing information on products and services.
There is regular dialogue with institutional investors, fund managers and analysts, including presentations around the time of the results announcements and also on request.
Following formal presentations to shareholders, the Companys brokers additionally provide feedback to the Board from shareholders.
The Deputy Chairman also maintains informal relations with shareholders when necessary and is available to those shareholders who have a policy of regular contact or who wish to discuss specific matters, while the other non-executive directors are available to meet with shareholders, should such meetings be requested.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with investors and welcomes their participation.
The Chairman aims to ensure that all of the directors are available at Annual General Meetings to answer questions and meet shareholders.
The proxy votes cast on each resolution proposed at general meetings are disclosed at those meetings and published on the Companys website.
To encourage shareholder participation, those shareholders whose shares are held via the CREST system are offered the facility to submit their proxy votes via CREST.
Collins Stewart plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Collins Stewart plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 39
