ID4157 Bc AR 2007 Insides 80pp 04. qxp 6 3 08 15:20 Page 20 Report of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the board whose role MAIN ACTIVITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE and responsibilities are set out in written terms of reference which The Audit Committee met four times during 2007 and in February are available for inspection on the companys website and include: 2008 to consider this financial report.
reviewing the interim and full year accounts and results announcements at their meetings, the Audit Committee reviewed the preliminary of the company and any other formal announcements relating to the and interim announcements of results and the draft reports and companys financial performance, including monitoring their integrity accounts for the financial year and the half year.
On these occasions and reviewing significant reporting issues and judgements contained the Committee reviewed reports from the external auditors, therein, and recommending them to the board for approval: identifying any accounting or judgemental items requiring its attention and commenting on risk management and control matters.
reviewing the Groups systems of internal financial control and risk management: a quarterly report from the Head of Internal Audit was presented at each meeting and the findings discussed.
During the year the plan monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the companys internal for the ensuing years work was considered.
audit function and considering regular reports from internal audit on internal financial controls and risk management: the external auditors also presented their audit plan at the December and May meetings covering scope of work to be done and during considering the appointment or changing of external auditors and the year there was a detailed review of their management letter overseeing the process for their selection and making recommendations covering the auditors findings in respect of 2006. to the board on their appointment which will be put the shareholders for their approval at a general meeting and to approve their remuneration executives are, from time to time, required to make presentations and terms of engagement: to the Audit Committee on risk and other subjects.
At the December meeting, presentations on tax and treasury were made and the agreeing the nature and scope of the external auditors work and Groups treasury policies reviewed and updated.
considering their reports on the companys accounts, reports to shareholders and their evaluation of the systems of internal financial the Audit Committee has also been presented with information control and risk management: and about material litigation.
monitoring and reviewing the external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness, taking into account professional and During 2007 the Audit Committee also: regulatory requirements.
assessed the independence of the external auditors: COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE having reviewed their performance, recommended to the board to The Audit Committee comprises all of the independent non-executive reappoint the auditors and agreed their fees: directors whose biographical details are set out on page 28.
Their remuneration is shown on page 25. approved the Groups accounting policies: The Chairman of the Audit Committee since 16 August 2007 has been approved the management representations to the auditors: Mr John Biles, who was appointed a director on this date, following reviewed arrangements for reporting and investigating fraud and a recommendation from the Nomination Committee.
Prior to that employee concerns: date the Chairman was Mr Richard Scholes.
reviewed Bodycote business principles: Both Chairmen are considered to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Mr Biles is a chartered accountant, who served as a plc reviewed the effectiveness of internal controls and risk finance director FKI plc from 1988 to 2004 and Chubb Security plc management process: from 1991 to 1997 and is currently also the Chairman of the Audit reviewed the terms of reference for the Audit Committee: and Committee of ArmorGroup International plc 2004, Charter plc 2005 and Hermes Pensions Management Limited 2005.
The Company assessed the Committees own effectiveness.
Secretary is secretary to the Audit Committee.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, Corporate Development Director, Head of Internal Audit, Group Financial Controller, Group Treasurer, Head of Tax and external auditors attend Audit Committee meetings as appropriate by invitation.
The Committee also meets separately with the Head of Internal Audit and with the external auditors without management being present.
20 Bodycote annual report 2007 ID4157 Bc AR 2007 Insides 80pp 04. qxp 6 3 08 15:20 Page 21 INDEPENDENCE OF EXTERNAL AUDITORS The Audit Committee has put in place safeguards to ensure that the independence of the audit is not compromised.
The policy in respect of services provided by the external auditors is as follows.
The external auditors are invited to provide services where their position as auditors renders them best placed to undertake the work.
This includes reporting and certication connected with borrowings, shareholders and other circulars, regulatory requirements and work in respect of acquisitions and disposals.
Where the external auditors are best suited to carry out the work they are asked to do it: this particularly applies to work relating to tax compliance.
Major exercises or any work where conicts would arise are put out to tender.
In general and where conicts could arise, the work is not awarded to the external auditors and is put out to tender.
INTERNAL AUDIT Internal audit independently reviews the risk and control processes operated by management.
It carries out independent audits in accordance with an internal audit plan which is agreed with the Audit Committee before the start of the financial year.
This plan takes account of the risk management framework surrounding major business risks in each operation and provides a high degree of financial and geographical coverage.
Internal audit reports include recommendations to improve internal controls together with agreed managerial action plans to resolve issues raised.
Internal audit follows up the implementation of recommendations and reports progress to senior management and the Audit Committee.
The effectiveness of the internal audit function is reviewed and discussed on an annual basis with the Head of Internal Audit.
On behalf of the Audit Committee J.
A. Biles Audit Committee Chairman 26 February 2008 Bodycote annual report 2007 21
