Corporate Governance Statement The Company is committed to high standards of likely to benefit from a regular infusion of new blood, corporate governance.
The Board has accordingly put they are perhaps more likely than most to benefit from in place a framework for corporate governance, which it having at least one director with considerably longer than believes is appropriate for an investment trust company.
When considering the Chairmans independence it should be noted that the Company AIC Code changed its Manager in 2002.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the Association of Investment All of the Directors are considered by the Board to Companies AIC Code of Corporate Governance be independent of management and free from any the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate business or other relationship which could materially Governance Guide the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, interfere with the exercise of their independent as explained in the AIC Guide, addresses all the judgement.
The independent Directors form the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined membership of the Audit Committee, the Nomination Code as well as setting out additional principles Committee and the Management Engagement and recommendations on issues that are of specific Committee.
Directors are required to retire at the relevance to the Company.
The Board considers that AGM after their 70th birthday and the Board does reporting against the principles and recommendations not limit the time a Director may serve.
of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the Combined Code, will provide Biographies of the Directors who served in the year to better information to shareholders.
The Board is 31 March 2007 appear on pages 6 and 7 of this report.
accountable to the Companys shareholders for good The Directors believe that the Board has a balance governance and considers that the Company has of skills, experience, ages and length of service which complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code enables it to provide effective strategic leadership and and therefore has met its obligations in relation to the proper governance of the Company.
The Senior Combined Code and associated disclosure requirements Independent Director is Richard Barfield.
of the Listing Rules except as set out below: The Board usually meets at least nine times each year.
While the Investment Management Agreement splits There is an annual cycle of Board meetings which is out the duties of the Board and the Manager, the designed to address, in a systematic way, overall Company does not operate with the Manager in the strategy, objectives, review of investment policy, role of Chief Executive Officer.
A senior Fidelity manager investment performance, marketing achievements, has, however, been appointed to co-ordinate Fidelitys promotional material, budgets, dividend policy, executive responsibilities and there are, as a matter gearing, asset allocation, peer group information, of course, regular high level discussions between the industry issues, share price performance, share buyBoard and senior employees representing different backs, share price discount, the shareholder profile of functions within Fidelity.
the Company and communication with shareholders.
Additionally, Board Committees and sub-groups meet DIRECTORS to pursue matters referred from the Board as a whole The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys and the Chairman meets the other Directors regularly affairs.
It delegates, through an investment management without representatives of the Manager being present.
agreement and through specific instructions the day to The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly day management of the Company to the Manager, to discharge its duties effectively and the table on Fidelity Investments International.
The Company has no page 20 gives the attendance record for the formal executives or employees.
There is a formal schedule of Board and Committee meetings held in the year.
matters reserved for the Board which includes, among other things, decisions on gearing, Board appointments, The Company Secretary is a corporate secretary.
appointment of the Company Secretary, strategy, The appointment of the Company Secretary is a Company structure and risk management strategy.
matter for the Board as a whole.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company The Board presently consists of six non-executive Secretary through its appointed representative who Directors, one of whom is Chairman.
Scott Dobbie was is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board appointed as a Director on 20 April 1998 and Chairman procedures are followed and that applicable rules and in July 2003.
He therefore reaches his nine year tenure regulations are complied with.
Each of the Directors during the coming year and will be subject to annual reof the Company is entitled to take independent election with effect from 2007.
As detailed in the AIC professional advice, at the Companys expense, Guide, whilst the boards of investment companies are in the furtherance of their duties.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2007 Page 19 Corporate Governance Statement Appointment of Directors Company.
In accordance with the Companys Articles The Nomination Committee consists of all the Directors of Association, Nicola Ralston and William Samuel retire and is chaired by Scott Dobbie.
The Committee meets by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for on an annual basis and at such other times as may be re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The Committee has written terms of reference endorses their candidature and commends their and is responsible, among other things, for identifying appointment to shareholders.
and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies taking into account the need to Training maintain a balanced Board.
Care is taken to ensure that When a new Director is appointed to the Board, he appointees have enough time to devote to the job.
or she is provided with all relevant information regarding External consultants are also used to identify potential the Company and his or her duties and responsibilities candidates.
The Committee also considers whether as a Director.
In addition, a new Director will also Directors should be recommended for re-election spend some time with representatives of the Manager by shareholders.
whereby he or she will become familiar with the various processes which the Manager considers necessary The Nomination Committees written terms of for the performance of its duties and responsibilities reference are available on the Companys website at to the Company.
The Companys policy is to encourage www.
Directors to keep up to date and attend training courses on matters which are directly relevant to their involvement Letters of appointment, which specify the terms of with the Company: a number of such courses were appointment, are issued to new Directors on appointment attended in the year under review.
Thus training is and include details of the time commitment required tailored to the needs of individual Directors and, and expected duration of appointment.
The terms and in addition, the Company organises an annual offsite conditions of appointment of Directors are available for meeting at which the Directors consider a variety of inspection at the registered office of the Company.
topics which are relevant to the Company and assists the Directors in updating their skills and knowledge.
A Director appointed during the year is required to retire The Directors also receive regular briefings from, among and seek election by shareholders at the next Annual others, the AIC, the Auditors and the Company Secretary General Meeting.
The Articles also require that one regarding any proposed developments or changes in law third of the Directors retire by rotation each year and or regulations that could affect the Company and or seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting and the Directors.
also that every Director submit himself or herself for re-election at least every three years.
Subject to these Directors remuneration requirements for re-election, Directors continued service The level of Directors fees is determined by the whole is at the discretion of the Board.
Board, although Directors do not vote on their own fees, and therefore a separate Remuneration Committee Due to his length of tenure, Scott Dobbie retires has not been appointed.
Directors fees are disclosed and being eligible offers himself for re-election at the fully in the Annual Report see the Directors Remuneration Annual General Meeting.
The Board has endorsed Report on pages 25 and 26.
Levels of fees are considered his candidature and commends his re-election to to be competitive and sufficient to attract and retain the shareholders as he has maintained his independence, standard of Directors needed to manage the Company effectiveness as a Director and as Chairman, and successfully.
The limit on aggregate fees is governed continues to demonstrate his commitment to the by the Companys Articles of Association.
Board Nomination Audit Management Meetings Committee Committee Engagement Meetings Meetings Committee Meetings Richard Barfield 9 9 1 1 3 3 1 1 1 Scott Dobbie 9 9 1 1 3 3 1 1 2 Ian Inglis 3 3 n a 1 1 1 1 Jim Pettigrew 8 9 1 1 2 3 1 1 Nicola Ralston 8 9 1 1 3 3 1 1 William Samuel 9 9 1 1 3 3 1 1 Sir Nigel Wicks 8 9 1 1 2 3 1 1 1 The Chairman is not a member of the Audit Committee but was in attendance at the Audit Committee meetings 2 Ian Inglis retired as a Director on 19 July 2006 Page 20 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2007 Corporate Governance Statement Shareholdings by Directors are encouraged and the The notice of the Annual General Meeting and related Directors share interests are disclosed on page 9 of the papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days Directors Report.
Evaluation The Chairman of the Board, the Nomination Committee An evaluation of the Board, its Committees and of and the Management Engagement Committee, Scott individual members was conducted during the last Dobbie, and the Chairman of the Audit Committee, quarter of the financial year.
This took the form of self Jim Pettigrew, will be available to answer questions and peer group assessment by questionnaire followed at the Annual General Meeting.
by discussions between the Chairman and the Directors.
The Chairmans performance was assessed by a meeting, The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director chaired by the Senior Independent Director, of all the may be contacted either through the Company Secretary other Directors.
A formal evaluation is completed annually.
or care of the Companys registered office at 3 Glenfinlas Street, Edinburgh EH3 6AQ.
Supply and agenda of information The Board receives in due time information in a form The Company does not have continuation votes.
and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
The Board meeting papers are the key source ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT of regular information for the Board, the contents of An Audit Committee has been established which is which are determined by the Board and contain sufficient chaired by Jim Pettigrew, consisting of all the Directors information on the financial condition of the Company.
with the exception of Scott Dobbie.
The qualifications Key representatives of the Manager attend each Board of the members of the Audit Committee are included meeting, enabling the Board to probe further on matters in their biographies on pages 6 and 7.
The Board has of concern or seek clarification on certain issues.
taken note of the suggestion that at least one member The Board has delegated its corporate governance of the Audit Committee should have recent and relevant responsibilities to the Audit and Management financial experience and is satisfied that the Audit Engagement Committees, each composed of the Committee is properly constituted in this respect.
The Committee meets at least three times a year and COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS its authority and duties are clearly defined in its written The Directors place great importance on communication terms of reference which are available on the Companys with the Companys shareholders.
These duties include: discussing with the out a programme of regular dialogue and individual external Auditors the nature and scope of the audit meetings with institutional shareholders.
During the and reviewing the external Auditors quality control year the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and procedures: considering the scope of work undertaken other Directors also met representatives of those major by the Managers internal audit department: monitoring shareholders who had accepted an invitation from the the integrity of the financial statements of the Company: Chairman to meet.
Written reports of all such meetings reviewing the interim and annual financial statements are circulated to all Directors.
of the Company prior to their submission to the Board: and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal At the Annual General Meeting all shareholders have control systems including financial, operational and the opportunity to put questions to the Board and a compliance controls and risk management.
They also presentation from the Manager covers the investment include responsibility for reviewing and monitoring the performance and strategy during the financial year and effectiveness of the audit process and the external the outlook for the year ahead.
The Board hopes that Auditors independence and objectivity with particular as many shareholders as possible will be able to attend regard to the provision of non-audit services.
provision of non-audit services is also subject to prior Board approval.
The Audit Committee of the Board All proxy votes are counted and, except where a poll meets the external Auditors in the absence of is called, the Chairman will indicate the level of proxies representatives from the Manager at least once a year lodged for each resolution, the balance for and against to review these and other appropriate matters.
the resolution and the number of votes withheld after it Shareholders have the opportunity at each Annual has been dealt with on a show of hands.
General Meeting to vote on the re-appointment of the external Auditors for the forthcoming year and The notice of meeting on page 47 sets out the business to authorise the Directors to determine the level of of the Annual General Meeting.
A separate resolution is Auditors remuneration.
The Committee also reviews proposed on each substantially separate issue including corporate governance issues, the existence and the annual report and accounts.
performance of all controls operating in the Company The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2007 Page 21 Corporate Governance Statement including the adherence to Section 842 status, the its affairs properly.
The system extends to operational relationship with and the performance of third party and compliance controls and risk management.
Clear service providers such as the registrars and custodians.
lines of accountability have been established between the Board and the Manager and regular reports on The respective responsibilities of the Directors and controls and compliance issues are provided to the the external Auditors in connection with the financial Audit Committee.
In carrying out its review, the Audit statements appear on pages 24 and 27.
Committee has had regard to the activities of the Manager, the Managers compliance and risk functions In the year to 31 March 2007 the Audit Committee and the external Auditors.
The Audit Committees discharged its responsibilities by among other things: review also includes consideration of FRAG 21 and similar reports issued by the Manager and other Reviewing the Companys draft annual and interim service providers.
financial statements prior to Board approval and reviewing the external Auditors reports thereon The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit Reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys function.
The Board has decided that the systems and accounting policies procedures employed by the Manager, including its Reviewing the potential impact of any new Financial internal audit function and the work carried out by Reporting Standards the Companys external Auditors, provide sufficient Reviewing and approving the audit fee and reviewing assurance that a sound system of internal control, which any non-audit fees payable to the Companys external safeguards shareholders investment and the Companys Auditors assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function, specific Reviewing the external Auditors terms of engagement to the Company, is therefore considered unnecessary.
Reviewing the external Auditors plan for the The Audit Committee meets with the Managers Head audit of the Companys financial statements of Internal Audit on an annual basis without other Reviewing the external Auditors quality control representatives from the Manager being present.
procedures The Chairman of the Audit Committee has direct access Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the to the Managers Head of Internal Audit and vice versa.
external audit process and the external Auditors independence and objectivity Whistle-blowing procedure Considering the scope of work undertaken by Part of the Managers role in ensuring the provision of a the Managers internal audit department good service pursuant to the Management Agreement Reviewing a semi-annual report on internal controls includes the ability for employees of Fidelity to raise and reporting to the Board as described below concerns through a workplace concerns escalation Recommending the re-appointment of the policy or whistle-blowing procedure.
Fidelity is external Auditors committed to providing the highest level of service to its customers and to applying the highest standards The Board is responsible for the Companys system of quality, honesty, integrity and probity.
The aim of the of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
policy is to encourage employees and others working Such a system is designed to manage rather than for Fidelity to assist the Company in tackling fraud, eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives corruption and other malpractice within the organisation and can only provide reasonable and not absolute and in setting standards of ethical conduct.
This policy assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT for identifying, evaluating and managing the Companys An investment management agreement the principal business and operational risks, that it has been Management Agreement dated 17 and 19 July in place for the year ended 31 March 2007 and up to 2002 was made between the Company and Fidelity the date of approval of the annual report and financial Investments International Fidelity, under which statements, that it is regularly reviewed by the Board Fidelity has agreed to provide investment management, and accords with the FRCs Internal Control: Revised administrative and secretarial services to the Company Guidance, and has been in place for the year ended for a fee of an amount equal to 0.26 per cent per annum 31 March 2007. plus VAT of the Value of Funds under Management as defined in the Management Agreement, which The Manager is responsible for the design, implementation excludes investments in other funds managed by the and maintenance of controls and procedures to Manager payable monthly and calculated as of the last safeguard the assets of the Company and to manage day of the preceding calendar month to which it relates.
Page 22 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2007 Corporate Governance Statement The Management Agreement will continue unless and RESPONSIBILITY AS AN until terminated by either party giving to the other not INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDER less than three months notice.
The Management The Board has affirmed the Managers Principles of Agreement may also be terminated forthwith as a result Ownership in relation to the Companys investments.
of a material breach of the agreement or on the insolvency, These principles include the pursuit of an active liquidation other than for the purpose of an investment policy through portfolio management amalgamation or reconstruction approved by the Board decisions, voting on resolutions at general meetings of Fidelity.
In addition, the Company may terminate the and maintaining a continuing dialogue with the Management Agreement without compensation in the management of investee companies.
In its Principles two months following a change of control of Fidelity.
of Ownership the Manager expressly declares that it supports the Statement of Principles drawn up by the MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE Institutional Shareholders Committee setting out the The Management Engagement Committee which responsibilities of institutional shareholders and agents.
was established in January 2004 with written terms of reference meets at least once a year.
The Committees The Manager instructs proxy voting on behalf of the terms of reference are available at the Companys Company in accordance with the Managers existing registered office and on the Companys website.
The Committee consists of all the Directors and is chaired by Scott Dobbie.
In conducting its annual review of the GOING CONCERN investment management and secretarial arrangements, The Directors believe that the Company has adequate the Committee considers, among other things, resources to continue in operational existence for investment performance, marketing performance, the the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue performance of the Companys Secretariat, the Finance to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the and Control environment, Compliance and Audit and financial statements.
the terms of the Management Agreement.
Following the most recent review, the Board, upon the recommendation of the Committee, is of the opinion that the continued appointment of Fidelity Investments International as Investment Manager and Secretary, on the terms Scott Dobbie agreed in the Management Agreement, is in the Chairman 25 May 2007 interests of the shareholders and the Company.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2007 Page 23
