Report on the activities of the Audit Committee continued External auditors During the year under review the Audit Committee reviewed the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
This included information about the policies and processes for maintaining independence, monitoring compliance with relevant requirements and ethical guidance and consideration of all relationships between the Company and the external auditors and their staff.
A policy continues in place which requires the Audit Committee to approve all non-audit services proposed to be undertaken by the external auditors, with the exception of tax advisory and compliance work undertaken in the ordinary course of business and pension scheme audit work.
If a request for approval were made, the Audit Committee would have due regard to the nature of the non-audit service, whether the external auditors were a suitable supplier, whether there was likely to be any threat to objectivity and independence in the conduct of the audit and the related fee level both separately and relative to the audit fee.
For details of fees paid to the external auditors, see note 5 on page 55.
Performance evaluation During 2007, the Committee commenced an internal performance evaluation, using a questionnaire process designed to produce an objective assessment of the Committees performance and audit effectiveness.
It was concluded that the Committee and the audit process continued to be effective, and that the Committee had appropriate terms of reference and achieved its remit.
Briefings and training are provided where appropriate to ensure that the Committee remains informed of all material developments in best practice and regulation concerning its remit.
John Warren Chairman of the Audit Committee 7 March 2008 Report on the activities of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and succession planning arrangements, and leads the process for Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board.
Composition and meetings During 2007, the Nomination Committee comprised Mr Tim Melville-Ross as Chairman, Mrs Lesley MacDonagh, Mr Mark Nicholls until 11 May 2007, Mr John Warren, Mr Colin Holmes and Mr Malcolm Harris.
The Nomination Committee met four times during the year and all members, then current, attended each meeting, with the exception of Mrs Lesley MacDonagh who missed one meeting by prior arrangement.
The Group Company Secretary, Mr Martin Palmer, acts as Secretary to the Nomination Committee and appointments to the Committee are made on the recommendation of the Board.
Terms of reference The Nomination Committee is authorised to seek any information it requires from any employee of the Group in order to perform its duties.
If required, the Committee can obtain, at the Companys expense, outside legal or other independent professional advice on any matters within its terms of reference.
None was obtained during the year.
The Nomination Committees terms of reference are available on the Groups website www.
co. uk plc and on request to the Group Company Secretary.
Overview of activities During 2007 the Nomination Committee made recommendations to the Board concerning directors to retire by rotation and seek reappointment at the 2007 Annual General Meeting, the appointment of a new Senior Independent Director and the chairmanship of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
The requirement to appoint an independent non-executive Deputy Chairman was identified following the Boards decision to appoint the new Chairman and Chief Executive with effect from 3 July 2008 and the recruitment process commenced, to be concluded on merit and against objective criteria using the services of appropriate external search consultants.
The appointment of four new directors to the Board of Bovis Homes Limited was approved and general succession planning arrangements were kept under review during 2007.
Tim Melville-Ross Chairman of the Nomination Committee 7 March 2008 Bovis Homes Group PLC 37
