Report on corporate governance The Company continues its commitment to high standards of corporate governance and the Board, acknowledging its responsibility to shareholders in this area, has put in place an appropriate framework as described in the corporate governance policy guidelines on page 32 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
This report sets out how the framework is applied and the Companys compliance with the 2006 Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
"The Combined Code is supplemented by a publication entitled ""Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code"" the Turnbull Guidance to enable listed companies to comply with Listing Rule 9.8."
The Turnbull Guidance was revised by the Financial Reporting Council to take effect for financial periods commencing on or after 1 January 2006.
The Company has throughout 2007 applied the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code and complied therewith, as detailed below.
The Board The Board comprises Mr Tim Melville-Ross, Chairman: three executive directors, Mr Malcolm Harris, Chief Executive, Mr David Ritchie, Group Managing Director and Mr Neil Cooper, Group Finance Director: and three independent non-executive directors, Mr John Warren, Senior Independent Director, Mrs Lesley MacDonagh and Mr Colin Holmes.
The Board announced in October 2007 that Mr Tim Melville-Ross will retire from the Board on 2 July 2008 and that Mr Malcolm Harris, who will retire as Chief Executive on the same date, will take over the role of non-executive Chairman.
This decision followed a consultation with major shareholders which had a positive and supportive outcome and careful consideration by the Board of the depth of knowledge and experience held by Mr Malcolm Harris, recognised in the shareholder consultation, in addition to his outstanding track record with the conclusion that shareholders would benefit from his continued contribution and involvement with the Company.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive, set out in writing and agreed by the Board and with the forthcoming appointment of an independent non-executive Deputy Chairman, also announced by the Board, responsibilities for that role have been treated similarly.
The Chairman provides leadership to and runs the Board, takes a leading role in determining its composition and structure, and sets its agenda.
He ensures that it receives accurate, timely and clear information, facilitates the contribution of the non-executive directors and ensures constructive relations on the Board.
The Chairman also ensures that effective communications are maintained with shareholders.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the overall performance of the Group as dictated by the Boards strategy, including maintaining profit growth and developing strategic operating plans that reflect the objectives and priorities established by the Board.
The Deputy Chairmans primary role will be to support the Chairman in ensuring that the Board is effective, to deputise as necessary, to support the building and maintaining of constructive relations on the Board and to act as the Senior Independent Director.
The Board has determined that non-executive directors Mrs Lesley MacDonagh, Mr John Warren and Mr Colin Holmes are independent.
This includes an assessment of their independence in character and judgement and confirmation of their being free from any business or other relationship or circumstances which could affect, or appear to affect, the exercise of their independent judgement on matters under consideration by the Board.
Mr John Warren was appointed Senior Independent Director with effect from 11 May 2007, following the retirement of Mr Mark Nicholls, and his responsibilities are to lead the annual performance evaluation of the Chairman carried out by the non-executive directors, to meet with the non-executive directors without the Chairman present when appropriate and to provide an additional point of contact for shareholders.
The Board met eight times during 2007 and all the directors, then current, attended all meetings, with the exception of Mrs Lesley MacDonagh who attended seven of eight meetings, missing one by prior arrangement.
The Board also held a meeting dedicated to strategy.
The Board receives timely, clear and comprehensive board papers a week in advance of each meeting and other information appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Meetings are conducted in a way which allows open discussion and enables the non-executive directors to challenge and test the strategy, policy and proposals put forward by the executive directors.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors also met during the year under review without the executive directors present, holding specific discussion on management succession.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision which includes: responsibility for the overall leadership of the Group: approval of long term objectives, commercial strategy and annual budgets: oversight of the Groups operations and review of performance: changes to the Groups capital structure: financial reporting, approval of results, dividend policy and treasury policy: maintenance and review of the system of internal control and risk management: approval of major expenditure and transactions: changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board, including new appointments: determining the remuneration of the non-executive directors: the introduction of new employee share plans and major changes to existing plans for shareholder approval: approval of the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive: approval of the terms of reference of Board committees: annual review of its own performance and that of its Board committees: determining the independence of directors: review of the Groups overall corporate governance arrangements.
A management paper, subject to regular review, includes the authorities and decision making delegated by the Board to management and includes appropriate controls, authorities and procedures across the range of the Groups activities.
All directors have the right both individually and collectively to consult the Companys professional advisers and, if they are not satisfied with the advice so received, to seek independent professional advice at the Companys reasonable expense.
No such advice was sought during the year.
The advice and services of the Group Company Secretary are also available to all directors.
Bovis Homes Group PLC 33 Report on corporate governance continued Training is made available to directors as and when required and the Chairman ensures that directors continually update and refresh their knowledge and skills appropriate to both their role on the Board and on Board Committees.
During the year under review the directors received regulatory and legal updates.
Executive and non-executive directors are subject to retirement by rotation every three years.
Subject to continued satisfactory performance, re-election is proposed where appropriate by the Nomination Committee and is voted on by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Mr Malcolm Robert Harris and Mr David James Ritchie will stand for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board strongly supports and recommends the re-election of Mr Malcolm Robert Harris and Mr David James Ritchie to shareholders, particularly in view of management succession arrangements the Board has put in place.
A brief summary of their biographical details is set out on page 28.
All executive directors have notice periods of twelve months after the end of their first years service.
Non-executive directors are appointed for periods up to three years duration during which they have notice periods of up to twelve months, and their terms and conditions of appointment are available for inspection.
The Company has in place an appropriate policy which insures directors against certain liabilities, including legal costs, that they may incur in carrying out their duties.
Board performance evaluation During 2007, the Board completed a formal internal annual performance evaluation, using a discussion and interview process designed to produce an objective assessment, which covered areas of board composition, board functionality, board objectives, content and focus of board meetings, board administration and support, and corporate governance.
The results were collated by the Chairman, audited by the Company Secretary, and discussed by the Board.
It was concluded that the Board was effective, recognises the right objectives and adds value to both shareholders and management.
Outputs included the further development of ongoing strategy, business environment, risk and management succession discussions, and positive focused reviews of various areas of the business.
Individual director performance evaluations were undertaken by the Chairman using a discussion and interview process which covered each directors commitment, contribution, development, decision making, and interpersonal skills, with the link being made to training and development.
All directors were shown as continuing to contribute effectively and to demonstrate the necessary commitment and time to their respective roles.
The Senior Independent Director, with support from the other non-executive directors and following discussion with the executive directors, conducted a performance evaluation of the Chairman, and it was concluded that strong leadership continued to be provided and that the Board was being run effectively.
Board committees The Board is assisted by a Remuneration Committee, a Nomination Committee, and an Audit Committee.
Membership of the three Committees comprised four independent directors until the retirement of Mr Mark Nicholls from the Board on 11 May 2007 and since that date membership has been made up of three independent directors, plus the Chairman and Chief Executive in the case of the Nomination Committee.
The Audit Committee was chaired by Mr Mark Nicholls until 11 May 2007 and is now chaired by Mr John Warren.
The Remuneration Committee was chaired by Mr John Warren until the same date and is now chaired by Mr Colin Holmes.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr Tim Melville-Ross.
Each committee has written terms of reference from the Board.
The duties of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Report on directors remuneration on pages 38 to 46: the activities of the Audit Committee are set out in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 36 and 37: and the activities of the Nomination Committee are set out in the Report of the Nomination Committee on page 37.
The Board completed a performance evaluation of its committees during 2007, and concluded that the committees were working and contributing effectively and achieving their respective remits.
Relations with shareholders All shareholders are invited to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting, which the full Board including all committee chairmen attend, and they are encouraged to exercise their right to vote and appoint proxies, including by way of an electronic voting facility.
The Notice of meeting is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting, separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially separate issue and proxy voting is disclosed, including votes withheld.
Shareholders are encouraged to participate with questions and have the opportunity to talk informally with the directors and senior management following the meeting.
The Board maintains regular contact and dialogue with shareholders through a series of presentations and meetings conducted by the Chief Executive, Group Managing Director and Group Finance Director, particularly in the period post announcement of final and interim results.
Feedback received during the year under review was positive and the presentations made to financial analysts in respect of interim and final results are made available on the Groups website www.
The Annual Report and Accounts, Preliminary Results, Interim Results, AGM voting, Corporate Social Responsibility report and other information are also available on the website.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are accessible to shareholders and maintain sufficient contact with major shareholders to understand their concerns.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and other non-executive directors attended an investor presentation and analysts briefing held in November 2007 and the subsequent site visit.
Major shareholders attending had an opportunity to put their views and hold discussions with them.
34 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
co. uk plc Report on corporate governance continued Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control and has during the year reviewed the effectiveness thereof.
It is able to report that the Company has complied with provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code throughout 2007 in accordance with the revised Turnbull Guidance.
A key part of the system of internal control is the maintenance of a risk analysis.
At the end of 2006 a new risk analysis document was prepared and was reviewed by the Audit Committee and during 2007 this risk analysis was systematically considered and discussed by the Board, with the ongoing objective of keeping key risks and topical areas of concern under review.
In this way the Board is able to ensure that it properly identifies and grades the risks specific to the activities and operating environment of the business and to review the response to operational, financial, compliance and other risks and reconsider its policies of risk tolerance.
In setting these policies the Board aims to ensure that the Company is neither prevented from taking opportunities nor exposed to unreasonable risk.
The system of internal control is designed to manage risk rather than eliminate it and consequently it can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee reviews the system of internal control and reports to the Board thereon.
It receives reports from the internal and external auditors and management which assess the efficiency of internal control and make recommendations for any improvements.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of committee meetings to the Board and provides minutes of the meetings.
The Group has maintained throughout the year and up to the date of approval of these Annual Report and Accounts a control environment, with policies, procedures, processes and codes of conduct which are designed to identify, evaluate, manage and mitigate risk over the range of business activities and improve business efficiency.
This control environment is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the revised Turnbull Guidance.
As new procedures and working practices are adopted, risk factors are considered and internal controls embedded into the systems wherever possible.
The principal elements of the control environment are as follows: regular main Board meetings: regular Audit Committee meetings: an established management structure of operating regions with short lines of communication to the executive directors: regular regional board meetings, with comprehensive agendas dealing with all aspects of the business: defined operating controls and procedures with authorisation limits at appropriate levels across the Group: an internal audit department reporting regularly on compliance with controls, procedures and authority limits: a regular self certification process in respect of internal control through the management structure: a comprehensive financial reporting system with actual performance compared with budgets and forecasts on a regular basis, each region reporting through its regional board: and a regular comparison of the Groups performance against industry statistics and competitors.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
