Directors Report on Corporate Governance The Company is committed to, and strives for, best practice in the Board Committees: the high level organisational structure: and corporate governance.
The Board is accountable to the the review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal Companys shareholders for good corporate governance.
statement describes how the principles of corporate governance Board composition set out in section one of the Combined Code issued in 2003 F&C Asset Management plc is a quoted subsidiary of Friends the Code have been applied.
Provident plc FP, which owns 52 per cent.
Statement of compliance There are, in addition to a formal agreement to manage funds on The Directors consider that the Company has, throughout the behalf of FP, various other arrangements in place between the year ended 31 December 2007 and up to the date hereof, Company and FP, all of which are governed by independent applied the principles and met the requirements of the Code.
agreements, the terms of which are approved by the minority shareholders as appropriate.
New business created by FP has a The Chairmen of the Audit & Compliance, Remuneration and direct benefit to the Company and the Companys investment Nomination committees will be available to answer questions performance has a direct impact on FP and its ability to develop at this years Annual General Meeting to be held on Tuesday, its business.
Because of this relationship, close co-operation and 13 May 2008. understanding of each others businesses and strategies is very Going concern important.
To facilitate this, Sir Adrian Montague FP Executive The Code requires Directors to report, under the terms set out in Chairman, Philip Moore and Jim Smart FP Executive Directors served as Directors of the Company during the year.
Alain Grisay, the relevant guidelines to the Code, on the appropriateness of the Companys Chief Executive, served as an Executive Director adopting the going concern basis in preparing financial statements.
No remuneration or benefits are paid to The Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to Mr Grisay in respect of his services as an Executive Director of continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
In addition, Gerhard Roggemann is an independent Nonthis reason, the Directors consider that the business is a going executive Director of both FP and the Company.
Mr Roggemann concern and continue to adopt the going concern basis in joined the Board as an independent Non-executive Director in preparing the financial statements.
As part of the formal annual evaluation exercise, the Board assessed Mr Roggemanns ongoing independence in The Board March 2008 and determined Mr Roggemann to be independent in The Board of Directors currently comprises the Chairman, character and judgement.
The Boards conclusion was based on two Executive Directors and nine Non-executive Directors, six of the integrity, objectivity and professionalism displayed by Mr whom the Board has identified as Independent Directors.
Roggemanns contribution to Board discussions and debates.
Keith Bedell-Pearce is the Senior Independent Director.
The The Board acknowledges and respects that some parties may biographies of the Directors appear on pages 24 and 25.
These hold a different view of Mr Roggemanns independence as a demonstrate a range of experience, skills and personal standing consequence of him being an independent Non-executive sufficient to bring independent judgement on issues of strategy, Director of FP.
performance, resources and standards of conduct which are vital The other Non-executive Directors of the Company are to the success of the Group.
All Directors have access to the Robert Jenkins Chairman, Keith Bedell-Pearce, Dick fide Beus, advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is John Heywood, Brian Larcombe, Nick MacAndrew and responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are Jeff Medlock.
With the exception of Jeff Medlock, who in 2004 followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied retired as Chief Financial Officer of Eureko, a 10 per cent.
The Board meets formally on a regular basis and is shareholder in the Company, all of the Non-executive Directors responsible for approving the Groups objectives and policies.
The listed above meet the criteria of independence as set out in the Board focuses mainly on strategy, investment and financial accepted guidance.
Although not independent on appointment, performance, the Groups control environment and executive the Chairman is considered by the Board to be sufficiently management and Board succession.
To enable the Board to independent of management.
discharge its duties, all Directors receive appropriate and timely information ensuring that they are properly briefed on issues for The composition of the Board is reviewed annually.
consideration in advance of meetings.
In addition, all Directors The Board committees have access to senior management and can request, either during meetings or at other appropriate times, further explanation The Board has established a number of standing committees to facilitate the smooth transaction of business within the Group.
The or written papers on matters as they see fit.
terms of reference of each Board Committee outlining the The Board has a detailed list of matters specifically reserved to it authority and duties are reviewed and approved annually by the the Board Reserved List.
This is contained in The Directors Board, are published on the Companys website and are available Guide, a training and reference document issued to all Directors on written request from the Company Secretary.
The terms of on appointment and updated as appropriate.
The Board Reserved reference of each of the Board Committees provide the authority List is reviewed annually and clearly sets out that authority is to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the delegated from the Board to Board Committees and to Companys expense.
This ensures that matters of significance are overseen and reviewed by the Board prior to implementation.
a Statement of the Nomination Committee Examples of matters reserved for the Board as set out in the Purpose and Terms of Reference Board Reserved List are the approval of: The Group strategy: the The Committee leads the process, and makes recommendations annual budget: the composition and terms of reference of any of to the Board, for all new Board appointments and the 34 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 appointment of Non-executive Directors to any Board Committee.
b Statement of the Audit & Compliance Committee It is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge Purpose and Terms of Reference and experience on the Board and ensuring that a formal, rigorous The Committee vouchsafes the processes and controls and transparent appointment process exists.
surrounding the production of the Groups financial statements and provides the Board with assurance that the processes and Membership controls exist to facilitate reporting on the Groups risk The Committee is chaired by Robert Jenkins.
The Committee management activities, including those related to Social, comprises the Chairman and three Non-executive Directors, Environmental and Ethical matters, internal control and adherence two of whom are Independent Non-executive Directors.
Throughout 2007 the Committee met formally on three occasions.
In addition, the Committee or its members had many other occasions Membership to meet informally or with advisers and candidates.
None of these The Committee is chaired by Keith Bedell-Pearce.
The Committee informal sessions are reflected in the numbers shown on page 36. comprises solely independent Non-executive Directors.
The Committee usually meets at least five times a year to review On 10 May 2007 David Gray retired from the Board and the the integrity of the Interim Report and Financial Statements and Committee.
the Annual Report and Financial Statements and other matters as On 27 November 2007 Philip Moore retired from the Board and set out in the terms of reference.
Senior management and a the Committee.
Sir Adrian Montague replaced Mr Moore as a representative from FP, given the enlarged groups governance member of the Committee at the same date.
These meetings are also attended by senior members of the Companys auditor.
Members of the Nomination Committee: Robert Jenkins Chairman, Dick fide Beus, Brian Larcombe and Sir Adrian Montague.
During the year the Committee met formally on five occasions and informally on a number of occasions to discuss and consider Activities and work of the Committee business matters including the award of non-audit related In January 2007, Keith Satchell, a Non-executive Director, retired consultancy work.
On two occasions, the Committee met from the Board and was replaced on the same date by Jim Smart.
members of the external auditors without management present On 10 May 2007, David Gray, an independent Non-executive and on two occasions the Committee met with the head of the Director, and Christopher Jemmett, a Non-executive Director, Audit Risk & Compliance department without any other members retired from the Board.
During 2007, the Committee, assisted by an external search agency, Members of the Audit & Compliance Committee: successfully concluded searches for two independent Non-executive Keith Bedell-Pearce Chairman, Brian Larcombe, John Heywood Directors.
Nicholas MacAndrew joined the Board on 10 May 2007 and Nick MacAndrew.
Brian Larcombe and Nick MacAndrew and Gerhard Roggemann joined the Board on 19 June 2007. joined the Committee on 10 May 2007 and Messrs Gray and Jemmett retired from the Board and the Committee on the same As an integral part of its succession planning, the Committee day.
The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the reviews the balance and composition of the Board including the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience, a number of Directors serving thereon.
After due deliberation the position that should continue throughout 2008.
Committee and the Board re-affirmed the Companys commitment to striving to achieve best practice corporate Activities and work of the Committee governance by continuing with a Code-compliant Board and As highlighted earlier, the Committee normally discharges its Board Committee structure.
responsibilities, as allocated by its terms of reference, within a schedule of five meetings.
Two meetings are held early in the On an annual basis the Committee reviews the terms and year, one to deal with matters of governance for example, conditions of appointment of Non-executive Directors set out in compliance with the Code, the Financial Services Act, the the standard letter of appointment to ensure that they continue to effectiveness of internal controls and risk management systems, meet the requirements of the Code.
This standard letter of monitoring and reviewing the internal Audit Risk & Compliance appointment can be inspected during normal working hours at the department and monitoring and reviewing the independence, Companys registered office by contacting the Company objectivity and effectiveness of the external audit process and the Secretary.
The Committee considers on an annual basis the time other to consider the integrity of the year end financial statements required of Non-executive Directors for the fulfilment of their and any formal announcements relating to the Companys and duties and assesses the contribution of the Directors, their the Groups financial performance, including any significant independence and their suitability for re-election prior to an financial reporting judgements contained in them.
A similar appropriate resolution being put to shareholders.
All Directors are process is adopted at the interim reporting stage, with a final subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after meeting taking place late in the year to consider any year end their appointment and to re-election at least every three years.
The Committee also considers and reviews other risk For the Board management or control documentation including the Companys Robert Jenkins policy on whistleblowing, the results of internal and external audit Chairman, Nomination Committee and compliance reports or management letters and oversees the 20 March 2008 award of any non-audit related consultancy work.
On an annual basis the Committee considers and makes a recommendation to 35 Directors Report on Corporate Governance the Board as to the appointment, re-appointment or removal of Members of the Remuneration Committee: Brian Larcombe the external auditors and approves their remuneration and terms Chairman, Keith Bedell-Pearce and John Heywood.
Other meetings of the Committee are called at Activities and work of the Committee the request of the Chairman to consider ad hoc control issues The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups that may emerge during the year as well as other matters that the remuneration policy as set out in the Directors Remuneration Board has asked the Committee to consider or investigate.
Within that policy, the Committee is For the Board responsible for determining the remuneration packages of the Keith Bedell-Pearce Executive Directors and making recommendations and monitoring Chairman, Audit & Compliance Committee the specific remuneration packages of senior management below 20 March 2008 Board level.
It is also responsible for the Companys incentive schemes for employees, including the bonus scheme and the c Statement of the Remuneration Committee grant of awards under the long term incentive schemes.
Further Purpose and Terms of Reference details of the objectives of the Committee are contained in the Full details of the purpose and terms of reference, activities and Directors Remuneration Report on page 41. work of the Committee are set out in the Directors Remuneration For the Board Report.
Brian Larcombe Chairman, Remuneration Committee Membership 20 March 2008 The Chairman of the Committee is Brian Larcombe.
Having reached the age of 70 during the year, John Heywood, the Committees former Chairman, will retire from the Board and the Committee on conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
In order to effect a smooth handover of responsibilities, Mr Larcombe assumed the role of Chairman to the Committee in the third quarter of 2007.
The Committee comprises solely independent Non-executive Directors.
Attendance at meetings The following table identifies the number of Board and formal committee meetings held in 2007 and the attendance record of the individual Directors as members of committees of the Board.
In addition to the meetings detailed below a number of sub-committees of the Board and Board Committees occurred.
Non-executive Director meetings without Audit & management Remuneration Compliance Nomination Board present Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held in 2007 2006 8 7 2 2 4 6 5 7 3 4 Robert Jenkins 8 2 3 Alain Grisay 7 Keith Bedell-Pearce 8245 Dick fide Beus 8 2 3 1 David Gray 31 22 John Heywood 7243 1 Christopher Jemmett 31 2 2 Brian Larcombe 82432 David Logan 8 Jeff Medlock 8 2 3 Nick MacAndrew 21 2 4 Philip Moore 61 2 5 Sir Adrian Montague 1 - 6 Gerhard Roggemann 2 1 7 Keith Satchell 8 Jim Smart 6 1 Resigned as a member of the Board and relevant Board Committees on 10 May 2007.
2 Appointed as a member of the Audit & Compliance Committee on 10 May 2007.
3 Appointed as a member of the Board and Audit & Compliance Committee on 10 May 2007.
4 Resigned as a member of the Board and relevant Board Committees on 27 November 2007.
5 Appointed as a member of the Board and the Nomination Committee on 27 November 2007.
6 Appointed as a member of the Board on 19 June 2007.
7 Resigned as a member of the Board and relevant Board Committees on 1 January 2007.
8 Appointed as a member of the Board on 1 January 2007.
36 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 Board roles Board evaluation and professional development A comprehensive and rigorous evaluation of the performance of Chairman the Board, its principal Committees and the Chairman was The Chairman of the Company is Robert Jenkins.
As Chairman, conducted during the year.
The Board evaluation was carried out Mr Jenkins is responsible for leadership of the Board and with the assistance of the Company Secretary and was led by the ensuring the effective running and management of the Board.
The procedure adopted was for each Director to role profile of the Chairman outlines the specific responsibilities of complete a detailed questionnaire, on a non-attributable basis, on the Chairman and includes the following: their perception of the composition, operation and effectiveness of Ensuring that the Board agenda for each meeting takes the Board and its Committees.
Each Director was then account of the issues and concerns of each Board member interviewed by the Chairman in order to explore certain issues in and that members of the Board receive accurate, timely and greater depth and to identify areas requiring improvement.
clear information on the Company and related matters to The results of the review were then considered during one-to-one enable them to monitor the Companys performance and take discussions with the Chairman and collectively at a Board meeting sound decisions.
as well as at the relevant Committee meetings.
Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and This process confirmed that areas of weakness highlighted in the ensuring that the Board develops an understanding of the prior year had been satisfactorily addressed and that the Board was views of major investors.
One significant area identified for improvement Ensuring that, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, a in the year ahead is strengthened executive director succession formal induction and development process, including any planning.
The aim is to ensure continuous improvement in Board relevant internal and external training, exists for all Directors processes and procedures.
The Non-executive Directors also met and the Board as a whole with a view to enhancing the separately, under the Chairmanship of the Senior Independent Boards effectiveness.
Director, to discuss the performance of the Chairman and provide him with collective feedback.
Ensuring constructive relations between Executive and Nonexecutive Directors and effective contribution from all Directors.
During the year the Chairman, in consultation with the Nomination Committee, performed an evaluation of the skills each Board The performance of the Chairman during 2007 was reviewed by member brings to the Board and created a skills matrix that was the Non-executive Directors in a meeting chaired by Keith Bedellpresented to the Nomination Committee and the Board for use in Pearce, the Senior Independent Director.
The Non-executive identifying professional development requirements and succession Directors concluded at the meeting that Robert Jenkins displayed planning.
the characteristics expected of a Chairman including being appropriately independent of the management team.
The Company has a full and formal induction process for all new appointments to the Board.
The Chairman, in consultation with Mr Jenkins biography is set out on page 24.
Mr Jenkins assumed the Company Secretary and individual Directors, is responsible for the Chair of the Investment Management Association of the UK in assessing the professional development needs of each Director.
This is a Non-executive, part-time role.
Finally, The induction process and ongoing professional development is Mr Jenkins volunteers time to two London based business facilitated by the Company Secretary who, in consultation with the schools with which he is affiliated.
individual Director, identifies the most appropriate method of Chief Executive ensuring professional development.
The Company Secretary also The Chief Executive of the Company is Alain Grisay.
As Chief assists in organising attendance at internal or external courses of Executive, Alain Grisay is responsible for overseeing the professional development to develop familiarity with the implementation of the strategy as set by the Board, providing Companys area of business operation.
strategic vision and executive leadership to all the Groups During 2007, the Board made site visits to the Companys offices business activities and ensuring the effective running of the in Edinburgh and The Netherlands.
These visits afforded an business and the Executive Management Committee.
opportunity to meet with senior staff in both locations.
The Board Non-executive Directors has, since the merger in 2004, visited all the Companys offices Messrs Bedell-Pearce, fide Beus, Heywood, Larcombe, with the exception of its sales and marketing offices in Boston, MacAndrew, Medlock, Sir Adrian Montague, Roggemann and Geneva and Paris.
The result of these visits is a better Smart are the Companys Non-executive Directors.
As Nonunderstanding by the Board of the Companys activities.
executive Directors they are responsible for: Promoting Directors and Directors election and re-election entrepreneurial leadership and the highest standards of The Directors who served at any time during the year ended governance within a framework of prudent and effective controls: 31 December 2007 are as shown in the Directors Remuneration constructively challenging and helping develop strategic Report on page 47.
Details of the Executive Directors service proposals: ensuring that the Group has in place the necessary contracts and Non-executive Directors letters of appointment can resources to meet its strategic objectives: reviewing management be found on pages 46 and 47. performance: determining appropriate levels of Executive Director Remuneration Remuneration Committee members, taking a Nick MacAndrew and Gerhard Roggemann, both of whom are prime role in appointing, and where necessary removing, Independent Non-executive Directors, and Sir Adrian Montague, a Executive Directors: setting the Companys values and standards Non-executive Director, were appointed during the year.
As such, to ensure its obligations to its stakeholders are understood and they retire at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, are met: and reviewing communication with shareholders.
37 Directors Report on Corporate Governance Under the terms of the Companys Articles of Association, at least Annual General Meeting complies with the Code.
The results of one third of Directors eligible to stand for re-election must do so the votes cast at the Annual General Meeting are posted on the at each Annual General Meeting.
Pearce, fide Beus and Medlock have been selected by the The Non-executive Directors meet twice a year without Nomination Committee and the Board to retire by rotation and, management present.
At these meetings, representatives from the being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the Annual Companys significant shareholders have the opportunity to General Meeting.
express their views about the Company and consideration is The Nomination Committee has reviewed the structure, size and given to any other relevant views expressed by other composition of the Board, and confirm that all Directors offering shareholders.
Unattributed shareholder feedback on the themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting Company, facilitated by the Companys brokers, is also presented demonstrate commitment to their role.
In accordance with the to the Board following managements year end results requirements of the Code, the Nomination Committee gave more presentations.
detailed consideration to the proposed re-election of Mr BedellShareview Pearce, given that he will, if re-elected, enter his third three-year The Companys registrar, Equiniti, offers a Shareview service term of appointment.
The Nomination Committee and the Board enabling shareholders to have more control over their shares and have resolved to review Mr Bedell-Pearces appointment on an other investments: annual basis.
The Nomination Committee has also confirmed that all Directors submitting themselves for re-election devote sufficient Direct access to data held on the share register including time to perform their roles as members of the Board and any recent share movements and dividend details.
Board Committee and that the Chairman and all Non-executive Directors display the qualities expected of a Chairman and of an The ability to change address details or dividend payment effective Non-executive Director.
The Nomination Committee instructions on-line.
believes that all Directors submitting themselves for election and To sign up for Shareview shareholders need the shareholder re-election should be elected or re-elected.
reference printed on the proxy form or dividend stationery Details of the Directors offering themselves for election or and theres no charge to register.
re-election can be found on pages 24 and 25.
On registration, shareholders can select their preferred format post or e-mail for shareholder communications.
Shareholders Board succession planning selecting e-mail as their mailing preference will be sent The Nomination Committee has a detailed succession plan for the shareholder communications, such as proxy forms and notice of Boards Non-executive Directors.
The plan was shaped by the company results by e-mail instead of post, as long as this option aforementioned skills profile, projected and expected normal is available.
Shareholders selecting post as their preference will retirements, and the Companys commitment to corporate be sent paper documents as usual.
The plan is approved annually by the Board.
The Directorate changes during 2007 were consistent with Details of software and equipment requirements are given on the the plan.
co. uk Relations with shareholders Electronic communications The Board as a whole acknowledges its responsibility for ensuring Copies of the 2007 Annual Report and Financial Statements, the satisfactory dialogue with shareholders and communications are Notice of Annual General Meeting, other corporate publications, given high priority.
The Company welcomes the views of press releases and announcements are available on the shareholders and, where practicable, enters into dialogue with Companys website.
Shareholders are encouraged to take institutional shareholders based on the need for mutual advantage of the provisions allowing the Company to understanding of objectives.
The Companys Chief Executive and communicate electronically.
Chief Financial Officer regularly meet the largest institutional Voting Online shareholders and Company analysts following the announcement of the year end and interim results: the Senior Independent In accordance with good governance practice the Company is Director and all other Non-executive Directors have the offering shareholders use of an online voting service, sharevote, opportunity to attend these meetings.
The Annual General offered by the Companys registrar, Equiniti, at Meeting of the Company provides a forum, both formal and www.
Shareholders can use this service to vote informal, for investors to meet and discuss issues with Directors or appoint a proxy online.
The same voting deadline 12 noon UK and senior management of the Company.
Details of resolutions to time on 11 May 2008 applies as for the Personalised Voting be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on Tuesday, 13 May Form to vote or appoint a proxy by post to vote.
Shareholders 2007 can be found in the notice of the meeting commencing on need to use the unique personal identification details Reference page 164.
Number, Card ID and Account Number that are printed on the Personalised Voting Form to use this service.
At its Annual General Meeting, the Company complies with the provision of the Code relating to the disclosure of proxy votes, the separation of resolutions and the attendance of the Committee Chairmen.
The timing of the despatch of the formal notice of the 38 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 CREST members The Company, as required by the FSA Listing Rules, complied with the Code provisions on internal control for the year ended Registered shareholders who are CREST members who are 31 December 2007. entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy The procedures that the Directors have established are designed appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to to provide effective control within the Group and accord with the be held on 13 May 2008, or any adjournment of it, by utilising the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Code issued by the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales Internal Members or other CREST Sponsored Members, and those Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the CREST members who have appointed a voting service Turnbull Guidance.
Such procedures have been in place provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service throughout the year and up to 20 March 2008, the date of approval provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
overview of the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks including social, environmental and In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by means of ethical issues is detailed below.
This process is regularly reviewed the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message by the Board to ensure it complies with the Turnbull Guidance.
a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the Control environment information required for such instructions, as described in the The Group is committed to the highest standards of business CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it conduct and seeks to maintain these standards across all areas constitutes the appointment of a proxy, or an amendment to the of the business.
The Group has in place appropriate procedures instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order for the reporting and resolution of activities that do not meet the to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers required standards of business conduct.
agent, Equiniti ID 7RA01, by 12 noon UK time on 11 May 2008.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time The Group has an appropriate organisational structure for as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the planning, executing, controlling and monitoring business CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to operations in order to achieve its objectives.
The structure is retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner designed to provide clear responsibilities and a control framework prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions for key areas of the Groups business.
to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to Operational responsibility rests with the Chief Executive and is the appointee through other means.
devolved through a documented executive structure with clearly CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors delegated and appropriate levels of authority.
Members of Group or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not management are, therefore, accountable for the operation of the make available special procedures in CREST for any particular systems of internal controls within the Groups business.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is Business risks therefore the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to The identification of major business risks is carried out by the take or procure the taking of such action as shall be necessary Board in conjunction with management, and procedures to to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST control these risks, where possible, are reviewed and agreed.
system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST Quarterly reports are prepared by each of the business units, members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting across all locations.
The quarterly reports include issues of material service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of business risk.
These reports are discussed in detail by the the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST Management Committee which includes both Executive Directors.
All significant items are identified and reported to the Board on a The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in regular basis.
the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the The key risks facing the Group at the year end and the mitigating Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. actions assigned to these risks are detailed in the Business Internal control Review on page 16.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of Monitoring and corrective action internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness on a regular There is a formal compliance function, which is integrated with the basis.
Managements role is to implement and operate the Board internal audit function and operational risk function, to form an policies on risk and risk management.
The system of internal Audit, Risk & Compliance department.
The Audit, Risk & control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of Compliance department conducts regular monitoring of various failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide business areas and control procedures in line with a plan agreed reasonable and not absolute assurance against material errors, annually with the Audit & Compliance Committee.
Any issues of losses or fraud.
significance are brought to the attention of the Board by the 39 Directors Report on Corporate Governance Audit, Risk & Compliance department and through the regular The performance, independence, competence and cost of reporting process.
Planned corrective actions are independently auditors are reviewed annually by the Audit & Compliance monitored for timely completion and reviewed by the Audit & Committee.
When the Committee considers it appropriate, the Compliance Committee.
provision of audit services will be formally market-tested through a tender process involving those audit firms judged competent to The Audit & Compliance Committee reviews the effectiveness of meet the needs of the Group.
The frequency of this marketthe operation of this framework at least twice each year.
testing will depend on the views of the Audit & Compliance Committee, on the needs of the Group and prevailing leading Independence of the auditors practice.
During 2006, a competitive audit tender exercise was The Board has in place rigorous systems for ensuring the undertaken resulting in the appointment of KPMG Audit Plc at the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the Groups 2007 Annual General Meeting.
KPMG Audit Plc have expressed auditors and has satisfied itself that during the year no aspect of their willingness to remain in office and the Boards their work was impaired on these grounds.
In maintaining a clear recommendation to shareholders to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc perception of independence and balancing that with the best as the Companys auditor is contained in the Notice of the interests of the Group, the Board has a clear policy that it follows Meeting on page 164. when considering awarding non-audit work to the Groups auditors.
The policy applied during 2007 is detailed below.
During the year, Deloitte, Ernst & Young, and , all of whom are independent of KPMG, The Company does not impose an automatic ban on the Groups the external auditors, provided non-audit related services to the auditors undertaking non-audit work.
The Groups aim is always Group.
Details of fees paid to these accounting firms during 2007 to have any non-audit work involving accountancy firms carried are disclosed in note 4 on page 70 of the notes to the out in a manner that affords value for money while taking into Consolidated Financial Statements.
The firm must not be in a position of conflict in respect of the work in question and must Future developments have the skill, competence and integrity to carry out the work in The Board believes that the controls in place during 2007 have the best interests of the Group.
been appropriate to the needs of the Group.
Nevertheless, it is committed to the highest standards of governance and business Auditors of the Company are permitted to perform non-audit work conduct and will ensure that those controls continue to develop in in areas where, in the opinion of the Audit & Compliance line with the requirements of the FSA and leading practice.
Committee, it is appropriate for them to do so and there are no actual or perceived independence issues.
By order of the Board, The Chairman of the Audit & Compliance Committee is authorised W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA to approve the use of auditors for non-audit work provided that Secretary the cost does not exceed 50,000 and the aggregate value does 80 George Street not exceed the audit fee for the financial year in question.
In other Edinburgh EH2 3BU circumstances, the approval of the Audit & Compliance 20 March 2008 Committee is required.
