Corporate Governance Statement The Company is committed to high standards of reporting, risk management, investment performance, corporate governance.
Accordingly, the Board has put share price discount, corporate governance, Board in place a framework for corporate governance which it appointments and the appointment of the Manager believes is appropriate for an investment trust company.
AIC Code The Board currently consists of six non-executive The Board of Fidelity European Values PLC has Directors, five of whom are independent of the considered the principles and recommendations of the Companys Manager.
Mr Simon Fraser is an employee AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by of the Manager and is therefore not independent.
reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for The Board believes it to be an important aspect of the Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, corporate governance of an investment trust company as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the that the Manager should be represented on the Board principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, and be party to the responsibility, authority and as well as setting out additional principles and accountability of the Board to the shareholders.
recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
The Board considers that reporting In considering the independence of the Chairman, against the principles and recommendations of the who has served as a Director for more than sixteen AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which years, the Board has taken note of the AIC Code and incorporates the Combined Code, will provide better concluded that lengthy service on a board does not of information to shareholders.
itself compromise independence, indeed his experience and knowledge are of positive benefit to the Board.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders Further details of the Boards findings may be found in for good governance and considers that the Company the Chairmans Statement.
Nonetheless in the light of has complied with the recommendations of the AIC the provisions of the AIC Code Mr Robert Walther will Code and the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the be seeking annual re-election.
In common with most Combined Code and associated disclosure requirements investment trusts there is no chief executive as the of the Listing Rules except as set out below.
management function has been delegated as set out above and is supervised by the Chairman and the Board.
The Combined Code includes provisions relating to: the role of the chief executive The independent Directors form the membership of the executive directors remuneration Audit Committee and the Management Engagement the need for an internal audit function Committee.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and in the Senior Independent Director preamble to the Combined Code, the Board considers Mr Simpson was appointed Senior Independent these provisions are not relevant to the position of Fidelity Director on 28 February 2007.
His tenure now exceeds European Values PLC, being an externally managed nine years and the Board has considered and confirmed investment company.
The Company has therefore not his independence.
reported further in respect of these provisions.
Board balance The Company has no separate Nomination & The Directors believe that the Board has a balance of Remuneration Committee and in this respect does skills, experience, ages and length of service to provide not comply with the Combined Code principle A.
4 effective strategic leadership and proper governance of and the AIC Code principle 9.
The reasons for the Company.
In particular they have a wide knowledge non-compliance are detailed below.
and experience of fund management, investment trust management and business in Europe.
Biographical THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES details of all the Directors are given on pages 14 and The Board 15 of this report.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs.
It delegates through the The Board meets formally at least fives times a year and Management Agreement and through specific between these meetings there is regular contact with instructions the day to day management of the the Manager.
Other meetings are arranged as Company to the Manager, Fidelity Investments necessary.
Additionally, Board Committees and International.
The Company has no executives or subgroups meet to pursue matters referred from the employees.
All matters not delegated to the Manager Board and the Chairman is in contact with the other are reserved for the Boards decision.
Matters reserved Directors regularly without representatives of the for the Board include, inter alia, decisions on strategy, Manager being present.
The Board ensures that it management, structure, capital, gearing, financial conducts its business at all times with only the interests Page 24 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2007 Corporate Governance Statement Regular Board Audit Committee Management Engagement Meetings Meetings Committee Meetings Robert Walther 6 7 1 2 1 1 Johan Bjrkman 1 1 n a 1 1 Simon Duckworth 7 7 2 2 1 1 Simon Fraser 7 7 n a n a James Robinson 4 4 1 1 n a David Simpson 6 7 2 2 0 1 Humphrey van der Klugt 4 4 1 1 n a Figures indicate those meetings for which each Director was eligible to attend and attended in the year.
Regular Board Meetings exclude procedural meetings held to discharge, for example, formal approvals.
Deceased 12 February 2007 of the shareholders in mind and quite independently Director will be discussed and approved by the whole of any other associations.
It endeavours to provide Board.
As a consequence, there is no Nomination leadership in terms of the direction of the Company.
External consultants may be used to identify potential candidates.
The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties effectively and the table above The terms and conditions of appointment of Directors gives the attendance record for the formal meetings are available for inspection at the registered office of held during the year.
the Company and will be made available prior to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Company Secretary is a corporate secretary.
The appointment of the Company Secretary is a matter for Training the Board as a whole.
The Directors have access to the Upon appointment, or shortly thereafter, each Director advice and services of the Company Secretary through receives training on the investment operations and its appointed representative who is responsible to the administration functions of the Company, together with a Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed summary of their duties and responsibilities.
The Directors and that applicable rules and regulations are complied also receive regular briefings from, amongst others, the with.
Each of the Directors of the Company is entitled AIC, the Auditors and the Company Secretary regarding to take independent professional advice, at the any proposed developments or changes in law or Companys expense, in the furtherance of their duties.
regulations that affect the Company and or the Directors.
Supply and agenda of information Re-election The Board receives in due time information in a form As required by company law, all newly appointed and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its Directors stand for election by the shareholders at duties.
The Board meeting papers are the key source of the next Annual General Meeting following their regular information for the Board, the contents of which appointment by the Board.
The Directors retire by are determined by the Board and contain sufficient rotation and, in accordance with the Combined Code, information on the financial condition of the Company.
offer themselves for re-election by shareholders every Key representatives of the Manager attend each Board three years.
Directors who have reached the age of 70, meeting, enabling the Board to probe further on matters Directors who have served on the Board for more than of concern or seek clarification on certain issues.
nine years and any Director who is employed by the Manager are subject to annual re-election.
A procedure The Board has delegated its corporate governance has been put in place whereby formal letters of responsibilities to the Audit and Management appointment, which specify the terms of appointment, Engagement Committees, each composed of all the are issued to new Directors on appointment and to independent Directors.
existing Directors as they retire and are subject to reelection at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board does Changes to the Board not believe that the period of time a person may serve as All appointments to the Board and replacements of a Director should be limited.
Where there are fewer than Directors take place in accordance with the Companies three Directors to retire by rotation, pursuant to the Act and the Companys Articles of Association.
The Companys Articles of Association, they shall all retire.
Company complies with the requirements of the AIC Code in respect of appointments to the Board.
The names of Directors submitted for re-election Whilst the independent Directors take the lead in the are accompanied by sufficient biographical details to appointment of new Directors, any proposal for a new enable shareholders to make an informed decision.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2007 Page 25 Corporate Governance Statement Performance evaluation Going concern A process for the evaluation of the Board, its The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to Committees and its Directors has been put in place and adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial takes place regularly.
The process includes regular statements since the assets of the Company consist mainly discussion and regular written questionnaires, although of securities which are readily realisable and, accordingly, the format may change from time to time to ensure that the Company has adequate financial resources to continue the Board does not become complacent in fulfilling a in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
If appropriate, interviews are Company has a portfolio of investments which provides held.
The performance and contribution to the Company a level of cash receipts in the form of dividends: the of each Director holding office during the year to 31 Company has a portfolio of listed investments which are December 2007 have been considered and it has been considered to be readily realisable if required: expenses concluded that in each case they have been effective and liabilities are relatively stable: accounting revenue and that they continue to demonstrate commitment to and expense forecasts are maintained and reported to their roles.
Accordingly their candidature has been the Board regularly and the Auditors have reviewed the endorsed by the Board as a whole which commends adoption of the going concern basis in the preparation their re-election to shareholders.
The performance of the of the accounts and have reported that they believe it to Chairman is evaluated by the Board in the Chairmans be appropriate.
The next continuation vote will be held absence on an annual basis.
The Company Secretary and at the 2009 AGM.
Portfolio Manager also participate in part of these processes to provide all-round feedback to the Board.
Internal control The results of these evaluations are discussed by the The Board is responsible for the Companys system Board and the process is considered to be constructive of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
The in terms of identifying areas for improving the Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, functioning and performance of the Board.
including the Manager, the management of the investment portfolio, the custodial services which Directors remuneration include the safeguarding of the assets, the registration The level of Directors fees is determined by the whole services and the day to day accounting and company Board, although Directors do not vote on their own fees, secretarial requirements.
Each of these contracts was and therefore a separate Remuneration Committee has entered into after full and proper consideration by not been appointed.
Since all Directors are non-executive, the Board of the quality and cost of services offered the Company is not required to comply with the principles including the control systems in operation in so far of the Combined Code in respect of executive directors as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
Directors fees are disclosed fully in the annual report see the Directors Remuneration Report The Directors review the effectiveness of the Companys on pages 30 and 31.
Levels of fees are considered to systems of internal control on a regular basis.
The be competitive and sufficient to attract and retain the identification, control and evaluation of risks identified standard of Directors needed to manage the Company covering financial, operational and compliance matters successfully.
The limit on aggregate fees is governed by is formulated by a series of quarterly investment the Companys Articles of Association.
Shareholdings by performance reports, a semi-annual internal controls Directors are encouraged and the Directors share interests report and quarterly compliance reports as provided by are disclosed on page 21 of the Directors Report.
This process is in accordance with the FRCs Internal control: Revised Guidance of Directors ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT on the Combined Code, has been in place for the year Financial reporting ended 31 December 2007, continued to be in place up Set out on page 23 is a statement by the Directors to the date of the preparation of these financial of their responsibilities in respect of the preparation of statements and is expected to remain in place for the the annual report and financial statements.
have set out their reporting responsibilities within the Independent Auditors Report on page 32.
The systems of internal controls are designed to manage and reduce rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve The Board has a responsibility to present a balanced business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but and understandable assessment of annual, half yearly, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement other price sensitive public reports and reports to or loss.
regulators, as well as to provide information required to be presented by statutory requirements.
All such reports The Companys Audit Committee meets representatives are reviewed and approved by the Board prior to their of the Manager and receives reports on the quality and issue to ensure that this responsibility is fulfilled.
effectiveness of the accounting records and management information maintained on behalf of the Company.
Page 26 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2007 Corporate Governance Statement It reviews the annual and half yearly financial statements discharge their responsibilities fully.
The Committees and the nature and scope and findings of the statutory authority and duties are clearly defined in its written audit.
The Board carries out a risk and control terms of reference which are available on the Companys assessment including a review of the corporate strategy pages of the Managers website.
These include and the Managers and other third party suppliers risk responsibility for reviewing the half yearly report and management processes.
The key element of this annual report and financial statements, reviewing the assessment is the semi-annual internal controls report scope and results of the audit and the effectiveness and prepared by the Manager for its investment trust clients.
cost of the audit process and reviewing the Companys The internal controls report sets out the Managers internal financial controls.
control policies and procedures with respect to the management of its clients investments.
Whilst the They also include responsibility for reviewing and Company, in common with most investment trusts, has monitoring the external Auditors independence and no internal audit department, the effectiveness of these objectivity with particular regard to the provision of noncontrols is monitored by the Managers internal audit audit services, taking into consideration relevant UK function.
The Audit Committee receives and reviews the professional and regulatory requirements.
No work other internal controls report on the effectiveness of the than the audit was carried out by the Companys internal controls maintained on behalf of the Company Auditors during the year.
The Audit Committee of the and an annual compliance report from the Managers Board meets the Auditors at least once a year to review Global Oversight Director.
these and other appropriate matters.
In the year to 31 December 2007 the Audit Committee discharged its By means of the procedures set out above, the Directors responsibilities by inter alia: have reviewed the effectiveness of the Managers internal controls systems throughout the period.
Reviewing the Companys draft annual and half yearly financial statements prior to Board approval and The Board also receives each year from the Manager a reviewing the external Auditors report on the annual report on the Managers internal controls which includes financial statements: a report from the Managers reporting accountants on Determining the appropriateness of the Companys the control procedures in operation around the accounting policies: investment management and administration processes.
Reviewing and recommending the audit fee and By means of the procedures set out above and in reviewing any non-audit fees payable to the accordance with the FRCs internal control guidance, Companys external Auditors: the Directors have established an ongoing process for Reviewing the external Auditors terms of identifying, evaluating and managing the significant engagement: risks faced by the Company and have reviewed the Evaluating the external Auditors plan for the audit effectiveness of the internal controls systems throughout of the Companys financial statements: the year.
Reviewing the external Auditors quality control procedures: Whistle-blowing procedure Assessing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Part of the Managers role in ensuring the provision of a external audit process and the external Auditors good service pursuant to the Management Agreement independence and objectivity: includes the ability for employees of Fidelity to raise Considering the scope of work undertaken by the concerns through a workplace concerns escalation policy Managers internal audit department: or whistle-blowing procedure.
Fidelity is committed Reviewing a semi-annual report on risk and internal to providing the highest level of service to its customers controls and reporting to the Board: and to applying the highest standards of quality, honesty, Considering and reconfirming that it does not need integrity and probity.
The aim of the policy is to an internal audit function given that the Company encourage employees and others working for Fidelity to delegates its day to day operations to third parties: assist the Company in tackling fraud, corruption and and other malpractice within the organisation and in setting Recommending the appointment or re-appointment standards of ethical conduct.
This policy is endorsed of external Auditors.
The Committee also reviews corporate governance Audit Committee and Auditors issues, the existence and performance of all controls The Audit Committee consists of all of the independent operating in the Company including the adherence Directors and is chaired by Mr David Simpson.
The to Section 842 status, the relationship with and the Committee considers that collectively its members have performance of third party service providers such as sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to the registrars and custodians.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2007 Page 27 Corporate Governance Statement Management Engagement Committee The Committee met on 10 January 2008 and reviewed The Management Engagement Committee consists the performance of the Manager for the year to 31 of all of the independent Directors and is chaired by December 2007.
The Committee noted the Companys Mr Robert Walther.
The Committee is charged with good performance record and the commitment, quality reviewing and monitoring the performance of the and continuity of the team with the exception this coming Manager and ensuring that the terms of the Companys year of the Portfolio Manager which was responsible for Management Agreement are competitive and the Company.
The Committee concluded that it was in reasonable for shareholders.
This Committee meets the interests of shareholders that the appointment of the annually and reports to the Board of Directors, Manager should continue.
Details of the Management making recommendations where appropriate.
Agreement appear on pages 20 and 21.
The Committees terms of reference may be found on the Companys pages of the Managers website.
Responsibility as institutional shareholder The Board has adopted the Managers Principles of The level of remuneration of the Manager is agreed by Ownership in relation to investments.
These principles the Management Engagement Committee: it relates include the pursuit of an active investment policy to the investment management function, on which a through portfolio management decisions, voting on percentage of the funds under management is paid, resolutions at general meetings and maintaining a and to the administrative function.
The management continuing dialogue with the management of investee fee was renegotiated to include a performance related companies.
The Manager, in its Principles of Ownership, element with effect from 1 January 2007. expressly declares that it supports the Statement of Principles drawn up by the Institutional Shareholders The criteria which are taken into consideration in Committee setting out the responsibilities of institutional reviewing the performance of the Manager are set shareholders and agents.
out below: Relations with shareholders Quality of team the skills and particularly the The shareholder profile of the Company is regularly experience of the team involved in managing all monitored and the Board liaises with the Manager and aspects of the Companys business: the Companys broker to canvass shareholder opinion and communicate views to shareholders.
The Company Commitment of the Manager to the investment trust is concerned to provide the maximum opportunity for business generally and to the Company in particular: dialogue between the Company and shareholders.
It is believed that institutional shareholders have proper Managing the Company in running and controlling access to the Manager at any time and to the Board the administration, the accounting and the if they so wish.
If any shareholder wishes to contact a secretaryship of the Company: member of the Board directly they should contact the Company Secretary whose details are given on pages Investment management portfolio management 14 and 58.
All shareholders, particularly individual skills, experience and track record and other shareholders, are encouraged to attend the Annual investment related considerations including gearing, General Meeting at which there is a presentation of the currencies, hedging, buybacks etc: past years results and the forthcoming years prospects, followed by the opportunity to meet the Board and Shareholders shareholder consciousness and representatives of the Manager.
relations, discount management and commitment to the Companys goals: and At general meetings all proxy votes are counted and, except where a poll is called, proxy voting is reported Management Agreement consideration of fees, for each resolution after it has been dealt with on a notice periods and duties.
Proxy votes are disclosed on the Companys pages of the Managers website.
Page 28 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2007 Corporate Governance Statement The Notice of the Annual General Meeting on pages 54 to 56 sets out the business of the meeting and the special resolutions are explained more fully in the Directors Report on page 22.
A separate resolution is proposed on each substantially separate issue including the annual report and financial statements.
The Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
On behalf of the Board Robert Walther 27 February 2008 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2007 Page 29
